 
 
 
Public
June 22, 2024 
 
To, 
The Manager - Listing 
BSE Limited (“BSE”), 
Corporate Relationship Department, 
2nd Floor, New Trading Ring,  
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street,  
Mumbai – 400 001. 
To,  
The Manager - Listing 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”),  
“Exchange Plaza”, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, 
Bandra-Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai –  
400 051. 
BSE Scrip Code: 517421 
NSE Symbol: BUTTERFLY 
 
ISIN: INE295F01017 
ISIN: INE295F01017 
Our Reference: 27/2024-25 
Our Reference: 27/2024-25 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Intimation under  Regulation 30 and 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Notice of the 37th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report 
2023-24 
 
We wish to inform you that the 37th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (“the Company”) will be held on Friday, July 19, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/ 
Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) in compliance with the applicable circulars issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) and that the deemed venue of 
the meeting shall be the Registered Office of the Company situated at 143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur–
Kelambakkam Road, Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu District -603103. 
 
Pursuant  to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations"), as amended from time to time, please find enclosed Notice convening the AGM 
and the Annual Report of the Company, including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the 
Financial Year 2023-24.  
 
In terms of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the said Notice of 37th AGM and Annual Report 
including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report is also available on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/  
 
Further, in terms of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is 
providing the facility to its Members to exercise their right to vote by electronic means, through remote e-Voting 
services of National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) as well as e-Voting during the AGM. The e-Voting 
instructions and the process to join meeting through VC/ OAVM is set out in the AGM Notice. 
 
Further, in accordance with applicable circular(s) issued by MCA and SEBI Circulars, the Notice of AGM along 
with the Annual Report is being sent through electronic mode to only those Members whose email addresses are 
registered with the Company/ Depository Participant(s).  
 
Information at a glance:  
 
Particulars 
Details 
Mode 
Video Conference and Other Audio-Visual Means 
Time and date of AGM 
Friday, July 19, 2024, 3:00 P.M. 
Participation through videoconferencing 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com      
Helpline number for VC participation 
1800 22 55 33 
 
 
 
Public
Video recording and transcripts 
https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/  
Cut-off date for e-Voting  
Friday, July 12, 2024  
Remote e-Voting start time and date 
Monday, July 15, 2024, 9.00 A.M. IST 
Remote e-Voting end time and date 
Thursday, July 18, 2024, 5.00 P.M. IST 
Remote e-Voting website of NSDL  
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com   
 
You are requested to take the above information on record.  
  
Thanking you, 
 
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
 
 
 
Viral Sarvaiya 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No.: A33764 
 
Encl:  A/a 
Viral Praful 
Sarvaiya
Digitally signed by Viral Praful Sarvaiya 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=5637, 
pseudonym=133537453600446793ODXn611BZMX7
R6, 
2.5.4.20=c163bef166ddbae83405f6e00855f82f0329d
c198e751c05254e8ee07b6fed44, 
postalCode=400064, st=Maharashtra, 
serialNumber=d0a9e23f8e3d4652f73e8ff42a507f9d
cee4dbeba3311f359e941f37bce46129, cn=Viral 
Praful Sarvaiya 
Date: 2024.06.22 14:06:27 +05'30'
BUTTERFLY GANDHIMATHI APPLIANCES LIMITED
CIN: L28931TN1986PLC012728
Registered Office: 143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur – Kelambakkam Road, Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu District – 603 103
T: +91 44 4741 5500 E-mail: butterfly.investorrelations@butterflyindia.com
Website: www.butterflyindia.com
Notice of the 37th Annual General Meeting
NOTICE is hereby given that the 37th (Thirty Seventh) Annual 
General Meeting (the “AGM”) of the Members of Butterfly 
Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (the “Company”) will be held 
on Friday, July 19, 2024 at 3.00 P.M. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) for 
which purpose the Registered Office of the Company situated 
at 143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur – Kelambakkam Road, 
Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu District - 603 103, shall be 
deemed as the venue for the Meeting and the proceedings of 
the AGM shall be deemed to be made thereat, to transact the 
following business(es):
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
Adoption of Financial Statements
	
To consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors 
(“the Board”) and the Auditors thereon.
2.	 Appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Shantanu 
Khosla 
(DIN:00059877) as a Director liable to retire 
by rotation
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN:00059877) who retires by rotation and being eligible 
offers himself for re-appointment. 
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the approval of Members of the Company, be 
and is hereby accorded to re-appoint Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN: 00059877) as Director, who is liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS
3.	 Ratification of remuneration payable to M/s. 
S. Mahadevan & Co., Cost Auditors of the 
Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 14 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, and other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
(including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), 
the Company be and hereby ratifies the remuneration of 
H 1,75,000 (Rupees One Lakh and Seventy Five Thousand 
Only) (exclusive of applicable taxes and re-imbursement 
of out of pocket expenses) payable to M/s. S. Mahadevan 
& Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration Number 
000007), who have been appointed by the Board 
of Directors basis the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, as the Cost Auditors of the Company, to 
conduct the audit of the cost records maintained by the 
Company as prescribed under the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended, for the 
Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company (including its Committee thereof) or the Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorised to do all act(s), deed(s), matter(s) & 
thing(s) and take all such steps as may be necessary, 
proper or expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
4.	 Appointment of Ms. Swetha Sagar G as the 
Manager and Key Managerial Personnel 
designated as ‘Manager & Chief Business 
Officer’ of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
196, 197, 198, 203, Schedule V and any other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), as amended (including any 
statutory modifications(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the 
time being in force), subject to the provisions of the Articles 
of Association (“AoA”) of the Company and pursuant to 
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”) and the approval of Board of Directors 
(“Board”) of the Company, the consent of the Members 
of the Company be and is hereby accorded for the 
appointment of Ms. Swetha Sagar G, as the Manager and 
Key Managerial Personnel, to be designated as ‘Manager 
and Chief Business Officer’ for the period of 5 (Five) years 
commencing from June 15, 2024, upto June 14, 2029, (both 
days inclusive), upon the terms and conditions as set out in 
the Explanatory Statement annexed to this Notice;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in her capacity as the 
Manager, Ms. Swetha Sagar G is entitled to exercise all 
powers as are exercisable by the Manager of the Company 
01
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
as permissible under the provisions of the Act, and any other 
statutes in order to manage the affairs of the Company, 
subject to the superintendence, control and directions of 
the Board;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Director(s) be 
and are hereby severally authorized to sign and execute 
the appointment letter (and any other agreement relating 
to compensation and benefits) between the Company 
and Ms. Swetha Sagar G inter-alia containing terms and 
conditions of appointment;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Director(s) of the 
Company be and are hereby authorised to alter and vary 
the terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate 
in relation to the said appointment, based on the 
recommendations of the NRC of the Board and subject to 
terms as specified in explanatory statement, in compliance 
with the applicable provisions of the Act, including but not 
limited to Section 197 read with Section 198 of the Act and 
the rules made thereunder, as well as other applicable laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company 
be and is hereby further authorised to do all such act(s), 
deed(s), matter(s) and thing(s) and to execute any 
agreement(s), document(s), instrument(s) and writing(s) 
as may be required, with power to settle all questions, 
difficulties or doubts that may arise in regard to the said 
appointment as it may in its sole discretion deem fit and 
to delegate all or any of its powers conferred herein to any 
Director(s) and/ or Officer(s) of the Company to give effect 
to this resolution.”
5.	 Payment of Remuneration to Ms. Swetha 
Sagar G as the Manager & Chief Business 
Officer of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT subject to the provisions of Section 197, 
198, Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, (“Act”) read 
with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and other applicable 
rules, if any, (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), subject to the provisions of the 
Articles of Association (“AoA”) of the Company and 
pursuant to the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and the approval 
of Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company, the 
consent of the Members of the Company, be and is hereby 
accorded for payment of remuneration to Ms. Swetha Sagar 
G, Manager & Chief Business Officer, for a term of 3 (Three) 
years with effect from June 15, 2024, to June 14, 2027, (as 
detailed out in the Explanatory Statement) and with an 
annual increment as may be approved by the NRC of the 
Board/ Board of Directors, subject to a maximum of 15% 
(Fifteen Percent) of the fixed pay and performance bonus 
in the immediate previous year;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the proviso to 
Section II(A) of Part II of Schedule V to the Act, in the event, 
the Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate 
during the aforesaid tenure, the managerial remuneration 
as determined in terms of this resolution and as set out in 
the explanatory statement annexed to this Notice subject 
to annual increment as may be approved by the NRC shall 
be paid to Ms. Swetha Sagar G, as the Manager & Chief 
Business Officer, as the minimum remuneration for each 
financial year.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors/ NRC 
of the Company be and are hereby authorized to alter and 
vary the terms and conditions of the said appointment 
(including authority, from time to time, to determine the 
amount of salary, the type and amount of perquisites, 
bonus and other benefits payable to Ms. Swetha Sagar 
G), in such manner as may be agreed to between the 
Company and Ms. Swetha Sagar G, within the limits 
approved by the Members and to the extent the Board may 
consider appropriate;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Director(s) of 
the Company be and are hereby authorised to settle any 
question, difficulty, or doubt, that may arise in giving effect 
to the aforesaid resolution including delegation of all or any 
of the powers conferred on it by or under this resolution 
to NRC/ Board of Directors of and to do all such acts and 
take all such steps as may be considered necessary or 
expedient to give effect to the aforesaid resolution.”
By the order of the Board
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Viral Sarvaiya
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Registered office
143, Pudupakkam Village,
Vandalur – Kelambakkam Road,
Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu
District – 603 103
Date: June 19, 2024
Place: Chennai
02
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Notes
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India 
(“MCA”) has permitted conducting Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) through video conferencing (“VC”) or 
other audio-visual means (“OAVM”). In this regard, MCA 
vide its General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, 
Circular No.17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, Circular No. 
20/2020 dated May 5, 2020, General Circular No. 2/2022 
dated May 5, 2022, followed by Circular No. 10/2022 
dated December 28, 2022, and subsequent Circular 
No. 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023, (collectively 
referred as “MCA Circulars”), prescribing the procedure 
and manner of conducting the Annual General Meeting 
through VC/ OAVM without the physical presence of 
the Members at a common venue. The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) also vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 
2020, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-
2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 5, 2023, and Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated October 
07, 2023, (collectively referred as “SEBI Circulars”) 
has provided certain relaxations from compliance with 
certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”). In compliance with the applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”), MCA 
Circulars, SEBI Circulars and SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the AGM of the Members will be held through VC/ OAVM. 
Hence, Members can attend and participate in the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM only. The proceeding of the AGM will 
be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the 
Company which shall be the deemed venue of the AGM.
2.	
An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of 
the Act relating to special business as stated under Item 
No. 3 of the Notice dated Wednesday, June 19, 2024, is 
annexed hereto. 
3.	
A statement providing additional details of the Directors 
seeking re-appointment as set out in Item No. 2 of the 
Notice dated Wednesday, June 19, 2024, is annexed 
herewith as required under Regulation 36(3) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations as amended from time to time and Secretarial 
Standard–2 (“SS-2”) on General Meetings issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). 
4.	
Since this AGM is being conducted through VC/ OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with 
in line with the MCA Circulars. Accordingly, the facility 
for appointment of proxy(ies) by the Members will not 
be available for the AGM and hence the proxy form and 
attendance slip are not annexed to this notice. 
5.	
Institutional/ Corporate Members (i.e. other than individuals/ 
HUF/ NRI, etc.) intending to authorize their representatives 
to attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM on its behalf and to 
vote through electronic voting (“e-Voting”), are requested 
to send a certified scanned copy (PDF/ JPG Format) of its 
Board or governing body resolution/ authorisation letter 
to the Scrutinizer by e-mail through its registered e-mail 
address at alagar@geniconsolutions.com with a copy 
marked at evoting@nsdl.com 
	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUFs, 
NRIs etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution/ 
Authority Letter, etc. by clicking on “Upload Board 
Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed under e-Voting 
tab in their login.
6.	
The voting rights of Members shall be proportionate 
to their share of the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date.
7.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/ OAVM mode 
15 (Fifteen) minutes before and after the scheduled 
time of the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/ OAVM will be 
made available for 1,000 (One Thousand) Members on 
first come first served basis. This will not include large 
Members (i.e. Members holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairperson of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. 
who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on 
account of first come first served basis. 
8.	
Participation of Members attending AGM through VC/ 
OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
9.	
In accordance with the aforesaid MCA and SEBI Circulars, 
the financial statements including Report of Board of 
Directors, Auditor’s report or other documents required 
to be attached therewith and the Notice of AGM are 
being sent in electronic mode to the Members whose 
e-mail addresses are registered with the Company or the 
Depositories/ Depository Participant(s) (“DPs”). In case 
any Member is desirous of obtaining physical copy of 
the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24, kindly 
send a request to the Company by writing at butterfly.
investorrelations@butterflyindia.com mentioning their 
Folio Number/ DP ID and Client ID. 
	
The Notice calling the AGM has been uploaded on the 
website of the Company at www.butterflyindia.com The 
Notice can also be accessed from the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges, i.e. BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) at www.
bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively and 
is also available on the website of National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) (agency for providing the 
remote e-Voting facility), at www.evoting.nsdl.com
10.	 Members seeking any information with regard to the 
Accounts or any matter to be placed at the AGM, Register 
of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their 
03
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Act, 
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which Directors 
are interested under Section 189 of the Act and relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and 
in the Explanatory Statement are requested to write to 
the Company on or before Friday, July 19, 2024, through 
e-mail on butterfly.investorrelations@butterflyindia.com 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
	
All documents referred to in the Notice will also be available 
electronically for inspection, without any payment of 
fee, by the Members from the date of circulation of this 
Notice up to the date of AGM. Members seeking to 
inspect such documents can send an e-mail to butterfly.
investorrelations@butterflyindia.com
11.	
To support the “Green Initiative”, Members who have 
not registered their e-mail address(es) are requested to 
register the same with the M/s. GNSA Infotech Private 
Limited, Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
(“RTA”)/ their DPs, in respect of shares held in physical/ 
electronic mode, respectively.
12.	 Since the AGM will be held through VC/ OAVM, the Route 
Map is not annexed with this Notice.
13.	 In compliance with Section 108 of the Act, read with Rule 
20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, Regulation 
44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 dated 
December 9, 2020, on e-Voting facility provided by listed 
companies, the Company is providing facility for voting 
by electronic means (“e-Voting”) for all its Members 
to enable them to cast their vote electronically and the 
business(es) may be transacted through such e-Voting.
	
For this purpose, the Company has availed the services 
of NSDL for facilitating voting through electronic means, 
as the authorized agency, for casting votes using remote 
e-Voting system on all the resolution(s) set forth in 
this Notice.
14.	 As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility 
for making a nomination is available for the Members in 
respect of the shares held by them. Members holding 
shares in physical form who have not yet registered 
their nominations are requested to register the same by 
submitting Form No. SH-13. If a Member desires to cancel 
the earlier nomination and record a fresh nomination, he/ 
she may submit the same in Form No. SH-14. The said form 
can be downloaded from the Company’s website at https://
www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/#downcont 
Members are requested to submit the said form to their 
DPs in case the shares are held in electronic form and 
to the Company or RTA, in case the shares are held in 
physical form, quoting their folio numbers. 
	
In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register 
of Members of the Company as on the cut-off date will be 
entitled to vote during the AGM.
15.	 Members are requested to check that the correct account 
number has been recorded with the Depository. Members 
holding shares in electronic form are requested to intimate 
any change in their address, e-mail ID, signature or bank 
mandates to their respective DPs with whom they are 
maintaining their Demat accounts. Members holding 
shares in physical form are requested to intimate such 
changes to the RTA of the Company by furnishing Form 
No. ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI Master 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/SECFATF/P/CIR/2023/169 
dated October 12, 2023. The same are available on the 
website of the Company at https://www.butterflyindia.
com/investor-relations/#downcont It may be noted that 
any service request can be processed only after the folio 
is KYC Compliant.
16.	 As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended, securities of listed companies can be 
transferred only in dematerialized form. Further, the 
transmission and transposition of securities shall also be 
effected only in dematerialised form. In view of this and to 
eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and for 
ease of portfolio management, Members holding shares 
in physical form are requested to consider converting their 
holdings into dematerialized form. Members can contact 
the Company or RTA for assistance in this regard.
17.	
SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/ 
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, and SEBI/HO/OIAE/ 
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 2023, read 
with Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-
1/P/ CIR/2023/145 dated July 31, 2023, (updated as on 
August 11, 2023), has established a common Online 
Dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) for resolution of 
disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market. Pursuant 
to above-mentioned circulars, post exhausting the option 
to resolve their grievances with the RTA/ Company directly 
and through existing SCORES platform, the investors can 
initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal (https://
smartodr.in/login). 
18.	 SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/ CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021 
(subsequently amended by Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/
04
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/687 dated December 
14, 2021, SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 
March 16, 2023 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/
CIR/2023/181 November 17, 2023) has mandated that 
with effect from April 1, 2024, dividend to security holders 
(holding securities in physical form), shall be paid only 
through electronic mode. Such payment shall be made 
only after furnishing the PAN, choice of nomination, 
contact details including mobile number, bank account 
details and specimen signature.
	
Further, relevant FAQs published by SEBI on its website 
can be viewed at the following link: https://www.sebi.gov.
in/sebi_data/faqfiles/jan-2024/1704433843359.pdf
	
Transfer of Unclaimed/ Unpaid amounts to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
19.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Act read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer, and Refund) Rules, 
2016, as amended (“the IEPF Rules”), all unclaimed/
unpaid all dividends, if not encashed for a period of 
7 (Seven) years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend 
Account of the Company, are liable to be transferred to the 
IEPF. Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend 
has remained unclaimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years 
or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend 
account shall also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, 
Members are requested to claim their dividends from the 
Company, within the stipulated timeline.
20.	 Further, pursuant to Section 124 of the Act read with the 
IEPF Rules (“IEPF Rules”), all equity shares, in respect of 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years or more from the date of declaration, 
are also required to be transferred to an account, viz. 
IEPF Suspense Account, which is operated by the IEPF 
Authority pursuant to the IEPF Rules. Further, all equity 
shares of the Company on which dividend has not been 
paid or claimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more, 
shall be transferred by the Company to the IEPF from time 
to time.
21.	 Adhering to the aforesaid statutory requirement, during 
the Financial Year 2023-24, unclaimed dividend for the 
Financial Year 2015-16 aggregating I 5,82,689/- (Rupees 
Five Lakhs Eighty Two Thousand Six Hundred and 
Eighty Nine Only) and 2,97,583 (Two Lakh Ninety Seven 
Thousand Five Hundred and Eighty Three) unclaimed 
equity shares in respect of which dividend entitlements 
remained unclaimed for 7 (seven) consecutive years, were 
transferred by the Company to the IEPF established by the 
Central Government, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
124 of the Act, read with the IEPF Rules.
22.	 Members holding shares in electronic form are requested 
to ensure that correct bank particulars are registered 
against their respective Depository accounts which will 
be used by the Company for any payment of dividend in 
future. The Company or its RTA cannot act on any request 
received directly from the Members holding shares in 
electronic form for any change of bank particulars or bank 
mandates. Such changes are to be advised only to the DP 
by the Members. 
23.	 Members wishing to claim dividends that remain unclaimed 
are requested to correspond with the RTA as mentioned 
above, or with the Company Secretary, at the Company’s 
registered office or at butterfly.investorrelations@
butterflyindia.com
24.	 The instructions for Members for remote e-Voting 
and joining the AGM are as under
	
The remote e-Voting period commences from Monday, July 
15, 2024 at (9:00 A.M. IST) and ends on Thursday, July 
18, 2024 at (05:00 P.M. IST). During this period, Members 
holding shares either in physical or dematerialized form, 
as on Friday, July 12, 2024, (“Cut-off date”), may cast 
their votes electronically through e-Voting system from any 
place (“remote e-Voting”). The remote e-Voting module 
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The voting 
right of Members shall be in proportion to their share in the 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-
off date, being Friday, July 12, 2024. Members have the 
option to cast their vote on any of the resolution(s) using 
the remote e-Voting facility, either during the aforesaid 
period or during the AGM. Members who have voted on 
some of the resolutions during the said voting period are 
also eligible to vote on the remaining resolution(s) during 
the AGM.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to the NSDL e-Voting system:
	
Step 2: Cast your votes electronically on NSDL 
e-Voting system.
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for 
individual Members holding securities in demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020, on 
e-Voting facility provided by listed companies and as a 
part of increasing the efficiency of the e-Voting process, 
individual Members holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with Depositories and DPs. Members are advised to 
update their mobile number and e-mail ID in their demat 
accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
05
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
	
Login method for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Members
Login method
Individual Members 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
1.	 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section, this will prompt you to enter 
your existing user ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and 
you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., 
NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting and voting during the meeting.
2.	 If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com 
Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3.	 Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e., your sixteen-digit demat 
account number hold with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. 
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.	
4.	 Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code 
mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual Members 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
1.	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on 
login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my easi username & password.
2.	 After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the information provided by Company. On 
clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during 
the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	 If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & E-mail as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the 
e-Voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Members 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login through 
their DPs
1.	 You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with 
NSDL/ CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. 
2.	 Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. 
3.	 Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
06
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at toll free no.: 022 - 4886 7000 
Individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending 
a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 1800 22 55 33 
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for 
Members 
other 
than 
Individual 
Members holding securities in demat mode and 
Members holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Login to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
Step 1
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web 
browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or 
on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, 
click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
user ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification Code 
as shown on the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices 
i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/ with your existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in 
to NSDL e-services after using your log-in credentials, 
click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. 
Cast your vote electronically.
	
4.	
Your user ID details are given below
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL 
or CDSL) or Physical
Your user ID is
a)	 For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your user 
ID is IN300***12******
b)	 For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 
12**************
c)	 For Members holding shares in Physical 
Form
EVEN Number followed by folio number registered with the Company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 128873 then user ID is 
128873001****
	
5.	
Password details for Members other than Individual 
Members are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then 
you can user your existing password to login 
and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you. 
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
i.	
If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the Company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your 
e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the e-mail 
and open the attachment i.e. a pdf file. 
Open the pdf file. The password to open 
the pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares held in 
physical form. The pdf file contains your 
‘user ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
ii.	
If your e-mail ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in e-mail IDs
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/ Password?” (If 
you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com
	
	
b)	
“Physical 
User 
Reset 
Password?” 
(If 
you 
are 
holding 
shares 
in 
physical 
mode) 
option 
available 
on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat 
account number/ folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on 
the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
	
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, the home page 
of e-Voting will open.
07
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting 
system
1.	
After successful logging in following Step 1, you will be 
able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle and General 
Meeting is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed 
under “Join General Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the voting page opens.
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent 
or dissent, verify/ modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also 
“Confirm” when prompted.
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” 
will be displayed.
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not 
be allowed to modify your vote.
Process for procuring user ID and password for 
e-Voting for those Members whose e-mail IDs are 
not registered with the Depositories/ Company 
and registration of e-mail IDs for e-Voting on all the 
resolutions set out in this notice
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode and have not 
updated their e-mail address(es) with the Company, 
please provide folio number, name of Member, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), self-attested 
scanned copy of PAN card and Aadhar Card by e-mail to 
butterfly.investorrelations@butterfly.com for registering 
e-mail address.
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DP ID and Client ID (16 digit DP ID + Client ID or 
16-digit beneficiary ID), name of Member, client master 
or copy of Consolidated Account statement, self-
attested scanned copy of PAN card and Aadhar Card to 
butterfly.investorrelations@butterfly.com 
3.	
Alternatively, Members may send a request to 
evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user ID and password 
for e-Voting by providing above mentioned documents.
General guidelines for Members
1.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-Voting website will 
be disabled upon 5 (Five) unsuccessful attempts to key 
in the correct password. In such an event, you will need 
to go through the “Forgot user Details/ Password?” or 
“Physical user Reset Password?” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
2.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) for Members and the e-Voting user 
manual for Members available in the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free number: 
022-48867000 or send a request to Mr. Sanjeev Yadav - 
Assistant Manager - NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com
25.	 The instructions for Members for e-Voting 
on the day of the AGM are as under
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same 
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-Voting.
2.	
Only those Members, who will be present in the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM facility and have not casted their vote 
on the resolution(s) through remote e-Voting and are 
otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through remote e-Voting will 
be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be 
eligible to vote at the AGM.
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
remote e-Voting.
26.	 Instructions for Members for attending the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM are as under
	
i.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the 
steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system. After successful login, you can see link of 
“VC/ OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu 
against Company name. You are requested to click 
on VC/ OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. 
The link for VC/ OAVM will be available in Member 
login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the Members who do not have the 
user ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten 
the user ID and Password may retrieve the same by 
following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned 
in the notice to avoid last minute rush. 
	
ii.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
laptops for better experience.
	
iii.	
Further, Members will be required to allow camera 
and use internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
	
iv.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from mobile 
devices or tablets or through laptop connecting via 
mobile hotspot may experience Audio/ Video loss 
due to fluctuation in their respective network. It is 
therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN 
connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
	
v.	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves 
as a speaker by sending their request from their 
registered e-mail ID mentioning their name, DP ID 
08
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
and Client ID/ folio number, PAN, mobile number 
at butterfly.investorrelations@butterfly.com Those 
Members who have registered themselves as a 
speaker from Thursday, July 11, 2024, to Tuesday, 
July 16, 2024, upto 5:00 P.M (IST) will only be 
allowed to express their views/ ask questions during 
the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict 
the number of speakers depending on the availability 
of time for the AGM.
	
vi.	
Members who would like to express their views/ 
have questions may send their questions in 
advance mentioning their name demat account 
number/ folio number, e-mail ID, mobile number at 
butterfly.investorrelations@butterfly.com The same 
will be replied by the Company suitably. 
	
vii.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and 
non-individual Members, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes Member of the Company 
after the notice is send through e-mail and holding 
shares as of the cut-off date, i.e. Friday, July 12, 
2024, may obtain the login ID and password by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or Issuer/
RTA. However, if you are already registered with 
NSDL for remote e-Voting, then you can use your 
existing user ID and password for casting your 
vote. If you forgot your password, you can reset 
your password by using “Forgot user Details/ 
Password” or “Physical user Reset Password” 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or call 
on toll free no. 1800 22 55 33. In case of individual 
Members holding securities in demat mode who 
acquires shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the Cut-off date, i.e. Friday, 
July 12, 2024, may follow steps mentioned in the 
Notice of the AGM under “Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system”. 
	
viii.	 A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off 
date is requested to treat this Notice for information 
purposes only. 
	
ix.	
A Member will not be allowed to vote again on any 
resolution(s) on which vote has already been cast. 
	
x.	
Members attending the AGM who have not cast their 
votes on the resolutions through remote e-Voting 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall 
be eligible to cast their votes through e-Voting during 
the AGM. The Members who have casted their votes 
prior to the AGM may also attend/ participate in the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM but shall not be entitled to 
cast their votes again.
	
xi.	
The remote e-Voting module on the day of the AGM 
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting after 15 (Fifteen) 
minutes of the conclusion of the AGM.
	
xii.	
Any Member holding shares in physical form, and 
non-individual Members, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of 
the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID and password 
by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com However, 
if he/ she is already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-Voting, then he/ she can use his/ her existing user 
ID and password for casting the vote. 
	
xiii.	 In case of individual Members holding securities 
in demat mode, who acquires the shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after the Notice is sent and holding shares as of 
the cut-off date, may follow steps mentioned under 
“Instructions for e-Voting”.
27.	 Scrutiniser’s report and declaration of 
results
	
i.	
The Board of Directors of the Company has 
appointed Mr. M. Alagar (Membership No. F7488 
and or failing him Mr. D. Saravanan (Membership No. 
A60177), Partners of M/s. M. Alagar & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique code: 
P2011TN078800), as the Scrutiniser to scrutinize 
the e-Voting process during the AGM and remote 
e-Voting in a fair and transparent manner.
	
ii.	
The Scrutiniser shall, immediately after the 
conclusion of the e-Voting at the AGM, first count 
the votes cast during the AGM, thereafter unblock 
the votes cast through remote e-Voting in the 
presence of at least 2 (Two) witnesses not in the 
employment of the Company and submit, not later 
than 2 (Two) working days of conclusion of the AGM, 
a consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or 
a person authorised by him in writing, who shall 
countersign the same. 
	
iii.	
The results declared along with the Scrutiniser’s 
Report shall be placed on the Company’s website 
www.butterflyindia.com and on the website of NSDL, 
i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the 
submission with the Stock Exchanges, where the 
shares of the Company are listed. Subject to receipt 
of the requisite number of votes, the resolutions shall 
be deemed to have been passed on the date of the 
AGM, i.e. Friday, July 19, 2024.
28.	 Note to Members
	
i.	
SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent 
Account Number (“PAN”) by every participant 
in securities market. Members holding shares 
in dematerialised form are, therefore, requested 
to submit their PAN to the DPs with whom they 
maintain their demat accounts. Members holding 
09
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
shares in physical form should submit their PAN to 
the Company/ RTA.
	
ii.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, e-mail 
ID, telephone/ mobile numbers, PAN, mandates, 
nominations, power of attorney, bank details (such as 
name of the bank and branch details, bank account 
number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.), with necessary 
documentary evidence, to their DPs in case the 
shares are held by them in dematerialised form and 
to the Company/ RTA.
	
iii.	
Members are requested to quote their folio number 
or DP ID, Client ID, as the case may be, in all 
correspondence with the Company or the RTA.
	
iv.	
To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are 
advised to exercise due diligence and notify the 
Company of any change in address or demise of 
any Member as soon as possible. Members are also 
advised to not leave their demat account(s) dormant 
for long. Periodic statement of holdings should 
be obtained from the concerned DP and holdings 
should be verified from time to time.
	
v.	
The Company has sent individual letters to all 
the Members holding shares of the Company in 
physical form for furnishing their PAN, KYC details 
and Nomination pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/ 
HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated 
November 3, 2021. Attention of the Members holding 
shares of the Company in physical form is invited to 
go through the said important communication.
	
vi.	
To mitigate unintended challenges on account of 
freezing of folios, SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 dated November 17, 
2023, has done away with the provision regarding 
freezing of folios not having PAN, KYC, and Nomination 
details. Members may also refer to relevant FAQs 
published by SEBI on its website and can be viewed 
at the following link https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/
faqfiles/jan-2024/1704433843359.pdf 
	
vii.	
Further, in compliance to the SEBI Circular SEBI/
HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022, if the service requests are 
received by RTA (like Issue of duplicate securities 
certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense account, 
renewal/ exchange, endorsement, sub-division/ 
splitting, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios, transmission and transposition of securities) 
from those Members whose details, as mentioned 
in SEBI Circular dated November 3, 2021, are duly 
updated in the system, the RTA/ Company shall 
verify and process the service requests and issue a 
“Letter of Confirmation” in lieu of physical securities 
certificate(s), to the securities holder/ claimant within 
30 (Thirty) days of its receipt of such request after 
removing objections, if any, which shall be valid for a 
period of 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days from 
the date of its issuance, within which the securities 
holder/ claimant shall make a request to the DP for 
dematerialising the said securities.
	
	
If the Members fail to submit the dematerialisation 
request within 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) 
days, then the Company shall credit those shares 
in the Suspense Escrow Demat account held by 
the Company. Members can claim these shares 
transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat account on 
submission of necessary documentation.
	
viii.	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated January 25, 2022, has mandated the Listed 
Companies to issue securities in demat form only while 
processing service requests viz. issue of duplicate 
securities certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense 
account, renewal/ exchange of securities certificate, 
endorsement, sub-division/ splitting of securities 
certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios, transmission and transposition. Accordingly, 
Members are requested to make service requests 
by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-4, 
the format of which is available on the Company’s 
website under the weblink at www.butterflyindia.com 
Members holding equity shares of the Company in 
physical form are requested to get their equity shares 
converted into demat/ electronic form to get inherent 
benefits of dematerialisation and also considering 
that physical transfer of equity shares/ issuance of 
equity shares in physical form have been disallowed 
by SEBI. 
By the order of the Board
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Viral Sarvaiya
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Registered office
143, Pudupakkam Village,
Vandalur – Kelambakkam Road,
Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu
District – 603 103
Date: June 19, 2024
Place: Chennai
10
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Item No. 3
Ratification of remuneration payable to M/s. S. Mahadevan  
& Co., Cost Auditors of the Company
Under the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended 
from time to time, the Company is required to have the audit 
of its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant. Further, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor has to be ratified by 
the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company basis the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, at their Meeting held 
on Tuesday, May 14, 2024, has approved the appointment of 
M/s. S. Mahadevan & Co, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 000007) as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the cost 
records maintained by the Company for the Financial Year ending 
March 31, 2025 at a remuneration I 1,75,000 (Rupees One Lakh 
Seventy Five Thousand Only) (excluding all applicable taxes and 
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses, if any at actuals). 
Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought by way of an 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 3 of the accompanying 
Notice for ratification of the remuneration amounting to 
H 1,75,000 (Rupees One Lakh Seventy Five Thousand Only) plus 
applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses on actual basis 
payable to the Cost Auditors for the Financial Year ending March 
31, 2025. 
The Board recommends the resolution as set out at Item No. 3 
of the Notice for the approval of the Members of the Company 
as an Ordinary Resolution. 
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives are in any way concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in the said resolution.
Item No. 4 & 5
Item No. 4: Appointment of Ms. Swetha Sagar G as 
the Manager and Key Managerial Personnel to be 
designated as ‘Manager & Chief Business Officer’ 
of the Company,
Item No. 5: Payment of Remuneration to Ms. 
Swetha Sagar G as the Manager & Chief Business 
Officer of the Company
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on April 4, 2024, 
approved the appointment of Ms. Swetha Sagar G as Product 
Line Head - Kitchen Appliances w.e.f. April 12, 2024, based 
on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”). The services of Ms. Swetha have been 
seconded by Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited, 
i.e., the Holding Company, on the request of the Company in 
April 2024, for appointing her as a Product Line Head - Kitchen 
Appliances. Your Board of Directors approved her secondment 
effective from April 12, 2024, in terms of Section 188 of the 
Act. After considering Ms. Swetha’s roles and responsibilities 
and aligning with the organisation’s strategy to foster internal 
talent and drive growth in the Kitchen Appliances segment, she 
was elevated as Chief Business Officer of the Company w.e.f. 
May 14, 2024.
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram tendered his resignation from the position 
of Managing Director of the Company, effective from June 14, 
2024. Subsequently, the NRC at its meeting held on June 13, 
2024, recommended the appointment of Ms. Swetha Sagar G, 
as a Manager as defined under Section 2(53) of Companies Act, 
2013, (“the Act”) for the management of affairs of the Company 
effective June 15, 2024, subject to the superintendence, control 
and directions of the Board in place of Mr. Sriram.
The Board at its meeting held on June 13, 2024, approved 
the appointment of Ms. Swetha as the Manager and a Key 
Managerial Personnel, to be designated as ‘Manager & Chief 
Business Officer’ of the Company, for a period of 5 (Five) years, 
from June 15, 2024, to June 14, 2029, along with other terms 
and conditions inter alia including payment of remuneration 
for the period of 3 (Three) consecutive financial years from 
the date of her appointment subject to an annual increment 
upto a maximum of 15% (Fifteen Percent) of the fixed pay and 
performance bonus in the immediate previous year without 
any further reference to the Members of the Company in the 
General Meeting.
Profile of Ms. Swetha Sagar G
Ms. Swetha holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics 
& Communication Engineering from TEC, Madras University. 
Additionally, she has completed the Advanced Program for 
Marketing Professionals from IIM Calcutta and holds an MBA 
in Marketing and HR from the Indian Institute of Planning 
& Management.
Ms. Swetha has over 19 (Nineteen) years of experience in 
various areas including P&L Management, Strategic Planning, 
New Market Assessment, Brand Management, and Channel 
Management. She was previously associated with Versuni 
India Home Solutions Limited and has worked with notable 
companies such as Hindustan Coca-Cola, Hutchison Essar, 
EID Parry, and Lavazza India etc.
STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL FACTS CONCERNING AND RELATING TO  
THE SPECIAL BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT THE MEETING PURSUANT TO SECTION 102(1) 
OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
11
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
Below are the broad particulars of the appointment and remuneration payable to Ms. Swetha Sagar G, Manager & Chief Business 
Officer, as may be approved by Board/ NRC of the Board from time to time and in accordance with the Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy of the Company:
Particulars
Details
Fixed Pay 
Upto ` 1,05,48,783/- (One crore Five Lakhs Forty Eight Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty Three only) per 
annum. 
The Fixed Pay includes the following benefits, perquisites and amenities, which is paid and/ or provided to her: 
i)	
Basic salary and special allowance; 
ii)	 Employer’s contribution towards provident fund; 
iii)	 Gratuity; 
iv)	 Housing Rent Allowance (HRA) or Residential Accommodation; 
v)	 Leave Travel Concession (LTC); 
vi)	 Reimbursement of telephone expenses; 
vii)	 Reimbursement of fuel expenses; 
viii)	Payment of driver salary; 
ix)	 Education and hostel allowance for children; 
x)	 Payment of premium towards Group Mediclaim, as per the rules of the Company 
Performance Bonus 
Pay out of Rs. 21,09,757/- per annum (Rupees Twenty One Lakh Nine Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Seven only) 
at Performance Factor of 100%.
This Bonus is performance-linked and shall be paid on the basis of actual performance parameters (including sales 
growth, profit before tax (growth and as % to sales), cash from operations etc. and as may be fixed by the NRC 
and Board from time to time. 
Stock Options 
Restricted Stock Units (“RSU”) of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited, Holding Company worth of 
` 1,90,00,000/- (Rupees One Crore and Ninety Lakh Only), as may be approved and announced, from time to time, 
or an equivalent cash payout.
Other benefits 
i)	
Terminal benefits such as leave encashment, medical benefits and insurance benefits (such as death insurance, 
vehicle insurance, life insurance, accident insurance, etc.) of the Holding Company. 
ii)	 Ms. Swetha Sagar G will be paid annual increment subject to a maximum of 15% (Fifteen Percent) of the Fixed 
pay and performance bonus for the immediate previous year as approved by NRC and Board of Directors. 
Other Key Terms
Tenure of Appointment Ms. Swetha Sagar G as the Manager & 
Chief Business Officer of the Company for a period of 5 (Five) 
years commencing from June 15, 2024, to June 14, 2029, (both 
days inclusive) subject to the approval of Members, along with 
other terms and conditions inter alia including payment of 
remuneration for the period of 3 (Three) consecutive financial 
years from the date of her appointment subject to an annual 
increment upto a maximum of 15% (Fifteen Percent) of the fixed 
pay and performance bonus in the immediate previous year 
without any further reference to the Members of the Company 
in the General Meeting.
Notice Period
Either the Company or the Manager & Chief Business Officer 
may give the other 3 (Three) months’ notice in writing, prior to 
terminating the agreement except where reasons are justifiable.
Insurance
Insurance will be covered under the Company’s Health 
Insurance Scheme; Personal Accident Insurance Scheme and 
Term Insurance as applicable to the employees of the Company. 
The premium for this will not form part of Fixed Compensation.
Non-Compete
The Manager & Chief Business Officer shall refrain from 
engaging with competitors for a particular period as mentioned 
in the letter of appointment, following her separation from 
the Company.
Employee Benefits
During the term of employment, the Manager & Chief Business 
Officer is entitled to participate in the employee benefit plans 
currently and hereafter maintained by the Company of general 
applicability to other employees of the Company.
Minimum Remuneration
In the event of inadequacy or absence of profit in any financial 
year of the Company during the term of Manager & Chief 
Business Officer, the minimum remuneration payable to her 
shall be by way of Fixed Pay, Performance Bonus, Stock 
Options/RSU and other benefits and the annual increment as 
set above subject to the provisions of Section 197 of the Act, and 
subject to compliances required under Schedule V of the Act.
Qualification
The Manager & Chief Business Officer is conditioned on her 
representation that she is not disqualified or prevented from 
acting as a Manager on the Board of the Company, under 
applicable law including the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
12
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Disentitlements
The Manager & Chief Business Officer shall not be entitled to 
any sitting fees and/ or commission for attending the meetings 
of the Board of the Company or any Committee(s) thereof.
Duties
The Manager & Chief Business Officer shall perform such 
duties as shall from time to time be entrusted to her by the 
Board, subject to superintendence, guidance and control of 
the Board. Any variation to the terms and conditions of her 
appointment and remuneration, including Fixed Compensation 
and Performance Bonus, will be subject to review and approval 
of the Board (or its Committee) and shareholders (if applicable) 
in accordance with the applicable law, including the Act and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Company has received all statutory disclosures/ 
declarations from Ms. Swetha, including (i) consent in writing 
to act as Manager in Form DIR-2, pursuant to Rule 8 of the 
Companies (Appointment & Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014 (“the Appointment Rules”). Ms. Swetha satisfies all the 
conditions set out in Part-I of Schedule V of the Act as also 
conditions set out under Section 196(3) of the Act for being 
eligible for re-appointment.
For details Pursuant to the Sub-paragraph (iv) under second Proviso to Items (A) and (B) of section II of Part II of Schedule 
V to Companies Act 2013, the following statement is given
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Nature of Industry
Manufacturing and Marketing of a wide range of domestic kitchen and domestic 
electrical appliances.
2.
Date or expected date of commencement of 
commercial production
The Company commenced commercial production on February 24, 1986
3.
In case of new companies, expected date of 
commencement of activities as per project 
approved by financial institutions appearing in 
the prospectus
Not Applicable
4.
Financial performance based on given indicators 
as per audited financial results for the last 3 
(Three) years
(I in Lakhs)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
Gross Revenue
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
95,985.86
Profit after Tax
738.98
5,166.58
1,612.68
Dividend
Nil
Nil
3.00
EPS
Basis
4.13
28.90
9.02
Diluted
4.13
28.90
9.02
Net-worth
29,218.78
28,564.30
23,500.61
5.
Foreign Investments or collaborations if any
Not Applicable
Information about the Appointee: Appointment of Ms. Swetha, as the Manager and a Key Managerial Personnel, to be designated as 
‘Manager & Chief Business Officer’:
6.
Background details
Ms. Swetha holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communication 
Engineering from TEC, Madras University. Additionally, she has completed the 
Advanced Program for Marketing Professionals from IIM Calcutta and holds an 
MBA in Marketing and HR from the Indian Institute of Planning & Management. 
Ms. Swetha has over 19 (Nineteen) years of experience in various areas 
including P&L Management, Strategic Planning, New Market Assessment, Brand 
Management, and Channel Management. She was previously associated with 
Versuni India Home Solutions Limited and has worked with notable companies 
such as Hindustan Coca-Cola, Hutchison Essar, EID Parry, and Lavazza India etc.
7.
Past remuneration paid during F.Y. 2023-24
Not applicable as Ms. Swetha joined the Company w.e.f. April 12, 2024
8.
Recognition or awards
Ms. Swetha Sagar G, before joining Butterfly, achieved remarkable success by 
leading her previous brand to a Guinness World Record in 2019. Additionally, she 
has been also honored with prestigious awards such as the MADDYS, Pepper, 
and ET Brand Equity awards, highlighting her outstanding leadership and the 
brand’s excellence in the industry.
13
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Details
9.
Job Profile and her Suitability
Ms. Swetha as the Manager & Chief Business Officer under the directions of 
the Board of Directors of the Company will be taking care of all its day-to-day 
operations.
Taking into consideration her qualifications and expertise, Ms. Swetha is best 
suited for the responsibilities currently assigned to her by the Board of the 
Company.
10.
Remuneration proposed
As stated in the Explanatory Statement at Item No. 4 & 5 of this AGM Notice 
11.
Comparative remuneration profile with respect 
to industry, size of the Company, profile of the 
position and person (in case of expatriates the 
relevant details would be w.r.t. in the country of 
his origin)
In the organised sector of kitchen and electrical appliances industry 
manufacturing similar products there are only a few companies with similar 
synergies. The proposed remuneration of the appointee is in line with the 
prevailing remuneration in Industry, size of the Company, profile of the similar 
position, etc.
12.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with 
the Company or relationship with the managerial 
personnel, if any.
Besides the remuneration paid/ payable to her, the Manager & Chief Business 
Officer does not have any other pecuniary relationship with the Company or 
relationship with the managerial personnel
Other Information
13.
Reasons of loss or inadequate profits
The limited penetration in rural areas and among lower-income households 
is restricting the Company's potential for market share growth. Additionally, 
increasing competition from both established industry leaders and emerging 
brands is intensifying, exerting pressure on profit margins.
14.
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for 
improvement
To improve its performance, the Company is focusing on expanding demand for 
energy-efficient and environmentally friendly appliances, which are increasingly 
popular. Additionally, it aims to capitalise on rising urbanization and lifestyle shifts, 
which are driving demand for modern appliances. Targeting the growing middle-
class population with higher disposable incomes is another strategic move. 
Finally, the company plans to penetrate untapped rural markets, opening new 
avenues for growth.
The Company has also made suitable decisions to improve cash flow and ensure 
enough working capital availability. This method will help the Company stay 
financially resilient and thrive in the long run.
15.
Expected increase in productivity and profits in 
measurable terms
Butterfly intends to return to growth path in FY-25 post the corrective actions taken 
across channels and products commencing from H2 FY24.
Disclosures: The remuneration package of Ms. Swetha is 
provided in the respective resolution and explanatory statements 
annexed to this notice. Disclosures as required under Schedule 
V, Part II Section II Para (B)(iv)(IV) shall form part of the Report on 
Corporate Governance and Board of Directors for F.Y. 2024-25.
The detailed profile of Ms. Swetha and other requisite details, 
pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and provisions of the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
(“SS-2”), issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India is provided in Annexure-A to this notice.
The Board of Directors recommend the appointment of 
Ms. Swetha, as the Manager and Key Management Personnel, 
to be designated as ‘Manger & Chief Business Officer’ of the 
Company and payment of remuneration, as set forth in Item 
No. 4 & 5 of this Notice, for approval by the Members of the 
Company as an Ordinary and Special Resolution, respectively.
Save and except Ms. Swetha and/or his relatives, none of the 
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and/
or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out in Item No. 4 
& 5 of this Notice.
By the order of the Board
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Viral Sarvaiya
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Registered office
143, Pudupakkam Village,
Vandalur – Kelambakkam Road,
Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu
District – 603 103
Date: June 19, 2024
Place: Chennai
14
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
ANNEXURE A
Details of Director/ Manager seeking Re-appointment/ Appointment,  
respectively in the forthcoming AGM
[In pursuance of Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (“SS-2”) and Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations]
Name of the Director/ Officer
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Ms. Swetha Sagar G
Director Identification Number
00059877
N.A.
Category
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
Manager and Key Management Personnel (to be 
designated as ‘Manger & Chief Business Officer’)
Date of Birth
January 25, 1960
February 01, 1982
Age
64 years
42 years
Nationality
Indian
Indian
Date of first appointment on the 
Board
March 30, 2022
June 15, 2024
Relationship with Directors, 
Managers and KMPs
There is no relationship with other Directors on 
the Board, Managers and KMPs
There is no relationship with other Directors and 
KMPs on the Board. 
Brief Profile 
Mr. Khosla holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute 
of Technology, Bombay and MBA from Indian 
Institute of Management, Calcutta. He also 
served as the Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of Procter & Gamble from 
July 2002 to June 2015. He has also served 
on the Board of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (Holding Company) till April 
30, 2023, as Managing Director and from May 
1, 2023, as Executive Vice Chairman until April 
30, 2024, and thereafter w.e.f. May 1, 2024 he 
assumed the position of Non-Executive Vice 
Chairman.
Ms. Swetha has over 19 (Nineteen) years of 
experience in various areas including P&L 
Management, Strategic Planning, New Market 
Assessment, Brand Management, and Channel 
Management. She was previously associated 
with Versuni India Home Solutions Limited and 
has worked with notable companies such as 
Hindustan Coca-Cola, Hutchison Essar, EID 
Parry, and Lavazza India etc.
Qualification
Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering 
from Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay 
and MBA from Indian Institute of Management, 
Calcutta
Ms. Swetha holds a Bachelor of Engineering in 
Electronics & Communication Engineering from 
TEC, Madras University. Additionally, she has 
completed the Advanced Program for Marketing 
Professionals from IIM Calcutta and holds 
an MBA in Marketing and HR from the Indian 
Institute of Planning & Management
Experience
38 years 
19 (Nineteen) years 
Expertise in specific functional 
area
Wide managerial experience in Consumer 
Products Industry
Wide managerial experience in Consumer 
Products Industry
Terms and Conditions of 
appointment or  
re-appointment
•	
To be appointed as a Non-Executive Director;
•	
Liable to retire by rotation;
•	
Eligible for re-appointment
•	 To be appointed as a Manager & Chief 
Business Officer
•	 Term of Appointment – For a period of 5 (Five) 
years commencing from June 15, 2024, to 
June 14, 2029
•	 Other terms and conditions – as stated in the 
Explanatory Statement at Item No. 4 & 5 of 
this AGM Notice
Remuneration sought to be paid
Sitting fees of I 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand 
Only) per Board and Committee Meeting with 
the authority to Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Board of Directors to increase 
the fees up to the maximum limit of I1,00,000/- 
(Rupees One Lakh Only) per Meeting.
As stated in the Explanatory Statement at Item 
No. 4 & 5 of this AGM Notice
Remuneration last drawn
NIL
Not Applicable
Number of shares held in the 
Company (directly or as a 
beneficial owner)
NIL
NIL
Number of Meetings of the Board 
attended during the year
8 (Eight)
NA
15
Annual Report 2023-24
Notice
Membership/Chairmanship of 
Committees of the Company
1.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – 
Chairman
2.	 Audit Committee – Member
3.	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee – 
Member
4.	 Risk Management Committee – Member
NIL
Directorships held in listed 
Companies
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
NIL
Listed companies from which 
resigned in the past three years
NIL
NIL
Directorships held in other 
Companies (excluding 
foreign, private and Section 8 
Companies)
NIL
NIL
Membership/Chairmanship of 
Committees across other Public 
Companies (listed as well as 
unlisted)
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – 
Chairman
•	
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
and 
Share 
Transfer Committee – Member
NIL
Information at a glance:
Particulars
Details
Mode
VC/ OAVM
Time and date of AGM
Friday, July 19, 2024, at 3:00 P.M. (IST)
Participation through VC
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 
Helpline number for VC participation
1800 22 55 33
Webcast and transcripts
www.butterflyindia.com
Cut-off date for e-Voting
Friday, July 12, 2024
Remote e-Voting start time and date
Monday, July 15, 2024, from 9:00 A.M. (IST)
Remote e-Voting end time and date
Thursday, July 18, 2024, till 5:00 P.M. (IST)
Remote e-Voting website of NSDL
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
Name, address and contact details of e-Voting 
service provider
Contact details:
Mr. Sanjeev Yadav - Assistant Manager 
National Securities Depository Limited
4th Floor, A Wing, Trade World, Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India
E-mail Id: sanjeevy@nsdl.com; evoting@nsdl.com
Contact number: 1800 22 55 33
Name, address and contact details of Registrar and 
Transfer Agent
Contact details:
Mr. Krishnakumar N - Director & Compliance Officer
M/s. GNSA Infotech Private Limited
STA Department, Nelson Chambers, 4th Floor, F-Block, No. 115, Nelson Manickam 
Road, Aminjikarai, Chennai – 600029, Tamil Nadu.
E-mail ID: krishnakumar@gnsaindia.com/ sta@gnsaindia.com 
Contact number: 044 – 42962025
16
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Shaping the Future. 
Perfecting the Present.
Butterﬂy Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Who we are	
02
What we offer	
04
A peek into our past	
06
Our trophy cabinet	
08
Year in review
Chairman’s message 	
10
Key performance indicators	
12
Our quality emphasis	
14
Our innovation excellence	
16
Our brand excellence	
18
Our creative campaigns	
20
Our safety focus	
22
Our business environment	
24
Our growth drivers	
26
Our commitment to ESG
Environment	
28
Social	
30
Governance	
34
Board of Directors	
36
Risk Management	
40
Statutory reports
Management Discussion and Analysis Report	
44
Board’s Report	
48
Report on Corporate Governance 	
70
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report	
108
	
Financial statements
Financial Statements 	
136
In this report
Shaping the 
Future. Perfecting 
the Present.
In the kitchen appliances industry, Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”) is renowned for its 
craftsmanship that blends timeless traditions with cutting-
edge technology. Our Annual Report’s theme, ‘Shaping 
the Future, Perfecting the Present,’ represents the forward-
thinking spirit that drives us towards a brighter horizon.
Under the aegis of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited, (“Crompton”) Butterfly intends to soar 
to unprecedented heights, transcending from functional 
to lifestyle products. Leveraging our brand strength 
and integrated operations, we aim to unlock numerous 
possibilities in the kitchen space.
To read this report online or 
to download please visit us at 
www.butterflyindia.com
 
F.Y. 2023-24 performance
K93,128.25 Lakhs
Revenue from operations
K3,223.11 Lakhs
Operating EBITDA
Revenue breakup (%)
Making cooking easier worldwide
We are strengthening our international presence by 
expanding our products across various regions, including the 
SAARC Countries, Middle East, East Asia, the UK, and the 
US where our customer base is experiencing growth.
Collaborating for mutual 
progress
The combined forces of Crompton and Butterfly 
usher in an era of enhanced agility in the innovation 
within kitchen appliances domain, promising 
exciting new prospects for growth and customer-
centric offerings.
Inspiring 
innovation
Since our establishment in 1986, Butterfly 
has aspired to create a strong position in 
the kitchen space. With concentrated efforts 
across various areas, Butterfly is the #1 
kitchen player in the South market and has 
cemented its reputation as a sectoral pioneer 
with the introduction of the first stainless steel 
pressure cookers and LPG stoves.
In partnership with Crompton, Butterfly continues to provide 
improved home experiences with a diverse range of advanced 
appliances. We are committed to infusing every household’s 
cooking experiences with ease and exhilaration.
Our philosophy
Our philosophy is to offer our consumers high-quality kitchen 
and electrical appliances with ergonomic features and 
aesthetically pleasing designs at great value while upholding 
the fundamental principles of transparency, integrity, 
accountability, and compliance with the applicable laws. 
We continue to be dedicated to maximising shareholder value 
and embrace all stakeholders as partners in our success.
Our core values
Our core 
values
Who we are
1 
Research centre
2 
Product verticals
29,000+ 
Retail outlets
750+
Distributors
2 
Manufacturing 
units
35 
Operating offices
 North America - 5%
 Europe Region - 10%
 Asia - Pacific - 6%
 MENA Region - 67%
 SAARC Region - 12%
5
10
67
12
6
Caring
Responsible
Team Player
Ethical
Accountable
Entrepreneurial
Corporate overview
02
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Financial statements
Statutory reports
Our commitment to ESG
Year in review
03
Annual Report 2023-24
Advancing kitchens 
across homes
What we offer
Each of Butterfly’s products combines practicality, elegance, 
and affordability, focusing on improving life at home.
#1
in South India for stainless steel 
LPG Stoves and Wet Grinders
600+
SKUs
Top 3
in core categories of Mixers, 
Cookers, Stoves in South India
Mixer Grinders
Elevate your cooking 
game with Butterfly’s 
range of mixer grinders – 
the secret ingredient for 
smoother blends, finer 
grinds, and a kitchen that 
works as hard as you do.
LPG Stoves
Turn up the heat without 
burning a hole in your 
pocket! Discover the 
power and precision 
of Butterfly’s LPG 
stoves for a smarter 
cooking experience.
Pressure Cookers
Under pressure to 
create amazing meals? 
Butterfly’s pressure 
cookers are here to 
make cooking a breeze 
– fast, efficient, and 
delivering delicious results 
every time.
Electrical appliances
Butterfly’s top-notch kitchen appliances make cooking easier and breezier…
Wet Grinders
Unlock the rich flavours 
of heritage recipes with 
Butterfly’s wet grinders 
– designed to deliver the 
smoothest batters and finest 
pastes for an authentic 
cooking experience.
Electric Kettles
Boil, brew, and savour 
with ease using Butterfly’s 
electrical kettles – where 
speed meets style, bringing 
efficiency to your daily tea or 
coffee ritual.
Power Hobs
Cook with confidence 
and flair! Butterfly’s power 
hobs redefine speed 
and efficiency, ensuring 
your kitchen is always 
at the cutting edge of 
culinary innovation.
Juicer Mixer Grinders
From refreshing juices to 
perfectly ground spices, 
Butterfly’s juicer mixer 
grinders are designed to cater 
to all your kitchen needs.
Tower Fans
Stay cool and comfortable 
with Butterfly’s tower fans 
– sleek, space-saving, and 
powerful enough to create 
a refreshing breeze in 
any room.
Kitchen Chimneys
Upgrade your kitchen 
with Butterfly’s kitchen 
chimneys – the silent 
guardians against cooking 
odours and smoke. Enjoy a 
fresh, clean culinary space 
every time you cook.
Hand Blenders
Simplify your kitchen 
prep with our hand 
blenders – ergonomic 
design, powerful 
performance, and endless 
culinary possibilities at 
your fingertips.
Electric Rice Cookers
Say goodbye to overcooked 
or underdone rice! Explore 
the ease of perfectly 
cooked grains with 
Butterfly’s electric rice 
cookers – the smart choice 
for busy kitchens.
Iron Boxes
Wrinkles be gone! 
Butterfly’s iron boxes 
combine sleek design with 
powerful performance, 
ensuring your clothes look 
flawless with every press.
Sandwich Makers
Revolutionise your snack 
game with Butterfly’s 
sandwich makers – creating 
gourmet sandwiches at 
home has never been easier, 
quicker, or more delicious!
Vacuum Flasks
Whether preserving the 
freshness of the morning 
brew or keeping soups 
piping hot for hours, 
our vacuum flasks are 
trusted companions 
for many. With sleek 
designs and unparalleled 
insulation technology, 
Butterfly’s vacuum flasks 
are a statement of style 
and functionality.
Vegetable Choppers
Experience the joy of 
effortless chopping! 
Butterfly’s vegetable 
choppers are designed for 
precision and speed, turning 
tedious tasks into quick and 
satisfying kitchen victories.
Water Bottles
Sip in style wherever you 
go! Butterfly’s water bottles 
combine fashion and 
function, making hydration 
a statement of both health 
and trendiness.
04
05
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Butterfly is a brand that stands the test of time and continues 
to provide products that deliver superior experience.
Turn the pages 
in our history
A peek into our past
1992-94
•	 Developed a safer brazing technique for 
mixer grinders, replacing toxic copper 
plating, marking a shift towards eco-
friendly manufacturing.
•	 Got listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
1998-99
•	 Received a patent for the innovative three 
conical stone tabletop wet grinder design.
•	 Earned the distinction of being the first in 
India to obtain ISO 9000 certification for LPG 
stoves and mixer grinders.
2000-02
•	 Initiated international exports by foraying 
into US, UK, Mauritius, Australia, 
and Japan.
•	 Achieved ISO 9000 certification for 
tabletop wet grinders.
2003-06
Obtained India’s first ‘Green Label’ 
for energy-efficient LPG stoves.
2012-14
•	 Got listed on the National Stock 
Exchange of India Ltd.
•	 Expanded the number of product 
lines to four.
2016
Received a ‘BEE Label with 2-star rating’ 
for LPG stoves, a first in India.
2019
•	 Launched the Peerless line of 
tabletop wet grinders.
•	 Secured the international CE Mark, 
ESMA, and CACO certifications for 
mixer grinders.
2021
Launched the Cresta line of 
food processors.
2022-Present
March 2022: Crompton acquired 
55% equity share capital in Butterfly.
June 2022: Crompton acquired 
additional 26% equity share capital 
in Butterfly through open offer.
September 2022: Crompton sold 
6% equity share capital in Butterfly 
to comply with Minimum Public 
Shareholding (“MPS”) requirement.
Presently Crompton holds 75% 
equity share capital of Butterfly 
as promoters.
1986-89
•	 Established the brand ‘Butterfly’.
•	 Introduced India’s first stainless steel 
pressure cookers and vacuum flasks.
•	 Launched LPG stoves and mixer grinders.
07
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
06
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
The accolades that motivate us
Our trophy cabinet
We are honoured to have received these recognitions for our impactful work 
delighting our consumers through top-of-the-line products and solutions that 
add discernible value to their daily lives.
Quality award from the 
Government of Tamil Nadu 
for excellence in quality 
of production in medium 
sector industries in 1991-92
First manufacturer authorised 
to use ‘BEE Label – 2 Star 
rating’ for domestic gas stoves 
in 2016
Certificate of Appreciation for 
Commitment to Quality’ for 
performing exceedingly well 
over a period of 3 (Three) years 
by appraising samples at the 
factory and the market at the 
77th  Seventy Seventh) BIS 
Foundation Day celebrations 
held in January, 2024’
India’s best company of the 
year award 2023. Awarded by 
Berkshire Media Pvt. Ltd.
Butterfly’s Kitchen Appliances 
recognised by ET Edge as one 
of the Iconic Brands of 
India in 2023
National award for LPG 
stoves and appliances 
from the Ministry of Micro, 
Small & Medium Industries, 
Government of India in 2010
The latest awards shaping 
our future
‘All India First Licence’ for portable 
water bottles at the 77th (Seventy 
Seventh) BIS Foundation Day 
celebrations held in January, 2024
Recognitions that have built our legacy
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
08
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
09
Annual Report 2023-24
Making the most of now to brighten 
the prospects of tomorrow
Chairman’s message
Consumer at the core
At Butterfly, we consider the consumer, 
from raw materials to build and 
accreditations, at every stage. Our track 
record of getting BIS certifications across 
categories testifies to the effectiveness of 
this approach. Our strategy emphasises 
reaching consumers through diverse 
channels, balancing traditional and 
digital platforms. We aim to cater to 
conventional segments while expanding 
into rural and urban areas, leveraging our 
collaboration with Crompton to extend 
our reach across varied geographies.
Quality and Innovation
Our commitment to quality and 
innovation is persistent. We identify 
emerging consumer needs and deliver 
products that balance functionality 
and sustainability. We will also bank 
on Crompton’s credentials and legacy, 
utilising resident knowledge transfer 
to scale our expertise in Research & 
Development (“R&D”) and strive for 
industry-first innovation and robust 
New Product Development (“NPD”). 
We believe this innovation cycle will be 
mutually beneficial and will continue 
extending our product pipelines.
Product focus and 
sustainability
Our growing portfolio caters to evolving 
consumer demands while promoting 
environmental responsibility, fuel 
efficiency and value for money – from 
stoves to mixer grinders. We identify 
niche needs, pain points, white spaces, 
and latent needs that drive new product 
development. From offering India’s 
first two-star rated stove, which makes 
cooking multiple recipes quicker, to 
promoting healthier lifestyles with our 
pressure cookers and mixer grinders,  
we aim to make the time spent in 
kitchens simpler and easier.
Performance commentary
While acknowledging room for 
improvement, we remain committed 
to efficiency and sustainability. Our 
strategic imperatives align our offerings 
with consumer preferences and assess 
channel strategies for sustainable 
growth. What makes us hopeful is 
that the acceptance and reception 
of our offerings is adequate. The 
initial response to the new releases is 
positive, and as consumers become 
more comfortable with purchasing, our 
prospects will improve.
Innovation and development
We aim to extend product lifecycles 
through solutions that resonate with 
consumer needs, such as commercial 
juicers equipped with a self-servicing 
toolkit that enhances user convenience 
by reducing downtime and discomfort. 
We have demonstrated the brand 
elasticity across categories and will 
assess and consolidate to make our  
non-core categories more profitable in 
the years ahead.
Supply chain management
Leveraging Crompton’s expertise, we 
seek to expand into Eastern, Western, 
and Northern parts of India, where 
our presence is nascent. We intend to 
leverage active channel engagements 
with dealers and distributors, tap key 
accounts, and work in tandem to make 
the brand accessible and visible, whether 
through e-commerce or traditional 
channels. We optimise backend 
resources in sync with the parent 
company to lower costs and build our 
operating leverage.
Leadership and skill-building
We brought in professional talent to uplift 
the overall capability, infuse skillsets, 
and adopt a market-first approach. 
We introduced a new set of values, 
which we implemented throughout the 
organisation. As a subsidiary, we aim 
to live our values by streamlining talent 
and performance management across 
the workforce, both front end and back 
end. We boosted sales leadership and 
self-learning in the backend by launching 
a learning tool to make our people 
self-sufficient. Additionally, we launched 
Channel Connect app to facilitate the 
operations of channel partners and 
understand their needs. A talent transfer 
journey has begun, and depending on 
materialising needs and future trends, 
this collaboration between Crompton  
and Butterfly will continue.
Looking ahead
The sustainable offtake we have seen 
in traditional channels gives us the faith 
that Butterfly can go from strength to 
strength, and our market share reiterates 
the faith consumers have in us. We could 
have performed better compared to our 
peers. We will take what we learned from 
this year and emerge as more 
well-informed and well-prepared. 
Adaptability and foresight are essential 
as we navigate industry dynamics. 
We will reassess our channel strategy 
and foster a culture of innovation and 
resilience through talent management 
and infrastructure investments. This 
approach will allow us to relay our 
foundation and turn things around.
In conclusion, our commitment to 
improving the kitchen space remains 
firm, led by our brand strength across 
categories and consumer relatability. 
Kitchens are evolving. When anyone 
walks into the kitchen, we aim to make 
their life easier.
We sincerely thank you, our Members, for 
your support and confidence in Butterfly.
Regards,
P M Murty
Chairman & Independent Director
Dear Members,
I am pleased to present to you Butterfly’s Annual Report 
for the F.Y. 2023-24.
Before discussing Butterfly’s performance, let’s 
consider the electrical appliances sector in India. 
Despite challenges, the industry has displayed 
resilience. We witnessed degrowth owing to supply 
chain disruptions and economic uncertainties. 
Consumer preferences are gradually shifting 
towards energy-efficient and technologically 
advanced appliances.
The sustainable offtake we have seen in 
traditional channels gives us the faith that 
Butterfly can go from strength to strength, 
and our market share reiterates the faith 
consumers have in us. We could have 
performed better compared to our peers. 
We will take what we learned from this year 
and emerge as more well-informed and 
well-prepared. Adaptability and foresight are 
essential as we navigate industry dynamics. 
We will reassess our channel strategy and 
foster a culture of innovation and resilience 
through talent management and infrastructure 
investments. This approach will allow us to 
relay our foundation and turn things around.”
10
11
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Prioritising sustainable growth
Key performance indicators
Profit after tax (`Lakh)
`738.98 Lakhs
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
397.90
3,615.81
1,612.68
5,166.58
738.98
Revenues (`Lakh)
`93,128.25 Lakhs
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
67,869.50
86,963.81
95,985.86
1,05,655.24
93,128.25
EBITDA (`Lakh)
`3,223.11 Lakhs
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
4,219.95
7,852.81
5,136.25
10,311.18
3,223.11
Earnings per share (`)
4.13
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2.23
20.20
9.02
28.90
4.13
Net debt-equity ratio
0.01
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
0.90
0.89
0.20
0.02
0.01
CO2 emissions intensity 
(Scope 1) (MT CO2e/ `Lakh)
290 MT CO2e
2023
2024
238.9
290
Non-renewable energy capacity 
(MW)
24,297.00 GJ
2023
2024
24,559.60
24,297.00
CO2 emissions intensity 
(Scope 2) (MT CO2e/ `Lakh)
4,474 MT CO2e
2023
2024
4,685
4,474
CSR expenditure 
(`Lakh)
107.59 Lakhs
2023
2024
3.44
107.59
Financial
Sustainability
In the past year, we observed non-sustainable value and cashflow. 
A convergence of these factors has led to a decreased net profit margin 
due to lower sales and profits. Our determination to turn things around 
is stronger than ever as we undertake prudent initiatives to position us 
for future success in a dynamic environment. We are fully dedicated to 
overcoming these setbacks and emerging stronger.
In addition to producing resource-efficient products, we also work hard to reduce greenhouse gas emissions during the production 
process and promote sustainable packaging. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives, we are devoted to 
nurturing an environment that reinforces the inclusive development of the communities in which we operate.
13
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
12
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Adaptive 
transformation 
journey
Our quality emphasis
Delivering convenient culinary 
experiences
Our commitment to innovation led to the development 
of India’s first-ever 3-star rated stainless-steel cooktop 
with BIS certification. This product offers superior 
performance and durability while embodying our 
promise of energy conservation.
Maintaining reliable quality and safety 
standards
Butterfly introduced the BIS-certified wet grinder, setting a new 
standard in food preparation safety and efficiency. Following 
this, we unveiled a BIS-certified water bottle, attesting to our 
adherence to qualitative excellence and consumer well-being.
Building on a legacy of firsts
From unveiling India’s first stainless steel pressure cookers 
and vacuum flasks more than three decades ago, Butterfly 
has introduced a range of industry-first products and solutions, 
such as the recent Bolt Shakti 2-star-rated gas stove. These 
achievements set us apart from competitors and highlight our 
leadership in kitchen appliance innovation.
During the past year, we faced 
considerable challenges and went through 
a learning curve. We recognised the 
need to shed old ideas and adapt to new 
realities, striving to set new benchmarks 
in our sector. Despite the difficulties, we 
emphasised consumer convenience, 
energy efficiency, and performance 
optimisation, ushering in innovations that 
reflect our commitment to excellence 
through sustainability.
14
15
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Year in review
Corporate overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Our commitment to ESG
Helping create 
functional kitchens
Our innovation excellence
Our mixers, stoves, and cookers meet 
the evolving needs of modern kitchens, 
blending aesthetic superiority, optimal 
performance, and health-focused features.
26
New products launched
13,31,992
Mixer grinders sold
14,10,863
LPG stoves sold
3,60,997
Tabletop wet grinders sold
3,60,774
Water bottles sold
Mixers
Our mixers prioritise both convenience and aesthetics. 
We aim to enhance our mixer range with innovative 
designs for multifunctionality, ensuring each mixer offers 
utmost convenience.
Stoves
Our glass-top stoves, known for their durability and attractive 
design, elevate kitchen aesthetics and simplify cleaning. With 
our innovative lock-and-free system and burners of different 
sizes, we ensure energy efficiency and faster cooking.
Cookers
We are refining our cooker portfolio, focusing on aesthetics and 
functionality. Our goal is to minimise human intervention, ensure 
precision, reduce waste, and enhance safety.
Optimising space usage
We understand the constraints of modern kitchens, where space 
is limited amid numerous gadgets. Our focus is on launching 
multifunctional appliances to reduce clutter and maximise 
available space. Our goal is to simplify and expedite culinary 
tasks, promoting hygiene and energy efficiency.
Targeted product creation
Butterfly’s approach to innovation revolves around 
a thorough understanding of the target audience. 
This understanding helps us to create appealing 
products that meet the demands of each consumer 
group. Our innovation efforts help our customers 
prepare great-tasting, healthier and more nutritious 
meals and reduce food waste.
Commercial 
Juice Master
Pestle Mixer 
Grinder CFM
Magix Juicer MG
Bolt Shakti 3B
Magnum Cool Touch 
Kettle 1.2 and 1.5 L
Magnum 2B/ 3B/ 4B
Triply Cookware
Matchless Sandwich 
Maker 750W
Magnum Plus TTWG
17
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
16
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Consumer-driven promotion
Our brand excellence
In recent decades, Butterfly has created engaging marketing campaigns around festive 
and media events across e-commerce and traditional channels. We seek to focus more on 
the multi-channel approach to generate positive word of mouth and make our presence felt 
in all segments by expanding our reach across more towns and cities via our association 
with our parent company’s widespread footprint.
Executing targeted branding efforts
We initiated branding efforts focusing on packaging 
innovation, using vibrant yellow and blue colours to 
enhance product visibility on retail shelves. This strategic 
approach aims to capture customer attention, distinguish 
Butterfly’s products in the crowded market, and align with 
the parent company’s colour scheme for a unified brand 
identity. These actions were part of a broader strategy to 
enhance our visual appeal, ensuring the brand remains 
competitive and relevant in the marketplace.
Embracing multidimensional brand-
building exercises
We employ a flexible mix of above-the-line, below-the-line, 
and digital channels, a strategy that allows us to adapt and 
keep our marketing strategies current and build our brand 
equity. Our outreach spans targeted campaigns across 
television, newspapers, outdoor advertising, radio, cinema, 
and social media, ensuring a broad reach. Additionally, we 
design customised promotions to engage various consumer 
groups, improve response rates and reassure us about 
the future.
Focusing on digital marketing channels
Embracing the shift towards digital, we have tapped into 
YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram to launch new-age 
marketing initiatives. Our strategy focuses on crafting 
innovative and accessible content customised to our 
audience, enhancing our online presence, and fostering 
engagement. Capitalising on our inherent adaptability, we 
have introduced festive digital campaigns, uploaded insightful 
product launch videos, and shared different recipes across 
our social platforms, demonstrating our commitment to 
forging enduring ties with the modern consumer.
Leveraging influencer-led marketing 
opportunities
We collaborated with 13 (Thirteen) influencers in the Western 
and Southern Indian markets to boost awareness and 
generate interest in our premium products, reaching a total 
of 19 Lakhs views.
We teamed up with actress Huma Qureshi to promote 
the movie Tarla, which reached an audience of 150 Lakhs 
on YouTube and achieved 62 Lakhs views combined on 
Facebook and Instagram.
Our dedication to comprehending 
and responding to consumer demands 
guides our product innovation, prioritising 
convenience, connectivity, and customisation 
in our marketing efforts to promote loyalty. 
Furthermore, our commitment to furthering 
our digital presence aims to explore new 
market opportunities nationwide.
Prioritising convenience 
and connectivity
18
19
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Dazzling Diwali
Our Diwali campaign transformed 
the festival into a ‘Diwowli,’ featuring 
festive deals for our customers. We 
launched our campaign on various 
social media platforms in multiple 
languages to reach a broader 
customer spectrum and foray beyond 
South India. https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=IEtQ2eToZWQ
Bigg Boss
As an associate sponsor for Season 
7 of the Telugu edition of Bigg Boss, 
our brand reached a cumulative 
audience of 150 Lakhs women 
aged between 22 and 55 (urban+ 
rural) over 100 days. This strategy 
solidified Butterfly’s position as 
a household name in the region. 
Additionally, through a five-minute 
brand integration during a cooking 
task that showcased the use of 
Butterfly products by all contestants, 
we further strengthened our brand 
presence. Consequently, we 
contributed a 34% increase in sales of 
premium products during the period.
Opulent Onam
 During the festive season, our brand 
emerged as one of the most prominent 
in Kerala, contributing to our  
double-digit growth despite significant 
market challenges.
Our festive campaigns
Our strategic collaborations
280 Lakhs
Reach
170 Lakhs
Reach
800 Lakhs
Impressions
910 Lakhs
Impressions
Our brand excellence
Our creative campaigns
20
21
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Proactive security 
measures
Our safety focus
Safety remains a watchword for us at Butterfly, 
and we have implemented measures to optimise 
costs and improve efficiency while maintaining 
a proactive approach towards safety. We have 
integrated IT systems, internal digitalisation, and 
process integration to achieve this for overall 
resource optimisation. Furthermore, we have 
tightened security within the organisation by 
implementing firewalls and safe-listing computers 
on the network.
22
23
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Year in review
Corporate overview
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Seizing opportunities 
with both ‘wings’
Our business environment
The Indian household appliances market is diverse, with varying demands and 
preferences across regions. While urban areas, particularly metropolitan cities, boast 
higher adoption rates due to higher disposable incomes, better infrastructure, and 
greater exposure to global trends, rural areas are catching up as income levels rise and 
awareness about the benefits of home appliances increases. To succeed in this market, 
manufacturers must consider the unique regional preferences, cultural factors, and price 
sensitivities while devising our marketing and distribution strategies. By doing so, they 
can effectively reach and engage with their target audience, gain their trust and loyalty, 
and ultimately drive growth and success in this industry.
Demand for premium goods may lift consumer durables industry revenue by 8-10%
Burgeoning demand for home automation in the post-COVID-19 world
Our response
With a keen eye on the evolving market 
dynamics, we are not just participating 
in the trend towards premiumisation; we 
are leading it, promising our customers 
an unmatched blend of experience, 
performance, and style.
Our response
In our move to revolutionise the kitchen 
experience, we are instilling our cookers, mixers, 
and bottles portfolio with cutting-edge technology, 
integrating aesthetics with functionality for 
the modern home. Adopting auto-polishing, 
hydraulic press machines, and laser technology in 
production minimises manual handling, ensuring 
superior precision and safety. This tactical move 
diminishes waste and aligns our portfolio with the 
evolving landscape of smart home automation, 
setting new standards of convenience and 
efficiency for cooking appliances.
24
25
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Capitalising on 
consumer insights
•	 We constantly execute consumer 
research to identify consumers’ 
pain points and preferences, launch 
differentiated products that genuinely 
solve consumer problems, and 
maintain an ‘always on’ marketing 
approach to engage consumers  
year-round.
•	 We are streamlining our product 
portfolios into specific categories, such 
as food processing, food preparation, 
cookware, and water solutions, aligning 
with our goal of being recognised as a 
kitchen essentials brand.
•	 Additionally, we emphasise the 
importance of product development 
as a significant revenue driver, 
with plans to ensure new launches 
continue to contribute substantially 
to business growth.
The strategic levers that 
determine our trajectory
Our growth drivers
As the disposable income of people in India continues to increase, they are willing to invest 
in home appliances that enhance their quality of life and provide convenience. With the 
trend towards urbanisation, living spaces are shrinking, leading to a greater reliance on 
appliances to maximise limited space and simplify daily tasks. Furthermore, incorporating 
advanced technologies like IoT and AI has revolutionised the home appliances industry, 
offering improved functionality and connectivity.
Our pillars
Key strategies
Excelling in research and 
development, we have adopted 
consumer-centric design and 
cultivated continuous innovation
•	 We prioritize developing efficient, 
consumer-friendly products by 
integrating customer feedback and 
using predictive methods to refine 
designs, reduce development cycles, 
and maintain high quality.
•	 We foster a culture of creativity 
and innovation by recognizing 
contributions, enhancing role clarity 
in R&D, and streamlining product 
development to motivate and value 
our team members.
Raising the sustainability bar
•	 We commit to sustainability by 
minimising environmental impact 
throughout the product lifecycle. 
This methodology includes reducing 
non-recyclable materials, opting 
for energy-efficient designs, and 
ensuring we develop all new 
products with an eye towards 
environmental stewardship.
•	 We leverage materials science 
and eco-friendly technology 
advancements to lead the way with 
sustainable product offerings.
Optimising operational efficiency and 
quality assurance
•	 We implement efficient lab processes 
to ensure all products meet safety 
and performance standards while 
maintaining agility to respond to 
market demands.
•	 We commit to operational excellence 
to enhance productivity, reduce 
waste, and ensure compliance with 
regulatory standards, differentiating 
Butterfly through quality.
Nurturing collaboration and building 
capabilities
•	 We promote cross-functional 
collaboration to blend insights from 
different areas of expertise, enhancing 
the innovation process.
•	 We invest in training and development 
to equip the team with advanced 
design, simulation, and sustainable 
product development skills.
Placing innovation at the core
Expanding business reach
With a strong market presence in South India, we will continue to expand our business 
all over India, as part of our strategic growth plan. This move aims to capture a larger 
market share and establish a more substantial presence in the region, which will likely 
contribute positively to Butterfly’s growth.
Diversifying product portfolio 
and market channels
We have taken strategic actions to de-risk our business by diversifying our product 
portfolio and market channels. This mechanism includes launching product lines, such 
as energy-efficient gas stoves, and strengthening our distribution network to reduce 
dependency on specific channels or markets. Our goal is to ensure sustainable growth 
by catering to a broader customer base and adapting to market changes.
Building on premiumisation
We are embracing the growing consumer trend towards premium products by 
strategically consolidating our position in the high-quality, innovative kitchen 
appliances market. Our focus on the premium segment aims to meet the evolving 
demands of consumers and establish new benchmarks. By launching a diverse array 
of premium appliances, we cater to the incipient needs of contemporary homes, 
seizing opportunities to redefine excellence in our sector.
Investing in distribution 
expansion and capability building
We have significantly invested in footprint expansion and capability building to 
enhance our market presence and operational efficiency. This strategic initiative aims 
to widen Butterfly’s reach and improve service delivery to effectively meet consumer 
demands.
Our pillars
Key strategies
26
27
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Dispersing 
the seeds of 
sustainability
Environment
With 81+ Lakhs appliances sold annually, 
Butterfly has long recognised the extent 
of our impact on the environment and 
society. Therefore, sustainability is a critical 
part of our strategy, and we have made it 
an integral part of everything we do.
Minimising 
resource consumption
We acknowledge the growing importance 
of sustainability performance and are 
mindful of the impact of our business 
operations and products on the planet and 
society. We continuously strive to make 
progress on sustainability and are proud to be 
recognised as a responsible corporate. We 
aim to minimise resource consumption and 
use more recycled materials to save costs. 
Our products are known for their optimal 
environmental performance, delivering 
incremental value while offsetting 
adverse impacts.
Reducing 
environmental impact
Conscious efforts are made during the 
development of new products to reduce 
the environmental impact of both the product 
itself and its development and manufacturing 
processes. Given the volume of products sold each 
year, a significant amount of packaging material is 
used. Special attention is therefore paid to ensuring 
that these materials are recyclable and to reduce the 
negative impact it has on the environment. We also 
make significant efforts to ensure ROHS compliance 
wherever applicable, thereby reducing the use of 
hazardous materials in our products. Butterfly 
is the first brand in India to launch a star-
rated cooktop specifically designed 
to reduce energy consumption, 
underscoring our commitment to 
environmental sustainability.
29
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
28
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Helping people spread their wings
Social
At Butterfly, our workforce is what makes us 
stay abuzz with activity and flying high. Hence, 
we instil a progressive culture grounded in 
trust, transparency, and accountability. This 
nurturing environment promotes personal and 
professional development to their fullest.
Our inclusive ethos offers equal opportunities, empowering a 
diverse workforce, particularly women from local semi-urban 
communities, driving social upliftment. Butterfly and Crompton’s 
combined strengths and enhanced capabilities through cross-
functional teamwork are setting the stage for the achievement of 
future milestones.
Letting a hundred flowers bloom with diversity and inclusion
Diversity & Inclusion are core values at Butterfly because 
we know that gaining perspectives from diverse sources 
improves our products, services, teams, and the 
organisation. While we acknowledge this as a continuous 
journey, we stay committed to realising newer, bolder goals 
and undertaking meaningful action to cultivate an even more 
robust, inclusive, and diverse workplace.
A kaleidoscope of people-oriented measures
Employee gender mix 
(%)
 Female  Male
People strength
(Permanent employees including 
permanent workers)
2023
2024
1,349
1,217
Family engagement programmes
Implemented family visit days, enhancing the direct connection 
between employees’ families and the organisation, offering a 
personalised view of the workplace and generating in-depth 
product feedback.
Safety culture reiteration
Utilised family engagement platforms to emphasise workplace 
safety and ensure peace of mind for family members regarding 
such practices.
Work anniversaries and birthdays 
acknowledgement
Launched an initiative celebrating employee milestones through 
SMS to boost morale and camaraderie.
Cross-functional learning and engagement
Introduced a competitive knowledge-sharing programme to 
broaden employees’ understanding of different departmental 
functions and promote internal growth and cohesion.
Gender diversity in recruitment
Initiated campus recruitment to increase female representation, 
primarily targeting household appliance departments interacting 
with a majority female customer base.
Supervisory development programmes
Introduced a structured development programme for 
supervisory staff, combining theoretical learning with practical 
and work-related projects.
Flexible working hours
Adopted more flexible attendance policies to bolster  
work-life balance, accommodating personal needs without 
compromising operational efficiency.
23.17
76.83
31
Annual Report 2023-24
30
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
                
Education and infrastructure development
Your Company has made contributions to the education sector 
and infrastructure development, focusing on enhancing the 
learning environment in government schools. This initiative 
includes the provision of benches and desks to improve student 
seating arrangements, as well as the installation of smart 
class facilities to introduce modern learning tools. Additionally, 
investments were made in classroom tiles to ensure a safer and 
more comfortable environment for students. Steel lockers were 
also acquired to offer secure storage solutions for their belongings.
In terms of security and communication, your Company 
implemented CCTV systems with monitors and a microphone 
with speaker systems in schools. These measures aim not only 
to enhance security but also to facilitate better communication 
within the school premises, fostering a conducive atmosphere for 
education and development.
Our relentless efforts in the education and infrastructure sectors 
have not gone unnoticed. The District Collector, in a review 
meeting with District Educational Officers, hailed our contributions 
as a ‘silent revolution’. This recognition is a testament to the 
effectiveness and impact of our initiatives. All smart boards we 
provide are proudly branded with our logo, serving as a constant 
reminder of our commitment. We also took a step further by 
inaugurating smart classes, elevating the learning experience for 
students. These achievements, and the recognition they have 
garnered, should reassure us all of the value and impact of our 
collective efforts.
Community development
Your Company’s Community Development initiatives were 
meticulously designed to cater to the specific needs of our 
local area, focusing on enhancing infrastructure and delivering 
essential services. Throughout the funding period, we allocated 
resources to support various facets of community life. This 
included providing salary assistance to school teachers, 
enhancing public safety through CCTV installations, donation of 
a tractor-trailer to the village panchayat. Additionally, we invested 
in various equipment to promote health and well-being among 
community members. Furthermore, your Company organized 
a medical camp in Vadanemmeli village that not only provided 
essential healthcare services but also distributed spectacles to 
address vision needs within the community. These efforts reflect 
our commitment to fostering sustainable development and 
enhancing the overall quality of life for residents.
Butterfly’s F.Y. 2023-24 CSR initiatives reflect our deep 
commitment to fostering lasting and positive educational, 
infrastructural, and community development changes. We are 
unwavering in our dedication to being a conscientious corporate 
entity and eagerly anticipate furthering our endeavours to bring 
about meaningful and enduring transformations in the future.
Taking 
communities 
under our wings
Our commitment to ESG - Social
In F.Y. 2023-24, we have demonstrated 
our commitment to corporate 
social responsibility through various 
education, infrastructure, and 
community development initiatives. 
Local authorities have recognised and 
appreciated our efforts, contributing 
to significant improvements in the 
communities we serve with a keen 
emphasis on administration and 
programme monitoring.
33
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
32
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Integrity in full flight
Governance
At Butterfly, we have instilled a rigorous corporate governance ethos based 
on transparency, integrity, honesty, accountability, and adherence to legal 
standards. We view our stakeholders as crucial allies in this quest and commit 
ourselves to delivering optimum value to our shareholders.
Our Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible 
for the strategic supervision and overseeing the 
management performance and governance of 
the Company on behalf of the Members and other 
stakeholders. The Board has the ultimate responsibility 
of reviewing and guiding corporate law strategy, 
significant plans of action, risk policy, annual 
budgets, and business plans, setting performance 
objectives, monitoring and implementation of 
corporate performance, and overseeing major capital 
expenditures, general affairs, direction, performance 
and long-term success of the business as a whole. 
The Board actively participate in the deliberations 
of the Board and Committee meetings, providing 
valuable guidance and advice to management 
on various aspects of business, governance, 
and compliance.
An active, well-informed, diversified, and independent 
Board is necessary to ensure the highest standards 
of corporate governance. At Butterfly, the Board is 
at the core of our corporate governance practices. 
The Board oversees the management’s functions 
and protects the long-term interests of the 
Company’s stakeholders.
Framework
Our corporate governance structure places the Board at the 
heart of our management strategy, entrusting it with the critical 
task of strategy formulation and integrating external factors 
and stakeholder interests. Through the support of specialised 
committees, including audit, risk, nomination, and remuneration, 
the Board champions sound management practices to generate 
sustainable value for all stakeholders. Ensuring the Board 
remains abreast of important issues ranging from regulatory 
changes and corporate social responsibility efforts to strategic 
and sustainability updates is our top priority.
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct prioritises ethical standards, emphasising 
integrity and legal compliance. It guides decision-making, 
even in legally grey areas, ensuring adherence to regulatory 
frameworks. This code, aimed at all employees, fosters a 
unified understanding and peak performance, embodying the 
principles central to our organisation’s ethos.
Whistleblower policy mechanism
Our whistleblower policy enables reporting unethical acts or 
policy violations directly to the Audit Committee’s Chairman, 
ensuring confidentiality and protection against retaliation. We 
bolster this mechanism with regular awareness updates, visible 
reporting channels, and training for new hires, affirming our 
commitment to ethical excellence and transparency.
Policies
Our policies provide employees and stakeholders with clear 
principles and standards, serving as a decision-making 
framework that promotes consistency and fairness in 
operations. These well-communicated policies contribute to 
the development of a positive business culture. The Board 
has established and implemented well-defined codes, 
policies, charters, and practices to ensure ethical and 
transparent conduct.
Board diversity and composition 
as of March 31, 2024 (%)
 Female
 Male
Average tenure in years (category-wise)
 Board
 Independent Directors
 Executive Director
 Non-Executive, 
Non Independent
 >5 years  2-5 years  <2 years
Present tenure of Directors in years
4
3
5
We constantly seek ways to boost transparency and efficiency 
throughout our various business areas, regularly evaluating 
and enhancing our systems and practices. Our pledge to act 
as responsible corporate citizens is evident in our philosophy, 
which drives us to engage in activities and initiatives that benefit 
society and contribute to the sustainable development of the 
community at large. By ensuring our values and objectives are in 
harmony with the generation of shareholder value and business 
growth, we maintain strict adherence to the highest standards of 
corporate governance in every facet of our operations.
16.67
83.33
4.92
9.01
2.00
0.96
Mr. K E Ranganathan was appointed as as Non Executive, 
Independent Director on April 4, 2024
35
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
34
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Mr. P M Murty
Chairman & Independent Director
Mr. P M Murty joined the Board on April 1, 2022. He holds a 
postgraduate diploma in management from the Indian Institute 
of Management, Calcutta. Mr. P.M Murty brings over 41 years of 
experience from Asian Paints Limited (“APL”), serving in various 
senior roles including Managing Director from 2009 to 2012. He 
earned the “CEO of the Year” award by Business Standard for 
2009-2010.
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. A Balasubramanian, a qualified Chartered Accountant, 
joined the Board on November 14, 2011. He started his career 
with Tata Group of Companies in Mumbai, where he worked 
in accounts and finance for about 5 (Five) years. Later, he 
joined Punjab National Bank, New Delhi, where he worked in 
different capacities before retirement as Chief General Manager. 
Mr. Balasubramanian’s expertise lies in accounts, finance, credit 
administration, risk management, and other areas of banking.
Mr. G S Samuel
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. G S Samuel joined the Board on May 11, 2012. He is a 
postgraduate in economics with postgraduate research in 
econometrics and a PGDBA from LIBA, Chennai. Mr. Samuel 
has over two decades of rich managerial experience in State 
Bank Group, including SBI Capital Markets. He also had a stint 
with leading companies in financial advisory, private equity 
placement, capital market services, debt restructuring, joint 
ventures, and mergers and acquisitions.
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Managing Director
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram joined the Board on March 30,2022. 
He holds a Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, a Bachelor’s 
degree in Business Administration and a Post Graduate 
degree in Marketing from SCDL, Pune. He has over 26 (Twenty 
Six) years of rich and varied work experience and a deep 
understanding of the consumer durables space, having worked 
with Kores Ltd., Matsushita (Panasonic) and with Whirlpool, 
before joining Crompton Greaves Ltd., in 2012. Post the 
demerger of the consumer business from Crompton Greaves 
Ltd., Mr. Sriram was heading the Fans business of Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited since August, 2015.
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. M Padmanabhan, a Chartered Accountant, joined the 
Board on January 30, 1999. He has experience of over 48 
years in the audit of public limited companies and nationalised/
scheduled banks.
Ms. Smita Anand
Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Smita Anand joined the Board on April 1, 2022. She holds 
an MBA degree in Human Resources from Allahabad University. 
Ms. Smita Anand has over 30 years of experience in global 
management consulting and human resources. Her roles 
include serving as Managing Director at Leadership Consulting 
India, Asia head of Board/ CEO Succession Solutions at Korn 
Ferry, and President of Leadership and Lifelong Learning 
business. She also served as Regional Leader of Consulting 
businesses for the Asia Pacific region at AONHewitt in Shanghai 
from 2002 to 2011. Her early career included senior leadership 
roles at Ernst & Young and Head of Human Capital Services 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Piloting Butterfly ever onwards
Board of Directors
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Shantanu Khosla joined the Board on March 30, 2022. He 
has a B. Tech. in mechanical engineering from IIT Mumbai and 
a master’s degree in business administration from IIM Calcutta. 
Mr. Khosla is the Non-Executive Vice Chairman of Crompton. 
Mr. Shantanu Khosla is recognised for his strategic acumen, 
consumer focus, and thought leadership in building brand 
equity. Formerly the Managing Director and CEO of Procter & 
Gamble India, he expanded the business and drove innovation, 
enhancing P&G’s global consumer goods standing.
He has received Distinguished Alumnus Awards from IIT 
Bombay and IIM Calcutta in 2012 and 2020 respectively.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh**
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Promeet Ghosh joined the Board on May 12, 2023. He holds 
a bachelor’s degree in engineering (Electrical & Electronics) 
from the National Institute of Technology, Trichy and an MBA 
from the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta. Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh is an experienced investment banker with over two 
decades of expertise. He has also spent 18 years at DSP 
Merrill Lynch, where he played a pivotal role in building its 
M&A franchise. Additionally, he held the position of deputy 
head at Temasek India, where he significantly expanded the 
firm’s investments in India. Even after transitioning from his 
full-time position, Mr. Ghosh remained an advisor to Temasek 
until March 2023 and harbors a fervent dedication towards 
sustainability transition.
**Appointed w.e.f. May 12, 2023
37
Annual Report 2023-24
36
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar#
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. N Anandkumar joined the Board on November 9, 2023. He 
is a seasoned professional in the consumer durables industry 
with rich experience spanning over three decades across varied 
consumer-facing product categories. Mr. Anandkumar is a 
pragmatic leader with an inclusive leadership style. He has a 
proven performance record in general management, product 
line head, market operations, sales capability, and leadership 
development. He holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical 
engineering and an MBA in sales and marketing. He started 
his career as a management trainee in Crompton Greaves 
Electricals Limited (in the erstwhile Crompton Greaves Ltd.) in 
1991. Anandkumar’s three-decade-long journey with Crompton 
has seen him taking roles of increasing responsibilities, 
including leadership roles in sales and distribution, business 
head for domestic and kitchen appliances and global head 
for customer service and delivering strategic objectives for 
the organisation consistently. He has a passion for coaching 
and takes pride in creating leaders. Mr. Anandkumar has led 
several transformational projects, such as the GTM excellence 
project in diverse markets and product categories and has 
led breakthrough innovation as business head. Currently, 
he is the Group Sales and Service Head for Crompton 
Greaves Electricals Limited, and his area of interest is working 
on critical transformative projects that help create future-
ready organisations.
Mr. K E Ranganathan*
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. K E Ranganathan joined the Board on April 4, 2024. He 
is a qualified Chartered Accountant, a Company Secretary 
and Fulbright Scholar. He has an in-depth understanding of 
corporate management within relevant laws and regulations. 
During his 40 (Forty) years of corporate career with two major 
business conglomerates i.e. TVS and Murugappa Group – 
Mr. Ranganathan has demonstrated versatility by working 
across pivotal functions. Initially, he dedicated 15 years to the 
core finance domain, followed by 8 (Eight) years in leadership 
roles encompassing sales, marketing, distribution, supply 
chain, IT, and HR. Since 2006, he has served as the Managing 
Director of renowned companies, where his adept leadership 
has consistently delivered commendable business outcomes. 
His extensive exposure to international business operations 
through parent companies such as Roca, Whirlpool, and Suzuki 
further amplifies his expertise, enabling him to navigate global 
markets effectively.
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam#
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam joined the Board on November 9, 
2023. He, with a career spanning over two decades, possesses 
extensive expertise in corporate finance, financial planning and 
analysis, business partnering, investor relations, fundraising, 
treasury management, strategic planning, audit, and risk 
management. In his most recent position as Global CFO of 
Eicher Motors Limited, Mr. Kaleeswaran played a pivotal role in 
establishing a platform for the next decade’s journey of Royal 
Enfield. This involved creating a robust business and financial 
model, emphasising portfolio pricing programs, driving cost 
leadership, achieving significant penetration in retail finance, 
and bolstering digital marketplace presence. During his tenure 
at Eicher Motors, he successfully established a Center of 
Excellence for internal controls and a shared services platform 
for global accounting and reporting.
*Appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. April 4, 2024
#Appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f. November 9, 2023
Board of Directors
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. T R Srinivasan joined the Board on June 1, 2013. He has 
over 35 years of wide-ranging experience in policy planning 
and implementation in urban planning and development, 
forecasting food requirements, procurement, and planning and 
development of industrial infrastructure. Mr. Srinivasan retired 
as Vice Chairman of the Chennai Metropolitan Development 
Authority (“CMDA”) in 2008.
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan joined the Board on March 31, 2015. 
She is a practising lawyer specialising in civil, corporate, 
intellectual property rights, and family law. She is also an 
academician who teaches young lawyers and law students legal 
drafting and is the founder of the Co-Draft Academy of Law.
Committees
Chairperson
Member
Audit Committee
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Committees
Chairperson
Member
Risk Management Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
39
Annual Report 2023-24
38
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
Addressing red 
flags to growth
Risk Management
We proactively manage business risks to 
maintain seamless operations and prioritise 
the safety of people and assets. We 
collaborate with the Audit Committee and 
the top management to create a formidable 
risk mitigation framework by regularly 
evaluating potential threats and adopting 
strategies aligned to market shifts.
Our fundamental mitigation efforts include implementing 
robust internal controls, undertaking detailed risk 
assessments, having emergency plans in place, and 
upholding a persistent commitment to safety and 
compliance. Investment in top-tier security and open 
communication reinforce our readiness to deal with 
foreseeable and unforeseen contingencies. This all-
encompassing approach aims to protect our enterprise 
and facilitate resilient growth.
The significant risks identified by the management cover those related to regulatory compliance, product quality, brand equity, 
supply chain management, sectoral competition, organisational culture, human resources, and information technology. We have 
summarised some of the critical risks we face and the ongoing mitigation actions we take below:
Regulatory risk
The absence of an acceptable compliance 
tracker/ monitoring mechanism to assure 
completeness and effectiveness of adherence 
to all applicable statutes can increase costs 
or limit growth prospects, lowering profits and 
investment returns.
Environment, Health, and 
Safety (EHS)
The dearth of a safe operational culture, a well-
formulated EHS policy, and non-adherence 
to established hazardous waste storage and 
disposal regulations can cause catastrophic 
failures, closures, hefty monetary penalties, and 
reputational damage.
Product Innovation Risk
The inability to keep pace with evolving market 
trends, consumer needs, and cutting-edge 
technologies, as well as the failure to convert 
ideas into products quickly and delays in 
launching, can lead to disruptions and falling 
behind sectoral peers.
Product Quality Risk
Insufficient capability and procedural consistency 
in quality assurance and controls, the want of a 
structured scorecard and monitoring mechanism 
about the quality inspection process can have 
a negative bearing on turnaround times, capital 
management, stakeholder satisfaction, and 
corporate reputation.
•	 We conducted comprehensive assessment of key statutes 
applicable, and steps taken to address gaps.
•	 We initiated compliance tracker comprising relevant 
governmental acts updated by respective function heads on 
timely adherence.
•	 We introduced our pre-planned online compliance tool.
•	 We implemented a robust safety initiative, integrating safety 
officers and champions to foster a strong safety culture.
•	 We conducted regular awareness sessions, leadership safety 
walks, and engaging events have been conducted, supported 
by safety displays and injury-free day celebrations.
•	 We deployed an emergency response team with defined roles 
and adopted comprehensive EHS policies.
•	 We ensured compliance with new extended producer 
responsibility regulations, including those pertaining to proper 
segregation and disposal of hazardous waste.
•	 We executed fire and electrical safety audits, addressing critical 
observations, and ensuring a safe work environment.
•	 We conducted in-depth market research to align our product 
development plan with consumer demands regarding 
convenience, health, aesthetics, and value.
•	 We formulated year-long calendars replete with weekly progress 
reviews, and feasibility studies to ensure adequate returns 
on investment.
•	 We continued enhancing our marketing and design capabilities 
and have initiated a stage-gated product development process.
•	 We honed the skills of our quality team to institutionalise 
robust quality processes and assurance controls, utilising a 
comprehensive quality scorecard that monitors key parameters 
like internal quality control, product quality review and product 
development complaints.
•	 We set targets to reduce the cost of poor quality, initiating 
rigorous supplier audits and defining strict quality control 
measures to maintain our brand’s reputation and manage 
costs effectively.
Risk
Mitigation
Risk management process
Establishing 
the context
Effective risk management 
begins with identifying 
internal and external 
elements that could affect 
the realisation of objectives. 
This initial phase is critical 
as it lays the groundwork for 
a thorough risk identification 
and evaluation process, 
establishing the context 
needed for a structured 
approach to manage 
potential risks.
Assessment
This multi-step process 
starts by identifying 
potential risks that might 
impede an organisation’s 
goals. The next step 
involves analysing their 
probability and impact. 
Finally, these risks are 
evaluated and ranked to 
decide how to manage 
them effectively.
Treatment
This component involves 
choosing actions to 
decrease the risks’ 
probability and severity. 
The tactics range from 
avoiding and transferring 
risks to lessening their 
effects or accepting them 
when appropriate.
Monitoring, review, 
and reporting
After establishing a 
risk treatment plan, it is 
imperative to monitor and 
review its performance 
continuously, adjusting it 
as necessary to address 
any new risks. Regular 
evaluations and updates 
and transparent reporting 
to stakeholders are critical 
to supporting strategic 
decision-making.
41
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
40
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Supply Risk
Potential leakages and wastages due to 
inefficient buying, including single sourcing, and 
inconsistent parameter-setting in the vendor 
evaluation process can increase vulnerability and 
undesirably influence business continuity.
Inventory Risk
Online forecast challenges, inefficient monitoring 
of ageing inventory with potential obsolescence, 
excessive accumulation of stock-keeping units 
across channels and inconsistent bill of materials 
maintenance can lead to significant stock 
differences and impact overall valuation.
Human Resources Risk
Opacity regarding organisational policies, 
absence of change management when aligning 
with the code of conduct, unacceptable employee 
behaviours and conflicts of interest and lack 
of capability-building in critical positions and 
employee development initiatives can pose 
significant threats.
Information security and access 
controls risk
Inadequate IT infrastructure and network security, 
potential data leakage risks, an ineffective data 
recovery mechanism, and the absence of access 
and control review can be detrimental.
Disruption Risk
A limited geographic footprint and inadequate 
alternate channels amidst stiff competition across 
product categories, especially post-COVID-19, 
can adversely impact online consumer traffic/
sales. At the same time, the absence of robust 
guiding principles on pricing strategy and 
benchmarking can affect margins. Furthermore, 
macroeconomic factors like an industrial 
slowdown and rampant inflation can also 
shrink offtake, diminish revenue collection, and 
lessen margins.
Customer Satisfaction Risk
The absence of a feedback mechanism to gauge 
customer satisfaction levels and an ineffective 
framework to benchmark with the competition can 
lower sales and diminish brand equity.
•	 We streamlined vendor selection, qualification, and onboarding, 
alongside cost benchmarking, enhancing savings.
•	 We undertook strategic renegotiations and alternate vendor 
development to ensure seamless procurements and enhance 
cost-competitiveness.
•	 We evaluated vendors based on cost, quality, capacity, and 
compliance, ensuring optimal procurement efficiency and 
quality standards.
•	 We implemented sales and operations planning and centrally 
managed them to align our optimistic projections with weekly 
reality checks, facilitating immediate adjustments in supplies 
and liquidation of ageing stock.
•	 We revamped our portfolio to rationalise stock-keeping 
units across major categories, sharpening our focus and 
enhancing outcomes.
•	 We adopted a comprehensive inventory verification process, 
including perpetual checks and external counts. This 
mechanism involved validation of bills of materials, analyses 
of consumption versus norms at the production order level, 
and investigation into any additional consumption to identify 
root causes.
•	 We instituted an inventory provisioning policy, with focused 
reviews by cross-functional teams monthly, aiming at the 
reduction or liquidation of slow-moving stock.
•	 We enhanced our employee policies for a more robust 
framework and promoting transparent communication through 
townhall meetings led by the top management.
•	 We institutionalised a detailed code of conduct addressing 
behaviour, culture and ethics and offered structured training to 
follow stringent norms.
•	 We commenced performance management, targeted learning 
and development initiatives, skill training and a forthcoming 
career and succession planning framework to catalyse 
employee growth and reinforce organisational integrity.
•	 We created an IT setup that relies on internal servers and 
manual backup systems to eliminate data breaches.
•	 We performed an initial review of our IT infrastructure by 
leveraging the expertise of our parent company.
•	 We kickstarted pre-vulnerability assessment and penetration 
testing activities.
•	 We completed our annual disaster recovery drill.
•	 We implemented critical and mandatory IT infrastructure and 
data security protocols and reviewed key authorisation checks 
and access controls to ensure robust security measures are 
in place.
•	 We laid down quarterly plans aim to improve retail and chain 
store presence, improve modern trade capabilities, and maintain 
an online channel mix
•	 We took steps to launch an integrated channel expansion pilot 
project in collaboration with our parent company to grow in 
Northern, Eastern, and Western India.
•	 We enhanced our product portfolio based on annual strategies 
and consumer insights .
•	 We set retail and alternate channel pricing standards to improve 
competitiveness and explore alternate channels like corporate 
gifting and rural markets.
•	 We carried out stock-keeping unit rationalisation, cost efficiency 
projects like Munnetram, Unnati and consumer-centric product 
launches as a part of our strategy to maintain our market 
position and expand our distribution network effectively.
•	 We launched a service feedback certification programme with 
our direct channel partners and are rolling out free service 
camps across Southern India with plans in place to extend them 
pan-India on a quarterly basis.
•	 We introduced a WhatsApp chatbot for efficient complaint 
registration.
•	 We utilised geo-fencing technology to enhance complaint 
management.
•	 We improved our service offerings, following a competition 
benchmarking exercise, including extended doorstep service 
for mixers, and revising after-sales remuneration to enhance 
client delight.
•	 We developed a CRM-based interface to streamline product 
quality feedback to relevant stakeholders, demonstrating 
our commitment to continuous improvement and 
customer satisfaction.
Risk
Risk
Mitigation
Mitigation
43
Annual Report 2023-24
42
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Corporate overview
Year in review
Our commitment to ESG
Statutory reports
Financial statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
Company overview
Since its inception in 1986, Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (“BGMAL/ Butterfly”) has been a leader in the 
domestic kitchen appliances industry, known for its focus on 
quality and innovation. The Company has achieved several 
industry-first milestones and is recognised as a pioneer in 
the field. BGMAL has a strong presence in both domestic 
and international markets. In March 2022, Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited (“Crompton”) acquired a majority 
stake in BGMAL. This strategic investment by Crompton will 
likely enhance the Company’s market position and broaden its 
product range. Additionally, it will create synergies, simplify the 
corporate governance structure, and align the interests of both 
the companies stakeholders. 
Products
Butterfly offers a wide range of domestic kitchen appliances, 
including LPG stoves, mixer grinders, wet grinders, pressure 
cookers, flasks, water bottles, kettles, and chimney hobs, made 
from stainless steel and aluminium.
Technology
The Company always works towards improving its processes 
and stay ahead of the competition. It invests in the latest 
technologies, including cutting-edge machinery, innovative 
materials, and automation, to ensure efficiency and excellent 
quality. Additionally, the Company understands the importance 
of digital acceleration and invests in technology and data 
analytics to make operations smoother, improve supply chain 
management, and enhance customer experiences. These 
strategic investments show the Company’s commitment to 
staying ahead in a technology-driven market. 
Presence
The Company sells high-quality products both in India and 
internationally across numerous countries. It holds a dominant 
position in the southern Indian market across core categories. 
The Company aims to maintain competitiveness through a 
focus on innovation, improving customer satisfaction, and 
delivering excellence. It takes pride in meeting varied consumer 
needs by providing exceptional value and quality.
Safety
The Company prioritises the safety and well-being of its 
employees. The Company formed a safety committee to ensure 
workforce safety and nominated safety champions across all 
departments. Monthly safety reviews and reminders of safety 
protocols are conducted, along with providing high-quality 
personal protective equipment and continuous employee 
training. These efforts have resulted in a significant decrease 
in safety incidents. The Company also emphasises compliance 
with all relevant laws and regulations, establishing a framework 
to ensure timely adherence.
Manufacturing
The Company has modern manufacturing plants that make 
a variety of high-quality domestic kitchen appliances. The 
Company has been working towards improving efficiency, 
product quality, and productivity in all its plants to become 
a leading player in the Indian market. These efforts show the 
Company’s commitment to offering its customers top-quality 
products with great care and attention to detail.
Sales Performance 
Following the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been considerable 
change in how Indian kitchens operate and in consumers’ 
purchasing journeys. BGMAL has renewed its approach of 
connecting with consumers at various touch points. During 
the year under review, the Company focused on strengthening 
its presence in traditional trade in the South market and 
expanded its reach in the Non-South market, which has 
shown positive results. Butterfly has also streamlined product 
offerings, reducing non-core segments while strengthening the 
core category.
As a result, the growth momentum in the retail channel 
continues, and the market share in core categories remains 
robust. The share of premium products, led by new product 
launches, continues to improve. One key milestone of this year 
was the launch of the Shakti series, India’s first star-rated gas 
stove, and new mixer grinders. 
Acknowledging the space for improvement and the strength of 
the Butterfly brand, the Company aims to speed up the launch 
of new products and extend product life cycles. Strategic 
dealer engagements and pre-season meets have been vital 
in building market confidence and will continue to be pivotal 
to our strategy.
Operations 
The Company focuses on thorough understanding of the latest 
concepts, tools, and techniques to ensure that its project-
focused approach is sustainable and consistently delivers high 
quality. This approach helps the Company to reach its goals 
and establish new industry standards. The Company aims to 
improve its operations by increasing productivity, and reducing 
losses. To achieve this, the Company has established clear 
performance goals and is actively working on various projects 
at different stages of completion. 
 (` in Lakhs)
Product
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Kitchen appliances 
68,903.91
77,654.07
Cooker/cookware 
18,765.89
23,238.30
Others 
5,458.45
4,762.87
Total 
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
Indian macroeconomic overview
The Indian economy has shown strong growth in the 
F.Y. 2023-24 given the improved consumer demand, proactive 
government policies, and momentum in key sectors like 
construction and manufacturing. The GDP growth in the third 
quarter was aided by a strong uptick in private investments. 
The index of industrial production of consumer durables 
and improved automobile sales indicated a revival in private 
consumption. The improvement in GST revenues and ease in 
retail inflation indicate GDP growth trajectory.
Outlook
While India’s economy remains steady, the government’s 
response to global economic shifts and focus on strengthening 
domestic production and enhancing infrastructure shall be 
key drivers for 2024-25 economic growth. A synchronous 
global recovery next year will likely help improve exports 
while improved capital flows will drive higher investment and 
consumption. The rapid growth of the middle-income class has 
led to rising purchasing power and even created demand for 
premium luxury products and services.
Indian household appliances market 
The market for household appliances in India has grown 
substantially in recent years because of increasing households, 
change in lifestyle, increasing importance for quality products. 
While the overall household appliances segment saw improved 
demand, but it was a challenging year for kitchen appliances. 
However, the kitchen segment witnessed popularity of premium, 
energy efficient and connected kitchen products. Online 
channel has been one of the biggest growth drivers for the 
industry wherein new categories are seeing significant traction.
SWOT analysis
Strengths
Expanding national market with a 
substantial customer base
High-tech innovations steering 
product modernisation
Widespread distribution networks 
and retail presence
Established brands with 
proven loyalty
Opportunities
Expanding demand for energy-
efficient and environmentally 
friendly appliances
Rising urbanisation and 
lifestyle shifts
Growing middle-class population 
and disposable earnings
Penetration of untapped 
rural markets
Weaknesses 
Purchasing power issues in 
specific market divisions
Limited penetration in rural areas 
and lower-income households
Mounting rivalry among 
recognised players and 
emerging brands
Threats 
Volatile economic conditions 
and variations in consumer 
spending patterns
Rapid technological advancements 
making certain products outdated
Changing government regulations 
and policies affecting the industry
Competition from other players
45
Annual Report 2023-24
44
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Financial Performance 
The Company’s revenue stood at H93,128.25 Lakhs compared 
to H1,05,655.24 Lakhs in F.Y. 2022-23. The EBITDA stood at 
H3,223.11 Lakhs in F.Y. 2023-24 compared to H10,311.18 Lakhs 
in F.Y. 2022-23. The Company reported a PAT stood at H738.98 
Lakhs in F.Y. 2023-24 compared to H5,166.58 Lakhs in F.Y. 2022-
23. Certain factors, including the standardisation of operating 
procedures between Butterfly and Crompton and certain one-
time settlements with channel partners, impacted the Company’s 
performance last year. Furthermore, the full-year liability of 
extended producer responsibility (EPR) of H120.00 Lakhs 
crystallised in Q4 of F.Y. 2023-24. The re-organisation of bottles 
and flask sourcing resulted in an impact of H211.54 Lakhs in Q4 of 
F.Y. 2023-24. 
The Board’s Report for ready reckoning includes a summary of 
operating results. The Company has made suitable decisions 
to improve cash flow and ensure enough working capital 
availability. This method will help the Company stay financially 
resilient and thrive in the long run.
 [` in Lakhs (except total debt)]
Product
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Net sales
93,128.25
1,05,655.24 
Finance costs
642.44
650.59 
Total net income
654.48
5,063.69 
Long-term borrowings
- 
- 
Total debt (as times of equity)
0.01 
0.02 
Short-term borrowings
- 
- 
Depreciation
1,806.27
1,615.26 
Capital Expenditure
1,658.38 
1,871.51 
Investments
3,216.98
34.92 
EBIDTA
3,223.11
10,311.18 
PBT
562.86
8,045.33 
PAT
738.98
5,166.58 
S. 
No.
Particulars
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Change (%)
Explanation
1
Debtors’ turnover ratio
7.29 
9.76 
(25.34) Increase in debtors with sale concentration in 
channels with higher credit period and lower 
sales compared to previous year
2
Inventory turnover ratio
4.61 
3.99 
15.40 Reduction in inventory holding with effective 
stock norms and supply planning
3
Interest coverage ratio
5.02 
15.85 
(68.35) Reduction due to decline in operating profits 
and lower sales
4
Current ratio
1.57 
1.64 
(3.97) Reduction due to increase in current 
investment and provisions
5
Debt-equity ratio (%)
0.01 
0.02 
(26.00) Improved self generated funds leading to 
non-utilisation of debt
6
Operating profit margin (%)
2.94 
9.14 
(67.83) Reduction due to decline in operating profits 
and lower sales
7
Net profit margin (%)
0.79 
4.89 
(83.77) Reduction due to decline in profits and lower 
sales
8
Return on net worth
2.56 
19.91
(87.12) Reduction due to decline in profits and lower 
sales 
Sustainability
The Company seeks to create high-quality products that are 
energy-efficient and sustainable. This dedication demonstrates 
its long-term goal of reducing environmental impact. The 
Company is committed to building a cleaner, more sustainable 
future by prioritising sustainability and energy efficiency. Its 
focus on innovative, high-quality products aligns with its 
promise to minimise its environmental footprint. 
Risk Management
The Company intends to achieve its essential and lasting 
goals through established a robust risk management policy, 
framework, and process. These steps help find, handle, and 
lessen potential risks effectively, protecting the Company’s 
interests and ensuring its long-term success.
The Company manages risks by making well-informed 
decisions at all levels. It uses bottom-up and top-down 
approaches to cover all business areas. The risk management 
team systematically identifies critical risks and regularly 
reviews mitigation actions. The Risk Management Committee 
oversees the effectiveness of the Risk Management Policy, 
Process, Structure, and Mitigation Mechanism. In addition, the 
Audit Committee oversees financial risks and controls, and the 
Internal Management Audit team assures the Board of Directors 
that the process is effective.
Internal Control Systems
The Company has implemented internal control systems 
and management to protect and use assets properly. It uses 
an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to provide 
the senior management team for data-driven insights. This 
approach helps monitor every aspect of the business in real 
time and make more informed and faster decisions. The 
Company follows all accounting standards and guidelines 
for keeping financial records and reporting. The Company’s 
internal control systems are in place to ensure that business operations run smoothly and comply with laws, regulations, and 
policies while providing the reliability of financial reporting. The Internal Auditors monitor and report on the effectiveness of the 
internal control systems in different areas of operations. 
Human Resources
Our employees play a crucial role in today’s ever-changing business world by developing new skills, creating plans, building 
robust systems, and nurturing a growth-oriented organisational culture. The Company had 1,217 employees as of March 31, 2024.
Key initiatives
Embedding a culture 
of safety
The Company used platforms to involve families in safety at work. This approach helped show 
that safety is essential and made their loved ones feel better.
Fostering cross-
functional learning 
and engagement
The Company’s knowledge-sharing programme aims to help employees learn from each other 
and work together better. It allows employees to learn about different parts of the Company and 
work more effectively towards the same goals. This approach helps the Company to remain 
unified and enable employees to develop careers.
Enhancing gender 
diversity in the 
workforce
The Company aims to increase the number of women in departments mainly serving female 
customers, such as household appliances. This effort promotes gender diversity and creates an 
inclusive work environment that meets the needs of all customers, leading to business growth.
Undertaking 
supervisory 
development 
programmes
The Company recently started a new training programme for supervisors. This programme 
combines classroom learning with hands-on projects to help staff grow in their roles. The 
Company strives to give its staff the tools they need to succeed in their careers.
Offering flexible 
working hours
The Company has a new attendance policy that supports employees in balancing work and 
personal life. This approach ensures that employees can handle personal matters without 
affecting work efficiency. It reflects the Company’s dedication to creating a supportive work 
environment that prioritises its employees.
Cautionary statement
In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, certain statements in the management discussion and analysis report relating 
to the Company’s goals, forecasts, outlook, expectations, and estimates may be considered ‘forward-looking statements.’ Actual 
outcomes could differ from these predictions, expectations, and other statements, whether explicit or implicit. The operations of 
the Company could significantly change depending on several variables. These include environmental factors, macroeconomic 
factors that affect supply and demand, governmental policies and taxation, natural disasters, and other factors that the Company 
has no direct control over.
47
Annual Report 2023-24
46
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors (“Board”) are pleased to present the Company’s 37th (Thirty Seventh) Annual Report on the business and 
operations of  your Company (“the Company” or “Butterfly”), along with the audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024.
1.	
State of the affairs of the Company
	
Various initiatives were taken to expand the market for the Company’s products to new geographies, and for maximisation 
of efficiencies particularly in the area of cost reduction and working capital management.
	
The business contingency plans focused on digitalisation of sales process, innovative marketing strategies and careful 
optimisation of supplies to various channels as and when each channel became operational.
	
The performance of the business(es) of the Company are detailed out in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
(“MDA”), which forms part of this Annual Report.
2.	
Financial performance
	
The Company’s financial performance for the year ended March 31, 2024, is summarised below:
(H in Lakhs)
Particulars
F.Y. ended on 
March 31, 2024
F.Y. ended on 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from Operations (Net)
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
Other Income
485.77
659.03
Operating Expenditure
90,390.91 
96,003.09
Operating Profit before Depreciation and Finance Cost
2,737.34
9,652.15
Profit before Depreciation, Finance Cost and Exceptional Items
3,223.11
10,311.18
Finance Cost
642.44
650.59
Depreciation
1,806.27
1,615.26
Profit before Exceptional Items and Tax
774.40
8,045.33
Exceptional Items
211.54
-
Profit before Tax
562.86
8,045.33
Income Tax/ Deferred Tax
(176.12)
2,878.75
Profit after Tax
 738.98
5,166.58
Other Comprehensive Income net of tax
(84.50)
(102.89)
Total Comprehensive Income for the year
654.48
5,063.69
Earnings Per Equity Share (Face Value of I10 (Rupees Ten Only)
4.13
28.90
3.	
Performance at a glance
	
During the year under review, the Revenue from 
operations amounted to I93,128.25 Lakhs as against 
I1,05,655.24 Lakhs in the previous year.
	
EBITDA for the year stood at I3,223.11 Lakhs as against 
I10,311.18 Lakhs during the previous year.
	
Depreciation for the year stood at I1,806.27 Lakhs as 
against I1,615.26 Lakhs during the previous year.
	
Interest expense for the year stood at I642.44 Lakhs as 
against `650.59 Lakhs during the previous year.
	
Profit before Tax stood at I562.86 Lakhs as against 
I8,045.33 Lakhs, during the previous year.
	
No material changes or commitments have occurred 
between the end of the Financial Year and the date of 
this Report, which affects the Financial Statements of 
the Company with respect to the reporting year.
4.	
Dividend
	
The Board has not recommended any dividend for the 
Financial Year ended 2023-24.
	
In terms of the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended (“the Listing Regulations”), the Company 
has formulated a Dividend Distribution Policy. The 
policy is given as Annexure-1 to this Report. It is 
also available on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/
wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Dividend-Distribution-
Policy-20.10.2020.pdf
5.	
Transfer to reserves
	
Your Company does not propose to transfer any 
amount to the General Reserve.
6.	
Report on MDA
	
As required under Regulation 34 read with Schedule V(B) 
the Listing Regulations, report on MDA is presented in 
a separate section, forming part of this Annual Report 
and are restricted to the areas which are relevant to the 
current scenario of the Company and outlook.
7.	
Share capital
	
During the year under review, there was no change in 
the share capital of the Company.
	
The total paid-up equity share capital of the Company 
as on March 31, 2024, stood at I1,787.96 Lakhs divided 
into 1,78,79,551 (One Crore Seventy Eight Lakhs 
Seventy Nine Thousand Five Hundred and Fifty One) 
equity shares of I10 (Rupees Ten Only) each.
8.	
Financial liquidity
	
Cash and cash equivalent as on March 31, 2024, 
stood at I4,091.10 Lakhs vis-à-vis I3,268.84 Lakhs 
in the previous year. The Company’s working capital 
management is robust and involves a well-organised 
process, which facilitates continuous monitoring 
and control over receivables, inventories and 
other parameters.
9.	
Credit Ratings
	
CRISIL, a Credit Rating Agency has provided the 
Company’s credit rating for its bank facilities. During 
the year under review credit rating for the long-term 
facilities were upgraded from CRISIL AA/ Watch 
Positive to CRISIL AA/ Stable. The details of the ratings 
are as below:
1. Long-Term Rating
CRISIL AA/Stable
2. Short-Term Rating
CRISIL A1+
10.	
Public deposits
	
No public deposits have been accepted or renewed 
by your Company during the Financial Year under 
review pursuant to the provisions of Section 73 and 
74 of the the Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”) read 
together with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014. Hence, the requirement with respect to 
furnishing of details relating to deposits covered under 
Chapter V of the Act or details of deposits which are 
not in compliance with the Chapter V of the Act is 
not applicable. The requisite return for F.Y. 2022-23 
has been filed and the Company does not have any 
unclaimed deposits as of date.
11.	
Particulars 
of 
loans, 
guarantees 
or 
investments
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
granted any Loans and/ or given any Guarantees and/
or provided any security and/ or made any investments 
under the provisions of Section 186 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014.
12.	
Internal control systems
12.1	
Internal controls and its adequacy
	
Your Company prioritises reinforcing financial and 
operational controls to enhance transparency, 
accountability and efficiency in its processes. Your 
Company adheres to an internal control framework 
that includes key process coverage that impacts 
the reliability of financial reporting, periodic control 
testing to assure design and operational effectiveness, 
implementation of remedial measures and regular 
monitoring by Senior Management and the Audit 
Committee of the Board. Internal audits are conducted 
periodically and any design deficiencies or operational 
inefficiencies, if any, are reported and improvement 
measures are recommended. The adequacy of controls 
is reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board and 
specific processes are assessed for improvement in 
systems and outcomes.
	
During the Financial Year under review, trainings were 
conducted to keep the employees informed of the 
Company’s Code of Conduct (“COC”), Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment and Whistle-Blower rights. This 
ensures compliance and a controlled environment, 
while achieving our objectives. A certificate from the 
Managing Director (“MD”) and Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) forms part of this Annual Report on the 
adequacy of internal control systems and procedures.
12.2	
Internal controls over financial reporting
	
The 
Company’s 
internal 
financial 
controls 
commensurates with the scale and complexity of its 
operations. These systems are designed keeping in 
view the nature of activities carried out at each location 
and the various business operations. The Company 
has documented a robust and comprehensive internal 
control system for all the major processes to ensure 
reliability of financial reporting, timely feedback on 
achievement of operational and strategic goals, 
compliance with policies, procedures, laws and 
regulations, safeguarding of assets and economical 
and efficient use of resources.
49
Annual Report 2023-24
48
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
13.	
Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle-Blower Policy 
(“WB Policy”)
	
The Company has established a reputation for 
doing business with integrity and maintained zero 
tolerance towards any form of unethical behaviour. 
Your Company has formulated a Vigil Mechanism 
and WB Policy intending to provide a mechanism for 
employees to report violations. It also assures them 
of the process that will be observed to address the 
reported violation(s). The Vigil Mechanism and WB 
Policy also lays down the procedures to be followed for 
tracking compliant(s), giving feedback(s), conducting 
investigation(s), and taking disciplinary action(s), if 
required. It also provides assurance and guidelines on 
confidentiality of the reporting process and protection 
from reprisal to complainant(s). No personnel have 
been denied access to the Audit Committee of the 
Board. The Audit Committee oversees the functioning 
of the Vigil Mechanism and WB Policy. Protected 
disclosures can be made by a Whistle Blower through 
several channels to report actual or suspected fraud(s) 
and violation(s) under the Company’s COC.
	
The Vigil Mechanism and WB Policy also provides a 
mechanism to encourage and protect genuine Whistle 
Blowing amongst the Vendors.
	
Any incident that is reported is investigated and 
suitable action, if any, is undertaken in line with the 
Vigil Mechanism and WB Policy.
	
The Vigil Mechanism and WB Policy of your Company 
is available on the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at the weblink https://www.butterflyindia.
com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Whistle-Blower-
Policy_28092022.pdf
	
Your Company received 2 (Two) Whistle-Blower 
complaints during the F.Y. 2023-24 and suitable action 
was taken in accordance with the WB Policy.
14.	
Holding Company
	
Pursuant to Section 2(87)(ii) of the Act, Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (“Crompton”), 
the Holding Company incorporated on February 
25, 2015, inter alia, is engaged in the business of 
manufacturing, trading, selling and distribution of fans, 
lighting, pumps and appliances. The equity shares of 
Crompton are listed on BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”). 
	
Total revenue of Crompton on a consolidated basis for 
the F.Y. ended March 31, 2024, was H7,380.20 Crore 
(including H67.39 Crore as other income). Profit after 
Tax was H441.78 Crore as compared to H476.40 in the 
previous year.
	
Pursuant to Section 2(87)(ii) of the Act, Crompton holds 
75% of the equity share capital of the Company.
15.	
Subsidiaries, 
Associates 
and 
Joint 
Venture Companies
	
The Company does not have any Subsidiaries, 
Associates or Joint Venture during the Financial Year 
or at any time after the closure of the Financial Year and 
till the date of this report.
16.	
Board of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel
	
Your Company’s Board comprises 13 (Thirteen) 
Members as on the date of this Report.
16.1	
Directorate
	
a)	
Appointment(s)/ 
re-appointment(s) 
and 
Directors retiring by rotation
	
	
The appointment and remuneration of Directors 
are governed by a Policy devised by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”) of your Company. The detailed 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy is available 
on the website of the Company and can be 
accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/04/policy-for-appointment-
and-evaluation-of-BOD-20.10.2020.pdf
	
	
Further, there were following changes in the 
directorate during the year under review.
 
• Appointment/ Re-appointment
	
	
During the year under review, the Board of the 
Company at its Meeting held on November 09, 
2023, and basis the recommendation of the 
N&RC of the Board considered and approved the 
appointment of Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam 
(DIN:07625839) and Mr. Nithiyanandam 
Anandkumar (DIN:10381096) as Additional 
Directors (Non-Executive, Non-Independent) 
of the Company liable to retire by rotation w.e.f. 
November 09, 2023.
	
	
The resolutions pertaining to the above 
appointments were duly approved by the 
Members of the Company, on December 21, 
2023, by means of Postal Ballot.
 
 

Mr. Promeet Ghosh (DIN:05307658) was appointed 
as an Additional Director by the Board basis the 
recommendation of N&RC w.e.f. May 12, 2023. 
The Members of the Company at their Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) held on July 19, 2023, 
approved the appointment of Mr. Promeet Ghosh 
as Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director of 
the Company liable to retire by rotation.
 
 

The Board of Directors of the Company at 
its meeting held on April 4, 2024, basis the 
recommendation of the N&RC of the Board 
and based on the evaluation of the balance of 
skills, knowledge, experience and expertise 
considered and approved the appointment 
of Mr. Kunnawalkam Elayavalli Ranganathan 
(DIN:00058990) (“Mr. K E Ranganathan”) as 
Additional Director (Non-Executive, Independent) 
for a period of 5 (Five) consecutive years 
commencing from April 4, 2024, to April 3, 2029, 
not liable to retire by rotation.
 
•	
Re-appointment of the Managing Director
	
	
The Board of the Company, basis the 
recommendation of N&RC of the Board, 
re-appointed 
Mr. 
Rangarajan 
Sriram 
(DIN:09550640) as the Managing Director of 
the Company for a further term of 2 (Two) years 
commencing from March 30, 2024, liable to retire 
by rotation.
	
	
The aforesaid re-appointment of Mr. Sriram was 
subsequently approved by the Members on 
March 30, 2024, through postal ballot.
	
•	
Retirement by rotation and subsequent 
re-appointment
	
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 
152 of the Act and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Mr. Shantanu Khosla (DIN:00059877), 
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director, is 
liable to retire by rotation at the forthcoming 
AGM and being eligible has offered himself 
for re-appointment. The Board recommends 
re-appointment of Mr. Khosla for the consideration 
of the Members at the forthcoming AGM. The 
relevant details including profile of Mr. Khosla are 
disclosed under the Notice of AGM and Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of this 
Annual Report.
	
•	
Cessation
	
	
During the year under review, Mr. Mathew Job 
(DIN:02922413), Non-Executive, Non-Independent 
Director, tendered his resignation from the 
Board w.e.f April 30, 2023 to pursue other 
career interests. Mr. Job had also confirmed 
that there were no other material reason other 
than those stated above. The Board expressed 
its appreciation towards Mr. Job for the valuable 
guidance and services rendered by him during 
his tenure as a Director of the Company.
16.2	 Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 2(51) 
and Section 203 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the 
time being in force, the following are the KMPs of the 
Company as on the date of this Report:
	
1.	
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, Managing Director
	
2.	
Mr. V A Joseph, Chief Financial Officer
	
3.	
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
	
During the year under review, Mr. R Nagarajan, 
Chief Financial Officer, resigned w.e.f. April 5, 2023. 
Ms. B Ananda Shalini was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer w.e.f. April 6, 2023, and resigned w.e.f. October 
20, 2023. Mr. V A Joseph was appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer w.e.f. November 9, 2023.
16.3	
Independent Directors
	
The Company’s Independent Directors have submitted 
requisite declarations confirming that they continue to 
meet the criteria of independence as prescribed under 
Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations. The Independent Directors have 
also confirmed that they have complied with Schedule 
IV of the Act and the Company’s Code of Conduct. The 
terms and conditions of appointment/ re-appointment 
of the Independent Directors are placed on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed at https://www.
butterflyindia.com
	
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent 
Directors of the Company possess requisite 
qualifications, experience and expertise in the varied 
fields and holds high standards of integrity.
	
All the Independent Directors of the Company have 
registered themselves with Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs, Manesar (“IICA”) for the inclusion of their 
names in the data bank maintained by IICA. In terms 
of Section 150 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, as amended, since all the Independent Directors 
of the Company have served as Directors for a period 
of not less than 3 (Three) years on the Board of Listed 
Compan(ies) as on the date of inclusion of their names 
in the database, they were not required to undertake 
online proficiency self-assessment test conducted 
by IICA, except for Mr. K E Ranganathan who shall 
complete the online self assessment proficiency test 
within the designated timeline as stipulated in the Act.
	
As on the date of this Report, Mr. P M Murty, Ms. Smita 
Anand, Mr. A Balasubramanian, Mr. M Padmanabhan, 
Mr. G S Samuel, Mr. T R Srinivasan, Ms. Maheshwari 
Mohan and Mr. K E Ranganathan are the Non-Executive 
Independent Directors of the Company. The details of 
the membership of committees and the qualifications 
and expertise of all the Directors is covered in the 
Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of 
this Annual Report.
16.4	 Non-Independent Directors
	
As on the date of this Report, Mr. Shantanu Khosla, 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, 
and Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar are the 
Non-Executive, Non-Independent of the Company. 
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, Managing Director is the only 
Executive Director on the Board.
51
Annual Report 2023-24
50
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
16.5	 Board effectiveness
	
Familiarisation programme for Independent 
Directors
	
Your Company has in place a structured programme 
for induction of new Directors as well as other initiatives 
to update the existing Directors on a continuous basis. 
The Familiarisation Programme of the Company 
provides information relating to the Company, 
operational activities, business model, geographies in 
which Company operates, etc. The Programme also 
intends to improve awareness of the Independent 
Directors on their roles, rights, responsibilities towards 
the Company. Further, the Familiarisation Programme 
also provides information relating to the financial 
performance of the Company, budget and control 
process of the Company.
	
Regular presentations and updates on relevant 
statutory changes encompassing economic outlook, 
market trends, peer trends, changes in laws where 
Company is operating were made to the Directors at 
regular Board Meetings of the Company.
	
The Managing Director along with senior leadership 
team delivers presentation(s) on the performance and 
strategic initiatives of the Company.
	
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
	
In terms of requirements of the Act read with the Rules 
issued thereunder and the Listing Regulations, the 
Board carried out the annual performance evaluation of 
the Board as a whole, its Committees and Individual and 
Independent Directors. Your Company believes that the 
process of performance evaluation at the Board level 
is pivotal to its Board Engagement and Effectiveness. 
Criteria for Board evaluation is duly approved by N&RC. 
Performance evaluation is facilitated by the Chairman 
of the Board who is supported by the Chairperson of 
the N&RC.
	
The process of Board evaluation is conducted through 
structured questionnaires for the Board as a whole, its 
Committees, Individual and Independent Directors.
	
The parameters for performance evaluation of the 
Board inter alia includes the composition of the 
Board, process of appointment of the Board, common 
understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the 
Board Members, timelines for circulating Board papers, 
content and quality of the information provided to the 
Board, attention to the Company’s long-term strategic 
issues, evaluating strategic risks, overseeing and 
guiding acquisitions, strengths of Board Members and 
their contribution, governance etc.
	
Some of the performance indicators for the evaluation 
of the Committees inter alia includes understanding the 
terms of reference, the effectiveness of discussions at 
the Committee Meetings, the information provided to 
the Committee to discharge its duties/ obligations and 
performance of the Committee, support provided to the 
Board vis-à-vis its responsibilities.
	
The performance of Individual Directors was 
evaluated based on parameters such as attendance 
at the Meeting(s), contribution to Board deliberations, 
engagement with colleagues on the Board, ability to 
guide the Company in key matters, knowledge, and 
understanding of relevant areas, and responsibilities 
towards stakeholders. All the Directors were subject to 
self-evaluation and peer evaluation.
	
The performance of the Independent Directors was 
evaluated taking into account the above factors as well 
as independent decision-making and non-conflict of 
interest. Further, the evaluation process was based 
on the affirmation received from the Independent 
Directors that they meet the independence criteria as 
required under the Act and the Listing Regulations.
	
In addition to the questionnaires, detailed one-on-one 
in-sighting was carried out by the Chairperson of the 
N&RC with individual Board Members. A quantitative 
analysis and Board Effectiveness brief with in-sighting 
feedback and trends was shared by the Chairperson 
of the N&RC to all the Board Members. Thereafter, 
the following process was followed to assimilate and 
process the feedback:
	
•	
A separate Meeting of the Independent 
Directors was held, wherein performance of 
Non-Independent Directors including the MD, 
Chairman of the Board and of the Board as a 
whole was evaluated;
	
•	
The entire Board discussed the findings of the 
evaluation with the Independent Directors and 
also evaluated the performance of the Individual 
Directors including the MD, the Board as a whole 
and all Committees of the Board; and
	
•	
As an outcome of the above process, individual 
feedback was shared with each Director.
	
The Board Evaluation discussion was focused on 
how to make the Board more effective as a collective 
body in the context of the business and the external 
environment in which the Company functions. From 
time to time during the year, the Board was apprised 
of relevant business issues and related opportunities 
and risks. The Board discussed various aspects of its 
functioning and that of its Committees such as structure, 
composition, meetings, functions and interaction with 
management and what needs to be done to further 
augment the effectiveness of the Board’s functioning.
	
The overall assessment of the Board was that it 
was functioning as a cohesive body including the 
Committees of the Board. They were functioning 
well with periodic reporting by the Committees to the 
Board on the work done and progress made during the 
reporting period. The Board also noted that the actions 
identified in the past questionnaire-based evaluations 
had been acted upon.
	
During the F.Y. 2023-24, the Company enacted 
the feedback from the Board evaluation process 
conducted in the F.Y. 2022-23. The Board noted the key 
improvement areas that emerged from this exercise in 
the F.Y. 2023-24 and action plans to address the same 
were in progress.
	
Remuneration Policy and criteria for selection of 
candidates for appointment as Directors, KMPs 
and Senior Management
	
The Company has in place a policy for remuneration 
to Directors, KMPs and Senior Management as well as 
a well-defined criterion for the selection of candidates 
for appointment to the said positions, which has been 
approved by the Board. The Policy broadly lays down 
the guiding principles, philosophy and the basis 
for payment of remuneration to the Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors (by way of sitting fees and 
commission), KMPs and Senior Management.
	
The criteria for the selection of candidates for the 
above positions cover various factors and attributes, 
which are considered by the N&RC and the Board. 
The Policy on remuneration to Directors, KMPs 
and Senior Management is given as an Annexure 
to Report on Corporate Governance and is also 
available at the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/04/policy-for-appointment-and-
evaluation-of-BOD-20.10.2020.pdf
17.	
Number of Meetings of the Board and its 
Committees
17.1	
Board Meetings
	
Regular Meetings of the Board and its Committees 
are held to discuss and decide on various business 
policies, strategies, financial matters and other 
businesses. The schedule of the Board/ Committee 
Meetings to be held in the forthcoming Financial Year 
is circulated to the Directors in advance to enable them 
to plan their schedule for effective participation in the 
Meetings. Due to business exigencies, the Board also 
approves several proposals via circular resolution from 
time to time.
	
Your Board of Directors met 8 (Eight) times during 
the F.Y. 2023-24. The details of the Meetings and 
the attendance of the Directors are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of 
this Annual Report.
17.2	
Board Committees
	
The Board has established Committees as a matter of 
good corporate governance practice and as per the 
requirements of the Act and the Listing Regulations.
	
The Company has the following 6 (Six) Board-level 
Committees, which have been established in 
compliance with the requirements of the business and 
relevant provisions of applicable laws and statutes:
	
1.	
Audit Committee
	
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”)
	
3.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(“CSR Committee”)
	
4.	
Stakeholder Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
	
5.	
Share Transfer Committee (“STC”)
	
6.	
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
	
The composition, terms of reference, number of 
Meetings held and business(es) transacted by the 
Committees are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance which forms part of this Annual Report.
	
The details of Composition of the Mandatory 
Committees of the Board are as follows:
17.2.1	Audit Committee
	
The Audit Committee comprises 6 (Six) Members out of 
which 5 (Five) are Non-Executive Independent Directors. 
The Committee is chaired by Mr. A Balasubramanian, 
Non-Executive Independent Director. The other 
Members of the Committee are Mr. P M Murty, 
Ms. Smita Anand, Mr. M Padmanabhan, Mr. G S Samuel 
all of whom are Non-Executive Independent Directors 
and Mr. Shantanu Khosla who is a Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent Director. Details of the role and 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee, the particulars 
of Meetings held and attendance of the Members at 
such Meetings are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
	
During the year under review, all the recommendations 
made by the Audit Committee were accepted by 
the Board.
17.2.2.	Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”)
	
The N&RC comprises 6 (Six) Members out of 
which 5 (Five) Members are Non-Executive 
Independent Directors. The Committee is chaired 
by Ms. Smita Anand, Non-Executive Independent 
Director. The other Members of the Committee are 
Mr. P M Murty, Mr. A Balasubramanian, Mr. G S Samuel, 
Mr. M Padmanabhan, all of whom are Non-Executive 
Independent Directors and Mr. Shantanu Khosla is a 
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director. Details of 
the role and responsibilities of the N&RC, the particulars 
of Meetings held and attendance of the Members at 
such Meetings are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
	
During the year under review, all the recommendations 
made by the N&RC were accepted by the Board.
	
N&RC is responsible for, inter alia, recommendation 
and approval of remuneration of the Directors, KMPs 
and Senior Management. N&RC is also entrusted with 
the responsibility of framing the criteria for evaluation 
of the individual Directors, Chairman of the Board, the 
Board as a whole and its Committees. It also routinely 
evaluates the working and effectiveness of the Board 
and manages the succession planning for Board 
and KMPs.
53
Annual Report 2023-24
52
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
17.2.3	 Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) 
Committee
	
The CSR Committee comprises 7 (Seven) Members 
out of which 5 (Five) are Non-Executive, Independent 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director. The 
other Members of the Committee are Mr. P M Murty, 
Ms. Smita Anand, Mr. G S Samuel, Ms. Maheshwari 
Mohan, Mr. T R Srinivasan all of whom are Non-
Executive Independent Directors and Mr. Rangarajan 
Sriram, Managing Director. Details of the roles and 
responsibilities of the CSR Committee, the particulars 
of the Meetings held and attendance of the Members 
at such Meetings are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
	
In compliance with Section 135 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, the Company has set up 
CSR Committee and statutory disclosures with respect 
to the CSR Committee and an Annual Report on CSR 
activities forms part of this Report as Annexure-2. The 
CSR Policy as recommended by the CSR Committee 
and approved by the Board is available on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed at https://www.
butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/CSR-
POLICY-20.10.2020.pdf
17.2.4	Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and 
Share Transfer Committee (“SRC” and 
“STC”)
	
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”)
	
The SRC comprises 5 (Five) Members out of which 
3 (Three) Members are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh Ghosh, Non-Executive, Non-Independent 
Director. The other Members of the Committee are 
Ms. Smita Anand, Mr. M Padmanabhan, Mr. T R 
Srinivasan all of whom are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors and Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, who is the 
Managing Director. 
	
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the SRC, 
the particulars of Meetings held and attendance of 
the Members at such Meetings are given in the Report 
on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
Annual Report. During the year under review, all the 
recommendations made by the SRC were accepted by 
the Board.
	
Share Transfer Committee (“STC”)
	
The STC comprises 5 (Five) Members out of which 
3 (Three) Members are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director. 
The other Members of the Committee are Ms. Smita 
Anand, Mr. M Padmanabhan, Mr. T R Srinivasan all of 
whom are Non-Executive, Independent Directors and 
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram who is the Managing Director.
	
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the STC the 
particulars of meetings held and attendance of the 
Members at such Meetings are given in the Report 
on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
Annual Report.
	
SRC and STC are collectively responsible for inter 
alia various aspects of interest of the stakeholders, 
monitoring the performance of the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent and recommends measures for overall 
improvement of the quality of investor services as and 
when the need arises, resolve the grievances of the 
security holders of the Company including complaints 
related to transfer/ transmission of shares, non-receipt 
of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends and 
issue of duplicate certificates, etc.
17.2.5	Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
	
The RMC comprises 8 (Eight) Members out of which 
6 (Six) are Non-Executive Independent Directors. The 
Committee is chaired by Mr. M Padmanabhan, Non-
Executive Independent Director. The other Members 
of the Committee are Mr. P M Murty, Ms. Smita 
Anand, Mr. G S Samuel, Mr. A Balasubramanian, 
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan all of whom are Non-Executive 
Independent Directors, Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, the 
Managing Director and Mr. Shantanu Khosla who is a 
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director. Details of 
the roles and responsibilities of the RMC, the particulars 
of Meetings held and attendance of the Members at 
such Meetings are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report. 
During the year under review, all the recommendations 
made by the RMC were accepted by the Board.
	
RMC assists the Board in monitoring and reviewing 
the risk management plan and implementation of the 
risk management and mitigation framework of the 
Company. The main objective of the RMC is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance oversight 
responsibilities with regard to the identification, 
evaluation and mitigation of risks including risks related 
to cyber security.
18.	
Risk Management Framework
	
The Board formulated the Company’s Risk Management 
Policy identifying the elements of risk that the Company 
may face, such as strategic, financial, credit, market, 
liquidity, security, property, legal, regulatory and 
other risks, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
134(3)(n) of the Act, which has been exhibited on the 
Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/
Risk-Management-Policy.pdf
19.	
Particulars of contracts or arrangements 
with related parties
	
In accordance with the requirements of the Act and 
the Listing Regulations, your Company has a Policy on 
Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) uploaded on the 
Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/
RPT-Policy_15.06.2022.pdf
	
Your Company did not enter into any RPTs during the 
year under review, which could be prejudicial to the 
interest of minority shareholders.
	
All the RPTs are placed before the Audit Committee 
for their review and approval and also before the 
Board, wherever required. An omnibus approval from 
the Audit Committee and the Board is obtained for all 
the transactions which are of a foreseen and repetitive 
nature. A statement giving details of all RPTs is placed 
before the Audit Committee for their noting/ approval 
every quarter.
	
All transactions with related parties entered into during 
the year under review were in the ordinary course of 
business and in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act and the rules made thereunder, the Listing 
Regulations and your Company’s Policy on RPTs.
	
During the Year under review, your Company has not 
entered into any transactions with related parties which 
could be considered material in terms of Section 188 of 
the Act.
	
However, the details pertaining to transactions which 
were not at arm’s length basis is disclosed in Form 
No. AOC-2, along with details of all the RPTs entered 
into by the Company during the year under review, as 
a measure of adoption of good corporate governance 
practices and forms part of this report as Annexure-3.
	
None of the Directors and the KMPs has any pecuniary 
relationships or transactions vis-à-vis the Company.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 23 of the 
Listing Regulations, your Company has filed half 
yearly disclosures with the stock exchanges on the 
date of publication of its financial results and the 
same is uploaded on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/05/RPT_31.03.2024.pdf
	
Your Directors draw attention of the Members to the 
Notes in the financial statements that sets out the 
disclosure of RPTs.
20.	
Transfer of unpaid/ unclaimed amounts 
and shares to Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”)
	
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Section 
125 and 124 of the Act, read with the IEPF Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(“the IEPF Rules”), the dividend amount that remains 
unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 7 (Seven) years 
or more is required to be transferred to the IEPF 
administered by the Central Government. Further, in 
accordance with the IEPF Rules, the shares on which 
dividend has not been paid or claimed by the Members 
for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more shall also be 
transferred to the demat account of the IEPF Authority.
	
During the year under review and in terms of the 
applicable provisions of the Act read with IEPF Rules 
as amended from time to time, unclaimed dividend for 
the F.Y. 2015-16, aggregating to I5,82,689 (Rupees Five 
Lakhs Eighty Two Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Nine 
Only) was transferred to the IEPF Fund.
	
Further, during the year under review, in compliance 
with the requirements of the IEPF Rules, the Company 
had transferred 2,97,583 (Two Lakhs Ninety Seven 
Thousand Five Hundred Eighty Three) equity 
shares of I10 (Rupees Ten Only) each in respect of 
which dividend has not been claimed for a period of 
7 (Seven) consecutive years to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority.
	
The Members may note that both the said unclaimed 
dividend and corresponding shares transferred to the 
IEPF Authority including all the benefits accruing on 
such shares, if any, can be claimed by the Members 
from the IEPF Authority after following procedure 
prescribed in the Rule 7 of the said IEPF Rules for 
refund of shares/ dividend etc.
21.	
Significant and material orders passed 
by the Regulators, Courts, Tribunals, 
Statutory and Quasi-Judicial Body
	
No significant or material orders were passed by the 
Regulators, Courts, Tribunals, Statutory and Quasi-
Judicial Body that would impact the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in the future.
	
During the year under review, the Board of the Company 
at their Meeting held on March 25, 2023, considered 
and approved the Scheme of Amalgamation of the 
Company with the Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (“Transferee Company”) and their 
respective Members and creditors under Sections 
230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Act 
read with rules made thereunder (“Scheme”). The 
Scheme was filed with BSE Limited and The National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“Stock Exchanges”) 
on April 07, 2023, and subsequently, it was approved 
by the stock exchanges on July 21, 2023 & July 24, 
2023, respectively.
	
Further, the Company filed the Scheme Application 
with the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, 
Chennai Bench (“NCLT”) on August 20, 2023, and 
pursuant to the order issued by NCLT on September 12, 
2023, the Company had convened an Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting for the Equity Shareholders, Secured 
Creditors and Unsecured Creditors of the Company on 
October 28, 2023. However, approval of the majority 
of the public shareholders of the Company was not 
55
Annual Report 2023-24
54
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
received in favor of the Scheme, and accordingly, the 
Scheme was not acted upon.
	
This does not have any impact on the Company’s 
growth strategy and both the Companies continued to 
operate as separate entities and work towards fulfilling 
their mutual strengths, thereby creating value for all 
the stakeholders.
22.	
Risk arising out of litigation, claims and 
uncertain tax positions
	
The Company is exposed to a variety of laws, 
regulations, and interpretations, particularly in the 
areas of direct taxation and legal matters. In the normal 
course of business, provisions and contingencies may 
arise due to uncertain tax positions and legal issues.
	
Management uses significant judgment when 
evaluating risks and determining the amount to provide 
for potential exposures related to these matters. These 
estimates may change substantially over time as new 
facts emerge, so they are reviewed regularly. When 
expert opinions are needed, the Company consults 
with top legal counsel.
23.	
Auditors
	
a)	 Statutory Auditors
	
	
M/s. ASA & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(Firm Registration Number: 009571N/ N500006), 
were appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company by the Members at their 35th AGM 
held on July 14, 2022, to hold office as Statutory 
Auditors for a second term of 5 (Five) consecutive 
years, commencing from the conclusion of the 
35th AGM till the conclusion of the 40th AGM.
	
	
The Board of Directors at their Meeting held on 
May 14, 2024, and basis the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee approved a remuneration 
of M/s. ASA & Associates at I31,50,000 (Rupees 
Thirty One Lakhs and Fifty Thousand Only) for the 
F.Y.2024-25.
	
	
The Auditors’ Report for the F.Y. 2023-24 does not 
contain any reservation, qualification or adverse 
remark, on the Financial Statements of the 
Company. The Auditors’ Report is self-explanatory 
and therefore, does not require further comments 
and explanation. The Auditors’ Report on the 
Financial Statements of the Company forms part 
of this Annual Report.
	
	
Further, in terms of Section 143 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended read with any notifications/ 
circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs from time to time, no fraud has been 
reported by the Auditors of the Company not they 
have reason to believe that an offence involving 
fraud has been committed in the Company by its’ 
officers or employees and therefore no details are 
required to be disclosed under Section 134(3)(ca) 
of the Act.
	
	
The Audit Committee reviews the independence 
and objectivity of the Auditors and the 
effectiveness of the Audit process.
	
b)	 Cost Auditors
	
	
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014, your Company is required to maintain cost 
records as specified by the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the Company has maintained 
the requisite cost accounts and records in the 
prescribed manner and the same are audited by 
a Cost Accountant.
	
	
The Board at its Meeting held on May 14, 2024, 
based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, approved the appointment of 
M/s. S. Mahadevan & Co., Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration Number 000007) as the Cost 
Auditors of the Company to conduct audit of the 
cost records of the Company for the F.Y. 2024-25 
at a remuneration of I1,75,000 (Rupees One Lakh 
and Seventy Five Thousand Only) plus applicable 
taxes and out-of-pocket expenses subject to the 
ratification of such fees by the Members at the 
ensuing AGM. Accordingly, the matter relating to 
the ratification of the remuneration payable to the 
Cost Auditors for the F.Y. 2024-25 will be placed 
at the ensuing AGM. Your Company has received 
consent, eligibility and status of independence 
certificate from M/s. S. Mahadevan & Co.
	
	
M/s. S. Mahadevan & Co., have confirmed that the 
cost records of the Company for the F.Y. 2023-24, 
are free from any disqualifications as specified 
under Section 141(3) and proviso to Section 
148(3) read with Section 141(4) of the Act.
	
c)	 Secretarial Auditors and Secretarial 
Audit Report
	
	
The Board at its Meeting held on May 12, 2023, 
appointed M/s. M. Alagar & Associates, Company 
Secretaries, as the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company to conduct the Secretarial Audit for F.Y. 
2023-24. The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed 
as Annexure-4 to this Report. There has been no 
qualification, reservation, or adverse remark given 
by the Secretarial Auditors in their Report.
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Act, read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the Board at its Meeting held on May 14, 
2024, based on recommendation of the Audit 
Committee approved the appointment of M/s. M. 
Alagar & Associates, Company Secretaries (ICSI 
Unique Code: P2011TN078800) as the Secretarial 
Auditors to conduct audit of the secretarial 
records of the Company for the F.Y. 2024-25 at a 
remuneration of I1,40,000 (Rupees One Lakh and 
Forty Thousand Only).
	
d)	 Internal Auditors
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 138 of the 
Act, the Board, at its Meeting held on May 12, 
2023, and based on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee approved the appointment of 
M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP (Identity number 
AAA-7677) to conduct the internal audit of your 
Company for the F.Y. 2023-24.
	
	
The Board of Directors at their Meeting held 
on May 14, 2024, had re-appointed M/s. Grant 
Thornton Bharat LLP as the Internal Auditors of 
your Company for the F.Y. 2024-25 a remuneration 
of I26,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Six Lakhs Only).
24.	
Material 
changes 
and 
commitments 
affecting financial position between the 
end of the Financial Year and date of the 
Report
	
There are no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of your Company, which 
has occurred between the end of the Financial Year of 
the Company, i.e. March 31, 2024, and the date of this 
Report, i.e. May 14, 2024.
25.	
Awards and recognitions
	
The detailed section on awards and recognitions forms 
part of this Annual Report.
26.	
Enhancing Stakeholders value
	
Your Company is committed to creating and returning 
value to its stakeholders. Accordingly, the Company 
is dedicated to achieving high levels of operating 
performance, cost competitiveness, and striving for 
excellence in all areas of operations. The Company 
firmly believes that its success in the marketplace and 
good reputation are among the primary determinants 
of its’ stakeholders value. Its close relationship 
with customers and a deep understanding of their 
challenges and expectations drive the development 
of new products and services. Anticipating customer 
requirements early and being able to address them 
effectively requires a strong commercial backbone. 
Your Company continues to develop this strength by 
institutionalising sound commercial processes and 
building world-class commercial capabilities across 
its marketing and sales teams. The Company uses 
an innovative approach in the development of its 
products and services, as well as execution of growth 
opportunities. The Company is also committed to 
creating value for all its stakeholders by ensuring that 
its corporate actions positively impact the economic, 
societal and environmental dimensions of the triple 
bottom line.
27.	
Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (“BRSR”)
	
Pursuant to the Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Listing 
Regulations, the initiatives taken by the Company 
from an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
perspective are provided in the BRSR and forms part 
of this Annual Report.
28.	
Corporate Governance
	
The Board of Directors re-affirm their continued 
commitment to good corporate governance practices. 
During the year under review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions relating to corporate 
governance as provided under the Listing Regulations. 
The compliance report together with a certificate from 
the Company’s Auditors’ confirming compliance of 
the Corporate Governance norms as stipulated in 
Regulation 34(3) of the Listing Regulations is provided 
in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms 
part of this Annual Report as Annexure-5.
29.	
Particulars of employees
	
There was 1 (One) employee who was in receipt of 
remuneration of not less than ` 1,02,00,000 (Rupees 
One Crore and Two Lakh Only), if employed for the 
full year and 2 (Two) employees who were in receipt of 
remuneration of not less than ` 8,50,000 (Rupees Eight 
Lakh and Fifty Thousand Only) per month, if employed 
for part of the year. 
	
Disclosures concerning the remuneration of Directors, 
KMPs and Employees as per Section 197(12) of the Act 
read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is 
annexed as Annexure-6 to this Board’s Report. Your 
Directors affirm that the remuneration is as per the 
remuneration policy of the Company.
	
Details of Employee remuneration as required under 
provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) 
and 5(3) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is available for 
inspection by the Members at the Registered Office 
of your Company during working hours. The Annual 
Report along with Financial Statement are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid exhibit. Any 
Member interested in obtaining such information may 
write to the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer at 
butterfly.investorrelations@butterflyindia.com
30.	
Reporting of fraud by Auditors
	
During the year under review, neither the Statutory 
Auditors, the Secretarial Auditor, the Cost Auditors 
nor the Internal Auditors have reported to the Audit 
Committee of the Board, under Section 143(12) of 
the Act, any instances of fraud committed against the 
Company by its officers or employees.
57
Annual Report 2023-24
56
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
31.	
Annual Return
	
As required under 92(3) and 134(3)(a) of the Act, 
the Annual Return of the Company is uploaded on 
the Company’s website and can be accessed at 
https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/
32.	
Compliance with Secretarial Standards 
(“SS-1 and SS-2”)
	
Your Directors state that the applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) i.e. SS-1 and SS-2 relating 
to Meetings of the Board of Directors and General 
Meetings respectively have been duly followed by 
the Company.
33.	
Conservation of Energy, Technology, 
Absorption and Foreign Exchange Outgo
	
Information relating to Energy Conservation, 
Technology Absorption, Foreign Exchange earned 
and spent, and Research and Development activities 
undertaken by the Company during the year under 
review in accordance with Section 134(3)(m) of the Act 
read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014, are given in Annexure-7 of this Board’s Report.
34.	
Mergers and acquisitions
	
During the year under review, the Board of the Company 
at their Meeting held on March 25, 2023, considered 
and approved the Scheme of Amalgamation of the 
Company (“Transferor Company”) with the Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited and their 
respective Members and creditors under Sections 
230 to 232 and other applicable provisions of the Act 
read with rules made thereunder (“Scheme”). The 
Scheme was filed with the Stock Exchanges on April 
07, 2023, and subsequently, it was approved by the 
stock exchanges on July 21, & July 24, 2023.
	
Further, the Company filed the Scheme Application 
with the Hon’ble NCLT on August 20, 2023, and 
pursuant to the order issued by NCLT on September 12, 
2023, the Company had convened an Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting for the Equity Shareholders, Secured 
Creditors and Unsecured Creditors of the Company on 
October 28, 2023. However, approval of the majority 
of the public shareholders of the Company was not 
received in favor of the Scheme, and accordingly, the 
Scheme was not acted upon.
	
This does not have any impact on the Company’s 
growth strategy and both entities continued to 
operate as separate entities and work towards fulfilling 
their mutual strengths, thereby creating value for all 
the stakeholders.
35.	
Disclosures pertaining to the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at the workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013
	
Your Company is an equal opportunity employer 
and is committed to creating a healthy working 
environment that enables employees to work without 
fear of prejudice and gender bias. Your Company is 
committed to ensure that every employee is treated 
with dignity and respect and works in a conducive work 
environment, which promotes professional growth of 
employee and encourages equality of opportunity. The 
Company has zero tolerance towards any act on the 
part of any executive, which may fall under the ambit 
of “Sexual Harassment” at workplace, and is fully 
committed to uphold and maintain the dignity of every 
woman executive working in the Company. Further, to 
provide an empowering and enabling atmosphere to 
women employees, the Company has continuously 
endeavoured to build the work culture, which promotes 
the respect and dignity of all women employees across 
the organisation.
	
The Company has formulated a comprehensive 
Policy in accordance with the provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”). The 
said Policy has been made available on the website 
of the Company. The Company has constituted 
Internal Complaints Committee (“ICC”) under 
POSH and has complied with the provision relating 
to the same. All employees (permanent, contractual, 
temporary, trainees) are covered under this Policy. 
The constitution of ICC includes an external member 
who is an independent POSH consultant with relevant 
experience. The POSH Policy is gender inclusive, 
and the framework ensures complete anonymity and 
confidentiality of complaints received, if any. During the 
year under review, no complaint was received.
	
Further, the employees are sensitised from time to 
time in respect of matters connected with prevention 
of sexual harassment. Training programmes on POSH 
were conducted at unit levels to ensure that employees 
uphold the dignity of their female colleagues 
at workplace.
36.	
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”)
	
M/s. GNSA Infotech Private Limited is the RTA of the 
Company. Their contact details are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance and same can be 
accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-
relations/
37.	
Listing with stock exchanges
	
The equity shares of your Company are listed on 
NSE and BSE Details of the Company in the Stock 
Exchanges are as follows:
NSE Symbol
BUTTERFLY
BSE Scrip Code
517421
ISIN
INE295F01017
	
Your Company has paid the Annual Listing Fees for the 
F.Y. 2023-24 and F.Y. 2024-25 to both NSE and BSE, 
with whom the equity shares of the Company are listed 
within the statutory timeline(s).
38.	
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
	
Your Directors would like to assure the Members that 
the Financial Statements for the year under review 
confirm in their entirety to the requirements of the 
Act and guidelines issued by the SEBI. Pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) of the Act, to the 
best of their knowledge and based on the information 
and explanations received from the Company, your 
Directors confirm that:
	
(a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, the 
applicable accounting standards have been 
followed along with proper explanation relating 
to material departures if any;
	
(b)	
the accounting policies selected and applied 
consistently and made judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company as at March 31, 2024, and of the profit 
and loss of the Company for that year;
	
(c)	
sufficient care has been taken and that adequate 
accounting records have been maintained 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities;
	
(d)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a 
going concern basis;
	
(e)	
proper internal financial controls laid down by 
the Directors were followed by the Company and 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
	
(f)	
the systems devised to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws were 
adequate and operating effectively.
39.	
Insider Trading
	
In compliance with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, your 
Company has instituted a comprehensive Code titled 
as “Policy on Determination of Legitimate Purpose 
for Sharing UPSI” which lays down guidelines and 
advises the Directors and Employees of the Company 
on procedures to be followed and disclosures to be 
made while dealing in securities of the Company same 
can also be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.
com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/14.Policy-on-
Determination-of-Legitimate-Purpose-for-Sharing-
UPSI-20-10-2020.pdf.
40.	
General
	
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting 
is required in respect of the following matters as 
there were no transactions on these items during the 
Financial Year under review:
	
(i)	
The Company has not resorted to any buy-back 
of the equity shares during the Financial Year 
under review;
	
(ii)	
The Company has not issued equity shares 
with differential rights as to dividend, voting 
or otherwise;
	
(iii)	 The Company does not have any scheme of 
provision of money for the purchase of its own 
shares by employees or by trustees for the benefit 
of employees;
	
(iv)	 The Company has not issued sweat equity shares 
to the employees of the Company;
	
(v)	
There has been no change in the nature of 
business of the Company as on the date of 
this report;
	
(vi)	 There was no revision in the Financial Statements;
	
(vii)	 There were no proceedings, either filed by the 
Company or filed against the Company, pending 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, 
as amended, before NCLT or other courts during 
the year under review;
	
(viii)	 No instances of non-exercising of voting rights 
in respect of shares purchased directly by 
employees under a scheme pursuant to Section 
67(3) of the Act;
	
(ix)	 Disclosure of reason for difference between 
valuation done at the time of taking loan from 
bank and at the time of one-time settlement. There 
was no instance of one-time settlement with any 
Bank or Financial Institution; and
	
(x)	
Suggested to be deleted as already stated under 
Statutory Auditors section and also under Fraud 
reported by Auditors.
59
Annual Report 2023-24
58
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Annexure - 1
Dividend Distribution Policy
1.	 Background
	
This Policy is formulated in accordance with Regulation 
43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), 2015 
introduced on 8th July 2016. This policy will be effective 
from 2nd April 2020, being the date of its approval by the 
Board of Directors of the Company.
2.	 Objective
	
The objective of this Policy is to lay down the criteria and 
parameters that are to be considered by the Board of 
Directors of the Company while deciding on the declaration 
of Dividend from time to time. This Policy is applicable to 
dividend declared/recommended on the equity shares of 
the Company and does not cover dividend on preference 
shares, if any, where the rate of dividend is governed by 
the terms of the issue of preference shares or any other 
form of dividend.
3.	 Parameters to be considered for declaration 
of Dividend
	
The Board of Directors may declare interim dividend/ 
recommend final dividend for consideration of 
shareholders of the Company.
	
As in the past, subject to the provisions of applicable laws, 
the Company’s dividend pay-out will be determined by the 
Board of Directors from time to time based on the available 
financial resources, investment requirements and other 
factors more fully described hereunder.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company will consider 
the following parameters while recommending/
declaring Dividend:
	
3.1	 Financial Parameters/Internal Factors
	
	
1.	
Standalone/ net operating profit after tax;
	
	
2.	
Operating cash flow of the Company for 
the year;
	
	
3.	
Liquidity position, aggregate Debt of the 
Company, debt service coverage position etc.;
	
	
4.	
Loan repayment and Working Capital  
requirements;
	
	
5.	
Capital expenditure requirements;
	
	
6.	
Resources required for funding acquisitions, 
mergers and/ or new businesses;
	
	
7.	
Cash flow required for meeting tax demands 
and other contingencies;
	
	
8.	
Regulatory (and growth requirement of) 
Capital Adequacy;
	
	
9.	
Regulatory 
(and 
growth 
requirement 
of) Solvency;
	
	
10.	 Trend of dividends paid in the past years;
	
	
11.	
Any windfall, extraordinary or abnormal gains 
made by the Company; and
	
	
12.	 Any other factor not explicitly covered above 
but which is likely to have a significant impact 
on the Company.
	
3.2.	External Factors
	
	
1.	
Prevailing legal requirements, regulatory 
restrictions laid down under the applicable 
laws including tax laws and changes made in 
accounting laws;
	
	
2.	
Dividend pay-out ratios of companies in the 
same industry;
	
	
3.	
Any other factor that has a significant influence/ 
impact on the Company’s working/ financial 
position of the Company.
	
	
The Board of Directors may additionally recommend 
special dividend in special circumstances.
4.	 Circumstances under which the shareholders 
may not expect Dividend
	
The shareholders of the Company may not expect 
Dividend under the following circumstances:
	
4.1	 In the event of inadequacy of profits or whenever the 
Company has incurred losses;
	
4.2	 Significant cash flow requirements towards higher 
working capital requirements/ tax demands/ or 
others, adversely impacting free cash flows;
	
4.3	 An impending/on-going capital expenditure program 
or any acquisition or investment in joint ventures 
requiring significant allocation of capital;
	
4.4	 Allocation of cash required for buy back of securities;
	
4.5	 Any of the above referred internal or external factors 
restraining the Company from considering dividend;
5.	 Utilisation of retained earnings
	
The Company may declare dividend out of the profits 
of the Company for the year or out of the profits of any 
previous year or years or out of the free reserves available 
for distribution of Dividend, after having due regard to the 
parameters laid down in this policy, Profits retained in the 
business will be invested in the business/ operations of the 
Company and may be used for augmenting working capital, 
repayment of borrowings, funding capital expenditure/ 
acquisition(s) and for all other corporate purposes.
41.	
Rights of Members
•	 right to participate in, and to be sufficiently 
informed of, decisions concerning fundamental 
corporate changes;
•	 opportunity to participate effectively and vote in 
General Meeting(s);
•	 being informed of the rules, including voting 
procedures that govern General Meeting(s);
•	 opportunity to ask questions to the Board at General 
Meeting(s);
•	 effective participation of the Members in key 
corporate governance decisions such as election 
of Members of the Board;
•	 exercise of ownership rights by all Members, 
including institutional investors;
•	 adequate mechanism to address the grievances of 
the Members;
•	 protection of minority Members from abusive actions 
by, or in the interest of, controlling Members acting 
either directly or indirectly, and effective means 
of redressal;
•	 to receive dividends and other corporate benefits 
like rights, bonus etc., if approved;
•	 to inspect statutory registers and documents, 
including minutes books of the General Meeting(s), 
as permitted under law; and
•	 any other rights as specified in the statutory 
enactments from time to time.
42.	
Acknowledgement
	
Your Directors wish to convey their gratitude and 
appreciation to all the employees of the Company 
posted at all its locations for their tremendous personal 
efforts as well as collective dedication and contribution 
to the Company’s performance. Your Directors would 
also like to thank the members, customers, dealers, 
suppliers, bankers, government and all other business 
associates, consultants and all the stakeholders for 
their continued support extended to the Company and 
the Management.
43.	
Cautionary statement
	
Statements in the Board’s Report and the Management 
Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s 
objectives, projections, estimates, expectations 
or predictions may be forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of applicable securities laws and 
regulations. Actual results could differ materially from 
those expressed or implied. Important factors that 
could make a difference to the Company’s operations 
include global and Indian demand supply conditions, 
finished goods prices, feed stock availability and 
prices, cyclical demand and pricing in the Company’s 
principal markets, changes in government regulations, 
tax regimes, economic developments within India and 
the countries within which the Company conducts 
business and other factors such as litigation and 
labour negotiations. The Company is not obliged 
to publicly amend, modify or revise any forward-
looking statement, on the basis of any subsequent 
development, information or events or otherwise.
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
P M Murty
Place: Chennai
Chairman
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:00011179
61
Annual Report 2023-24
60
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
6.	 Parameters to be adopted with regard to 
various classes of shares
	
Presently, the Authorised Share Capital of the Company 
is divided into equity shares of I10/- (Rupees Ten Only) 
each. At present, the issued and paid-up share capital of 
the Company comprises only equity shares.
	
Currently, the Company has issued one class of equity 
shares with equal voting rights. As and when the Company 
issues different class of shares, the Board of Directors 
may suitably amend this Policy.
7.	
Procedure
	
7.1.	 The dividend proposal placed before the Board for 
consideration shall be in terms of this Policy.
	
7.2.	 The Company shall ensure compliance of provisions 
of applicable Laws and this Policy in relation to 
Dividend declared by the Company.
8.	 Effective Date
	
This Policy, as approved by the Board of Directors, at its 
meeting held on July 8, 2016 which was further amended 
on February 3, 2011 and is hosted on the website of the 
Company https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/
uploads/2021/04/Dividend-Distribution-Policy-20.10.2020.
pdf
9.	 Disclosure
	
The Company shall make appropriate disclosures 
as required under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015.
10.	 General
	
10.1	 This Policy would be subject to revision/amendment 
in accordance with the guidelines as may be issued 
by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities Exchange 
Board of India or such other regulatory authority 
as may be authorised from time to time, on the 
subject matter.
	
10.2	The Company reserves its right to alter, modify, add, 
delete or amend any of the provisions of this Policy.
	
10.3	 In case of any amendment(s), clarification(s), 
circular(s) etc., issued by the relevant authorities, 
not being consistent with the provisions laid 
down under this Policy, then such amendment(s), 
clarification(s), circular(s) etc shall prevail upon the 
provisions hereunder and this Policy shall stand 
amended accordingly from the effective date as laid 
down under such amendment(s), clarification(s), 
circular(s), etc.
Annexure - 2
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities
For the F.Y. 2023-24
[Pursuant to the Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended]
1.	 Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
The Company have always been contributing to CSR activities much before it was mandated under the Companies Act 2013. 
The Company focusses on fulfilling its responsibility as a Corporate Citizen and lays down the guidelines and mechanism for 
carrying out socially useful activities/ projects and programmes for welfare, sustainability and development of community at 
large. The activities or projects that will be undertaken by the Company shall include one or more of the activities specified 
in CSR Policy as may be recommended by the CSR Committee and approved by the Board of Directors.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee
S.  
No.
Name of Director(s)
Designation/ Nature of Directorship
Number of Meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of Meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the 
year
1.
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Chairman - Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
1
1
2.
Mr. P. M. Murty
Member - Non-Executive, Independent Director
1
1
3.
Ms. Smita Anand
Member - Non-Executive, Independent Director
1
1
4.
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Member - Managing Director
1
1
5.
Mr. T. R. Srinivasan
Member - Non-Executive, Independent Director
1
1
6.
Mr. G. S. Samuel
Member - Non-Executive, Independent Director
1
1
7.
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Member - Non-Executive, Independent Director
1
1 
3.	 Provide the web-link where composition of CSR committee, CSR policy and CSR projects 
approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company
•	 Composition of CSR committee: https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/
•	 CSR Policy: https://butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/CSR-POLICY-20.10.2020.pdf
4.	 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of impact assessment of CSR projects 
carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable: Not applicable
5.	 (a)	
Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): K5379.33 Lakhs
	
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): K107.59 Lakhs
	
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years: Nil
	
(d)	
Amount required to be set off for the Financial Years, if any: Nil
	
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the Financial Years (5(b)+5(c)- 5(d)): K107.59 Lakhs
6.	 (a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): K109.35 Lakhs
	
(b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads. K0.09
	
(c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Nil
	
(d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: K109.44 Lakhs
	
(e)	
CSR amount unspent for the Financial Year: Nil
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any: K1.85 Lakhs
63
Annual Report 2023-24
62
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
7.	
Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three Financial Years
S. No.
Preceding 
Financial Year(s)
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
account under 
sub-section (6) of 
Section 135
(in J)
Balance amount 
in unspent CSR 
account under 
sub-section (6) of 
section 135
(in J)
Amount Spent 
in the Financial 
Year 
(in J)
Amount transferred to a Fund as 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to sub-section (5) 
of Section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in J)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount (in J)
Date of Transfer
1.
2022-23
64,000
Nil
64,000
64,000
July 18, 2023
Nil
NA
2.
2021-22
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
3.
2020-21
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social 
Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year: No
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in 
the Financial Year: Not applicable
9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit 
as per section 135(5): Not applicable
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
Rangarajan Sriram	
Shantanu Khosla
Place: Chennai	
Managing Director	
Chairman of CSR Committee
Date: May 14, 2024	
DIN:09550640	
DIN:00059877
This form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/ arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties 
referred to in Section 188(1) of the Act, including certain arm’s length transaction under third proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis
The details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, 
are as follows:
Particulars
Nature of 
relationship
Duration of contract
Date of 
approval by 
Board
Salient Terms
Justification
Date of special 
resolution
Amount paid 
as advances
Amount
(in Lakhs)
Nature of Contract
Availing of services
Crompton 
Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals 
Limited 
(“Crompton”)
Holding 
Company
2 years
(June 1, 2022, to 
May 31, 2024)
May 12, 2022
Secondment of 
Employee(s) 
Receiving management 
resources for marketing on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Mr. Anil Gurnani)
NA
Nil
61.10
2 years (November 
1, 2022, to 
October 31, 2024)
October 15, 
2022
Receiving management 
resources for Human 
Resources/ IT/ Procurement on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Mr. Rajasekar T./  
Mr. Gaurishankar Mathapati  
Mr. Vaibhav Kunkolienkar)
223.94
2 years (February 
2, 2023, to 
February 1, 2025)
January 23, 
2023
Receiving management 
resource for all Planning & 
Logistics related activities on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Ms. Shristi Gupta) 
43.86
2 years (March 25, 
2023, to March 24, 
2025)
March 25, 
2023
Receiving management 
resources for all Secretarial 
related activities on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Mr. Viral Sarvaiya)
20.69
2 years
(March 30, 2022, 
to March 29, 2024) 
renewed for further 
2 years March 30, 
2024, to March 29, 
2026
March 30, 
2022
Renewed on 
February 05, 
2024
Receiving management 
resources on Secondment to 
oversee business operations 
and provide the identified 
services from Crompton  
(Mr. Rangarajan Sriram) 
290.39
2 years
(March 30, 2022, 
to March 29, 2024)
March 30, 
2022
Modified on 
April 5, 2023
Receiving management 
resources on Secondment to 
oversee business operations 
and provide the identified 
services from Crompton  
(Ms. B Ananda Shalini) 
56.40
2 years 
(August 12, 2023, 
to August 11, 
2025)
July 31, 2023
Receiving management 
resources to oversee 
finance related activities on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Mr. Rishabh Bengani)
24.45
2 years
(November 9, 
2023, to November 
8, 2025)
November 9, 
2023
Receiving management 
resources for overseeing 
finance functions on 
Secondment from Crompton 
(Mr. V A Joseph)
61.68
Annexure - 3
FORM NO. AOC -2
Particulars of contracts/ arrangements made with related parties
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, and  
Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
65
Annual Report 2023-24
64
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis: Not Applicable
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis
The details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024, are as follows:
Particulars
Nature of 
relationship
Duration of 
contract
Date of Approval by 
Board*
Salient Terms
Amount
(in Lakhs)
Nature of Contract
Sale of Goods
Cromtpon
Holding Company April 1, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
January 23, 2023, 
and May 12, 2023
Sale of Products
967.26
Purchase of Goods
Cromtpon
Holding Company April 1, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
January 23, 2023
Purchase of Goods
11.90
Leasing of property
Cromtpon
Holding Company August 11, 2023, 
to March 31, 
2024
July 31, 2023
Consideration for usage of 
warehouse space of the Crompton
5.35
April 1, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
January 23, 2023
Royalty Fees for using Crompton’s 
trademark
56.53
Availing or rendering of services
Cromtpon
Holding Company April 1, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
January 23, 2023
Management fees for legal support
20.00
August 11, 2023, 
to March 31, 
2024
July 31, 2023
Manpower Sharing Service
43.41
*All the transaction(s) were approved by the Audit Committee and noted by the Board.
Note:
The transactions mentioned above are not material as per the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations as amended. 
However, the same is disclosed under AOC-2 as a matter of good corporate governance practice.
For Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
P M Murty
Place: Chennai
Chairman
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:00011179
To
The Members
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
143, Pudupakkam Village, Kelambakkam,
Kancheepuram District – 603103
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit in compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited herein after called (“the Company”). Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances 
and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024 (“Audit Period”) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board 
processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by “the Company” 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 according to the 
provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder, as amended from time to time including 
applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (‘ICSI’) and as mandated 
by the Companies Act, 2013.
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder, as amended from time 
to time;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder, as amended from time to time;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and 
External Commercial Borrowings, as amended from time 
to time; (Not applicable for the Company for the Audit 
period)
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:-
Annexure - 4
FORM NO. MR-3
Secretarial Audit Report
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the  
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (There were no events requiring compliance 
during the audit period);
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; (There were no events requiring 
compliance during the audit period);
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding dealing with client; 
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015; 
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018
	
(h)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021 (Not applicable for the Company for the 
Audit period) 
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (There were 
no events requiring compliance during the audit 
period) and 
	
(j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-
Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (There were 
no events requiring compliance during the audit 
period)
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines 
and Standards, etc., mentioned above.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the Company 
is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors, Independent Directors and Woman 
Director. The changes in the composition of the Board of 
Directors that took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent to 
67
Annual Report 2023-24
66
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
them at least seven days in advance or as the case may be, and 
a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. 
We further report that, during the audit period, except the 
events listed below no other events occurred which had 
any major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of 
the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, and 
standards and that the Company has complied with such of 
those relevant clauses thereto which are applicable:
i.	
During the Financial Year, the meetings of Equity 
Shareholders, Secured Creditors and Unsecured 
Creditors were held on October 28, 2023 in accordance 
with the NCLT order dated September 12, 2023, for 
approving the Scheme of Amalgamation (“Scheme”) of 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited ("Transferor 
Company") with Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited ("Transferee Company") and their respective 
Shareholders and Creditors under Sections 230 to 232 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013. However, the approval of the Scheme from majority 
of the public shareholders of the Butterfly was not received 
in favour of the Scheme. Hence due to non-receipt of 
the requisite approval from public shareholders of the 
Butterfly, the proposed merger was discontinued.
For M. Alagar & Associates
(Practising Company Secretaries) 
Peer Review Certificate No:1707/2022
M. Alagar
Managing Partner
FCS No: 7488
Place: Chennai
COP No: 8196
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: F007488F000369731
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which 
is annexed as Annexure - A and forms an integral part of 
this report.
To
The Members 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
Our report is to be read along with this letter. 
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc. 
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis. 
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For M. Alagar & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
Peer Review Certificate No:1707/2022
M. Alagar
Managing Partner
FCS No: 7488
Place: Chennai
COP No: 8196
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: F007488F000369731
Annexure - A
Annexure to Secretarial Audit Report
69
Annual Report 2023-24
68
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Annexure - 5
Report on Corporate Governance
The Committees of the Board are:
(i)	
Audit Committee
(ii)	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (“N&RC”)
(iii)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
(iv)	 Share Transfer Committee (“STC”)
(v)	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”)
(vi)	 Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
Composition of Board
Your Company has developed and implemented a 
comprehensive Policy for appointment, remuneration & 
evaluation of Board and Senior Management, aiming to ensure 
that the composition of the Board is optimum, balanced, and 
enriched with diverse perspectives, fresh ideas, and extensive 
experience. Your Board comprises of Members from varied 
backgrounds, possessing skills and expertise in critical areas 
such as manufacturing, global finance, taxation banking, legal, 
entrepreneurship, and general management. Many of our 
directors have held prominent positions in senior management 
roles, providing them with a profound understanding of the 
global business landscape.
Regular reviews of the Board’s strength and composition are 
conducted to ensure alignment with both statutory requirements 
and the evolving needs of our business. This practice allows us 
to maintain a dynamic and effective Board that can effectively 
steer the Company towards its strategic objectives while 
upholding the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board of Directors of Butterfly is structured to include a mix 
of Independent and Non-Independent Directors, as mandated 
under Regulation 17 and 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
read with Section 149 of the Act. The Board has 2 (Two) Woman 
Independent Directors and the MD is the only Executive Director 
on the Board.
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram is the Managing Director. Mr. P M Murty 
is the Non-Executive Independent Chairman, Ms. Smita Anand, 
Mr. A Balasubramanian, Mr. M Padmanabhan, Mr. G S Samuel, 
Mr. K E Ranganathan, Mr. T R Srinivasan and Ms. Maheshwari 
Mohan are the Non-Executive Independent Directors in terms 
of Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act. 
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Mr. Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam and Mr. N Anandkumar are the Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Directors.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh (DIN:05307658) was appointed as an 
Additional Director by the Board on the recommendation of 
N&RC w.e.f. May 12, 2023, his appointment was subsequently 
approved by the Members at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of the Company held on July 19, 2023, as Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation.
Further, Mr. Mathew Job (DIN:02922413) had resigned from 
the position of Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director w.e.f. 
close of business hours of April 30, 2023. Mr. Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam (DIN:07625839) and Mr. N Anandkumar 
(DIN:10381096) were appointed as an Additional Directors 
by the Board basis the recommendation of N&RC w.e.f. 
November 9, 2023, and their appointment was subsequently 
approved by the Members vide resolutions passed on 
December 21, 2023, by means of Postal Ballot, as Non- Executive 
& Non-Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation.
Furthermore, Mr. Rangarajan Sriram (DIN:09550640) was 
re-appointed as the Managing Director of the Company 
for a further period of 2 (Two) years by the Board basis the 
recommendation of N&RC w.e.f. March 30, 2024, upto March 
29, 2026 (both days inclusive), liable to retire by rotation, and his 
appointment was subsequently approved by the Members vide 
resolution passed on March 30, 2024, by means of Postal Ballot.
Mr. K E Ranganathan (DIN:00058990) was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Non-Executive, Independent) of the 
Company w.e.f. April 04, 2024.
There are no inter-se relationships between our Board Members. 
The Company does not have any pecuniary relationship with 
any of the Non-Executive Non Independent Directors.
As on March 31, 2024, the Board of your Company comprises 
of 12 (Twelve) Directors, out of which Eleven (11) Directors were 
Non-Executive Directors (91.67% NED’s representation on 
the Board). The Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive 
Independent Director. Out of 7 (Seven) Independent Directors 
(“ID’s”), which comprises more than half of the Board, Two (2) 
are Women Directors (16.67% women representation on 
the Board). The composition of the Board of your Company 
is in conformity with the SEBI Listing Regulations as well as 
provisions of the Act.
As on the date of this Report, the Board of your Company 
comprises of 13 (Thirteen) Directors, out of which 8 (Eight) 
Directors are Non-Executive, Independent Directors (“NEDs 
& IDs”) (61.54% NEDs & IDs representation on the Board.) 
Out of 8 (Eight) NEDs & IDs which comprises more than half 
of the Board, 2 (Two) are Women NEDs & IDs (15.38% women 
representation on the Board).
During the year under review, none of the Independent 
Director(s) on the Board of the Company have resigned.
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Directors of the Company submits requisite 
disclosures regarding the positions held by them on the Board 
and/ or the Committees of other companies with changes 
therein, if any, on periodical basis. On the basis of such 
disclosures, it is confirmed that as on March 31, 2024, none of 
the Directors of the Company:
•	 holds Directorship positions in more than 20 (Twenty) 
companies [including 10 (Ten) public limited companies and 
7 (Seven) listed companies;]
•	 holds Executive Director position and serves as an 
Independent Director in more than 3 (Three) listed companies;
•	 is a Member of more than 10 (Ten) Committees and/ or 
Chairperson of more than 5 (Five) Committees, across 
all the Indian public limited companies in which they are 
Directors; and
In compliance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V(C) 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), we hereby 
submit the report addressing the matters outlined in Schedule V 
and demonstrate the practices adopted by our Company. This 
report serves as a testament to our unwavering commitment to 
adhere to the SEBI Listing Regulations, ensuring transparency 
and integrity in our corporate governance framework.
Butterfly’s philosophy on code of governance
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Butterfly/ the 
Company”) is committed to deliver high quality kitchen and 
electrical appliances characterised by ergonomic features 
and attractive design, all while ensuring excellent value for 
our customers. Our foremost priority is to provide service 
that exceeds customer satisfaction, while upholding our core 
values of transparency, integrity, honesty, accountability, and 
compliance with laws. We view stakeholders at all levels as 
partners in our success and are dedicated to maximising 
value for our Members. Continuously, we strive to review, 
strengthen, and upgrade our systems and processes across 
various business segments, aiming to enhance transparency 
and efficiency throughout the organisation.
The philosophy of the Company is deeply rooted in fulfilling 
our responsibility as a corporate entity, guiding us to undertake 
socially beneficial activities, projects, and programmes aimed 
at the welfare, sustainability, and development of the community 
at large. To ensure adherence to our values and principles, we 
have adopted a comprehensive Code of Conduct (“COC”) for 
all employees, including the Managing Director (“MD”), which 
includes an effective mechanism for reporting any concerns 
related to non-compliance with the Code.
As trustees to our stakeholders, the Board of Butterfly ensures 
that our values and objectives are aligned with the creation 
of Member’s value and sustainable growth. Upholding 
sound principles of corporate governance is a cornerstone 
of our Board’s responsibilities and commitment to fostering 
transparency, integrity, and accountability within the Company.
Further, your Company has complied with the following 
discretionary requirements as listed out in Part-E of Schedule II 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations which are elaborated as under:
1.	
The office of the Chairman is occupied by a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company;
2.	
The Company has a distinct Non-Executive Independent 
Director as the Chairman and a Managing Director, who 
are not related to one another;
3.	
The Audit Report on the Company’s Financial Statements 
for the F.Y. ended March 31, 2024 is unmodified; 
4.	
The Internal Auditors of the Company directly reports to 
the Audit Committee of the Board; and
5.	
The Company follows a robust process of communicating 
with the Members which has been elaborated in the 
underlying Report under the heading “Means of 
Communication”.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of any company serves 
as the guiding force, steering its trajectory towards success, 
sustainability, and ethical governance. At Butterfly, our Board 
is a diverse amalgamation of seasoned professionals, each 
bringing a wealth of experience, expertise, and insight to the 
table. The Board oversees the management’s functions and 
protects the long-term interests of its stakeholders.
The Board sets out the overall corporate objectives and provides 
direction and independence to the management to achieve 
these objectives for value creation through sustained growth. 
The Board seeks accountability of the management in creating 
long-term sustainable growth to ensure that the aspirations of 
stakeholders are fulfilled. It also sets out standards of corporate 
behaviour and ensures compliance with laws and regulations 
impacting the Company’s business.
The primary role of the Board is that of trusteeship to protect 
and to enhance Member’s value. As trustees, the Board has a 
fiduciary responsibility to ensure that the Company has clear 
goals aligned to Member’s value.
Availability of information to Board Members
The Board of Directors at our Company enjoys unrestricted 
access to all Company-related information, including employee 
data. At Board Meetings, functional heads are invited to provide 
supplementary insights, fostering informed decision-making. 
Continuous information flow enables Board Members to 
review, contribute inputs, and provide approvals. Strategic 
plans, annual budgets, and financial statements are regularly 
presented, which are initially scrutinised by Committees before 
being recommended to the Board for approval. Information is 
provided well in advance of meetings, with inputs from Directors 
incorporated into agendas and documents. The Board actively 
engages in discussions, offering valuable inputs on strategic 
and operational matters.
Committees of Directors
Throughout the year, the Independent Board Committees 
are actively engaged in delivering best-in-class governance 
practices. Recognising the substantial contributions of these 
Committees in assisting the Board of Directors in fulfilling its 
duties and responsibilities, the Board closely monitors various 
areas of the business through their efforts. The Committees of 
the Board function as an extended arm of the Board and play a 
pivotal role in ensuring good governance while also periodically 
monitoring the affairs of the Company.
71
Annual Report 2023-24
70
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
•	 All necessary approvals under SEBI Listing Regulations 
and the Act are in place for the appointment or 
continuation of any director who have attained the age 
of 75 (Seventy-Five) years.
For the purpose of determining the limit of the Board 
Committees, Chairpersonship(s) and Membership(s) of the 
Audit committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Size and composition of the Board as on March 
31, 2024
Board Diversity as on March 31, 2024
 Male
 Female

 Non-Executive Independent Directors
 Non-Executive & Non-Independent Directors
 Executive Director
Composition of Directors
16.67%
83.33%
7
4
1
Duties and functions of the Board
The Board’s primary responsibility is to foster the Company’s 
short and long-term success through sustainable continuance 
and progress of its business and thereby create value for its 
stakeholders. To this end, the Board of Directors sets out the 
corporate culture, lays down high ethical standards of corporate 
behaviour and ensures transparency in their dealings.
The Board has the responsibility to oversee the conduct 
of the Company’s business and to supervise and support 
the Management, who is responsible for the day-to-day 
operations. It does this by providing strategic guidance, 
monitoring operational performance and ensuring that robust 
policies and procedures are in place. The Board through its 
various Committees also reviews the identified risks and the 
mitigation measures undertaken/ to be undertaken in respect 
thereof, ensures integrity in the Company’s accounting and 
financial reporting systems, adequacy of internal controls 
and compliance with all relevant laws and discharges its 
functions towards CSR. In particular, the Board basis the 
recommendation of Audit Committee reviews and approves 
quarterly/ half-yearly unaudited financial results and the audited 
annual financial statements, corporate strategies, business 
plans, annual budgets, sets corporate objectives and monitors 
their implementation and oversees major capital expenditure. It 
monitors overall operating performance, Environment, Health 
& Safety (“EHS”) performance and reviews such other items 
which requires Board’s attention. It directs and guides the 
activities of the Management towards achieving set goals and 
seeks accountability. The agenda for the Board Meeting(s) 
covers items as set out in the SEBI Listing Regulations to 
the extent that they are relevant and applicable. All agenda 
items are supported by relevant information, documents and 
presentations to enable the Board to take informed decisions. 
The agenda is sent to the Directors within the period stipulated 
in the Secretarial Standards. The Board processes are also 
in consonance with the requirements of the Secretarial 
Standard-1 (“SS-1”) relating to the meetings of the Board 
and its Committees. All the recommendations of the various 
Committees of the Board have been accepted by the Board 
and none of the Directors are influenced by the Management.
Post-meeting follow-up system
The important decisions taken at the meetings of the Board 
and its Committees are tracked till their closure and the status 
of Action Taken Report (“ATR”) is placed before Board and 
Committee Meeting(s) for their noting. The Board of your 
Company met at least 4 (Four) times a year, with a maximum 
time gap of 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days between any 
2 (Two) meetings which is in line with requirements of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations. During the year under review, 
total 8 (Eight) meetings of the Board were held.
Managing Director (“MD”)
The Managing Director is at the helm of operations and is 
responsible for the Company’s day-to-day operations, which 
inter alia includes implementation of strategy, monitoring 
of the external and internal competitive landscape, new 
industry developments, standards, identifying opportunities 
for expansion, acquisition, building relationships with 
customers, markets with an eye to enhance Member’s value, 
implementation of the organisation’s vision, mission & overall 
direction, provides strategic directions, lays down policy 
guidelines and ensures the implementation of the decisions 
of the Board through its various Committees. The Managing 
Director acts under the guidance of the Board of Directors and 
is a link between the Board & the Management.
Independent Directors (“IDs”)
IDs play an eminent role in the governance processes of the 
Board, by virtue of their varied expertise and experience, they 
enrich the Board’s decision-making and prevent possible 
conflicts of interest that may emerge in such decision-making 
and safeguards the interests of all stakeholders.
The appointment of IDs is carried out in a structured manner 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The N&RC identifies candidates based 
on certain laid down criteria and takes into consideration the 
need for diversity on the Board and accordingly makes its 
recommendations to the Board of Directors.
The Board confirms that based on the written affirmations 
received from each IDs, they fulfill the conditions as stipulated 
in the Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as 
as amended from time to time, read with Section 149(6) of the 
Act along with rules framed thereunder and are independent 
of the Management.
Further, all the IDs have also registered their names in the 
Databank maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs 
(“IICA”) as mandated in the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors), Rules, 2014, as amended from time to 
time and are have exempted/ completed the online proficiency 
self-assessment test. In terms of Section 150 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, since all the Independent Directors of 
the Company have served as Directors for a period of not less 
than 3 (Three) years on the Board of Listed Company(ies) as on 
the date of inclusion of their names in the database, they were 
not required to undertake online proficiency self-assessment 
test conducted by IICA, except Mr. K E Ranganathan who shall 
complete the online self-assessment proficiency test within the 
designated timeline as stipulated in the Act. None of the IDs 
have any other material pecuniary relationship or transaction 
with the Company or Directors, or Senior Management which, 
in their judgement, would affect their independence. In terms 
of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, they have 
confirmed that they are not aware of any circumstance or 
situation which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties.
Based on the disclosures received from all IDs and in the 
opinion of the Board, all the IDs fulfils the criteria relating to 
their independence as specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and the Act.
Key skills, expertise, competence of the Board
The Board comprises of professionals, distinguished, qualified 
and experienced members who bring in the requisite skills, 
expertise and competence that allows them to make a valuable 
contribution to the Board and its Committees. The Board 
Members take an active part in the Board and Committee 
Meetings and provide valuable guidance to the Management 
on various aspects of business, governance and compliance, 
amongst others. The Board’s guidance provides foresight, 
enhances transparency and adds value in decision-making.
73
Annual Report 2023-24
72
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Table below summaries the key skills, expertise and competence required for the Company and is taken into consideration while 
nominating candidates to serve on the Board:
Skill Identified
Coverage
Industry Acumen
Industry experience through detailed knowledge of the Company or the sector in which it 
operates, as well as those who understand the broader industry environment.
Financial
Leadership of a financial firm or management of the finance function of an enterprise, 
resulting in proficiency in complex financial management, capital allocation, and financial 
reporting processes, or experience in actively supervising a principal financial officer, 
principal accounting officer, controller, public accountant, auditor or person performing 
similar functions.
Diversity
Representation of gender, ethnic, geographic, cultural, or other perspectives that expand the 
Board’s understanding of the needs and viewpoints of our customers, partners, employees, 
governments, and other stakeholders worldwide.
Leadership
Extended leadership experience for a significant enterprise, resulting in a practical 
understanding of organisations, processes, strategic planning, and risk management. 
Demonstrated strengths in developing talent, planning succession, and driving change and 
long-term growth.
Technology and 
Innovation
An appreciation of emerging trends in product design and development, research, disruptions 
in technology and in business models.
Mergers and 
Acquisitions
A history of leading growth through acquisitions and other business combinations, with the 
ability to assess “Make or Buy” decisions, analyse the fit of a target with the Company’s 
strategy and culture, accurately value transactions, and evaluate operational integration 
plans.
Board Service and 
Governance
Service on other public company boards, to develop insights about maintaining board 
and management accountability, protecting Members interests, and observing appropriate 
governance practices.
Sales and Marketing
Experience in developing strategies to grow sales and market share, build brand awareness 
and equity, and enhance brand reputation.
Strategy & Operations
Ability to think strategically, identify and assess strategic opportunities & threats and 
contribute towards developing effective strategies in the context of the strategic objectives 
of the Company’s policies & priorities and demonstrated strengths in developing talent, 
succession planning, driving change and long-term growth.
Compliance & Risk
Experience in identifying and evaluating the significant risk exposures to the business 
strategy of the Company and assess the Management’s actions to mitigate the strategic, 
legal and compliance, and operational risk exposures.
General Management
Experience in leading well-governed large organisations, possessing intrinsic leadership 
skills including the ability to appropriately represent the Company, set appropriate Board 
and organisation culture.
Sustainability, and 
Environmental, Social 
and Governance 
(“ESG”)
Experience in leading the sustainability and ESG visions of organizations, to be able to 
integrate these into the strategy of the Company.
Cybersecurity
Experience in assessing and managing cybersecurity-related risks and implementing the 
cybersecurity policies, procedures, and strategies.
Talent Development
Experience in Leadership Development and ensuring an ongoing process exists which 
continuously enhances the knowledge and capability of key talent to enable these managers 
to effectively lead the organisation in achieving key strategic initiatives.
Brief details of Directors as on March 31, 2024, are mentioned as under:
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Managing Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
51 Years
Date of Initial Appointment
March 30, 2022
Date of Re-Appointment
March 30, 2024
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi
Appliances Limited
Areas of expertise
Leadership
Technology 
& Innovation
Industry
Acumen
General
Management
Compliance 
& Risk
Sales &
Marketing
Financial
Strategy &
Operations
Board 
Service &
Governance
Talent 
Development
Mergers & Acquisitions
ESG
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
64 years
Date of Initial Appointment
March 30, 2022
Date of Re-Appointment
-
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Areas of expertise
Industry
Acumen
Leadership
Strategy &
Operations
Mergers &
Acquisitions
General
Management
Financial
Technology 
& Innovation
Board 
Service &
Governance
Cybersecurity
Sales &
Marketing
Talent Development
Compliance 
& Risk
Mr. P M Murty 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
73 years
Date of Initial Appointment
April 1, 2022
Date of Re-Appointment
-
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Areas of expertise
Financial
Leadership
General
Management
Compliance & 
Risk
Industry
Acumen
Board Service &
Governance
Mergers &
Acquisitions
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
75 Years
Date of Initial Appointment
November 14, 2011
Date of Re-Appointment
August 1, 2019
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Nelcast Limited
Areas of expertise
Financial
Leadership
Board Service &
Governance
Compliance & Risk
General
Management
Mergers &
Acquisitions
75
Annual Report 2023-24
74
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
74 years
Date of Initial Appointment
January 30, 1999
Date of Re-Appointment
August 1, 2019
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Quintegra Solutions 
Limited
Areas of expertise
Financial
Leadership
Board Service &
Governance
Compliance & Risk
General
Management
Talent Development
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
75 years
Date of Initial Appointment
June 01, 2013
Date of Re-Appointment
August 01, 2019
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi
Appliances Limited
Areas of expertise
Financial
Mergers &
Acquisitions
Leadership
General
Management
Board 
Service &
Governance
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
43 years
Date of Initial Appointment
November 9, 2023
Date of Re-Appointment
Nil
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi
Appliances Limited
Areas of expertise
Industry
Acumen
Leadership
Technology & 
Innovation
Strategy &
Operations
Compliance 
and Risk
Financial
General
Management
Board 
Service &
Governance
Talent 
Development
Sales &
Marketing
Mergers &
Acquisitions
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
57 years
Date of Initial Appointment
November 9, 2023
Date of Re-Appointment
-
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi
Appliances Limited
Areas of expertise
Industry
Acumen
Leadership
Technology 
& Innovation
Sales and
Marketing
Compliance 
& Risk
Strategy &
Operations
General
Management
Board 
Service &
Governance
Talent 
Development
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
55 Years
Date of Initial Appointment
May 12, 2023
Date of Re-Appointment
Nil
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly 
Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Crompton Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Mr. G S Samuel
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
72 years
Date of Appointment
May 11, 2012
Date of Re-Appointment
August 01, 2019
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed 
Companies
1.	
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	
Swelect Energy Systems Limited
Areas of expertise
Financial
Leadership
Board Service &
Governance
Compliance 
& Risk
General
Management
Talent Development
Mergers & Acquisitions
Ms. Smita Anand
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
64 years
Date of Initial Appointment
April 1, 2022
Date of Re-appointment
-
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals 
Limited
3.	 Lemon Tree Hotels 
Limited
Areas of expertise
Diversity
General
Management
Talent Development
Leadership
Board Service &
Governance
Compliance and Risk
Mr. K E Ranganathan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
63 Years
Date of Initial Appointment
April 4, 2024
Date of Re-Appointment
-
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi
Appliances Limited
Areas of expertise
Industry
Acumen
Leadership
Technology & 
Innovation
Sales &
Marketing
General
Management
Financial
Strategy &
Operations
Board Service 
& Governance
Talent 
Development
Compliance 
& Risk
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Nationality
Indian
Age
55 years
Date of Initial Appointment
March 31, 2015
Date of Re-Appointment
August 21, 2020
Shareholding
Nil
Board Membership –
Indian Listed Companies
1.	 Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
2.	 Nelcast Limited
Areas of expertise
Diversity
General
Management
Leadership
Board 
Service &
Governance
Mergers & Acquisitions
Talent Development
Industry
Acumen
Leadership
Technology 
& Innovation
Sales &
Marketing
General
Management
Strategy &
Operations
Board 
Service & 
Governance
Compliance 
& Risk
Talent 
Development
ESG
Mergers &
Acquisitions
Financial
Areas of expertise
Notes:-
1.	
The absence of a mark against a Board Member’s name does not necessarily indicate that the Director does not possess the corresponding 
skill, expertise or competence
2.	 The date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal
3.	 Nationality of all the Directors is Indian
77
Annual Report 2023-24
76
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Details of Directorship and Membership(s)/ Chairpersonship(s) of Committees of the Director(s)
Name
Category
No. of 
Directorship(s) 
held in 
other Public 
Companies*
Directorship held in listed companies*
(Including Butterfly)
Committee(s) position 
(Including Butterfly)**
Member
Chairperson
Mr. P M Murty
Chairman, Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
4
-
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram@ Managing Director
-
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
1
-
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2
-
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Mr. Promeet Ghosh#
Non-Executive and 
Non-Independent Director
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Mr. Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam^
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
-
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
-
-
Mr. N Anandkumar^
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
-
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
-
-
Ms. Smita Anand
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
2
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2
-
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited
Lemon Tree Hotels Limited
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
4
1
Quintegra Solutions Limited
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
2
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3
3
Nelcast Limited
Mr. G S Samuel
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3
2
Swelect Energy Systems Limited
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Nil
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
1
-
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
-
-
Nelcast Limited
*Excludes directorship held in private limited companies, foreign companies and companies registered under Section 8 of the Act.
**For the purpose of calculating the above, Committee(s) considered are Audit Committee and SRC.
@Re-appointed as the Managing Director for a further period of 2 (Two) years w.e.f. March 30, 2024 to March 29, 2026.
#Appointed w.e.f. May 12, 2023.
^Appointed w.e.f. November 9, 2023.
Note: Based on the intimations/ disclosures received from the Directors, none of the Directors of the Company hold Memberships/ Chairpersonships 
of Board/ Committees, more than the limits prescribed under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Board and Committee Meeting(s)
The Board and Committee Meeting(s) of the Company are 
systematically pre-scheduled, with tentative annual calendar 
circulated to all Board and Committee Members at the beginning 
of the Financial Year. This approach helps members to plan 
their schedules effectively and ensures their participation in the 
Meeting(s). However, in instances where any urgent business 
arises, the Company conducts necessary transactions by 
passing resolution(s) through circulation, as permitted by law. 
These resolutions are noted and confirmed at the subsequent 
Meeting, ensuring compliances and timely decision-making.
A detailed notice and agenda, along with supporting materials 
such as notes and presentations, are prepared and sent to 
Directors at least 7 (Seven) days prior to the scheduled Board 
and Committee Meetings, facilitating Directors for informed 
decision-making. In cases involving Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information (“UPSI”), agenda items are circulated with shorter 
notice, subject to prior approval from the Board. The setting of 
agendas is a collaborative effort led by the Company Secretary 
in consultation with the Chairman or MD incorporating inputs 
and feedback from Board Committee Members to ensure 
thorough discussion and effective governance practices.
The Directors of the Company receive the agenda and pre-reads 
materials via their registered email address, ensuring timely 
access to the relevant information. The Meetings are usually 
convened at the Corporate Office of the Company located 
at “E-34, 2nd Floor, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Egattur Village, 
Navalur – 600 130 Chengalpattu District”. Additionally, the 
Company facilitates Video/ Audio conferencing facilities for 
the Director(s) who are unable to attend physically due to their 
prior commitments, travels or remote locations, ensuring their 
meaningful participation in Meeting(s).
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities effectively 
and take informed decisions, the Managing Director apprise 
the Board at every Meeting of the overall performance of your 
Company, followed by presentation(s) by the others. A detailed 
functional report is also presented at the Board Meeting(s). The 
Board sets annual performance objectives, oversees the actions 
and results of the management, evaluates its own performance, 
the performance of its Committees and individual Directors on 
an annual basis and monitors the effectiveness of the Company’s 
governance practices for enhancing the stakeholders’ value.
Apart from the Board Members and the Company Secretary, 
the Board and Committee Meetings are also attended by Chief 
Financial Officer (“CFO”) and other departmental/ functional 
heads wherever required.
The Board has complete access to all Company-related 
information, including that of employees. Information is 
provided to the Board Members on a continuous basis for their 
review, inputs and approval.
Minimum Attendance 
in Board Meetings as 
mandated by law – 33.33%
The Board of Directors met 8 (Eight) times during F.Y. 2023-24 
i.e. on April 4, 2023, May 12, 2023, May 22, 2023, July 31, 2023, 
September 15, 2023, October 19, 2023, November 9, 2023, and 
February 5, 2024.
Senior Management (SMPs)
The Company identifies following under category of SMP pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1)(d) and Schedule V of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. Details of SMPs as on March 31, 2024, and the changes thereunder during the year under review are 
as follows:
S. 
No. Name 
Designation
Changes, if any
(Yes/ No)
Nature of change and Effective date
1.
Mr. G Pazhaniswamy 
Head – Operations
No
NA
2.
Mr. Vinayak Anandram 
Head – Category Marketing
No
NA
3.
Mr. Haresh Sundar 
Head – Sales
No
NA
4.
Mr. Rajsekar T*
Head – Human Resources
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. May 17, 2024
5.
Mr. Gaurishankar Mathapati Chief Information Officer
No
NA
6.
Mr. Vaibhav Kunkolienkar 
Head – Procurement
No
NA
7.
Mr. Thiyagu P S*
Head – R & D
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. June 10, 2024
8.
Mr. R. Anand 
Head – After Sales Service
No
NA
9.
Mr. Siva Kumar S R 
Head – Quality Control
No
NA
10. Mr. Rajesh N S 
Head – International Business 
No
NA
11. Mr. Viral Sarvaiya 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
No
NA
12. Mr. V A Joseph 
Chief Financial Officer
Yes 
Appointed w.e.f. November 09, 2023
13. Mr. R Nagarajan
Chief Financial Officer
Yes 
Resigned w.e.f. April 05, 2023
14. Ms. Ananda Shalini 
Chief Financial Officer
Yes 
Appointed w.e.f. April 06, 2023 and 
Resigned w.e.f. October 20, 2023
15. Mr. Sundarrajan C.
AVP – Operation
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. August 31, 2023
16. Ms. Swetha Sagar G*
Chief Business Officer
Yes
Appointed as PL Head - Kitchen Appliances 
w.e.f. April 12, 2024, and elevated to Chief 
Business Officer w.e.f. May 14, 2024
17. Mr. Krushnakant Sinojia*
Head – R & D
Yes
Appointed as Head - Research & 
Development w.e.f. June 11, 2024
18. Anil Gurnani
Head - Marketing
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. May 5, 2023
*Noted/ Approved at the Board Meeting held on May 14, 2024
79
Annual Report 2023-24
78
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
The details of the Members participation at the Board Meeting are as under
58.33%
Independence
12
Members
8
Meetings
95.42%
Attendance
Attendance of Directors at the Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Date of Meeting(s)
April 4,  
2023
May 12,  
2023
May 22, 
2023
July 31, 
2023
September 
15, 2023
October 
19, 2023
November 
9, 2023
February 
5, 2024
AGM  
July 19, 
2023
Meeting(s) 
Entitled to 
attend
Meeting(s) 
Attended 
% of 
attendance
Mr. P M Murty
8
8
100.00
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram 
8
8
100.00
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
8
8
100.00
Mr. Mathew Job^
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
1
1
100.00
Mr. A 
Balasubramanian
8
8
100.00
Ms. Smita Anand
8
7
87.50
Mr. Promeet Ghosh*
NA
7
4
57.14
Mr. M Padmanabhan
8
8
100.00
Mr. G S Samuel
8
8
100.00
Mr. T R Srinivasan 
8
8
100.00
Ms. Maheshwari 
Mohan
8
8
100.00
Mr. Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam#
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
2
100.00
Mr. N Anandkumar#
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
2
100.00
% of attendance
100.00
100.00
90.00 100.00
90.00
100.00
83.33
100.00
100.00
^Resigned w.e.f. April 30, 2023
*Appointed w.e.f. May 12, 2023
#Appointed w.e.f. November 9, 2023
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee of the Board is constituted in compliance 
with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. More than 2/3rd (Two Third) of 
the Members of the Committee, including the Chairman are IDs.
The Committee is governed by a Charter, which is in line with 
the regulatory requirements mandated by the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. All the Members of the Audit Committee are 
financially literate and possess sound knowledge in finance and 
accounting practices. The Chairman of the Committee possesses 
professional qualifications in the field of Finance and Accounting.
As on March 31, 2024, the total strength of the Audit Committee 
is 6 (Six) Members out of which 5 (Five) Members are IDs. The 
Audit Committee acts as a link between the statutory and internal 
auditors and the Board of Directors. It assists the Board in fulfilling 
its oversight responsibilities of monitoring financial reporting 
processes, reviewing the Company’s established systems 
and processes for internal financial controls, governance and 
reviewing the Company’s statutory and internal audit activities.
The Audit Committee also receives the report on compliance 
under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Whistle-Blower Policy.
The Audit Committee also meets the Internal Auditors and 
Statutory Auditors without the presence of the management.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by the other 
Directors and Chief Financial Officer. The representatives of the 
Statutory Auditors have attended all the meetings held during the 
year at which Financial Statements have been placed for review 
and approval. The representatives of Internal and Cost Auditors 
are invited to attend the Meetings at which their respective 
reports are presented for discussion. The Company Secretary 
acts as the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
Internal audit reports on the various areas of operations and 
records of the Company are being periodically submitted 
before the Audit Committee along with the comments of the 
management on the action taken to correct any observed 
deficiencies, if any, on the working of the various departments. 
The Board have appointed M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP as 
the Internal Auditors to conduct the internal audit of the various 
areas of operations and records of the Company.
The periodical reports of the said Internal Auditors are regularly 
placed before the Audit Committee along with the comments of 
the management on the action taken to correct any observed 
deficiencies on the working of the various departments.
As per the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 
18(3) of Part-C of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
brief terms of reference to the Audit Committee of the Company, 
inter alia includes:
i.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process 
and the disclosures of its financial statements/ results and 
information submitted to the stock exchanges, regulatory 
authorities or the Members to ensure that the financial 
statement reflect a true and fair view correct and the same 
time sufficient and credible;
ii.	
Recommend to the Board the appointment, re-appointment, 
terms of reference and, if required the replacement or 
removal of the Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors and 
Secretarial Auditors considering their independence and 
effectiveness and also recommend the audit fees;
iii.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission 
to the board for approval, with particular reference to:
	
a)	
Director’s Responsibility Statement;
	
b)	
changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same,
	
c)	
major accounting entries involving estimates based 
on the exercise of judgement by management,
	
d)	
significant adjustments, made, if any, in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings,
	
e)	
compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements;
	
f)	
Disclosure of any related party transactions; and
	
g)	
Qualification/ modified opinion, if any, in draft 
audit report.
iv.	
Review accounting adjustments, if any, that are noted or 
proposed by the statutory auditors but were ‘passed’ (as 
immaterial or otherwise);
v.	
Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public 
offers/ private placements/ debt issues and related matters;
vi.	
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of 
the Company with related parties. Such approval can be in 
the form of omnibus approval of Related Party Transactions 
(“RPTs”) subject to conditions specified in Regulation 23 
of SEBI Listing Regulations;
vii.	
Review of RPTs on a quarterly basis;
viii.	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
ix.	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
x.	
Review of the Management Discussion & Analysis of 
financial condition and result of operations;
xi.	
Give approval of all auditing and permissible non-auditing 
services (services other than those services which cannot 
be rendered by the Statutory Auditors as per Section 144 
of the Act) to be rendered by the Statutory Auditors and 
determining the remuneration for all such services;
xii.	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
xiii.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal 
control systems;
xiv.	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms 
of reference of the Audit Committee;
Committees of the Board
The Board Committees plays a pivotal role in the governance 
framework of the Company, established to address specific areas 
or activities as mandated by relevant regulations and Acts. These 
Committees are formed under formal approval of the Board, each 
tasked with clearly defined roles that are typically associated 
with the responsibilities of Board Members. Through their 
focused efforts and expertise, the Board Committees contribute 
significantly to the effective oversight and management of key 
aspects of the Company’s operations, enhancing transparency, 
accountability, and overall governance practices.
Each Committee demonstrates the highest levels of governance 
standards and has the requisite expertise to handle issues 
relevant to their fields. These Committees spend considerable 
time and provide focused attention to various issues 
placed before them and the guidance provided by these 
Committees lend immense value and support, enhancing the 
qualitative Ness of the decision making process of the Board. In 
order to strengthen governance, the Board has adopted terms of 
reference for majority of Committees of the Company.
The Board reviews the functioning of these Committees from 
time to time. The meetings of each of these Committees are 
convened by the respective Chairpersons, who also appraised 
the Board about summary of discussion held at their meetings. 
The minutes of the Committee meetings are sent to all members 
of respective committee individually for their comments and 
approval as prescribed in SS-1 and after the minutes are duly 
approved, the same is being placed before the Board for review 
in immediate next meeting.
The Committees of the Board are:
1.	
Audit Committee (“AC”)
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (“N&RC”)
3.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
4.	
Share Transfer Committee (“STC”)
5.	
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
6.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”)
81
Annual Report 2023-24
80
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
xv.	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, 
including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
xvi.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by 
the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems 
of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board;
xvii.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well 
as post- audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
xviii.	 Meet separately with the external auditors to discuss any 
matters that the Committee or the external auditors believe 
should be discussed separately;
xix.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
xx.	
To review the functioning of the whistle-blower mechanism;
xxi.	 Approval of appointment of CFO after assessing the 
qualifications, experience and background, etc. of 
the candidate;
xxii.	 Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/
investment by the holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding I100 Crore or 10% of the asset size of the 
subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans/ 
advances/ investments existing as on the date of coming 
into force of this provision; and
xxiii.	 Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its Members.
There were 10 (Ten) Audit Committee Meetings held during 
F.Y. 2023-24.
The Composition of Audit Committee as on March 31, 2024, and 
details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
83.33%
Independence
6
Members
10
Meetings
96.67%
Attendance
c)	
Formulate criteria for determining qualifications, attributes 
and Independence of a Director;
d)	
Identify persons who are qualified to become Directors in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal;
e)	
Formulate the criteria for evaluating the performance of the 
Independent Directors/ Board of Directors;
f)	
Formulate a policy relating to the remuneration for the 
Directors, KMP and SMPs;
g)	
Identify individuals for appointment as KMP and who may 
be appointed in senior management, recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal. The Committee may 
consider any recommendations made by the Board and/ or 
parent company in this regard;
h)	
Specify the manner for effective evaluation of performance 
of Board, its committees, individual Directors and review its 
implementation and compliance;
i)	
Review the performance evaluation of the Directors 
and KMP;
j)	
Administration of the Employee Stock Option Schemes 
(“ESOP”);
k)	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to SMPs; and
l)	
For every appointment of an Independent Director, the 
Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and on the basis of 
such evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required of an Independent Director. The 
person recommended to the Board for appointment as an 
independent director shall have the capabilities identified 
in such description. For the purpose of identifying suitable 
candidates, the Committee may:
	
i.	
use the services of an external agencies, if required;
	
ii.	
consider candidates from a wide range of 
backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and
	
iii.	
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
April 04, 
2023
May 05, 
2023
May 12, 
2023
May 22, 
2023
July 31, 
2023
September 
15, 2023
October 
19, 2023
November 
9, 2023
February 
5, 2024
March 
29, 2024
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend
Meeting 
Attended 
% of 
attendance
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Chairman
10
10
100
Mr. P M Murty
Member
10
10
100
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
10
8
80
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
10
10
100
Mr. M Padmanabhan 
Member
10
10
100
Mr. G S Samuel
Member
10
10
100
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(“N&RC”)
The N&RC of the Board is constituted in compliance with the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. As on March 31, 2024, the total 
strength of the N&RC is 6 (Six) Members, all of whom are Non-
Executive Directors, out of which 5 (Five) Members are IDs. The 
Chairperson of the Committee along with 2/3rd (Two Third) of the 
Members of the Committee are IDs. The Chairman of the Board 
is a Member of the Committee but does not chair the N&RC.
The MD and CFO also attends the meetings wherever required, 
for discussion of certain agenda items.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
The N&RC is responsible for formulating, evaluating policies and 
reviewing all major aspects of Company’s HR processes relating 
to hiring, training, talent management, succession planning 
and compensation structure of the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel (“KMP”) and Senior Management. The N&RC is 
also responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, diversity and knowledge on the Board and for 
drawing up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning 
and appointment procedures for both internal and external 
appointments. The Committee also anchored the performance 
evaluation of the Individual Directors. 
Terms of reference of N&RC are
The brief terms of reference are in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19(4) of Schedule II Part 
D to the SEBI Listing Regulations, inter alia includes:
a)	
Review the Succession Policy of the Company under the 
overall guidance of the Board of Directors and succession 
policy of the Company;
b)	
Devise a policy on Board Diversity, if required;
There were 5 (Five) N&RC Meetings held during the F.Y. 2023-24.
The Composition of N&RC as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting(s) are as under:
83.33%
Independence
6
Members
5
Meetings
96.67%
Attendance
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
April 04, 
2023
May 12,  
2023
May 22,  
2023
November 9, 
2023
February 5, 
2024
Meetings 
entitled to 
attend
Meeting 
Attended 
% of 
attendance
Ms. Smita Anand
Chairperson
5
4
80
Mr. P M Murty
Member
5
5
100
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Member
5
5
100
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
5
5
100
Mr. M Padmanabhan 
Member
5
5
100
Mr. G S Samuel
Member
5
5
100
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee 
and 
Share Transfer Committee (“SRC and STC”)
The SRC and STC oversees the various aspects of interests of 
security holders of the Company, resolving the grievances of 
Members, ensuring expeditious share transfer process in line 
with the proceedings of the SRC, evaluating performance and 
service standards of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
(“RTA”) of the Company and recommends measures for 
overall improvement of the quality of investor services as and 
when the need arises. As on March 31, 2024, the total strength 
of the SRC and STC was 5 (Five) Members, which consist 
of 1 (One) Executive Director and 3 (Three) IDs and 1 (One) 
Non Independent Directors and fulfils the criteria of composition 
as per Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Mr. Mathew Job, Chairman of the Committee resigned w.e.f. 
April 30, 2023, and Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as the 
Chairman w.e.f. May 12, 2023.
The Executive Director and CFO also attended the Meeting(s) 
held during the Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the SRC and STC.
83
Annual Report 2023-24
82
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Share Transfer Committee (“STC”)
Terms of reference for STC are:
1.	
To review approve, reject the request for transfer and transmission of securities of the Company;
2.	
To review, approve, reject the split, subdivision, consolidation, renewal of the share certificates; and
3.	
To review, approve, reject the request of duplicate share certificates and loss of share certificates.
The Composition and details of the Members participation at the Meeting of STC are as under:
60%
Independence
5
Members
2
Meetings
90%
Attendance
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
September 15, 
2023
February 05, 
2024
Meetings 
entitled to attend
Meeting 
Attended 
% of attendance
Mr. Promeet Ghosh^
Chairman
2
1
50
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
2
2
100
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Member
2
2
100
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Member
2
2
100
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Member
2
2
100
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
Mr. Mathew Job ceased to be Chairman & Member w.e.f. April 30, 2023
^Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as Chairman & Member w.e.f. May 12, 2023
g)	
To issue and allot right shares/ bonus shares pursuant to a 
Rights Issue/ Bonus Issue subject to such approval as may 
be required;
h)	
To monitor dematerialisation of shares and all matters 
incidental or related thereto;
i)	
To authorise the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer/ 
other officers of the Share Department to attend to take 
such actions as necessary or deemed fit by the Committee 
for any matter and to monitor action taken;
j)	
To monitor Investor Relation activities of the Company and 
give guidance on the flow of information from the Company 
to the Investors;
k)	
Review of transfer of unpaid/ unclaimed dividend/ shares 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund of the 
Government of India in line with the relevant applicable laws;
l)	
All other matters incidental or related to shares of the 
Company; and
m)	
Perform such other functions as may be required by law, the 
Company’s Articles of Association or as may be assigned 
by the Board.
Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”)
Terms of reference for SRC are:
a)	
To review the steps taken to resolve the grievances of the 
security holders of the Company including complaints 
related to transfer/ transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of 
new/ duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc;
b)	
To review the measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by Members;
c)	
To review the adherence to the service standards adopted 
by the Company in respect of various services being 
rendered by the RTA;
d)	
To review the measures and initiatives taken by the 
Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends 
and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/ annual 
reports/ statutory notices by the Members of the Company;
e)	
To approve issue of duplicate share certificates for 
shares reported lost, defaced or destroyed as per the laid 
down procedure;
f)	
To issue new certificates against subdivision of shares, 
renewal, split or consolidation of share certificates;
There were 2 (Two) SRC Meeting held during the F.Y. 2023-24.
The Composition of SRC as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
60%
Independence
5
Members
2
Meetings
90.00%
Attendance
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
September 15, 
2023
February 5, 
2024
Meetings entitled 
to attend
Meeting 
Attended 
% of attendance
Mr. Promeet Ghosh^
Chairman
2
1
50
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
2
2
100
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Member
2
2
100
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Member
2
2
100
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Member
2
2
100
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
Mr. Mathew Job ceased to be Chairman & Member w.e.f. April 30, 2023
^Appointed as Chairman & Member w.e.f. May 12, 2023
Number of Investor complaints received during the F.Y. 2023-24:
Total Complaints from received the Investors 
7
No. of Complaints pending 
0
No. of Complaints Not Solved
0
No. of Complaints Resolved 
7
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
Knowing the importance of managing and pre-empting risks 
effectively for having a sustainable business, the Company has 
constituted a RMC, in line with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations mandates 
constitution of the RMC. This Committee is entrusted with 
the responsibility of outlining procedures to keep the Board 
informed about risk assessment and minimisation strategies. 
Furthermore, it is the Board’s duty to develop, execute, and 
oversee the Company’s risk management plan. The SEBI 
Listing Regulations underscores the importance of robust risk 
management practices in safeguarding the Company’s interests 
and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews the risk trend, exposure and potential 
impact analysis carried out by the management. It was 
specifically confirmed to the Committee by the MD and the CFO 
that the mitigation plans are finalised and up to date, owners are 
identified, and the progress of mitigation actions are monitored. 
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
Terms of reference for RMC are as under:
i.	
To periodically assess risks to the effective execution of 
business strategy and review key leading indicators in 
this regard;
ii.	
To formulate a detailed Risk Management Policy which 
shall also include;
•	
A framework for identification of internal and external 
risks specifically faced by the Company, in particular 
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber 
security risks or any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee;
•	
The measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks; and
•	
Business continuity plan;
iii.	
To review the Risk Management Policy periodically, 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
iv.	
To monitor and oversee the implementation of the Risk 
Management Policy, including evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems;
v.	
To formulate and ensure that appropriate methods, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate 
the risks associated with the business of the Company;
vi.	
To periodically review the risk management processes and 
practices of the Company and ensure that the Company 
is taking the appropriate measures to achieve prudent 
balance between risk and reward in both ongoing and new 
business activities;
vii.	
To keep the Board informed about the nature and content of 
its discussions, recommendations and actions to be taken;
85
Annual Report 2023-24
84
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
viii.	 The RMC shall evaluate risks related to cyber security and 
ensure appropriate procedures are placed to mitigate these 
risks in a timely manner;
ix.	
To approve the Risk Management Framework of the 
Company periodically;
x.	
Monitor the organisation’s risk profile - its on-going and 
potential exposure to risks of various types;
xi.	
Ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and best 
practices with respect to risk management; and
xii.	
Providing management and employees with the necessary 
tools and resources to identify and manage risks.
The MD, CFO and Head Audit - Risk & Control also attended 
the meetings. 
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
There were 3 (Three) RMC Meetings held during the F.Y. 2023-24.
The Composition of RMC as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
75%
Independence
8
Members
3
Meetings
95.83%
Attendance
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
May 12,  
2023
July 31,  
2023
December 20, 
2023
Meetings 
entitled to 
attend
Meeting 
Attended 
% of 
attendance
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Chairman 
3
3
100
Mr. P M Murty
Member
3
3
100
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
3
2
66.67
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
3
3
100.00
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Member
3
3
100.00
Mr. A Balasubramanian 
Member
3
3
100.00
Mr. G S Samuel
Member
3
3
100.00
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Member
3
3
100.00
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
Leave of absence
x.	
To advise the Board on significant stakeholder concerns 
relating to CSR;
xi.	
Such other related matters which the CSR Committee 
may deem appropriate, required by law or assigned to the 
Committee by the Board from time to time; and
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
(“CSR”) 
Committee
The role of CSR Committee includes formulating and 
recommending to the Board the CSR Policy and CSR activities 
to be undertaken by the Company, recommending the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred and reviewing the performance of the 
Company in the areas of CSR and to strive for overall sustainable 
development in the conduct of Company’s business. The total 
strength of the CSR Committee is 7 (Seven) Members. The Act 
requires at least 1 (One) of the Members to be an Independent 
Director and the Company has complied with the same.
Terms of reference of the CSR Committee are as 
under:
i.	
To review from time to time the CSR policy of the Company 
and to ensure that the CSR policy is in line with Schedule 
VII of the Act as amended from time to time;
ii.	
To review CSR projects with a view to ensure that they are 
in line with CSR objectives and CSR Policy of the Company;
iii.	
To ensure that the Company’s overall business strategy 
reflects its long-term objectives on CSR;
iv.	
To consider and recommend the Board and the 
Management on various CSR projects to be implemented 
by the Company;
v.	
The Committee shall formulate and monitor the 
implementation of the CSR annual action plan, in 
accordance with the Company’s CSR policy and provisions 
of applicable laws from time to time. The Committee 
shall recommend the CSR annual action plan and any 
modification(s) thereto during the F.Y. for the approval of 
the Board from time to time;
vi.	
To prepare budget and recommend to the Board the 
amount of expenditure to be incurred on various CSR 
programmes/ activities either directly or through the CCF 
or any other trusts/ Company registered under Section 8 of 
the Act (considering criteria given)/ registered society;
vii.	
Modalities of utilisation of CSR funds;
viii.	 To oversee impact assessment of CSR projects of the 
Company and place before the Board;
ix.	
Monitor and report to the Board of the projects/ programmes 
undertaken by the Company;
Committee of IDs
The Committee of IDs constitutes 7 (Seven) Directors which are 
as follows:
Name
Designation
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Member
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Member
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Member
Mr. G S Samuel
Member
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Member
During the year under review, a meeting of an IDs was held on 
May 12, 2023, inter alia to take a note the following:
•	
evaluation of the performance of Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
•	
evaluation of the performance of the Chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of the Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors; and
•	
evaluation of the quality, quantity and timelines of flow of 
information between the management and the Board that 
is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably 
perform their duties.
Confirmation by the Board on acceptance of 
recommendation of mandatory/ non-mandatory 
committees
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board of 
Directors confirmed that during the year, it has accepted 
all recommendations received from its mandatory/ non-
mandatory committees.
Familiarisation programme
All new Directors on their appointment are taken through a 
detailed induction programme and familiarisation programme 
when they join the Board. The Directors are taken through the 
history of the Company, the milestones achieved by the Company 
since the date of its inception, the details of the important events 
taken place in the Company and the growth of the Company over 
the decades. The Directors are also given the details of present 
structure and an overview of the businesses and functions. 
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company conducted various familiarisation programmes for 
its Directors including review of Industry Outlook at the Board 
Meetings, regulatory updates at Board and Audit Committee 
Meetings, presentations on Internal Control over Financial 
The CFO also attended the meeting(s) held during the 
Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
There was 1 (One) CSR Committee Meeting held during F.Y. 2023-24.
The Composition of CSR Committee as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
71.43%
Independence
7
Members
1
Meeting
100%
Attendance
Name of the Member(s)
Designation
Date of Meeting(s)
July 31,  
2023
Meetings entitled  
to attend
Meeting Attended 
% of attendance
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Chairman
1
1
100
Mr. P M Murty
Member
1
1
100
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
100
Mr. Rangrajan Sriram
Member
1
1
100
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Member
1
1
100
Mr. G S Samuel
Member
1
1
100
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
Member
1
1
100
Attended in Person
Attended through video conference
87
Annual Report 2023-24
86
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Reporting, CSR Strategy, Statutory Compliance, Investor 
Grievances, SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015, SEBI Listing Regulations, framework for RPTs, etc. The 
details of familiarization programmes imparted to IDs are 
disclosed on the Company’s website and can be accessed at 
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/
Familiarization-Programme-for-FY-23-24.pdf
Performance evaluation criteria for Independent 
Directors
Performance Evaluation Criteria for the Board, its Committee 
Committees and IDs is detailed out under Board’s Effectiveness 
section of the Board’s Report which forms part of this Annual Report.
Remuneration of Directors
Remuneration policy
In terms of Section 178 of the Act and corresponding provisions 
contained in the SEBI Listing Regulations, your Company has a 
well-defined Policy for Remuneration of the Directors, KMP and 
other Employees.
The salient features of the Policy as follows:
•	
Matters to be dealt with, perused and recommend to the 
Board by the N&RC, which inter alia includes size and 
composition of Board, positive attributes of Directors, 
succession plans, evaluation of performance of every 
Director, Board diversity etc.;
•	
Appointment and Removal of Directors, KMP and SMPs;
•	
Remuneration for Directors, KMP and SMPs;
•	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of IDs and the Board;
•	
Devising a Policy on Board diversity.
N&RC while deciding the basis for determining the compensation, 
both fixed and variable to the Non-Executive Directors, 
takes into consideration various factors such as Directors’ 
participation in Board and Committee Meetings during the 
year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as Membership or 
Chairmanship of Committees, time spent in carrying out other 
duties, role and functions as envisaged in Schedule IV of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations and such other factors as the 
N&RC may deem fit.
Non-Executive and IDs remuneration
The Board has approved payment of sitting fees to the IDs, i.e. 
H30,000 (Rupees Thirty Thousand Only) for attending the Board 
and the Committee Meetings. Apart from payment of sitting fees, 
the Members had at their 35th AGM of the Company held on 
July 14, 2022, has also approved payment of commission to the 
Company’s Non-Executive, Independent Directors, collectively, 
upto 1% of the net profits, as permitted by the Act.
Additional commission is paid to the Chairman of the Board, 
Audit Committee and the Chairperson of the N&RC for their 
enhanced roles and responsibilities. 
Executive Director(s) Remuneration
As on March 31, 2024, Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, MD was the only 
Executive Director on the Board of the Company. The annual 
remuneration package of Mr. Sriram constitutes a fixed salary 
component including a basket of allowances/ reimbursements, 
a variable pay component and stock options from Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (“Crompton/ Holding 
Company”), as approved by the N&RC and Board of the 
Holding Company  from time to time. The variable pay of MD was 
paid annually which is determined by N&RC after factoring in the 
individual performance, i.e. KPIs achieved and the Company’s 
performance. There is no claw back provision in the remuneration 
paid to MD of the Company. In terms of applicables laws in India, 
there is no mandatory stock ownerships requirements for MD.
The Board of the Company on February 5, 2024, basis the 
recommendation of the N&RC approved the re-appointment of 
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram as the Managing Director for a further 
period of 2 (Two) years w.e.f. March 30, 2024, till March 29, 
2026. The aforementioned re-appointment was subsequently 
approved by the Members of the Company on March 30, 2024 
vide postal ballot.
Additionally, the Managing Director was entitled to grant 
of employee stock options under various Employee Stock 
Option Scheme(s) and performance share plans from the 
Holding Company.
The remuneration paid to Directors is in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and does not exceed the thresholds 
specified in the Act and in Regulation 17(6)(ca) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
None of the Directors of the Company have any pecuniary 
relationship with the Company apart from receiving remuneration.
In accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, no employee 
including KMP Director(s), Promoter of a listed entity, shall 
enter into any agreements for himself or on behalf of any other 
person, with any Member or any other third party with regard to 
compensation or profit sharing in connection with dealings in the 
securities of the Company, without prior approval from the Board 
as well as from Members by way of an ordinary resolution. No such 
instances were reported during the F.Y. ended March 31, 2024.
The details of the remuneration of Director(s) during the F.Y. 2023-24 is given below:
(H in Lakhs)
Name of the Directors
Salary and 
allowances
Variable pay*
Perquisite
ESOP
Sitting fees
Commission
Total
Executive Director
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
215.88
40.75
7.24
21.70
-
-
285.57
Non-Executive, Independent Director(s)
Mr. P M Murty
-
-
-
-
8.10
-
8.10
Ms. Smita Anand
-
-
-
-
7.80
-
7.80
Mr. M Padmanabhan
-
-
-
-
9.00
-
9.00
Mr. A Balasubramanian
-
-
-
-
7.80 
-
7.80
Mr. G S Samuel
-
-
-
-
8.10
-
8.10
Mr. T R Srinivasan
-
-
-
-
3.90
-
3.90
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan
-
-
-
-
3.60
-
3.60
*Variable Pay is for the F.Y. 2022-23 and paid in the F.Y. 2023-24.
Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”)
All RPTs entered into by the Company during the year with 
related parties were approved by the Audit Committee as well 
as by Board as and when required. The policy on related party 
transactions has been placed on the Company’s website and 
can be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/06/RPT-Policy_15.06.2022.pdf There have been 
no materially significant transactions with related parties that 
could potentially conflict with the interests of the Company as 
a whole. Throughout the review period, no material RPTs were 
proposed requiring approval from Members. Furthermore, in line 
with the SEBI Listing Regulations, no related party, regardless 
of involvement in the specific transaction, is permitted to vote to 
approve said transaction.
Vigil mechanism/ Whistle-Blower policy (“WB Policy”)
Your Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and stakeholder responsibility. The Company have 
a WB Policy to deal with instances of fraud and mismanagement, 
if any. The Policy ensures that strict confidentiality is maintained 
whilst dealing with concerns and ensures that no discrimination 
is made towards any person for a genuinely raised concern. No 
personnel have been denied access to the Audit Committee.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 177(9) of the Act 
and the Rules made thereunder and also Regulation 22 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, WB Policy of the Company is also 
available on the website of the Company and can be accessed 
at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/
Whistle-Blower-Policy_28092022.pdf
Code of Conduct (“COC”)
Your Company has a COC for Board and SMP that reflects its 
high standards of integrity and ethics. The Directors and SMP 
of the Company have affirmed their adherence to this COC 
for F.Y. 2023-24. As required under Regulation 34 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, Managing Director 
has signed a declaration stating that the Board and SMP of the 
Company have affirmed compliance with this Code of Conduct, 
which is annexed to this Report. This Code is available on the 
Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.
butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Code-of-
Conduct_2023.pdf
Compliance with mandatory/ non-mandatory 
requirements
Your Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to corporate governance 
as specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
Regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and has 
obtained a certificate from M/s. ASA & Associates LLP, Chartered 
Accountants, regarding compliance of conditions of corporate 
governance, which is annexed to this Report.
Fees to Statutory Auditors
M/s. ASA & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, were re-
appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 35th 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on July 14, 2022, for 
conducting audit for a period of 5 (Five) years, till the conclusion 
of the 40th AGM of the Company.
The details of the total fees to the Statutory Auditors are as follows:
(H in Lakhs)
Type of Service
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Audit Fees
22.00
22.00
Fees for Tax Audit
7.50
7.50
Other Services & Certifications
2.80
3.65
Total
32.30
33.15
89
Annual Report 2023-24
88
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Information on General Body Meetings
Details of last 3 (Three) Annual General Meetings (“AGMs”) and Extra Ordinary General Meeting(s) (“EGMs”):
Event
Financial 
Year
Venue/  
Deemed Venue
Mode
Day, Date & 
Time
Special Resolutions passed
36th AGM 2023-24
143, Pudupakkam 
Village Kelambakkam 
Chengalpattu District 
– 603 103
Through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ 
Other Audio Visual 
Means (“OAVM”)
July 19, 2023
No Special Resolution was passed
35th AGM 2022-23
143, Pudupakkam 
Village Kelambakkam 
Chengalpattu District 
– 603 103
Through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ 
Other Audio Visual 
Means (“OAVM”)
July 14, 2022
Alteration of Articles of Association of Company
34th AGM 2021-22
143, Pudupakkam 
Village Kelambakkam 
Chengalpattu District 
– 603 103
Through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ 
Other Audio Visual 
Means (“OAVM”)
July 29, 2021
i.	
Re-appointment of Mr. V M Gangadharam as the 
Whole Time Director of the Company.
ii.	 Re-appointment of Mr. V M Kumaresan as 
Executive Director – Technical of the Company.
iii.	 Approval to contribute to Bonafide Charitable 
and other Funds
Postal Ballot
During the F.Y. 2023-24, pursuant to Section 110 of the Act read with the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
the Company had passed the following resolution(s) through postal ballot:
Postal Ballot-1
Date of Postal Ballot Notice
November 18, 2023 
Voting Period
Wednesday, November 22, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) till
Thursday, December 21, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST)
Date of Declaration of Result
December 21, 2023
Date of Approval
December 21, 2023
Details of Voting Pattern
S. No
Particulars of the Resolution & type of Resolution
Votes cast in favour of the 
Resolution
Votes cast against the Resolution
Invalid votes
No.
%
No.
%
No.
1
Appointment of Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam 
(DIN:07625839) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Company - 
Ordinary Resolution
1,48,51,659
99.99
420
0.01
Nil
2
Appointment of Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar 
(DIN:10381096) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Company - 
Ordinary Resolution
1,48,51,692
99.99
422
0.01
Nil 
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala (ACS-24091), Partner, M/s. Mehta & Mehta, was appointed as the Scrutiniser for conducting Postal Ballot process 
(including e-voting) in a fair and transparent manner.
Postal Ballot-2
Date of Postal Ballot Notice
February 05, 2024
Voting Period
Friday, March 01, 2024 (9:00 a.m. IST) till
Saturday, March 30, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST)
Date of Declaration of Result
March 30, 2024
Date of Approval
March 30, 2024
Details of Voting Pattern
S. No
Particulars of the Resolution
Votes cast in favour of  
the resolution
Votes cast against  
the resolution
Invalid votes
No.
%
No.
%
No.
1
Re-appointment of Mr. Rangarajan Sriram (DIN:09550640) as 
the Managing Director of the Company - Special Resolution
1,45,51,003
99.99
362
0.003
Nil
2
Alteration of Object Clause of the Memorandum of Association - 
Special Resolution
1,45,50,841
99.99
519
0.004
Nil 
3
Amendment to Clause III (B) of the Memorandum of Association 
of the Company - Special Resolution
1,45,50,818
99.99
520
0.004
Nil
Ms. Shikha Purohit, (FCS-9180), Proprietor, M/s. Shikha Purohit 
& Company, Company Secretaries, was appointed as the 
Scrutinizer for conducting Postal Ballot process (including 
e-voting) in a fair and transparent manner.
Procedure for postal ballot
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, Sections 108, 110 and other applicable 
provisions of the Act read with the Rules issued thereunder 
and the General Circulars issued in this regard by the MCA, 
the Company provided e-Voting facility to all its members.
The Company engaged the services of NSDL for the purpose 
of providing e-Voting facility to all its Members. The Postal 
Ballot Notice was sent to the Members in electronic form 
at their email addresses registered with the depositories/ 
Company’s RTA.
Further, pursuant to the MCA Circulars, the Company had also 
published a public notice in the newspaper for all the Members 
to update their email addresses and mobile numbers with the 
depositories prior to the circulation of postal ballot notice.
The Notice of Postal Ballot was sent in electronic mode only to all 
those Members who had registered their e-mail addresses with 
the Company or Depository Participant/ Depository/ M/s. GNSA 
Infotech Private Limited (“RTA”). Further, the Members had the 
option to vote only through remote e-Voting and voting through 
physical ballot papers was not provided.
The Company had also published a notice in the newspaper 
declaring the details and requirements for postal ballot as 
mandated by the Act and applicable rules post circulation of 
postal ballot notice to all the Members. Voting right(s) were 
reckoned on the paid-up value of shares registered in the name 
of the Member as on the cut-off date. The scrutiniser completed 
their scrutiny and submitted the report to the Chairman/ MD and 
the consolidated results of the voting were announced by the 
Chairman/ Authorised Officer. The results were also displayed 
on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.
butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/#postal_ballot besides 
being communicated to the Stock Exchanges, Depositories 
and RTA.
No Special Resolution is proposed to be passed through Postal 
Ballot as on the date of this Annual Report.
Means of communication to the Members
a)	 Financial results
	
i.	
The quarterly unaudited financial results and the 
annual audited financial results of the Company, in 
the prescribed proforma, are taken on record by the 
Board and are submitted to the Stock Exchanges in a 
timely manner.
	
ii.	
The results are normally published in Trinity Mirror, 
(English Daily) and Makkal Kural (Tamil Daily) within 
48 (Forty-Eight) hours of the conclusion of the 
meeting of the Board in which they were approved.
	
iii.	
The Company also hosts the results on its website 
with a detailed information update and media release 
discussing the results. The results are displayed on the 
Company’s website at https://www.butterflyindia.com/
investor-relations/
b)	 News/ events/ presentations
	
All the official news releases are disseminated on the 
Company’s website whenever necessary at https://www.
butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/
c)	 Annual Report
	
Members have been provided with an opportunity to 
provide their e-mail ID for receiving correspondence, 
financial results and Annual Report in electronic form. 
The Annual Report has been sent in electronic form to 
the Members who have provided their e-mail ID. Physical 
copies of the Annual Report have been issued to those 
Members who have specifically requested for the same.
	
Annual Report is also posted on the Company’s web site 
and can be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/
investor-relations/ and also on the website of the BSE 
Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (“NSE”).
91
Annual Report 2023-24
90
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
d)	 Investors
	
SEBI processes investor complaints in a centralised web 
based complaints redressal system i.e. SCORES. Through 
this system a Member can lodge a complaint against the 
Company for redressal of their grievance. The Company 
uploads the action taken report on the complaint which can 
be viewed by the Member. The Company and Member can 
seek and provide clarifications online through SEBI.
e)	 Board of Directors
	
Your Company continues to use a digital platform for 
sharing the information with the Directors and maintains 
a seamless and safe flow of information between the 
Management and the Board. While being secure and user 
friendly, it is also a quick and efficient means for sharing 
updates with the Board in an environment friendly manner.
General shareholder information
37th Annual General Meeting
(a) Date
July 19, 2024
Day
Friday
Time
3:00 p.m.
Venues
The Annual General meeting will be held through Video Conferencing (“VC”) 
/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”).
The Registered Office i.e. 143, Pudupakkam Village, Kelambakkam 
Chengalpattu District – 603 103, shall be deemed to venue of the AGM. 
(b) Particulars of financial calendar of the Company
Financial Year
April 01, 2024, to March 31, 2025
First Quarter Results
On or before August 14, 2024 
Unaudited Second Quarter Results
On or before November 14, 2024
Unaudited Third Quarter Results
On or before February 14, 2025
Last Quarter Results and Annual Audited Results
On or before May 30, 2025
Date of Book Closure
Not Applicable
Date of remote e-Voting
Monday, July 15, 2024, (From 9:00 a.m.) to  
Thursday, July 18, 2024, (Till 5:00 p.m.)
(c) Dividend payment date
Not Applicable
(d) Name and address of Stock Exchanges where the Company’s shares are listed and confirmation of payment of annual 
listing fees
NSE
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai - 400 051
BSE
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001
The Company has paid the Annual Listing fees to both the Stock Exchanges for the Financial Year 2023-24 and 2024-25 where 
the Company’s securities are listed
(e) Stock code
BSE
517421
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN)
INE295F01017 (NSDL & CDSL)
Symbol
BUTTERFLY
Share transfer system
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, securities can be transferred only in dematerialised form 
w.e.f. April 01, 2019, including in case of transmission or transposition of securities w.e.f. January 25, 2022. All share transfers and 
other share related issues are processed by the RTA of the Company. 
Shareholding as on March 31, 2024
(i)	 Shareholding pattern as on March 31, 2024
 
Category
No. of shares held
% of Shareholding
A
Promoter’s holding
1,34,09,663
75.00
B
Non-Promoters Holding
0
0.00
1
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
 
i.	
Foreign Portfolio Investor
206
0.00
ii.	 Mutual Funds/ UTI
11,31,390
6.33
iii.	 Financial Institutions/ Banks
0
0.00
iv.	 Alternative Investment fund
0
0.00
v.	
Others
0
0.00
2
CENTRAL/ STATE GOVERNMENTS
0 
0
3
NON-INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
 
 
i.	
Bodies Corporate
3,21,349
1.80
ii.	 Indian Public
26,54,857
14.85
iii.	 NRIs
63,469
0.35
iv.	 Clearing Members
283
0.00
v.	
Clearing House
351
0.00
 
vi.	 Trust
0
0.00
 
vii.	 IEPF
2,97,583
1.66
 
Viii.	Unclaimed Suspense account
400
0.00
GRAND TOTAL
1,78,79,551
100
(ii)	 Distribution of shareholding as on March 31, 2024
Number of Shares held
No. of Members
% of Members
No. of Shares
% of Shareholding
1 to 500
15,939
97.58
8,42,552
4.71
501 to 1,000
230
1.41
17,57,68
0.98
1,001 to 2,000
61
0.37
85,619
0.48
2,001 to 3,000
29
0.18
73,672
0.41
3,001 to 4,000
16
0.10
55,786
0.31
4,001 to 5,000
7
0.04
32,327
0.18
5,001 to 10,000
20
0.12
1,31,118
0.73
Above 10,000
33
0.20
1,64,82,709
92.19
Total
16,335
100.00
1,78,79,551
100.00
Registrars and share transfer agent and address 
for correspondence
For any queries/ complaints relating to the securities of the 
Company, correspondence may please be addressed to 
M/s. GNSA Infotech Private Limited at:
Nelson Chambers, 4th Floor, F Block, No.115, Nelson Manickam 
Road, Aminjikarai, Chennai – 600 029
T: 044-42962025
E-mail: sta@gnsaindia.com
Website: www.gnsaindia.com
Contact Person: Mr. R Balasubramanian
Designation: Assistant Manager- STA Functions
SEBI Registration: INR200003967
For the benefit of Members, documents will continue to be 
accepted at the Registered Office of the Company at
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Address: No. 143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur – Kelambakkam 
Road, Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu District – 603103
T: 044-49005154
E-mail: butterfly.investorrelations@butterflyindia.com
Website: www.butterflyindia.com
Members are requested to quote their Folio No./ DP ID & Client 
ID, e-mail address, if any, telephone number and full address 
while corresponding with the Company and its RTA.
93
Annual Report 2023-24
92
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Butterfly Share Price on BSE vis-à-vis BSE Sensex April, 2023 – March, 2024
Month
S&P BSE
High Price (in J)
Low Price (in J)
Close (in J)
Turnover (J in Crore) 
No. of shares traded 
during the month
Apr 2023
61,112.44
1,230.05
1,084.25
1,097.65
0.74
6,463
May 2023
62,622.24
1,185.00
980.65
1,112.35
1.92
17,559
Jun 2023
64,718.56
1,220.80
1,108.45
1,138.45
1.22
10,570
Jul 2023
66,527.67
1,262.15
1,120.05
1,175.75
1.96
16,624
Aug 2023
64,831.41
1,290.85
1,150.00
1,209.80
2.30
19,032
Sep 2023
65,828.41
1,299.90
1,170.05
1,265.05
1.02
8,271
Oct 2023
63,874.93
1,276.30
1,070.85
1,088.10
1.30
11,137
Nov 2023
66,988.44
1,194.95
1,004.90
1,022.00
1.02
9,566
Dec 2023
72,240.26
1,085.00
1,003.40
1,040.35
1.49
14,348
Jan 2024
71,752.11
1,130.50
979.85
984.70
1.97
18,960
Feb 2024
72,500.30
999.60
873.25
891.60
2.48
26,956
Mar 2024
73,651.35
917.85
756.80
764.05
1.49
18,252
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the BSE Sensex is given in the chart below
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
BSE Closing Price (J)
20000
400
30000
600
40000
800
50000
60000
1000
70000
1200
80000
1400
10000
200
0
0
S&P BSE
Butterfly on BSE 
Sensex Points
Butterfly’s Share Price on NSE vis-à-vis NSE Nifty 500 April, 2023 – March, 2024
Month
NSE Nifty 500 Close
High Price (in J)
Low Price (in J)
Close (in J)
Total Traded Quantity
Turnover (J in Crore) 
Apr 2023
15,219.55
1,252.10
1,089.95
1,097.45
10,026
20.36
May 2023
15,766.4
1,190.1
977.55
1,117.6
20,649
31.87
Jun 2023
16,430
1,216.95
1,106.4
1,135.5
21,154
22.67
Jul 2023
17,059
1,247.1
1127
1,176.7
37,706
28.38
Aug 2023
16,924.3
1,297.95
1,150.35
1,212.3
40,133
37.55
Sep 2023
17,292.6
1,308.4
1,186.95
1,266.3
29,238
30.73
Oct 2023
16,801.1
1,287
1,077.15
1,085.4
20,988
18.98
Nov 2023
17,987.95
1,114.95
1010
1,020.5
18,026
11.74
Dec 2023
19,429.15
1,059
1,004.5
1,039.95
18,861
11.64
Jan 2024
19,802.1
1,134.2
979.95
983.35
30,057
24.70
Feb 2024
20,090.05
1,000
864.95
898.65
29,618
23.75
Mar 2024
20,255.15
920
756
762.95
20,193
14.29
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the NSE Nifty 500 Index is given in the chart below
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
NSE Closing Price (J)
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
0
1,400.00
1,200.00
1,000.00
800.00
600.00
400.00
200.00
0
Nifty
Butterfly on NSE 
Nifty Points
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity
As on March 31, 2024, 98.81% of the total shares of your Company representing 1,76,67,410 equity shares were held in dematerialised form.
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion dates and likely impact 
on equity
No such instruments have been issued by the Company.
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
Your Company actively monitors the foreign exchange movements and takes forward/ options covers as appropriate to reduce the 
risks associated with transactions in foreign currencies.
Your Company also undertakes short-term commodity hedging activities to prevent future adverse price movement.
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018, 
is not applicable.
Plant locations of the Company
The Company as on the date of report has 2 (Two) Plants located in the state of Tamil Nadu for operations of its Business. The 
details of the plant locations are as follows:
S. No
Area
Address
1
Pudupakkam
143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road, Kelambakkam - 603 103 Chengalpattu District,  
Tamil Nadu
2
Mambakkam
26, Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road, Mambakkam, Chennai – 600 048
Address for correspondence
All communication regarding share transactions, change of address, bank mandates, nominations etc. should be addressed to the 
RTA and to the Registered Office of the Company at the following addresses:
Registered Office Address
RTA
M/s. Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
143, Pudupakkam Village Kelambakkam Road, Kelambakkam, 
District – 603 103
E-mail: butterfly.investorrelations@butterflyindia.com
Website: https://www.butterflyindia.com/
T: 044-49005154 
M/s. GNSA Infotech private Limited,
STA Department, Nelson Chambers, 4th Floor, F-Block, No.115, 
Nelson Manickam Road, Aminjikarai, Chennai – 600 029
E-mail: sta@gnsaindia.com
Website: www.gnsaindia.com
T: 044-42962025
95
Annual Report 2023-24
94
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Persons, Connected Persons and their immediate relatives, while 
in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation 
to the Company and during the period(s) when the Trading 
Window to deal in the Company’s share is closed.
Pursuant to the above, the Company has put in place adequate 
and effective system of internal controls to ensure compliance 
with the requirements of the PIT Regulations.
A structured digital database of the entire designated employees 
is being digitally maintained by the Company on its internal 
server. These contain the names and other particulars as 
prescribed of the persons covered under the Codes drawn up 
pursuant to the PIT Regulations.
The Company Secretary has been appointed as the Compliance 
Officer to ensure the implementation of the Code for fair 
disclosure and conduct.
The Board of Directors, Designated Persons and other Connected 
Persons affirmed compliance with the Code. The code of the 
Company can be accessed at https://www.butterflyindia.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/03/Code-of-Conduct-10.02.2022.pdf
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
This is given separately, which forms part of the Annual Report.
Details of utilisation of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations
The Company has not raised funds through preferential allotment 
or qualified institutions placement during the Financial Year 
under review.
Certificate from Company Secretary in practice
The Certificate, as mandated under Part C of Schedule V of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been obtained from M/s. M. 
Alagar & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries. This 
certificate confirms that none of the Directors on the Board of 
the Company were debarred or disqualified for the Financial 
Year ending on March 31, 2024, from serving or continuing as 
Directors of the Company by SEBI/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
or any relevant statutory authority. It was presented before the 
Board during their meeting on May 14, 2024, and is enclosed 
with this Annual Report.
Disclosure of certain types of agreements 
binding listed entities
The Company has not entered into any agreements with any 
Companies or third parties that are binding on the Company 
during the F.Y. under review.
Unclaimed Dividends
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Act and Investor Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended (“IEPF 
Rules”), all unclaimed/ unpaid dividend remaining unpaid or 
unclaimed for a period of 7 (Seven) years from the date it is 
transferred to unpaid dividend account/ they become due 
for payment, are required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) administered by the 
Central Government.
Further, pursuant to Section 124 of the Act read with the IEPF 
Rules, all equity shares, in respect of which dividend has not 
been paid or claimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more 
from the date of declaration, are also required to be transferred 
to an account, viz. IEPF Suspense Account, which is operated 
by the IEPF Authority pursuant to the IEPF Rules. Further, all 
equity shares of the Company on which dividend has not been 
paid or claimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more, shall 
be transferred by the company to the IEPF from time to time.
During the Financial Year 2023-24, unclaimed dividend for the 
Financial Year 2015-16 aggregating I5,82,689/- (Rupees Five 
Lakhs Eighty Two Thousand Six Hundred and Eighty Nine 
Only) and 2,97,583 (Two Lakh Ninety Seven Thousand Five 
Hundred and Eighty Three) unclaimed equity shares in respect 
of which dividend entitlements remained unclaimed for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years, were transferred by the Company to the IEPF 
established by the Central Government in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 124 of the Act read with the IEPF Rules.
Members may claim their unclaimed dividend for the years prior 
to and including the F.Y. 2014-15 and the shares from the IEPF 
Authority by applying in the prescribed Form No. IEPF-5. This 
Form can be accessed on the website of the IEPF Authority at 
https://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/corporates.html
The statutory timelines for claiming unclaimed and unpaid 
dividends declared by the Company for the F.Y. ended March 
31, 2017, and thereafter is provided as under:
Financial 
Year
Date of declaration of dividend Statutory timeline for claiming 
unpaid/ unclaimed dividend
2016-17
No Dividend was declared
Not Applicable
2017-18
No Dividend was declared
Not Applicable
2018-19
No Dividend was declared
Not Applicable
2019-20
No Dividend was declared
Not Applicable
2020-21 
(Interim)
November 11, 2020
December 16, 2027
2020-21 
(Interim)
March 2, 2021
April 7, 2028
2021-22 
(Interim)
November 2, 2021
December 7, 2028
Cyber security incidents or breaches and loss of 
data/ documents
In the rapidly evolving landscape of technology, it has become 
imperative for every organization to embrace digitalisation and 
newer technologies to remain competitive, agile, and facilitate 
ease of doing business. In alignment with this imperative, 
our Company has proactively adopted and implemented 
digitalisation and advanced technologies across various facets of 
its operations. By integrating these innovations into our business 
processes, we aim to enhance efficiency, responsiveness, and 
overall effectiveness, thereby positioning ourselves strategically 
in today’s dynamic market environment.
Credit Rating
CRISIL Ratings Limited, (“CRISIL”) has provided the Company’s 
credit rating for its bank facilities as follows:
Long-Term Rating
CRISIL AA/ Stable
Short-Term Rating
CRISIL A1+
Disclosures
Disclosures on materially significant related party 
transactions that may have potential conflict with 
the interest of the company at large
During the year under review, there were no materially significant 
RPTs that may have potential conflict with the interest of the 
Company at large.
Disclosure of non-compliance of any requirement 
of Report on Corporate Governance
The Company has complied with and disclosed all the mandatory 
corporate governance requirements mentioned under sub-para 
(2) to (10) of Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
firms/ companies in which Directors are interested 
disclosure relating to adoption of discretionary 
requirements
No Loans and Advances in the nature of loans to firms/ 
companies in which Directors are interested were given during 
the Financial Year.
Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity, 
including the date and place of incorporation and 
the name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiaries
Company does not have any subsidiary and hence reporting 
under this section is not applicable.
Directors and Officers Insurance (“D&O”)
In line with the requirements of Regulation 25(10) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Company has taken D&O for all its 
Directors and KMPs for quantum and risks as determined by 
the Board of the Company.
Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer 
Certification
The Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer’s annual 
certificate on financial reports and internal controls to the Board 
in terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
forms part of this Annual Report. The Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer also jointly issue a quarterly compliance 
certificate on financial results and place the same before the 
Board in terms of Regulation 33(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Other Disclosures
The Board: The Chairman of the Company is Non-Executive 
Independent Director.
Members Right: Financial results are published in one English 
and one Vernacular Newspaper and also posted on the website 
of the Company at https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-
relations/ and on the Stock Exchanges where the Company 
is listed.
Modified Opinionin Audit Report: The auditors have issued an 
unmodified opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditor reports to 
the Audit Committee.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the 
stock exchanges, SEBI and other statutory authorities on all 
matters related to capital markets during the last three years 
and accordingly no penalties or strictures were imposed 
on the Company by the stock exchanges, SEBI or any other 
statutory authority.
The securities of the Company were not suspended from trading 
at any time during the F.Y..
Details of non-compliance by the Company, 
penalties and strictures imposed on the Company 
by Stock Exchanges, Securities Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”) or any other Statutory Authorities 
on any matter related to capital markets, during 
the last three years
There was no non-compliance by the Company, penalties or 
strictures imposed on the Company by Stock Exchange(s), SEBI, 
or any other Statutory Authority or any matters relating to capital 
market during the last 3 (Three) Financial Years.
Details 
of 
compliances 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements of the clause
All the applicable mandatory requirements of corporate 
governance norms as enumerated under Schedule II to the SEBI 
Listing Regulations were complied with.
Web-link where policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiaries is disclosed
The Company has no subsidiary.
Web-link for policy on dealing with RPTs
The Company’s policy for dealing with RPTs can be viewed 
at its website at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/06/RPT-Policy_15.06.2022.pdf
Policy for prohibition of insider trading
Pursuant to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 (“PIT Regulations”), the Company has formulated the “Code 
of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading” and “Code of 
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information”, which allows the formulation of 
a trading plan subject to certain conditions and requires pre-
clearance for dealing in Company’s shares. It also prohibits 
dealings in the Company’s shares to Directors, Designated 
97
Annual Report 2023-24
96
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
In line with adoption of technology, there always subsist a risk, 
which is called a Cyber Risk, being one of the key risks, Company 
is focused on maintaining a positive cybersecurity culture within 
the organization, thus making cybersecurity a sustainable and 
repeatable process throughout the organization.
In the past year(s), while our employees operated efficiently as 
a remote and hybrid workforce, we continued to remain vigilant 
about the evolving cyber security threat landscape.
To continue to have robust cyber security processes, the team 
has remained abreast of emerging cyber security events so as 
to achieve higher and continued sustenance.
During the year under review, there was no incident or breach 
and loss of data/ documents have occurred.
Disclosure on Compliance with Corporate 
Governance requirements
The Company has complied with all the requirements of 
Corporate Governance specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, wherever applicable.
Disclosure of Accounting treatment
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (“IndAS”) 
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended by the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2016.
Disclosure in relation to Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”)
Your Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committee 
(“ICC”) to consider and resolve all sexual harassment complaints. 
The constitution of ICC is as per the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, and the Committee includes an external member who 
is an independent POSH consultant with relevant experience.
Details of sexual harassment complaints for the year ended March 
31, 2024, as required under Section 22 of the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, and the SEBI Listing Regulations are furnished:
S. 
No. Particulars
No of 
Complaints
1.
Number of Complaints filed during the year
Nil
2.
Number of Complaints Disposed during the year 
Nil
3.
Number of Complaints pending during the year 
Nil
Report on Corporate Governance
This Chapter read together with the “Annexure to Corporate 
Governance” constitutes the Compliance Report on Corporate 
Governance for the F.Y. 2023-24.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
P M Murty
Place: Chennai
Chairman
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:00011179
To
The Members 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Butterfly 
Gandhimathi Appliances Limited having CIN: L28931TN1986PLC012728 and having its registered office at 143, Pudupakkam 
Village, Kelambakkam, Kancheepuram Dist – 603103 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the 
Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub 
clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal http://www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, 
we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 
March 31, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority;
S. No
Name 
DIN
Designation
Date of appointment 
1
Mr. Pangulury Mohan Murty
00011179
Chairperson (Non-Executive  
& Independent Director)
01.04.2022
2
Mr. Sriram Rangarajan
09550640
Managing Director (Executive  
& Non-Independent)
30.03.2022
3
Mr. Shantanu Maharaj Khosla
00059877
Non-Executive & Non 
Independent Director
30.03.2022
4
Mr. Meleveettil Padmanabhan
00101997
Independent Director
30.01.1999
(Re-appointment 01.08.2019)
5
Mr. Srinivasan Tanjore Ramamurthy
00367302
Independent Director
01.06.2013
(Re-appointment 01.08.2019)
6
Mr. A Balasubramanian
00490921
Independent Director
14.11.2011
(Re-appointment 01.08.2019)
7
Mr. Gnanasekar Sukumar Samuel
05284689
Independent Director
11.05.2012
(Re-appointment 01.08.2019)
8
Ms. Sunder Maheswari Mohan
07156606
Independent Director
31.03.2015
(Re-appointment 21.08.2020)
9
Ms. Smita Anand
00059228
Independent Director
01.04.2022
10
Mr. Promeet Ghosh*
05307658
Non-Executive & Non-
Independent Director
12.05.2023
11
Mr. Mathew Job#
02922413
Non-Executive - Non 
Independent Director
30.03.2022
(Resignation w.e.f 30.04.2023)
12
Mr. Kaleelswaran Arunachalam*
07625839
Non-Executive & Non 
Independent Director
09.11.2023
13
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar*
10381096
Non-Executive & Non 
Independent Director
09.11.2023
#Mr. Mathew Job has resigned from the post of Non-Executive - Non Independent Director with effect from 30.04.2023
*Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as Non-Executive & Non Independent Director with effect from 12.05.2023 and Mr. Kaleelswaran Arunachalam 
and Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar was appointed as Non-Executive & Non Independent Director with effect from 09.11.2023
Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For M. Alagar & Associates 
Practising Company Secretaries
Peer Review Certificate No:1707/2022
M. Alagar
Managing Partner
FCS No. 7488
Place: Chennai
CoP No. 8196
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: F007488F000377231
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
99
Annual Report 2023-24
98
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Declaration of Compliance with Code of Conduct Under SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
In accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, I hereby confirm 
that all the Directors and Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct, as 
applicable to them, for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
Rangarajan Sriram
Place: Chennai
Managing Director
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:09550640
To, 
The Board of Directors, 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
Chennai
A.	 We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 
31, 2024 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
(1)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading; 
	
(2)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	 There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company 
during the year ended March 31, 2024 which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s 
Code of Conduct.
C.	 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting 
and that we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company 
pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee, 
improvement in the design or operation of such internal controls of which we are aware and the 
steps we have taken or propose to take for such improvement.
D.	 We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee that:
	
(1)	
There is no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year ended March 31, 2024;
	
(2)	
There is no significant changes in accounting policies during the year March 31, 2024, and they are in compliance with 
Ind AS excepting those disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and 
	
(3)	
There were no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, of the 
management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting. 

Rangarajan Sriram
V A Joseph
Managing Director
Chief Financial Officer
Date: May 14, 2024
Place: Chennai
Compliance Certificate Under Regulation 17(8) of Part B of Schedule-II
of SEBI (LODR) Regulation 2015
101
Annual Report 2023-24
100
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Restriction of Use
The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable the Company to comply 
with the requirement of the aforesaid Regulations and may not be suitable for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept 
or assume any liability or any duty of care or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands 
it may come without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and circumstances 
occurring after the date of this report.
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 009571N/N500006
G N Ramaswami
Partner
Place: Chennai
Membership No. 202363
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN:24202363BKEYVW4130
To the Members of 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement with Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“the 
Company”). We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Company, for the year ended on 
March 31, 2024 as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and E of Schedule 
V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing Regulations”).
Managements’ Responsibility
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. This responsibility includes 
preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents, the design, implementation and maintenance 
of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in 
Listing Regulations.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring 
compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable 
assurance whether the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Listing Regulations 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
We conducted our examination of the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification 
of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the ICAI), the Standards on Auditing 
specified under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act 2013, in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per 
the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the 
ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the 
Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, 
and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us and the 
representations provided by the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and para C, D and E of Schedule 
V of the Listing Regulations during the year ended March 31, 2024.
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Auditors’ Certificate on Compliance of Conditions of Corporate 
Governance under Schedule (E) to the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
103
Annual Report 2023-24
102
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
4.	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company
	
There were 1217 permanent employees on the rolls of Company as on March 31, 2024.
5.	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the 
managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional 
circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
Average percentile increase made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the F.Y. i.e., 2023-24 
was 7.80 % whereas the increase in managerial remuneration for the last F.Y. 2023-24 was 16% (Calculated as per Weighted 
Average).
	
The remuneration of IDs consists of sitting fees. While deciding the remuneration, various factors such as Director’s 
participation in Board and Committee Meetings during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as Membership or 
Chairmanship of Committees etc., were taken into consideration.
6.	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company.
	
“Median” means the numerical value separating the higher half of a population from the lower half and the median of a finite 
list of numbers may be found by arranging all the observations from lowest value to highest value and picking the middle 
one. If there is an even number of observations, the median shall be the average of the two middle values.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
P M Murty
Place: Chennai
Chairman
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:00011179
1.	 The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of 
the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company during Financial Year 2023-24 was H 3,96,588 (Rupees Three Lakh 
Ninety Eight Thousand Three Hundred and Sixty Four Only) and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median 
remuneration of the employees of the Company for the F.Y. 2023-24 is provided in the table below:
Sl.
No.
Name of Director(s)
Category
Increase/ Decrease in 
Remuneration in F.Y. 2023-24
Ratio of remuneration to the 
median remuneration of the 
Company’s employees
1
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
Managing Director*
59.85
67.75
2
Mr. P M Murty
Independent Director^
(159.17)
2.04
3
Ms. Smita Anand
Independent Director^
(160.95)
1.97
4
Mr. A Balasubramanian
Independent Director^
(122.83)
1.97
5
Mr. M Padmanabhan
Independent Director^
(105.50)
2.27
6
Mr. G S Samuel
Independent Director^
(106.12)
2.04
7
Mr. T R Srinivasan
Independent Director^
(281.93)
0.98
8
Ms. Maheswari Mohan
Independent Director^
(263.76)
0.91
	
*The remuneration for F.Y. 2023-24 includes fixed pay, variable pay and excluding perquisite value on exercise of Stock options whereas for 
remuneration for F.Y. 2022-23 includes only fixed pay.
	
^The decrease in the remuneration of Independent Directors in F.Y. 2023-24 is because the remuneration of F.Y. 2023-24 consists of sitting 
fees only, whereas the remuneration paid for F.Y. 2022-23 consists of sitting fees and commission.
2.	 The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO), Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the Financial Year
	
The percentage increase/ decrease in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in F.Y. 2023-24 is provided in the table below:
Sl. No.
Name of Director(s)
Category
Increase/ Decrease in Remuneration in F.Y. 2023-24
1
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram^
Managing Director
59.85%
2
Ms. B Ananda Shalini*
Chief Financial Officer
Not Applicable
3
Mr. V A Joseph**
Chief Financial Officer 
Not Applicable
4
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya#
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer Not Applicable
	
^The remuneration for F.Y. 2023-24 includes fixed pay, variable pay and excluding perquisite value on exercise of Stock options whereas for 
remuneration for F.Y. 2022-23 includes only fixed pay.
	
*Appointed w.e.f. April 6, 2023, and resigned w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
	
**Appointed w.e.f. November 9, 2023.
	
#Appointed w.e.f. March 25, 2023.
3.	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the Financial Year 
	
In the F.Y. 2023-24, there was an increase of 21.17% in the median remuneration of employees.
Annexure – 6
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 
197(12) read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Amendment Rules, 2014
105
Annual Report 2023-24
104
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
(iii)	 Imported technology - Nil
	
	
(a)	
The details of technology imported - No technology has been imported
	
	
(b)	
The year of import - Not Applicable
	
	
(c)	
Whether the technology been fully absorbed - Not Applicable
	
	
(d)	
If not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof - Not Applicable
	
(iv)	 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development.
 (H in Lakhs)
S. No
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
1.
Capital
323.92
44.18
2.
Recurring
152.89
345.22
Total
 476.81
 389.40 
(C)	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
 (H in Lakhs)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Foreign exchange earnings
1,683.68
1,691.27
Foreign exchange outgo
3,906.39
3,894.30
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
P M Murty
Place: Chennai
Chairman
Date: May 14, 2024
DIN:00011179
(A)	 Conservation of energy 
	
The Company has a well-organized, structured, and continuous focus on improvement in efficiency of the machine, utility, 
and infrastructure. Some of the key initiatives for conserving energy saving during the Financial Year 2023-24 were:
	
i.	
Implementation of timer cut-off for machine running, preventing idle running time and conserving power across 
30 (Thirty) Machines;
	
ii.	
Introduction of timer for granular crushing machine in IMM, leading to a daily energy saving of 200 (Two Hundred) units;
	
iii.	
Initiation of motion sensor implementation in conference rooms and restrooms to optimize energy usage ;
	
iv.	
Rerating of motor horsepower for well motor and cooling tower pumping, resulting in a daily energy saving of 200 
(Two Hundred) units;
	
v.	
Adoption of energy-efficient lights in MG Assembly, reducing power consumption from 7080W to 4050W per shift, 
resulting in a saving of 25 (Twenty - Five) units;
	
vi.	
Installation of 1 solar streetlight, with plans for further implementation in the coming year; and
	
vii.	
Introduction of thermal-efficient LPG stoves in Sakthi series models, saving one LPG cylinder per year and improving 
thermal efficiency from 68% to 74%.
(B)	 Technology Absorption
	
(i)	 The efforts made towards technology absorption
	
	
Regular initiatives were taken in updating the technology in the process area. Some of the areas of technology focus 
and initiatives were:
	
	
i.	
Implementation of LASER cutting machine for pressure cooker and MG jar circle cutting, reducing human fatigue 
and enhancing Safety;
	
	
ii.	
Introduction of Hydraulic press with transfer mechanism for pressure cooker forming process, leading to increased; 
productivity improvement and safety;
	
	
iii.	
Introduction multi folding device for pressure cooker Lid Folding improving productivity and safety;
	
	
iv.	
Introduced pressure cooker Lid Trimming machine and eliminate lathe trimming and enhancing Safety;
	
	
v.	
Adoption of Auto Trimming and Beading machine for MG jar, replacing Manual operation;
	
	
vi.	
Implementation of MG Jar indexing mechanism for Spot welding process, enhancing Safety;
	
	
vii.	
Reduction of workstations by introducing combination piercing tool for pressure cooker lid. Combining 3 (Three) 
operations into one tool for improved productivity and safety;
	
	
viii.	 Development of tooling for 750ml Jar deep drawing to eliminate spinning process, reducing workstations; and
	
	
ix.	
Introduction of Auto ejecting Bulging tool for pressure cooker bottom, improving Safety.
	
(ii)	 The benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution
	
	
i.	
Ensuring effective governance and traceability of product data is crucial for any company. To achieve this, our 
Company has implemented a robust system and process for managing product data;
	
	
ii.	
The Company has proactively implemented EHS measures within its corporate office. By prioritising EHS in our 
corporate office, we not only protect the well-being of our employees but also minimise our environmental footprint 
and contribute to the overall sustainability of our operations; and
	
	
iii.	
We have also embraced new technologies such as connectivity, Internet of Things (IoT), and data analytics to align 
with changing consumer trends.
Annexure – 7
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and  
Foreign Exchange Outgo
107
Annual Report 2023-24
106
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L28931TN1986PLC012728
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
1986
4.
Registered office address
143, Pudupakkam – Village, Vandalur – 
Kelambakkam Road, Kelambakkam, 
Chengalpattu District – 603103.
5.
Corporate address
E-34, 2nd Floor, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, 
Egattur, Village, Navalur, Chengalpattu 
District – 600130.
6.
E-mail
cs@butterflyindia.com
7.
Telephone
044-47415500
8.
Website
www.butterflyindia.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2023-24
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited 
National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited
11. Paid-up Capital
I17,87,95,510
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person  
who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report
Ms. Swetha Sagar G 
Chief Business Officer
Email Id: cs@butterflyindia.com
Tel No: 044-47415501
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis 
(i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken together)
Standalone
14. Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15. Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	 Products/ services
	
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No. Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Kitchen Appliances & Domestic 
Electrical Appliances 
Manufacturing
100%
	
17.	 Products/ Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No. Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Kitchen Appliances
47593
73.99%
2
Other Domestic Electrical Appliances
29309
26.01%
III.	 Operations
	
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/ or operations/ offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
2
35 (Branches 26 + Corporate Office 1 + Sales Office 8)
37
International
NIL
NIL
NIL
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
	
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
11
International (No. of Countries)
19
	
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
The contribution of exports to the total turnover is 2%.
	
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers:
	
	
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited is one of the leading manufacturers of domestic kitchen and electrical 
appliances in India and sells wide range of products that includes LPG Stoves, Mixer Grinders, Table-Top Wet Grinders, 
Pressure Cookers, Stainless Steel Vacuum Flasks and Non-Stick Cookware. Other products comprises of Juicers, 
Hand Blenders, Electric Irons, Power Hobs, Electric Rice Cookers, Electric Water Kettle, Fans. A strong distribution and 
channel network, and a dynamic on-line platform enables the Company to serve a diverse consumer base in India and 
International Market. 
	
	
	
A mix of Distributors, Retailers, Institutional Buyers and Large Format Stores.
IV.	 Employees
	
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year, i.e. March 31, 2024:
	
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
662
627
94.71%
35
5.29%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0%
0
0%
3.
Total employees (D + E)
662
627
94.71%
35
5.29%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
555
308
55.50%
247
44.50%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
697
300
43.04%
397
56.96%
6.
Total workers (F + G)
1252
608
48.56%
644
51.44%
	
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
5.
Other than permanent (G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
6.
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
109
Annual Report 2023-24
108
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
21.	 Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of women:
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
Board of Directors
12*
2
16.67%
Key Management Personnel
3# 
0 
0.00%
	
	
*Mr. Mathew Job resigned w.e.f. April 30, 2023, Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f. May 12, 
2023, Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam & Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar were appointed as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f. 
November 9, 2023. Mr. Kunnawalkam Elayavalli Ranganathan was appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. April 4, 2024.
	
	
As on the date of Report, there are 13 (Thirteen) Directors on the Board of the Company.
	
	
#During the year under review, Mr. R Nagarajan resigned as the Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. April 5, 2023; Ms. B Ananda Shalini was 
appointed as the Chief Financial Officer w.e.f April 6, 2023 and she resigned from the position w.e.f. October 20, 2023. Mr. V A Joseph was 
appointed as the Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. November 9, 2023.
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years):
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
12.82%
1.41%
14.23%
10.85%
0.68%
11.53%
9.94%
0.91%
10.85%
Permanent Workers
6.25%
1.02%
7.27%
2.03%
1.66%
3.69%
3.72%
1.06%
4.78%
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures):
	
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures:
S. No. Name 
of 
the 
holding/ 
subsidiary/ 
associate companies/ joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/
Joint Venture
% of shares held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at column A, 
participate in the business responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/ No)
1
Crompton 
Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals Limited (“Crompton”)
Holding Company
75%
No
VI.	 Corporate Social Responsibity (“CSR”) Details:
	
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/ No) 
	
	
	
Yes
	
	
	
The Company aims at contributing to CSR activities much before it was even mandated under the Companies Act, 
2013. The Company focusses on fulfilling its responsibility as a Corporate Citizen and lays down the guidelines 
and mechanism for carrying out socially useful activities/ projects and programmes for sustainable welfare and 
development of community at large.
	
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in Rs.): H93,128.25 Lakhs 
	
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in Rs.): H29,218.78 Lakhs
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances:
	
25.	 Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/ No)
(If Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities1
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)2
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Shareholders2
YES
7
NIL
Complaints 
received from 
the Shareholders 
were replied within 
stipulated time 
and resolved.
29
1
Complaints 
received from 
the Shareholders 
were replied within 
stipulated time 
and resolved.
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/ No)
(If Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Employees 
and workers3
YES
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location wise
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location wise
Customers4
YES
6,37,707
20
80% of complaints 
were resolved  within 
the D1 (Day 1).
97% of complaints 
were resolved 
within the D7 (Day 7).
6,13,292
NIL
80.4% of complaints 
were resolved within 
the D1 (Day 1).
97% of complaints 
were resolved within 
the D7 (Day 7)
Value Chain 
Partners5
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Other (please 
specify)
NIL
NIL 
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
	
	
Your Company is committed to encourage openness, promoting transparency and reporting improvements without fear of rebuttal. The 
organisation is committed to creating a culture that encourages high standards of ethics and upholds decent and safe working conditions 
for the entire workforces.
	
	
1Communities while interacting, during the community engagement programmes, can report their grievances. 
	
	
2Investors, Shareholders and stakeholders can correspond with the Company by sending an email to butterfly.investorsrelations@
butterflyindia.com or by calling on 044-4741 5500.
	
	
3Employees and workers can report any grievance by sending an e-mail to wb@butterflyindia.com or in a physical form in a sealed envelope. 
	
	
4Customers can report grievances by sending an e-mail service@butterindia.com or by calling on 93620 19362. 
	
	
5Value chain partners reach out to the respective point of contacts in any functions with escalation to management.
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate 
the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/ O)
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Compliance 
to laws and 
regulation 
R
The corporate regulatory and 
legal 
landscape 
undergoes 
constant 
changes, 
leading 
to an increasingly arduous, 
strict, and intricate compliance 
framework.
Compliance calendar are in place which 
is placed before the Board in every 
quarterly meetings. 
Secretarial auditor periodically reviews all 
the filings and compliances and gives a 
report for every financial year.
Having the Regular updates regarding 
the government policies and circulars.
Negative
2
Cyber 
Security/ 
Information 
Security
R
Data leak can expose sensitive 
information 
to 
unauthorized 
parties, 
including 
financial 
data, and confidential business 
information. This can lead to 
reputational 
damage, 
loss 
of customer trust, legal and 
regulatory 
penalties 
and 
financial losses.
Developing of an inhouse IT team, 
Establishing the Local LAN Security, 
Frequent Change of Password, Spoofing 
Restrictions, 
Blocking 
of 
unwanted 
website, and having the Firewall for all 
the system.
Negative
111
Annual Report 2023-24
110
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/ O)
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3
Health and 
safety of 
employees 
and workers
R
Failing to implement health 
and 
safety 
measures 
may 
have serious consequences 
for a business, such as higher 
expenses in legal proceedings, 
reduced 
workforce, 
and 
demotivated employees.
The Company ensures workplace safety 
through 
comprehensive 
measures 
including employee training, provision of 
PPE, and insurance coverage. Regular 
safety audits and a strong safety culture 
are promoted, supported by weekly 
reviews with leadership. An Emergency 
Response team is equipped for crisis 
management. The Company complies 
with regulatory requirements like EPR 
and PCB renewals, and works towards 
reducing hazardous materials. These 
efforts demonstrate a firm commitment 
to maintaining a safe and compliant 
workplace environment.
Negative
4
Risk 
Management
O
Robust 
risk 
management 
ensure sustainable business 
growth 
with 
stability, 
establish a structured and 
intelligent approach to Risk 
Management and to promote 
the confidence amongst the 
company’s stakeholders in the 
effectiveness of its business 
management 
process 
and 
its ability to plan & meet its 
strategic objectives.
Company has its own risk management 
committee that assist the Board of 
Directors 
in 
fulfilling 
its 
corporate 
governance 
oversight 
responsibilities 
with regard to identification, evaluation 
and mitigation of strategic, operational, 
and 
external 
environment 
risks 
monitoring and approving the risk 
management framework and associated 
practices of the Company.
Positive
5
Product Risk 
– Innovation 
& Quality 
O 
Innovation not in line with 
market/ 
consumer 
needs/ 
emerging 
technologies 
and 
slow pace in converting ideas 
into development, delays in 
product 
launch 
leading 
to 
disruption 
by 
competition, 
Capability 
challenges 
in 
marketing 
and 
R&D, 
Inadequate 
capability 
and 
process in Quality assurance 
and Controls.
Assessing consumer needs and defining 
NPD plan by extensive market research, 
consumer 
insight 
and 
conducting 
workshops to define broader framework 
for Product Innovation.
Appointed Quality Head for leading the 
Quality and assurance controls.
Positive
6
Supply Risk
R
Potential 
leakages 
and 
wastages due to inefficient 
buying, 
including 
single 
sourcing – cost, pay-terms, 
quality etc., causing contract 
termination, Inadequate vendor 
evaluation process etc.
The Company has established process 
for 
Vendor/ 
Supplier 
Identification, 
Qualification, 
and 
Onboarding. 
Onboarded alternate vendors for high 
procurement category business and has 
started doing evaluation of Key Vendors/ 
suppliers in terms of cost, quality etc.
Negative
7
Operational 
Risk – 
Inventory 
O 
Challenges 
faced 
while 
maintaining 
inventory 
such 
as lack of monitoring on 
ageing inventory which are 
outdated, focus lag due to too 
many SKUs and inconsistent 
BOM maintenance leading to 
significant stock differences 
and valuation issues. 
The 
Company 
has 
initiated 
SNOP 
process, driven through central Planner 
to balance on optimistic outlook, with 
weekly reality check and immediate 
corrections in supplies and ageing stock 
liquidation reducing the inventories to 70 
days from 120 days in previous year.
Positive
8
Customer 
Satisfaction
O
Absence 
of 
Feedback 
mechanism 
to 
assess 
the 
Customer 
satisfaction, 
Inadequate 
framework 
to 
benchmark with Competition.
The Company has initiated service 
feedback 
certification 
from 
Direct 
Channel partners, setting free camps 
across pan India, extending door step 
services in Mixers category etc.
Plan 
to 
conduct 
internal 
customer 
satisfaction survey for two way flow of 
information.
Positive
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover 
each principle and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/ No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/ No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.butterflyindia.com/investor-relations/#policies
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes/ No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value 
chain partners? (Yes/ No)
To emphasise the values of transparency and ethical behaviour, empowerment, and 
accountability, the Company has formalised the ‘Code of Conduct’ for the Directors 
and employees of the Company. The Code lays down principles and standards that 
govern the actions of the employees during the conduct of the Company’s business. 
It covers all dealings with vendors, consumers, and other business partners.
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/ 
certifications/ labels/ standards (e.g. Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, 
Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g. SA 8000, 
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
List of standards in which the Company achieved certification are:
1.	 Star Label program Certification for high thermal efficient LPG Stoves from M/s 
BEE.
2.	 CE Mark, ESMA & CACO Certifications received for Mixer Grinders.
3.	 Operates with seven BIS Certification Marks Licenses (ISI Mark Scheme).
4.	 ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certification.
5.	 ISO 9001 certificate surveillance audit for Pressure Cooker completed 
successfully.
6.	 CE certificate surveillance audit completed successfully.
7.	 BIS Certification Marks Licenses (ISI Mark Scheme) for Water bottle and Flask.
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by 
the entity with defined timelines, if any.
Please refer to the Chairman’s Message and Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report (“MDA”) for our management approach and commitments.
6.	 Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along with 
reasons in case the same are not met.
The Company continues to focus its efforts towards user friendly, convenient 
safe, efficient and affordable products through sustainable and durable materials/ 
processes.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
The Company’s purpose statement is “Shaping the Future. Perfecting the Present”. Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, 
MDA for our management approach and commitments.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy(ies).
Ms. Swetha Sagar G
Chief Business Officer
Email Id: cs@butterflyindia.com 
Tel No: 044-47415500  
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of 
the Board/ Director responsible for decision-
making on sustainability related issues? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, provide details.
The Company doesn’t have a specific Director responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues, but the company practices sustainability through our 
CSR framework. A Risk Management Committee chaired by a Independent Director, 
is responsible for the review of risk management processes within the Company, 
and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this policy.
113
Annual Report 2023-24
112
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/ 
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/  
Any other – please specify)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
The policies of the Company are reviewed 
periodically or on need-based basis by the Board of 
Directors, department heads, and business heads.
During this assessment, the efficacy of the policies 
is reviewed, and necessary changes to the policies 
and procedures, if any are implemented.
Annually
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to 
the 
principles, 
and, 
rectification 
of 
any 
non-
compliances
A 
Compliance 
report 
across 
all 
statutory 
requirements is submitted to the Audit Committee 
on a quarterly basis.
Quarterly
Principles
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
11.
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the 
working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide 
name of the agency.
Internal and external auditors, where needed, assess 
these policies during their audits and reviews. However, 
no formal evaluation by any internal or external agency 
has been conducted.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
	
Not Applicable as all principles are covered
List of Policies
Website Links
Code of Conduct
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/
Code-of-Conduct_2023.pdf
Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy 
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/
Whistle-Blower-Policy_28092022.pdf
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report trading by 
Insiders
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/
Code-of-Conduct-10.02.2022.pdf
Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/
Prevention-of-Sexual-Harassment-10.02.2022.pdf
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/CSR-
POLICY-20.10.2020.pdf
Maternity Leave Policy
This policy is available internally in the company.
Product Service Policy
This policy is available internally in the Company and has been 
made available to the product service centres
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by 
entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner 
that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its impact
% of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors 
& Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
30
Familiarisation programmes are carried out by way of exhaustive presentations 
on various topics and areas like
1.	 Overall industry in which the Company operates, Company’s operations 
and Strategy and Annual Budget of the Company;
2.	 Internal Financial Control Systems;
3.	 Statutory Compliance;
4.	 Corporate Social Responsibilities framework;
5.	 Enterprise Risk Management;
6.	 Regulatory updates at Board and Audit Committee Meetings;
7.	 Information Technologies;
8.	 Investor Grievances etc.
100
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its impact
% of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Employees 
other 
than BoD, 
KMPs & 
Workers
42
•	
5S Awareness
•	
Positive Safety Culture through 5Cs
•	
Electrical Safety
•	
Environmental awareness
•	
Incident reporting & Investigation
•	
First Aid – Snack Bite
•	
Chemical Safety
•	
Machine Safety
•	
Statutory Requirement Awareness
•	
Consequence Management
•	
Permit Work 
•	
Emergency Preparedness
•	
HIRA & Aspect/ Impact
•	
ISO 45001 & 14001 Internal Auditor Training
•	
Fire Fighters Training
•	
Forklift Driving Training
•	
Safety Orientation & 5S Training
•	
Safety Training
100%
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred?(Yes/ 
No)
Penalty/ Fine
NA
The Honorable 
Supreme Court of India
J18,98,62,093/- Demand is raised for differential Excise duty 
between valuation under Section 4 (Duty 
on Basic Value) and Section 4(a) (Duty on 
MRP less Abatement) against the products 
supplied to TNCSC (Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies 
Corporations) under Central Excise Act, for 
the financial year 2011-12 to 2013-14.
Yes
Settlement
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Compounding 
fee
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred?(Yes/ No)
Penalty/ Fine
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Settlement
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed:
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Demand is raised for differential Excise duty between valuation under Section 4 (Duty 
on Basic Value) and Section 4(a) (Duty on MRP less Abatement) against the products 
supplied to TNCSC (Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporations) under Central Excise Act, 
for the financial year 2011-12 to 2013-14.
The Honorable Supreme Court of India
115
Annual Report 2023-24
114
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy:
	
Yes, the Company places great emphasis on maintaining high ethical and legal standards and is dedicated to implementing 
appropriate regulatory frameworks to govern its business practices. The Company’s code of conduct and whistle-blower policy 
aligns with the relevant anti-corruption and anti-bribery frameworks. The link to access the policy is https://www.butterflyindia.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Code-of-Conduct_2023.pdf and https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/
Whistle-Blower-Policy_28092022.pdf
5.	
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken 
by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest:
	
There were no cases of corruption or conflicts of interest that required action by regulators, law enforcement agencies, or 
judicial institutions.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365)/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of accounts payables
76
68
9.	
Openness of business: 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and 
advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of Purchases
a)	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
NA
NA
b)	 Number of trading houses where purchases 
are made from
NA
NA
c)	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % 
of total purchases from trading houses
NA
NA
Concentration of Sales
a)	 Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total 
sales
49.22%
45.61%
b)	 Number of dealers/ distributors to whom 
sales are made
693
606
c)	 Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of 
total sales to dealers/ distributors
15.07%
16.54%
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Share of Related Party 
Transactions (“RPTs”) in
a)	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ 
Total Purchases)
0.02%
10.60%
b)	 Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
1.04%
0.77%
c)	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given 
to related parties/ Total loans & advances)
NIL
NIL
d)	 Investments (Investments in related parties/ 
Total Investments made)
NIL
NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness  
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training
% of value chain partners covered (by value 
of business done with such partners) under 
the awareness programmes
12
•	
5S Awareness
•	
Positive Safety Culture through 5Cs
•	
Electrical Safety
•	
Environmental awareness
•	
Incident reporting & Investigation
•	
First Aid – Snack Bite
•	
Chemical Safety
•	
Machine Safety
•	
Statutory Requirement Awareness
•	
Consequence Management
•	
Permit Work 
•	
Emergency Preparedness
•	
HIRA & Aspect/ Impact
•	
ISO 45001 & 14001 Internal Auditor Training
•	
Fire Fighters Training
•	
Forklift Driving Training
•	
Safety Orientation & 5S Training
100
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/ No) If Yes, provide details of the same:
	
Yes, the COC encourages all its Board Members to refrain from participating in activities that could result in a conflict of interest.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively:
	
The Company follows an innovation-led and customer centric approach to product development. The Company has its own 
dedicated R&D team that works on providing customers with the most advanced and useful kitchen appliances. The Company 
has 25+ acre campus with an integrated manufacturing facility to design and develop products. The Company is constantly 
revamping their portfolio to fulfil customer expectations for performance and durability of products.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
67.93%
11.35%
1.	 Usage of LDPE (Low density Polyethelene packaging 
buffers instead of Thermocol);
2.	 Using 100% Copper for motors for longer life;
3.	 Implementation of 2 Star rated cooktop in market;
4.	 Efficiency Improvement from 74% to 76% resulting 
in gas consumption saving.
Capex
32.07%
88.65%
117
Annual Report 2023-24
116
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, to ensure that suppliers also contribute to long-term sustainability, the Company employs ethical procurement practices 
and stringent selection criteria that promote environmental protection, social benefits and the optimisation of product and 
service quality. Through several programs, the Company is aiming to increase suppliers’ understanding of their legal 
obligations, sustainable business practices and the importance of employee health and safety. The Company adheres to 
international standards, including ISO 9001 and other Environmental, Health, and Safety (“EHS”) requirements.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 87.5%
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste:
	
The Company has shown its commitment to responsible and sustainable manufacturing practices by obtaining ROHS certification 
for compliance with the restriction on hazardous substances, as well as adhering to PCB statutory compliance for the proper 
disposal of Bakelite and plastic waste, which ensures environmental compliance and protection of human health and safety.
	
Plastic- The standards established by the PCB determine the amount of plastic used in the product. In addition, a procedure for 
the receipt and disposal of plastic is in place and complies with the current statutory regulations.
	
EPR- Plastic Waste Management Authorisation issued for Domestic and applied for Import, the organization has submitted the 
EPR application to Central Pollution Control Board (“CPCB”).
	
E-waste- The Company complied with EPR for E-waste management with the CPCB.
	
For EPR- Battery Waste Management Authorization, the organization has submitted the EPR application to CPCB. 
	
For E waste and plastics packaging waste- As an organization fulfilling its EPR obligations, Butterfly received the target from 
CPCB for channeling its plastics waste across the country.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/ No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same:
	
Yes, EPR applies to the Company’s business and obtained EPR Authorization for Plastic Waste & E-waste. The Company has 
applied for EPR Certification for Plastic Import & Battery Waste.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
Not applicable as we have not conducted LCA for any of our products.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/ or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same:
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry):
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Spent Oil
43%
51%
Plastic
5%
5%
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
51.20
51.20
254.51 MT
-
58.61
479 MT
E-waste
-
-
7.27 MT
-
-
0.63 MT
Hazardous waste
-
-
135.98 MT
-
-
171 MT
Other waste
-
-
1,269.71 MT
-
-
1,651.53 MT
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category:
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective category
Damaged material comes to the depots and is disposed off through the contracting process.  
The quantum of the amount is almost negligible
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Total (A)
Number 
(B)
% (B/ A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/ A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/ A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/ A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/ A)
Permanent employees
Male
627
0
0%
602
96.01%
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
-
Female
35
0
0% 
24
68.57%
35
100%
NA
NA
Yes
-
Total
662
0
0%
626
94.56%
35
5.29%
-
-
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0% 
0
0% 
0
0% 
0
0% 
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of employees covered by
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Total (A)
Number 
(B)
% (B/ A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/ A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/ A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/ A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/ A)
Permanent employees
Male
308
0
0%
138
44.81%
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
247
0
0%
3
1.21%
247
100%
NA
NA
Yes
-
Total
555
0
0%
141
25.41%
247
44.50%
NA
NA
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
300
0
0%
5
1.67%
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
397
0
0%
0
0%
397
100%
NA
NA
Yes
-
Total
697
0
0%
5
0.72%
397
56.96%
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
119
Annual Report 2023-24
118
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well being measures as a % of total revenue of the company
0.04%
0.03%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/ N/ N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/ N/ N.A.)
PF
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
ESI
Eligibility as per ESIC Act
Others – please specify
NA
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces:
	
Are the premises/ offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard?
	
The Company is implementing appropriate measures to provide its employees with a better, more accessible work environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web-link to the policy:
	
The Company is committed to ensuring that existing employees, job applicants and workers are treated fairly in an environment 
free from discrimination based on race, gender, religion or beliefs, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender 
expression, and so on. The Company promotes equal treatment and opportunities for all employees.
	
The link to the policy is https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Code-of-Conduct_2023.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave:
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
100%
100%
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
100%
100%
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief:
Gender
Yes/ No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes
Other than Permanent Workers
Yes
Permanent Employees
Yes
Other than Permanent Employees
Yes
	
The Company is committed to promoting transparency across all levels of the organization. Employees are encouraged to openly 
discuss any concerns they may have with their managers, while contracted workers are urged to bring up any issues with their 
respective managers.
	
In addition, workers are also encouraged to share their concerns with the worker representative, primary manager, or HR SPOC 
available at different locations. Contracted workers have the option to raise their concerns with the contractor representative or the 
Company HR SPOC, including supervisors and contractors. In cases where an employee or worker has violated the Company’s 
COC policy, appropriate actions are taken against them.
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/ A)
Total employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/ C)
Total Permanent Employees
662
0
0
701
0
0
-	
Male
627
0
0
655
0
0
-	
Female
35
0
0
46
0
0
Total Permanent Workers
555
0
0
648
0
0
-	
Male
308
0
0
386
0
0
-	
Female
247
0
0
262
0
0
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers*:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
No. (E)
% (E/ D)
No. (F)
% (F/ D)
Employees
Male
627
74
11.80%
21
3.35%
655
110
16.79%
92
14.05%
Female
35
2
5.71%
0
0%
46
19
41.30%
2
4.35%
Total
662
76
11.48%
21
3.17%
701
129
18.40%
94
13.41%
Workers
Male
308
50
16.23%
0
0%
386
56
14.51%
84
21.76%
Female
247
19
7.69%
0
0%
262
126
48.09%
37
14.12%
Total
555
69
12.43%
0
0%
648
182
28.09%
121
18.67%
	
*The above data pertains to Blue Collar and White Collar on roll employees
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/ C)
Employees
Male
627
627
100%
655
655
100.00%
Female
35
35
100%
46
46
100.00%
Total
662
662
100%
701
701
100.00%
Workers
Male
308
308
100%
386
386
100.00%
Female
247
247
100%
262
262
100.00%
Total
555
555
100%
648
648
100.00%
	
The above data pertains to Blue Collar and White Collar on roll employees
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
(a)	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
Yes. The Company is committed to implementing an Occupational Health and Safety (“OHS”) system in accordance with 
the guidelines of IS14489. Currently, the ISO 45001 implementation of the OHS system is in progress.
121
Annual Report 2023-24
120
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
(b)	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
	
The Company is committed to ensure the safety and well-being of its staff and personnel, through a robust safety management 
system that includes regular safety audits, safety inspection, safety walk, permit system, compliance with ISO 14001/ ISO 
45001 -2018, periodical safety review, ensuring 100% risk assessment for all process, machines, and materials before they 
are introduced into the system.
	
(c)	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, the Company provides training to all workmen(s) on reporting near miss incidents, unsafe acts, and unsafe conditions 
as part of its employee engagement efforts. Through this training, the Company aims to encourage workmen to actively 
participate in maintaining a safe working environment by reporting any potential hazards or risks. The Company’s commitment 
to provide this training is a testament to its dedication to create a safe and healthy workplace for all its employees.
	
(d)	 Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, the Company is dedicated to promote the welfare of its workmen by providing them with several benefits. Workmen of 
the company are covered under various schemes, such as Employee State Insurance (ESI), Employee Provident Fund (EPF), 
and other similar schemes to ensure their financial security.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format*:
Safety Incident/ Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0.15 
0.21
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
2.2
3.17
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury  
or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
0
0
	
*Including the contract workforce.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
	
The Company is committed to ensuring the safety of their people and has implemented a number of initiatives to minimize injuries 
at the workplace and promote safety awareness. These initiatives include conducting various safety campaigns, implementing a 
reward and recognition program, utilizing engineering controls, and providing adequate training for comprehensive incident and 
injury reporting and tracking system. It allows the Company to identify issues and devise mitigation plans that help to prevent 
incidents in future. The Company also have a safety committee that includes representatives from all functional areas of the 
Company. The committee meets regularly to review safety performance, identify opportunities for improvement, and develop 
action plans.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Safety Incident/ Number
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
No complaints have been received
No complaints have been received
Health Safety
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
NIL
Working Conditions
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions:
	
All near miss incidents and injuries being investigated by safety professional and appropriate corrective actions are taken. As a 
proactive measure, machinery and process risk assessment are currently in progress.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/ N) (B) Workers. (Yes/ No)
	
(A)	
Employees – Yes
	
(B)	  Workers – Yes
	
All Employees and Workers are covered under Group Term Life Insurance Policy.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners:
	
The Company tracks the legal compliances within proper dates as applicable. Stakeholders are trained to ensure compliance. 
The Company also undertakes monthly audits with its value chain partners.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ ill-health/ 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Safety Incident/ Number
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/ workers that are rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the transition assistance programmes is provided in cases of retirement and only on need-basis.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners:
	
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity:
	
The Company interacts with a wide range of stakeholders including investors, consumers, suppliers, and workers, through various 
channels. The Company have its own stakeholder relations committee to engage with their stakeholders and monitor redressal 
of stakeholder’s complaints/ grievances. The policy is available on the website of the Company and can be accessed at https://
www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/POLICY-OF-STAKEHOLDERS-RELATIONSHIP-COMMITTEE-20.10.2020.pdf
123
Annual Report 2023-24
122
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group:
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/ No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Employees
No
•	 Meetings/ Town hall briefings
•	 Employee engagement 
activities and surveys
•	 Team building, workshops, 
capability building and training
•	 Performance management 
system
•	 Employee newsletters
•	 Rewards and recognitions
•	 Family visits, Quiz Programs
Continuous Basis
The Company recognizes the invaluable 
contribution of its employees to its long-
term success. They are considered the 
most important asset and a key factor in 
increasing the Company’s competitiveness 
and maintaining its market leadership.
Community
Yes
•	 Community Meeting
•	 Website
•	 CSR Events
Need Based
The Company understands the importance of 
empowering the community for its long-term 
business sustainability. It has undertaken 
various upliftment projects and activities 
aimed at developing strong and enduring 
relationships with the communities it serves.
Suppliers
No
•	 Emails
•	 Telephonic Conversations
•	 One to one Meetings
Continuous
The Company understands that collaborating 
with suppliers is vital to maintain smooth 
business operations. The Company places a 
high value on efficient procurement practices 
as they play a significant role in ensuring a 
reliable supply chain and fostering strong 
relationships with its suppliers.
Consumers 
(B2B), (B2C)
No
•	 Emails
•	 Telephonic Conversations
•	 Physical Meetings
•	 Online Platforms 
Advertisements
•	 Website
Need Based
The Company recognizes that customers’ 
purchasing habits significantly influence its 
operations. Therefore, maintaining continual 
contact with customers is essential to 
understand their evolving needs and desires.
Investors/ 
Shareholders
No
•	 Online Platforms, Website, 
Newspaper, Advertisement
•	 Annual General Meeting
•	 Financial result declarations 
Media releases
•	 Investor calls and meets
Quarterly & 
Annually
Investors provide vital support to the 
Company by strengthening its financial 
position and helping to secure its long-term 
viability.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board:
	
The Company’s stakeholder relationship committee monitors all redressal of stakeholder’s complaints/ grievances.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics? (Yes/ No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity:
	
After stakeholder consultation, the Company has identified significant environmental and social concerns. Material topics were 
shortlisted and prioritised according to their influence on stakeholders and businesses.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups:
	
There are no reportable concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised groups. However, the Company undertakes various CSR activities 
in local areas that serve the vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder group.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
	
The Company operates in an open, fair, and transparent manner and is dedicated to upholding the highest ethical standards and 
practices. To expose unethical conduct and encourage professionalism and ethical behaviour among its staff, the whistle-blower 
and COC policies are in place. Trainings conducted on COC policy.
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered 
(B)
% (B/ A)
Total (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered 
(D)
% (D/ C)
Employees
Permanent
662
80
12.08%
701
NIL
NIL
Other than permanent
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total Employees
662
80
12.08%
701
NIL
NIL
Workers
Permanent
555
NIL
NIL
648
NIL
NIL
Other than permanent
697
NIL
NIL
 1,151
NIL
NIL
Total Employees
1,252
NIL
NIL
1,799
NIL
NIL
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
No. (E)
% (E/ D)
No. (F)
% (F/ D)
Employees
Permanent
662
-
0%
662
100%
701
-
-
701
100
Male
627
-
0%
627
100%
655
-
-
655
100
Female
35
-
0%
35
100%
46
-
-
46
100
Other than Permanent
0
-
0
0
0
0
-
-
0
0
Male
0
-
0
0
0
0
-
-
0
0
Female
0
-
0
0
0
0
-
-
0
0
Workers
Permanent
555
3
0.54%
552
99.46%
648
23
3.55%
619
95.52%
Male
308
1
0.32%
307
99.68%
386
5
1.30%
381
98.70%
Female
247
2
0.81%
245
99.19%
262
18
6.87%
238
90.84%
Other than Permanent
697
450
64.56%
247
35.44%
1,151
861
74.80%
290
25.20%
Male
300
182
60.67%
118
39.33%
522
315
60.34%
207
39.66%
Female
397
268
67.51%
129
32.49%
629
546
86.80%
83
13.20%
3.	
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages:
	
a.	
Median remuneration/ wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
10
8,10,000
2
5,70,000
Key Managerial Personnel
3
61,58,535
NIL
NIL
Employees other than BoD and KMP
627
6,36,228
35
4,17,888
Workers
308
 3,16,818
247
2,48,400
125
Annual Report 2023-24
124
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
Safety Incident/ Number
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
20.41%
21.11%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/ No):
	
Yes, the Company recognizes the importance of human rights violations and is committed to maintaining a safe and productive 
workplace. To achieve this, the Company has implemented a POSH policy and a whistle-blower policy, with regular training 
sessions for employees to understand the implications of these policies and human rights issues. The Company has a zero 
tolerance policy towards human rights violations, which is one of its key focus areas. Any reported violations shall be investigated 
by the management, following the Company’s COC policy.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues:
	
The Company is deeply committed to universally recognized human rights standards and principles across all of its operations. In 
order to prevent any violations of these fundamental rights, the Company has established clear policies and practices, including 
the implementation of POSH and whistleblower procedures to enable employees to report any concerns. Transparency and 
accountability are highly valued by the company, which is dedicated to promote a safe, respectful, and inclusive work environment 
for all employees. Through these efforts, the Company strives to ensure that human rights are respected at all times, and that all 
individuals associated with the Company are treated with dignity and respect.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Safety Incident/ Number
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Discrimination at workplace
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Wages
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other human rights related issues
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
NIL
NIL
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers
NIL
NIL
Complaints on POSH upheld
NIL
NIL
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases:
	
The Company has established a robust whistle-blower policy that provides clear guidelines to prevent any retaliation against a 
complainant. The policy ensures that a complainant has the right to remain anonymous, except when mandated by law enforcement 
agencies. By implementing such measures, the Company demonstrates its commitment to providing a safe and secure environment 
for its employees to voice their concerns without fear of retribution.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company has a process in place to ensure that all new vendors or suppliers onboarded are in compliance with human 
rights requirements. The Company recognizes that its suppliers and vendors are essential to its success and viability, and it places 
great importance on their adherence to ethical standards. Regular engagement activities are organized by the Company to foster 
a collaborative relationship with its suppliers and vendors. These activities helps to build trust and promote transparency, allowing 
for open communication about ethical and sustainable practices. By working closely with its suppliers and vendors, the Company 
can ensure that all stakeholders share the same values and principles, creating a supply chain that benefits both the Company 
and society as a whole.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
NIL
Forced/ involuntary labour
NIL
Sexual harassment
NIL
Discrimination at workplace
NIL
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
NA
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 10 above:
	
No complaints related to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, or discriminatory employment were received during the 
reporting year, and none are pending at the end of the reporting year.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints: 
	
The Company regularly updates its employees about the COC through various training programmes.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted: 
	
None
3.	
Is the premise/ office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
The Company is committed to providing accessibility to all visitors, including those with disabilities, in accordance with the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. To fulfill this commitment, the Company is in process of implementing appropriate measures 
to ensure that its premises and offices are designed and equipped to meet the needs of differently abled visitors.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners  
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
The Company has a strong expectations that its value chain 
partners maintain the same ethical values, principles, and business 
practices upheld by the Company in all their dealings. However, no 
detailed evaluations of its value chain partners’ adherence to these 
requirements have been made.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 4 above:
	
No corrective action pertaining to Question 4 was necessitated by the Company during the year under review.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
 NA
 NA
Total electricity consumption (A)
 NA
 NA
Total fuel consumption (B)
 NA
 NA
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
 NA
 NA
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
 NA
 NA
127
Annual Report 2023-24
126
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
20,388
21,344.60
Total fuel consumption (E)
3,909
3,215.50
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
24,297
24,560.10
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
 24,297
24,560.10
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations)
 0.00
0.00
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)
(Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
 NA
 NA
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
 NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
 NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Yes/ No) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any:
	
No, the Company does not fall under the PAT scheme of the Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
34,402
35,453
(iii)	 Third party water
3,153
3,217
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
(i+ii+iii+iv+v)
37,555
38,670
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
37,555
38,670
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations)
0.00
0.00
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Water intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
19,155
17,877
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
19,155
17,877
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation:
	
Yes, the Company has implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge. The process flow diagram is as follows:-
Reject 50% Solar 
Evapration Pan
Reuse
Reject 40%
Permeate 60%
Permeate 50%
RO Stage II
RO Stage I
Treated Water
ETP (Acidic Waste 
water Treatment
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
μ/m3
11
46
SOx
μ/m3
9
11
Particulate matter (PM)
μ/m3
68
69
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
NA
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
NA
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
NA
NA
NA
Others – please specify
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
290
238.9
Total Scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
4,474
4,685
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue 
from operations)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/ INR
0.00
0.00
129
Annual Report 2023-24
128
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
NA
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details. NA
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
302.20
688.65
E-waste (B)
7.27
0.63
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.05
0.00
Construction and demolition waste (D)
NA
NA
Battery waste (E)
2.21
0.76
Radioactive waste (F)
NA
NA
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
135.98
175.68
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
NA
NA
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
1,269.71
1,355.64
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
1,717.41
2,221.16
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
NIL
NIL
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations  
(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycled
-
-
(ii)	 Re-used
-
-
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
51.20
-
Total
51.20
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
-
(i)	 Incineration
132.12
175.68
(ii)	 Landfilling
-
-
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
1,583.50
1,355.64
Total
1,715.62
1,531.32
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes:
	
The Company’s operational units are responsible for ensuring that all hazardous materials are delivered to a State Pollution Control 
Board-approved authorized disposal operator. The Company ensures responsible waste management practices involving 100% 
recycling of plastic waste as per EPR PWM. The disposal of e-waste is overseen by a licensed recycler who has been approved by 
the CPCB. Moreover, the waste generated within the plant gets segregated at the source through colour-coded waste collection 
bins, awareness on waste management, disposal according to the law of the land, etc.
	
The Company has adopted waste management systems in each of its locations to promote sustainability and reduce waste. 
Through the implementation of technological interventions and ongoing initiatives, such as sustainable packaging and waste source 
segmentation, the Company has been successful in further reducing waste. The Company focused on capacity optimization, 
enhanced process efficiencies, enhancing technology through install new updated model machines in press line reducing down 
time, waste elimination, and productivity improvement. These efforts demonstrate the Company’s commitment to promoting 
sustainability and continuous improvement in their operations, delivering value to their customers, and making a positive impact 
on the environment.
11.	 If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
No, the Company does not have any offices or plants located around ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by independent 
external agency (Yes/ No)
Results communicated in public 
domain (Yes/ No)
Relevant Web link
Not Applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder? (Yes/ No) If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S. No. Specify the law/ regulation/ guidelines 
which was not complied with
Provide details of the 
non- compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken by regulatory 
agencies such as pollution  
control boards or by courts
Corrective action taken, 
if any
Yes, the Company is committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company has not
incurred any significant fines related to environmental compliance during the F.Y. 2023-24.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility/ plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area – Not Applicable
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations - Not Applicable
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
34,402
35,453
(iii)	 Third party water
3,153
3,217
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
37,555
38,670
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
37,555
38,670
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Water consumed/ turnover)
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
131
Annual Report 2023-24
130
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	 Into Seawater
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
19,155
16,021
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
19,155
16,021
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
	
The Company is in the process of setting up the system for tracking scope 3 emissions. The same can be published in the 
forthcoming years.
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
NA
-
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. No
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention 
and remediation activities:
	
NA
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link:
	
Yes, the Company has implemented a comprehensive disaster management plan to proactively address any potential disruptions 
that may impact their business activities or processes. By conducting regular evaluations of their existing systems and processes, 
the Company can confidently prevent and recover from any potential threats. This plan ensures that the Company can continue 
to deliver their products or services at pre-defined acceptable levels, even in the face of unexpected challenges. Regular training 
on the operation of equipment such as fire extinguishers and emergency treatments is provided. Audits and mock exercises are 
performed on a regular basis to enhance the system.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard:
	
There is no significant adverse impact on the environment arising from the value chain of the entity.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts:
	
NA
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 1
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to:
Sr. No Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations (State/ National)
1
Bureau of Indian Standards
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities:
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
For the financial year, the Company has not received any adverse orders from regulatory bodies, hence, no corrective actions 
were required.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No. Public policy advocated
Method resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public domain? 
(Yes/ No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if available
The Company is a key member of the BIS technical committee, where it works on specifications, standards, upgrades, and
interfaces with BEE/ ISO standards.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
Name and brief details 
of project
SIA Notification No.
Date of notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/ No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/ No)
Relevant Web link
NA
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
S. No. Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in the 
FY (In INR)
NA
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community:
	
The Company has its dedicated CSR committee that supervise and monitor progress of various projects and activities whether 
carried out directly by the Company or through implementing agencies. The CSR policy can be accessed on the website of the 
Company at https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/CSR-POLICY-20.10.2020.pdf
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
87.53% 
70.57%
Directly from within India
12.47%
48.39% 
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost:
Location
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
55.77%
60.28%
Semi-urban
12.91%
12.99%
Urban
0.34%
0.28%
Metropolitan
30.99%
26.45%
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan)
133
Annual Report 2023-24
132
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts 
as identified by government bodies:
S. No. State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In K)
NIL
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/ No) No
	
(b)	 From which marginalized/ vulnerable groups do you procure? NA
	
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? NA
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in 
the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. No. Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/ No)
Benefit shared (Yes/ No)
Basis of calculating benefit share
NA
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved:
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: 
S. No. CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups 
NIL
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place team to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback:
	
The Company has dedicated customer care service team to address customer grievences. Consumers can also address their 
issues by calling the customer service number as provided on the company’s website. 
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ service that carry 
information about:
As a % to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/ or safe disposal
100%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Remarks
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Advertising
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Cyber-security
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Delivery of essential services
6,37,707
1,449
6,13,292
2,452
Restrictive Trade Practices
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Unfair Trade Practices
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
Forced recalls
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/ No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy:
	
The Company has a privacy policy in place that provides safety measures to protect user and device data security. The 
policy is present on the Company’s website and can be accessed using this link https://www.butterflyindia.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/03/Privacy-Policy-10.02.2022.pdf
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty/ action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/ services – NA
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: NIL
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NIL
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available):
	
The products of the company can be accessed on below links:
	
Website: https://www.butterflyindia.com/product/
	
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/butterfly/
	
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/butterfly_kitchen_appliances/
	
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/butterflyindia/
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/ or services:
	
The Company provides Warranty Manual Book along with the product for safe installation and usage.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services:
	
The Company takes measures to ensure that consumers are well-informed of any potential risks of disruption associated with their 
products. To achieve this, the Company provides consumers with a warranty manual book along with their purchased products, 
which contains relevant information on any potential risks and disruptions that may arise.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/ No/ Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with 
regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/ services of the entity, significant locations 
of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company ensures that the information required to be disclosed on the product’s labels or manuals is specified. All of the 
Company’s goods that require installation come with instruction manuals demonstrating how to safely install and use the devices. 
It includes dos and dont’s to ensure proper usage of the products.
135
Annual Report 2023-24
134
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
136
137
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Ind AS Financial Statements 
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Ind AS financial statements (“the financial statements”) of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the balance sheet as at March 31, 2024, the statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the statement of cash flows and the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and notes 
to the financial statements, including a summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid financial statements 
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 as amended (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024, and its profit including other comprehensive income (loss), its cash 
flows and changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (“SA”s) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion on the financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matter 
described below to be the key audit matter to be communicated in our report.
Sr  
No
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
1
Inventories:
The Company has inventory with the carrying value of 
I 13,272.87 lakhs as at the year end. The inventory is valued 
at the lower of cost and net realizable value. We considered 
the value of the inventory as key audit matter given the relative 
size of the balance in the financial statements and significant 
judgement involved in determining the appropriate valuation 
of inventory based upon a detailed analysis of slow-moving 
inventory, net realisable value below cost etc.
Audit Procedures:
We understood and tested the design, implementation and 
operating effectiveness of controls as established by the 
management in determination of cost, provision for slow-moving 
inventory and net realizable value of inventory. We have verified the 
closing stock valuation as at the year end. We considered various 
factors including the actual selling price prevailing around and 
subsequent to the year end. Compared the cost of the finished 
goods with the estimated net realizable value and checked if 
the finished goods were recorded at net realizable value where 
the cost was higher than the net realizable value. Verified the 
provision created for slow-moving inventory, as per the policy of 
the Company. Further, we have verified the physical verification 
working papers of the Company and performed physical 
verification independently on a sample basis.
Other Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included 
in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. These reports are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained during the course of audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate actions.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of 
these financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, including other comprehensive 
income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the management and the Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
138
139
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in terms 
of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A”, a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit;
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books;
	
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash 
Flows and the Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act, read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2024 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
	
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Company 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”. Our report expresses 
an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements;
	
(g)	
With respect to the matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act, in our opinion, and 
to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to 
its directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, and
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at March 31, 2024 on its financial statements – Refer Note 
No. 5.1 to the Ind AS financial statements.
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
iii.	
During the year, the Company has transferred a sum of I 5.83 Lakhs to Investor Education and Protection Fund with a delay 
of 10 days.
iv.	
(a)	
The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 22 (v) to the 
financial statement, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by 
or on behalf of the Company or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(b)	
The Management has represented, that, to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 22 (vi) to 
the financial statement, no funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) 
contain any material mis-statement.
v.	
The Company has neither declared nor paid any dividend during the year.
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test checks, the company has used an accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across 
any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 009571N/N500006
G N Ramaswami
Partner
Place: Chennai
Membership No. 202363
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: 24202363BKEYVU2311
140
141
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Annexure- A 
referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ of our report of even date
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, the Company 
has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
	
	
(B)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, the Company 
has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	
A portion of the Property, Plant and Equipment were physically verified during the year by the management in accordance 
with phased program of verification, which in our opinion covers all the Property, Plant and Equipment at reasonable 
intervals. According to the information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on 
such verification.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of audit procedures performed by us, the title 
deeds of all of the immovable properties included in Property, Plant and Equipment are held in the name of the Company.
	
(d)	
According to information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, the Company has not 
revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets during the year.
	
(e)	
According to information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, there are no proceedings 
initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
ii.	
(a)	
The inventory, except goods in transit, has been physically verified by the management during the year. In our opinion, the 
frequency of such verification is reasonable and procedures and coverage as followed by management were appropriate. 
According to information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, no discrepancies were 
noticed on verification between the physical stocks and book records that were more than 10% in the aggregate of each 
class of inventory.
	
(b)	
The Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five crores rupees, in aggregate, from banks on 
the basis of security of current assets. According to information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company with such banks 
or financial institutions are in agreement with the books of account of the Company, except as follows:
(H in lakhs)
Name of the Banks
Quarter
Amount as reported 
in the Quarterly 
Return/ Statement
Amount as per 
books of account
Amount of 
Differences
Reason for Discrepancies  
(As explained by the management)
State Bank of India,
South Indian Bank,
Indusind Bank,
IDBI Bank Limited.
Jun-23
13,799
14,721
(922) Provisions, Regrouping, Final 
Entries are not part of Bank 
data, the details get shared 
with initial reports.
Sep-23
15,549
16,525
(976)
Dec-23
20,763
19,959
804
Mar-24
17,255
15,352
1,903
iii.	
a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not made any investments, provided any guarantee or security or granted any loans or 
advances in the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, and Limited Liability Partnerships or any 
other parties during the year except for First Loss Default Guarantee (FLDG), as detailed below.
	
	
a.	
The company does not have any subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. Accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(iii) (a) (A) is not applicable.
	
	
b.	
The company has not issued any guarantee during the year and the outstanding balance of guarantee as at the 
year-end is I 1,400 Lakhs.
	
b)	
The terms and conditions of the guarantee are not prejudicial to the interest of the company.
iv.	
According to information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, the Company has neither 
made any investments nor has given loans or security and therefore the relevant provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company. In respect of guarantee issued by the Company, the provisions of 
Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been compiled with.
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
vi.	
We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules made by the Central 
Government for the maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of its 
manufactured goods and are of the opinion that prima facie, the specified accounts and records have been made and 
maintained. We have not, however, made a detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether they are 
accurate or complete.
vii.	
(a)	
According to the information provided and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company is generally regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues 
including Goods and Services Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales-tax, Service tax, 
duty of customs, duty of excise, Value Added Tax, Cess and other material statutory dues applicable to it. There are no 
material outstanding statutory dues existing as on the last day of the financial year which is outstanding for more than 
six months from the day they becomes payable.
	
(b)	
According to the information provided and explanations given to us, the details of duty of Excise, Goods & Service Tax, 
Value added tax which have not been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of dispute are as under:
Sl. 
No
Name of the Statue
Nature of the dues
Amount (K in 
Lakh)
Period to which 
the amount relates Forum where the dispute is pending
1
Central	Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
66.24 FY 2012-13
Customs, Excise, Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT)
2
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax	
Act, 2006
Value Added Tax 
(VAT)
64.70 FY 2006-07 
to 2008-09
Assistant Commissioner (CT)
3
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax 
Act, 2006
Value Added Tax 
(VAT)
33.78 FY 2009-10
to 2012-13
Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal
4
Maharashtra Value Added 
Tax	Act, 2002
Value Added Tax 
(VAT)
30.18 FY 2015-16
Joint Commissioner (Appeals)
5
Maharashtra Goods and 
Service Tax, 2017
Goods and Service 
Tax (GST)
7.33 FY 2017-18
Deputy Commissioner (ST)
6
Andhra	Pradesh Goods and 
Service Tax, 2017
Goodsand Service  
Tax (GST)
144.85 FY 2017-18
to 2019-20
Assistant Commissioner
7
Tamil Nadu Goods and 
Service Tax, 2017
Goods and Service 
Tax (GST)
76.21 FY 2017-18
Assistant Commissioner
8
Kerala Goods and Service 
Tax, 2017
Goods and Service 
Tax (GST)
1.85 FY 2018-19
Superintendent
9
Karnataka Goods and 
Service Tax, 2017
Goods and Service 
Tax (GST)
17.22 FY 2017-18
Assistant Commissioner
10
Assam Goods and Service 
Tax, 2017
Goods and Service 
Tax (GST)
1.38 FY 2017-18
Assistant Commissioner
viii.	 According to the information provided and explanations given to us, and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of 
account, in the tax assessment under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year and accordingly reporting under 
clause 3 (viii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	
The Company has not availed any loans or borrowings during the year and hence reporting under clause 3 (ix)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared as willful defaulter by 
any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
	
(c)	
The Company has not taken any term loan during the year and hence reporting under clause 3(xi)(c) of the Order is 
not applicable.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, we report that no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
142
143
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
(e)	
The Company does not hold any investment in any subsidiary, associate or joint venture as defined under the Companies 
Act, 2013 during the year and accordingly reporting under clause 3 (ix)(e) and clause 3 (ix)(f) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
x.	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information provided and explanations given to us, and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully, partially or optionally convertible) during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable.
xi.	
(a)	
According to the information and explanations given by the management and based upon the audit procedures 
performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial statements, we report that no fraud by 
the Company or any fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year accordingly reporting under 
clause 3 (xi)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, No report under sub-section 12 of section 143 of the Act, in 
ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) has been filed by the auditors during the year 
and hence clause 3 (xi)(b) of the order is not applicable.
	
(c)	
We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while 
determining the nature, timing and extent of audit.
xii.	
According to the information and explanation given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
xiii.	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the transactions entered with the related parties 
are in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where applicable and details have been disclosed in 
the financial statements as required by the applicable Indian Accounting Standards.
xiv.	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed by us, in our opinion, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date, for the year under audit.
xv.	
According to the information and explanations given to us, in our opinion the Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors and hence provisions of section 192 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required to be registered under section 
45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not conducted any Non-Banking Financial 
or Housing Finance activities.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xvi)(c) and (d) of the Order are not applicable.
xvii.	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, the Company has not incurred cash losses in the financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly reporting under clause 3(xviii) of the 
Order is not applicable.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates 
of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which 
causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable 
of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the information and explanation as made available to us by the management of the Company 
up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-section 
(5) of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 pursuant to any project. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) and (b) 
of the Order are not applicable.
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 009571N/N500006
G N Ramaswami
Partner
Place: Chennai
Membership No. 202363
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: 24202363BKEYVU2311
144
145
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Annexure - B
to the Independent Auditors’ Report
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of 
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (the “Company”) as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit of the financial statements of the Company for the 
year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control with reference to the Financial Statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under 
section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to the 
Financial Statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system with 
reference to the Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to the 
Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls system with reference to the Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to the Financial Statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control with reference to the Financial 
Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be 
detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to the Financial Statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has maintained, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to the Financial Statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal 
control with reference to the Financial Statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India.
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 009571N/N500006
G N Ramaswami
Partner
Place: Chennai
Membership No. 202363
Date: May 14, 2024
UDIN: 24202363BKEYVU2311
146
147
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2024
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I.	
ASSETS
	
(1)	 Non-Current Assets
	
	
(a)	 Property, Plant and Equipment
3.1
13,107.15
13,506.15
	
	
(b)	 Capital Work-in-Progress
3.1.3
552.52
290.94
	
	
(c)	 Other Intangible Assets
3.2
2,600.08
2,785.85
	
	
(d)	 Intangible Assets Under Development
3.2.1
266.45
61.51
	
	
(e)	 Financial Assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3.3
-
34.92
	
	
	
(ii)	 Other Financial Assets
3.4
272.68
282.44
	
	
(f)	 Other Non-Current Assets
3.5
127.00
233.67
	
Total Non-Current Assets
16,925.88
17,195.48
	
(2)	 Current Assets
	
	
(a)	 Inventories
3.6
13,272.87
12,509.43
	
	
(b)	 Financial Assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3.7
3,216.98
-
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade Receivables
3.8
13,187.65
12,370.80
	
	
	
(iii)	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
3.9
4,091.10
3,268.84
	
	
	
(iv)	 Bank Balances other than (iii) above
3.10
423.43
2,890.51
	
	
	
(v)	 Other Financial Assets
3.11
24.19
88.40
	
	
(c)	 Current Tax Assets (net)
3.12
436.82
-
	
	
(d)	 Other Current Assets
3.13
1,911.01
1,947.06
	
Total Current Assets
36,564.05
33,075.04
	
(3)	 Assets Held for Sale
5.3
100.00
-
Total Assets
53,589.93
50,270.52
II.	 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
(a)	 Equity Share Capital
3.14
1,787.96
1,787.96
	
(b)	 Other Equity
3.15
27,430.82
26,776.34
	
Total Equity
29,218.78
28,564.30
	
Liabilities
	
(1)	 Non-Current Liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial Liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Lease Liabilities
3.16
270.72
373.48
	
	
(b)	 Long Term Provisions
3.17
267.83
-
	
	
(c)	 Deferred Tax Liabilities (net)
3.18
576.44
1,130.64
	
Total Non-Current Liabilities
1,114.99
1,504.12
	
(2)	 Current Liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial Liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Lease Liabilities
3.19
102.76
119.90
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade Payables
3.20
	
	
	
	
a)	 Total Outstanding Dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises; and
2,540.99
2,756.93
	
	
	
	
b)	 Total Outstanding Dues of Creditors other than Micro Enterprises  
and Small Enterprises
9,753.06
9,744.03
	
	
	
(iii)	 Other Financial Liabilities
3.21
9,171.79
5,524.71
	
	
(b)	 Other Current Liabilities
3.22
1,031.84
1,054.57
	
	
(c)	 Short Term Provisions
3.23
655.72
875.14
	
	
(d)	 Current Tax Liabilities (net)
3.24
-
126.82
	
Total Current Liabilities
23,256.16
20,202.10
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
53,589.93
50,270.52
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn No. 009571N/N500006
G.N.RAMASWAMI
P.M. MURTY
RANGARAJAN SRIRAM
Partner
Non- Executive Independent Chairman
Managing Director
Membership No. 202363
DIN:00011179
DIN:09550640
A.BALASUBRAMANIAN
V. A.JOSEPH
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:00490921
VIRAL SARVAIYA
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Place: Chennai
Date: May 14, 2024
Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2024
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
2023-24
2022-23
Income
I.	
Revenue from Operations
4.1
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
II.	 Other Income
4.2
485.77
659.03
III.	 Total Income (I+II)
93,614.02
1,06,314.27
IV.	 Expenses
	
Cost of Materials Consumed
4.3
45,135.03
42,692.32
	
Purchase of Stock in Trade
16,033.74
19,315.84
	
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-Trade and Work-in-Progress
4.4
(1,792.99)
4,802.51
	
Employee Benefits Expense
4.5
11,566.13
10,135.64
	
Finance Costs
4.6
642.44
650.59
	
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
4.7
1,806.27
1,615.26
	
Other Expenses
4.8
19,449.00
19,056.78
Total Expenses (IV)
92,839.62
98,268.94
V.	 Profit Before Exceptional Items and Tax (III- IV)
774.40
8,045.33
VI.	 Exceptional Items
5.3
211.54
-
VII.	Profit Before Tax (V- VI)
562.86
8,045.33
VIII.	Tax Expense
	
Current Tax
349.67
2,183.00
	
Deferred Tax (credit)/ charge
(525.79)
695.75
Total Tax Expense (VIII)
(176.12)
2,878.75
IX.	 Profit for the Year (VII- VIII)
738.98
5,166.58
X.	 Other Comprehensive Income
	
Items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss
	
Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial losses
(112.92)
(158.16)
	
Income Tax effect on above
3.18.2
28.42
55.27
(84.50)
(102.89)
XI.	 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (IX+ X)
654.48
5,063.69
XII	 Earnings Per Equity Share ( Face Value of K10 each)
14
	
(1)	 Basic in I
4.13
28.90
	
(2)	 Diluted in I
4.13
28.90
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn No. 009571N/N500006
G.N.RAMASWAMI
P.M. MURTY
RANGARAJAN SRIRAM
Partner
Non- Executive Independent Chairman
Managing Director
Membership No. 202363
DIN:00011179
DIN:09550640
A.BALASUBRAMANIAN
V. A.JOSEPH
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:00490921
VIRAL SARVAIYA
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Place: Chennai
Date: May 14, 2024
148
149
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Statement of Changes In Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2024
A.	 Equity Share Capital
I in Lakhs
Balance as at April 01, 2022
1,787.96
Changes in Equity Share Capital during the year
-
Balance as at March 31, 2023
1,787.96
Changes in Equity Share Capital during the year
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
1,787.96
B.	 Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Revaluation 
Surplus
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income (OCI)
Total
General 
Reserve
Security 
Premium
Capital Profit
Retained 
Earnings
Capital 
Reserve *
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve**
Remeasurement 
of Net Defined 
benefit Liability/ 
Asset
Balance as at April 01, 2022
538.56
9,701.53
1.73
142.10 11,228.38
80.08
20.27 21,712.65
Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
5,166.58
-
-
5,166.58
Movement in Other Comprehensive 
Income for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(102.89)
(102.89)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
538.56
9,701.53
1.73
142.10 16,394.96
80.08
(82.62) 26,776.34
Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
738.98
-
-
738.98
Movement in Other Comprehensive 
Income for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(84.50)
(84.50)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
538.56
9,701.53
1.73
142.10 17,133.94
80.08
(167.12) 27,430.82
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements
*Forfeited Shares (Transferred from Share Capital)
**On Redemption of Preference Shares.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn No. 009571N/N500006
G.N.RAMASWAMI
P.M. MURTY
RANGARAJAN SRIRAM
Partner
Non- Executive Independent Chairman
Managing Director
Membership No. 202363
DIN:00011179
DIN:09550640
A.BALASUBRAMANIAN
V. A.JOSEPH
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:00490921
VIRAL SARVAIYA
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Place: Chennai
Date: May 14, 2024
Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Audited
Audited
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Profit Before Tax
562.86
8,045.33
Adjustments:
	
Interest Income
(284.65)
(289.75)
	
Gain on Sale of Fixed Assets (Net)
(15.08)
(9.51)
	
Interest Expense
642.44
650.59
	
Provision for Bad & Doubtful Debts Created/(Reversal) (Net)
34.85
(134.20)
	
Provision for Warranty
(24.78)
(455.89)
	
Provision for Employee Benefits
37.71
116.42
	
Depreciation and Amortization
1,806.27
1,615.26
	
Impairment of non current assets held for sale
211.54
-
	
Provision for Doubtful Advances
7.62
57.69
	
Other Non Cash Items
(100.80)
99.21
Cash Generated from Operations before Working Capital Changes
2,877.98
9,695.15
Changes in
	
(Increase) In Trade Receivables
(846.90)
(2,958.80)
	
(Increase)/Decrease In Inventory
(763.44)
8,459.71
	
(Increase)/Decrease In Other Current Financial Assets
(39.61)
585.97
	
Decrease In Other Current Assets
33.60
573.48
	
Decrease In Other Non-Current Financial Assets
5.43
87.07
	
Decrease/(Increase) In Other Non-Current Asset
5.50
(13.94)
	
Decrease In Trade Payables Current
(204.77)
(1,303.87)
	
(Decrease)/Increase In Other Current Liabilities
(29.22)
246.79
	
Increase/(Decrease) In Other Current Financial Liabilities
3,701.62
(1,337.47)
	
Decrease In Short Term/Long Term Provisions
(77.43)
-
Cash Generated from Operations
4,662.76
14,034.09
	
Income Taxes paid (net)
(978.03)
(1,875.30)
Net Cash Generated from Operating Activities
3,684.73
12,158.79
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including assets under 
development & capital advances) 
(1,900.96)
(1,036.39)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
54.80
369.77
Decrease/(Increase) in Fixed Deposit
2,500.00
(2,500.00)
Proceeds from Sale of Units in Mutual Funds
5,146.00
-
Investment in Units of Mutual Funds
(8,260.00)
-
Interest Received
348.86
228.88
Net Cash used in Investing Activities
(2,111.30)
(2,937.74)
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
151
Annual Report 2023-24
150
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Audited
Audited
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Repayment of Long Term Borrowings
-
(935.88)
Repayment of Short Term Borrowings
-
(4,290.59)
Repayment of lease Liability
(115.57)
(179.37)
Interest on lease liability
(53.95)
(43.99)
Interest Paid
(581.73)
(623.17)
Net Cash used in Financing Activities
(751.25)
(6,073.00)
Effect of Exchange Rate on Translation of Foreign Currency Cash and Cash Equivalents Gain
0.08
0.31
Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
822.18
3,148.05
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the Year
3,268.84
120.48
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year
4,091.10
3,268.84
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents (Refer Note 3.9)
Cash on Hand
0.27
8.42
Balances with Banks
290.83
3,260.42
Fixed Deposits
3,800.00
-
Total Cash and Cash Equivalents
4,091.10
3,268.84
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements
Note:
(i)	
The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows as specified in the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards), Rules, 2015 
(as amended).
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ASA & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn No. 009571N/N500006
G.N.RAMASWAMI
P.M. MURTY
RANGARAJAN SRIRAM
Partner
Non- Executive Independent Chairman
Managing Director
Membership No. 202363
DIN:00011179
DIN:09550640
A.BALASUBRAMANIAN
V. A.JOSEPH
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:00490921
VIRAL SARVAIYA
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Place: Chennai
Date: May 14, 2024
Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1.	 Corporate Information:
	
‘Gandhimathi Appliances Limited’, was originally 
incorporated as Private Limited Company on February 24, 
1986 and was converted into a Public Limited Company 
on April 25, 1990. The name of the Company was changed 
to ‘Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited’ (“BGMAL”), 
with effect from October 25, 2011. BGMAL is listed with 
Bombay Stock Exchange (“BSE”) and National Stock 
Exchange (“NSE”). BGMAL is involved in manufacturing 
and Trading of a wide range of domestic kitchen and 
electrical appliances under the brand ‘BUTTERFLY’. 
BGMAL is domiciled in India and it has its Registered 
Office at Chennai, India. It is a subsidiary of Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (“Crompton”) w.e.f. 
March 30, 2022.
2.	 Summary of Material Accounting Policies
2.1	 Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements
2.1.1	Statement of Compliance
	
The financial statements comprising Balance Sheet, 
Statement of Profit and Loss, Cash flow Statement and 
Statement of changes in Equity, together with notes as at 
and for the year ended March 31, 2024 have been prepared 
in accordance with Ind AS’s notified under Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, other relevant 
provision of the Act and amendments there to.
2.1.2	Historical Cost convention
	
The Financial Statements have been prepared under 
historical cost convention on accrual basis except for 
certain assets and liabilities as stated in the respective 
policies, which have been measured at fair value.
2.1.3	Current / Non-Current classification
	
The assets and liabilities have been classified as current or 
non-current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle 
and other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Act. 
Based on the nature of products and the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in 
cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained 
its operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current 
and non-current classification of assets and liabilities. 
Accordingly, all assets and liabilities have been classified 
as current or non-current as per the Company’s operating 
cycle and other criteria set out in Ind AS-1 ‘Presentation of 
Financial Statements’ and Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013. Cash or cash equivalent is treated as current, 
unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
2.1.4	Functional and Presentation currency
	
Items included in the Financial Statements of the Company 
are measured and presented using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the Company 
operates (“Functional Currency”). Indian Rupee is the 
Functional and Presentation Currency of the Company.
2.2	 Revenue recognition
2.2.1	Revenue from Sale of Goods / Services
	
Revenue from sale of goods / services are recognised on 
satisfaction of performance obligations and at transaction 
price (net of variable consideration) as per the terms of 
the contract with customers. Revenue is stated at net of 
returns and taxes on sales. Variable consideration shall 
include discounts and schemes offered by the company 
as part of the contract.
2.2.2	 Interest Income
	
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest 
rate method. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying 
amount of a financial asset.
2.3	 Property Plant and Equipment
2.3.1	Tangible Assets
	
All property plant and equipment are stated at historical 
cost of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment, if any. Historical cost includes purchase 
price, taxes and duties (net of tax credits), labour cost 
and directly attributable overhead expenditure incurred 
upto the date the asset is ready for its intended use.
	
The Cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost 
of materials, direct labour and any other costs directly 
attributable to bringing the asset to a working conditions 
for its intended use.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as separate 
asset is derecognized when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to Profit or Loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
152
153
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
2.3.2 Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
	
Identifiable intangible assets are recognized when the 
Company controls the asset; it is probable that future 
economic benefits expected with the respective assets 
will flow to the Company for more than one economic 
period; and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Amortisation is provided on Straight Line Method (SLM), 
which reflect the management’s estimate of the useful life 
of the intangible assets.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually 
to determine if a reset of such useful life is required for 
assets. Based on such review, the useful life may change. 
The impact of such changes, if any, is accounted for as a 
change in accounting estimate.
	
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over 
the useful economic life and assessed for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset 
may be impaired. The amortisation expense on intangible 
assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of 
carrying value of another asset
Intangible Asset
Useful Life
Product Development
3 - 5 years
Software
6 - 10 years
Usage Right of Trade Mark/Trade  
Mark and Licence
20 - 25 years.
2.3.3	Impairment of assets
	
Assessment is done at each Balance Sheet date as to 
whether there is any indication that an asset (tangible 
and intangible) may be impaired. If any such indication 
exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the 
asset/ cash generating unit is made. For the purpose of 
assessing impairment, the smallest identifiable group of 
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows from 
other assets or groups of assets, is considered as a cash 
generating unit. Assets whose carrying value exceeds their 
recoverable amount are written down to the recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is higher of cash generating 
unit’s net selling price and its value in use. Value in use is 
the present value of estimated future cash flows expected 
to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its 
disposal at the end of its useful life. Assessment is also 
done at each Balance Sheet date as to whether there is 
any indication that an impairment loss recognised for an 
asset in prior accounting periods may no longer exist or 
may have decreased.
2.4	 Depreciation
	
The depreciable amount of an item of Property, Plant and 
Equipment (PPE) is allocated on a straight-line basis over 
its useful life as prescribed in the manner specified in 
Schedule II of the Act.
Tangible Assets 
Useful Life  
in Years
Buildings
5 to 30
Plant and Machinery
15
Dies, Tools and Equipment
8
Electrical Equipment
10
Office Equipment
5
Furniture and Fittings
10
Vehicles
8 to 10
IT Assets
3 to 6
	
The useful lives used are in agreement with those 
specified in Part ‘C’ of Schedule II to the Companies Act, 
2013 except in respect of following category of property, 
plant and equipment where the useful life is considered 
differently based on technical evaluation, taking into 
account the nature of the asset and the estimated usage 
basis management’s best judgement of economic benefits 
from those classes of assets.
	
Management believes that such estimated useful lives are 
realistic and reflect a fair approximation of the period over 
which the assets are likely to be used.
	
-	
Roads - maximum 3 years
	
If part of an item of PPE with a cost that is significant in 
relation to the total cost of the asset and useful life of that 
part is different from remaining part of the asset; such 
significant part is depreciated separately.
	
Depreciation is charged on pro-rata basis from the 
date of addition (i.e., when the assets are ready for their 
intended use) / till the date of disposal. An item of PPE is 
derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of 
the asset. Gains or losses on such disposal of assets are 
recognised in statement of profit and loss.
	
Where the residual values are not more than 5% of original 
cost of the asset no depreciation is provided.
2.5	 Borrowing Costs
	
The Company capitalises borrowing costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of qualifying asset as a part of the cost of the asset. 
The Company recognises other borrowing costs as an 
expense in the period in which it incurs them. A qualifying 
asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
	
To the extent the Company borrows generally and uses 
them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, 
amount of borrowing cost eligible for capitalization 
is computed by applying a capitalization rate to the 
expenditure incurred. The capitalization rate is determined 
based on the weighted average of borrowing costs, other 
than borrowings made specifically towards purchase of a 
qualifying asset.
2.6	 Foreign Currency Translation
2.6.1	Functional and presentation currency
	
Items included in the financial statements are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Company operates (‘the functional currency’). 
i.e in Indian rupee (INR - I.)
2.6.2	Transaction and Balances
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in functional 
currency using the exchange rates prevailing on the date of 
transaction. As at the reporting date, non-monetary items 
which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated 
in a foreign currency are reported using the exchange 
rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. All monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency 
are restated at the closing exchange rates. Exchange 
differences arising out of foreign currency transactions 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
2.7	 Inventories
2.7.1	Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (computed on 
moving weighted average basis) and net realizable value
2.7.2	Cost includes the cost of purchase including duties 
and taxes (net of tax credit), freight inward and other 
expenditure directly attributable to purchase.
	
Cost of work in progress and finished goods comprises of 
all direct costs and applicable manufacturing overheads 
incurred to bringing the inventories to the present location 
and condition.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make 
the sale.
2.8	 Employee Benefits
2.8.1	Defined Benefit Plan:
	
Provision for gratuity, is made on the basis of actuarial 
valuation using the projected unit credit method. Re-
measurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, 
the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling and the 
return on plan assets excluding interest (if applicable), is 
reflected immediately in the balance sheet with a charge 
or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the 
period in which they occur. Re-measurement recognized 
in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in 
retained earnings and will not be reclassified to Statement 
of Profit or Loss.
	
Past service cost is recognized in Statement of profit and 
loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is 
calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning 
of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. 
Defined benefit costs are categorized as follows:
•	 Service cost (including current service cost, past 
service cost as well as gains and losses on curtailments 
and settlements);
•	 Net interest expense or income; and
•	 Re-measurement.
	
The Company presents the first two components of 
defined benefit costs in statement profit and loss in the 
line item “Employee Benefits Expenses”. Curtailment 
gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. 
The defined benefit obligation recognized in the balance 
sheet represents the actual deficit or surplus in the 
Company’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting 
from this calculation is limited to the present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of reductions in 
future contributions to the plans.
2.8.2	Defined Contribution Plan:
	
Company’s contributions during the year towards 
provident fund, pension scheme and employees’ state 
insurance (‘ESI’) scheme are recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
2.8.3	Other Long Term Employee Benefits:
	
Compensated absences: Accumulated compensated 
absences, which are expected to be availed or encashed 
within 12 months from the end of the year are treated as 
short term employee benefits. Those that are expected 
to be encashed after 12 months from the end of the year 
are treated as other long-term employee benefits. The 
obligation towards the same is measured at the expected 
cost of accumulating compensated absences as the 
additional amount expected to be paid as a result of the 
unused entitlement as at the year end. The obligation 
is measured on the basis of an annual independent 
actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method. 
Remeasurements gains or losses are recognised in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise.
2.8.4 Short term employee benefits obligations are measured 
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the 
related services provided. A liability is recognized for the 
amount expected to be paid under short-term employee 
benefits if the company has a present legal or constructive 
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
154
155
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service 
provided by the employee and the obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
2.9 Taxes on Income
	
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax 
and deferred tax.
2.9.1	Current Tax
	
The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before tax’ as reported 
in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income because of items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Company’s current tax 
is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts and it is intended to settle the liability on a net 
basis or simultaneously.
2.9.2	Deferred Tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet 
approach on temporary differences at the reporting date 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the 
reporting date.
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each 
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax assets to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the 
liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset 
if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current income tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the 
same taxation authority.
	
The break-up of the major components of the deferred 
tax assets and liabilities as at balance sheet date has 
been arrived at after setting off deferred tax assets and 
l iabilities where the Company has a legally enforceable 
right to set-off assets against liabilities and where such 
assets and liabilities relate to taxes on income levied by 
the same governing taxation laws.
2.9.3	Current and Deferred Tax for the year
	
Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, 
except when they relate to items that are recognized in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, 
the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
2.10	Provisions and Contingent Liabilities
2.10.1	Provisions
	
A provision is recorded when the Company has a present 
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation.
	
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. 
A provision is reversed when it is no longer probable that 
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation.
	
Provision for warranty claims is recognised at the time of 
sale based on the historical experience. Initial estimate of 
warranty expense is reviewed annually.
2.10.2	Contingent Liabilities
	
Contingent liabilities are disclosed when there is a 
possible obligation arising from past events, the existence 
of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly within the control of the Company. Show cause 
notices are not considered as Contingent Liabilities unless 
converted into demand.
2.11	Leases
	
The Company’s leases primarily consist of leases for certain 
plant and machinery, Vehicles and warehouse. The Company, 
being a lessee, assesses whether a contract contains a lease, 
at inception of a contract. Company recognises Right of Use 
Asset and lease liability only when the contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time 
in exchange for consideration.
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognised at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
Right-of-use assets, for which the entity is reasonably 
certain to exercise the right to purchase are depreciated 
from the commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost 
at the present value of the future lease payments. The 
lease payments are discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using 
the incremental borrowing rates.
	
For the short-term and low value leases, the Company 
recognises the lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
2.12	Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and 
other short-term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
2.13	Financial Assets
2.13.1 Classification
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following 
measurement categories:
	
(i)	
Those measured subsequently at fair value through 
profit or loss (in case of investments in mutual funds)
	
(ii)	
Those measured at amortised cost
2.13.2 Measurement
	
Initial Recognition Measurement
	
Financial assets are recognised when the company 
becomes party to the contract. The Company measures 
a financial asset initially at its fair value, plus in the case 
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit 
or loss (FVTPL), transaction costs that are attributable to 
the acquisition of the financial asset. Trade receivables 
that do not contain a significant financing component are 
measured at transaction price.
2.13.3 Subsequent Measurement
	
2.13.3.1 Investments
	
	
Investments are subsequently measured at Fair 
value through Profit and loss. Income or loss from 
these financial assets is included in other income or 
other expenses.
	
2.13.3.2 Other Financial Assets
	
	
After Initial Measurement, financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method (EIR method). 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium and fees or cost that are an 
integral part of EIR. The EIR amortization is included 
in finance income in the statement of profit and loss. 
The losses arising from impairment are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss
2.13.4 Impairment of Financial Assets
	
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the 
expected credit losses associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been significant increase in 
credit risk. Note 7.2 details how the Company determines 
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified 
approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments, 
which requires Expected Credit Losses (ECL) to be 
recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
	
The application of simplified approach does not require 
the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, 
it recognises impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECLs at each Balance Sheet date, right from its 
initial recognition
2.13.5 De recognition of Financial Assets
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company’s 
balance sheet) when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired.
2.14 Financial Liabilities
2.14.1 Classification
	
The Company classifies all financial liabilities as 
subsequently measured at amortised cost.
2.14.2 Initial recognition and measurement
	
The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other 
payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts. 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value 
and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs.
2.14.3 Loans and Borrowings
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the liabilities 
are derecognised.
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is 
included as finance costs in the Statement of Profit and 
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
156
157
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Loss. This category generally applies to interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings.
2.14.4 De-recognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under 
the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an 
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the 
same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of 
the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
2.14.5 Offsetting of Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
2.15	Derivative Financial Instruments
	
The Company enters into forward contract to manage 
its exposure to foreign currency exchange risks. These 
derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
under Ind AS 109, are initially recognized at fair value on 
the date the contract is entered into and subsequently 
measured through at profit or loss. Gains or loss arising 
from changes in the fair value of the derivative contracts 
are recognized in statement of profit and loss.
2.16	Dividend to Shareholders
	
Final dividend proposed and distributed to equity 
shareholders is recognized only in the financial year in 
which it is approved by the members of the Company 
in the Annual General Meeting. Interim dividend is 
recognized when approved by the Board of Directors at 
the Board Meeting. Dividend distributed is recognized in 
the Statement of Changes in Equity.
2.17	Earnings Per Share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted for the effects of 
all dilutive potential equity shares.
2.18	Segment Information
	
The Company has identified “Domestic Appliances” as a 
only reportable segment based on the manner in which 
operating results are reviewed by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (CODM).
2.19	Prior Period
	
Errors of material amount relating to prior period(s) are 
disclosed by a note with nature of prior period errors, 
amount of correction of each such prior period presented 
retrospectively, to the extent practicable along with 
change in basic and diluted earnings per share. However 
where retrospective restatement is not practicable for a 
particular period then the circumstances that led to the 
existence of that condition and the description of how and 
from where the error is corrected are disclosed in notes 
forming part of Financial statements.
2.20	Cash Flow Statement
	
Cash flow statement is prepared in accordance with the 
indirect method prescribed in Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash 
Flows’.
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby profit/ (loss) before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of non cash nature and any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments. Cash 
flow for the year is classified as operating, investing and 
financing activities.
2.21	Critical Estimates & Judgements
	
The preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with the generally accepted accounting principles 
requires management to make certain estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets 
and liabilities as of the balance sheet date and reported 
revenue and expenses for the year and disclosure of 
contingent liabilities as of the date of balance sheet. The 
estimates and assumptions used in the accompanying 
financial statements are based upon the management’s 
evaluation of the relevant circumstances as of the date 
of financial statements. Actual amounts could differ from 
these estimates.
2.22	Rounding of Amounts
	
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and 
notes are presented in INR lakhs and has been rounded 
off to two decimals as per the requirements of Division II 
of schedule III to the Act, unless otherwise stated.
3.1 - Property, Plant and Equipment
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Land 
- Free Hold
Buildings
Plant and 
Equipment
Tools and 
Dies
Electrical 
Installations 
and 
Equipment
Office 
Equipment
Vehicles
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Total
Gross Book Value
As at April 01, 2022
4,020.02
3,270.40
5,409.31
3,285.10
738.61
464.52
678.52
889.17 18,755.65
Additions during the year
55.01
206.87
850.61
544.44
85.40
81.60
-
14.37
1,838.30
Deletions during the year
-
(1.62)
(107.95)
(480.19)
(10.05)
(41.64)
(555.11)
(7.15)
(1,203.71)
As at March 31, 2023
4,075.03
3,475.65
6,151.97
3,349.35
813.96
504.48
123.41
896.39 19,390.24
Additions during the year
-
17.63
780.71
179.41
58.47
329.80
93.74
63.06
1,522.82
Deletions during the year*
-
(41.72)
(615.15)
-
(11.28)
(6.43)
(80.60)
(2.63)
(757.81)
As at March 31, 2024
4,075.03
3,451.56
6,317.53
3,528.76
861.15
827.85
136.55
956.82 20,155.25
Depreciation
As at April 01, 2022
-
724.20
1,848.39
1,447.47
291.85
256.23
231.40
583.32
5,382.86
Charge for the year
-
130.12
544.56
427.14
69.81
69.65
41.15
62.26
1,344.69
Deletions during the year
-
(1.62)
(107.95)
(480.19)
(5.23)
(36.61)
(204.71)
(7.15)
(843.46)
As at March 31, 2023
-
852.70
2,285.00
1,394.42
356.43
289.27
67.84
638.43
5,884.09
Charge for the year
-
132.73
563.49
428.49
85.28
177.42
7.72
89.81
1,484.94
Deletions during the year*
-
(14.93)
(248.08)
-
(7.03)
(6.18)
(43.22)
(1.49)
(320.93)
As at March 31, 2024
-
970.50
2,600.41
1,822.91
434.68
460.51
32.34
726.75
7,048.10
Net Book Value
As at March 31, 2024
4,075.03
2,481.06
3,717.12
1,705.85
426.47
367.34
104.21
230.07 13,107.15
As at March 31, 2023
4,075.03
2,622.95
3,866.97
1,954.93
457.53
215.21
55.57
257.96 13,506.15
*Refer Note - 5.3
3.1.1.	Plant and Equipment includes Right of Use Assets (‘ROU’).
3.1.2.	Following are the changes in the carrying value of ROU for the year ended March 31, 2024:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
710.53
175.58
Add: Additions during the year
-
567.28
Less: Amortization during the year
48.43
32.33
Less: Disposal during the year
85.61
-
As at 31st March
576.49
710.53
3.1.3 - Capital Work-in- Progress (‘CWIP’) Movement
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
290.94
550.42
Add: Additions during the year
1,269.56
768.46
Less: Capitalized during the year
1,007.98
1,027.94
As at 31st March
552.52
290.94
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
158
159
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3.1.4 CWIP Ageing schedule
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress
376.18
23.75
-
-
399.93
Projects temporarily suspended
-
106.76
45.83
-
152.59
Total
376.18
130.51
45.83
-
552.52
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress
200.94
90.00
-
-
290.94
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
200.94
90.00
-
-
290.94
CWIP where completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan is Nil (Previous year Nil).
Notes
1.	
The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) during the current or previous year.
2.	
Refer Note 20(b) for details of assets given as security for working capital facility availed.
3.2 - Other Intangible Assets
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Usage Right of 
Trade Mark
Trade Mark and 
License
Computer 
Software
Product 
Development
Total
As at April 01, 2022
176.00
4,297.50
445.09
-
4,918.59
Additions during the year
-
-
33.21
-
33.21
As at March 31, 2023
176.00
4,297.50
478.30
-
4,951.80
Additions during the year
-
-
36.45
99.11
135.56
As at March 31, 2024
176.00
4,297.50
514.75
99.11
5,087.36
Amortization
As at April 01, 2022
96.00
1,432.50
366.88
-
1,895.38
Amortization for the year
16.00
238.75
15.82
-
270.57
As at March 31, 2023
112.00
1,671.25
382.70
-
2,165.95
Amortization for the year
16.00
238.75
51.44
15.14
321.33
As at March 31, 2024
128.00
1,910.00
434.14
15.14
2,487.28
Net Book Value
As at March 31, 2024
48.00
2,387.50
80.61
83.97
2,600.08
As at March 31, 2023
64.00
2,626.25
95.60
-
2,785.85
3.2.1 - Intangible Assets under development (‘IAUD’)
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
61.51
69.89
Add: Additions during the year
340.50
24.82
Less: Capitalized during the year
135.56
33.20
As at 31st March
266.45
61.51
3.2.2 IAUD Ageing schedule
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in Progress
214.06
-
10.45
41.94
266.45
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
214.06
-
10.45
41.94
266.45
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in Progress
9.12
10.45
-
41.94
61.51
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
9.12
10.45
-
41.94
61.51
IAUD where completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan is Nil (Previous year Nil).
Note:
The Company has not revalued its intangible assets during the current or previous year.
3.3 - Investments - Non Current 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments in Mutual Funds (Quoted)
Reliance - Nippon India large cap fund - Growth plan growth option Nil units (Previous Year 
30,777.754 units)
-
16.62
SBI - Equity hybrid fund regular growth Nil units (Previous Year 9233.593 units)
-
18.30
Total
-
34.92
3.3.1 Aggregate amount of Quoted Investments
-	
Cost
-
20.00
-	
Market Value
-
34.92
Notes:
1.	
The investments is in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	
Refer Note 6.4 for information about fair value measurement and Note 7.2 for credit risk of investments.
3.4 - Other Financial Assets - Non-Current
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(unsecured, considered good)
Long Term Security Deposit
229.28
254.19
Deposits with Authorities
43.40
28.25
Total
272.68
282.44
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
160
161
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3.5 - Other Non-Current Assets
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Tax Payments pending adjustments (net)
64.72
-
Capital Advances (net)
48.67
211.57
Other Receivables
13.61
22.10
Total
127.00
233.67
3.6 - Inventories
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(At lower of cost and net realisable value)
Raw Materials and Components (Refer Note 3.6.1 below)
3,438.36
4,458.50
Work in Progress
1,036.56
1,148.95
Finished Goods
4,084.04
3,475.69
Traded Goods
4,223.19
2,926.16
Stores
490.72
500.13
Total
13,272.87
12,509.43
Note: Refer Note 20(b) for details of assets given as security for working capital facility availed.
3.6.1 Includes Goods-in-transit
156.23
-
3.7 - Investments - Current 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments in Mutual Funds (Quoted)
SBI Liquid Fund Direct Plan - Growth Option 7963.896 units (Previous Year Nil units)
300.98
-
Tata Liquid Fund Direct Plan - Growth Option 48891.547 units (Previous Year Nil units )
1,862.89
-
Nippon India Liquid Fund Direct Plan - Growth Option 17822.34 units (Previous Year Nil units)
1,053.11
-
Total
3,216.98
-
3.7.1 Aggregate amount of Quoted Investments
-	
Cost
3,200.00
-
-	
Market Value
3,216.98
-
Notes:
1.	
The investments is in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	
Refer Note 6.4 for information about fair value measurement and Note 7.2 for credit risk of investments.
3.8 - Trade Receivables
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables (valued at amortised cost)
Considered Good - Secured
170.22
174.10
Considered Good - Unsecured
13,104.42
12,239.32
Have Significant increase in Credit Risk
10.06
459.06
Credit impaired
1,088.12
648.64
14,372.82
13,521.12
Less:
Impairment for Trade Receivable under expected credit loss model
1,185.17
1,150.32
Total
13,187.65
12,370.80
Notes:
1.	
The net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
2.	
No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person 
or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.
3.	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms of 30 to 45 days. The Company does not hold 
any collateral security.
4.	
Refer Note 7 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment losses for trade 
receivables and fair values.
5.	
Details with respect to Related Parties details are disclosed in Note 17.
6.	
Refer Note 20(b) for details of assets given as security for working capital facility availed.
3.8.1 Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables –  
considered good
4,654.84
7,014.25
1,312.62
292.93
-
-
13,274.64
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
9.31
-
9.31
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables –  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
69.11
69.11
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
0.75
-
0.75
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables –  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
1,019.01
1,019.01
Total
4,654.84
7,014.25
1,312.62
292.93
10.06
1,088.12
14,372.82
Less:
Impairment for Trade Receivable under  
expected credit loss model
-
49.23
13.12
29.29
5.41
1,088.12
1,185.17
Total
4,654.84
6,965.02
1,299.50
263.64
4.65
-
13,187.65
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
162
163
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables –  
considered good
7,427.66
4,504.73
55.25
412.57
-
-
12,400.21
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which  
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
48.54
-
48.54
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables –  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
47.11
47.11
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
-
-
-
13.21
-
-
13.21
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
410.52
-
410.52
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables –  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
601.53
601.53
Total
7,427.66
4,504.73
55.25
425.78
459.06
648.64
13,521.12
Less:
Impairment for Trade Receivable under expected 
credit loss model
-
11.91
0.55
54.46
434.76
648.64
1,150.32
Total
7,427.66
4,492.82
54.70
371.32
24.30
-
12,370.80
3.9 - Cash and Cash Equivalents
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i)	
Balances with Banks
290.83
3,260.42
ii)	 Cash on Hand (Refer Note 3.9.1 below)
0.27
8.42
iiI)	 Fixed Deposit (Original Maturity Less than 3 Months)
3,800.00
-
Total
4,091.10
3,268.84
3.9.1 Includes INR equivalent of Foreign Currency
 0.25 
 4.88 
3.10 - Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed Deposit (Original Maturity more than 3 Months less than 12 Months)
-
2,500.00
Earmarked balances with banks
Bank Balances held as Margin Money
393.77
354.16
Unpaid Dividend account
29.66
36.35
Total
423.43
2,890.51
3.11 - Other Current Financial Assets
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(unsecured, considered good)
Interest Accrued on Fixed Deposit
24.19
88.40
Total
24.19
88.40
3.12 - Current Tax Asset (net)
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Prepaid Taxes and Refund Due
973.64
-
Less:Provision for Income Tax
536.82
-
Total
436.82
-
3.13 - Other Current Assets
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(unsecured, considered good)
Balances with Indirect tax authorities
618.84
505.97
Prepaid Expenses
321.21
326.79
Advances to Suppliers
415.31
516.12
Rent Advance
424.02
411.49
Loans and Advances to Employees
100.29
157.53
Others
31.34
29.16
Total
1,911.01
1,947.06
Note: Refer Note 20(b) for details of assets given as security for working capital facility availed.
3.14 - Equity Share Capital
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Authorised Share Capital
4,00,00,000 Equity Shares of I10/- each
4,000.00
4,000.00
Total
4,000.00
4,000.00
Issued, Subscribed And Paid Up
1,78,79,551 Equity Shares of I10/- each, Fully Paid Up
1,787.96
1,787.96
Total
1,787.96
1,787.96
3.14.1 Reconciliation of the equity share outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Nos.
K in Lakhs
Nos.
K in Lakhs
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,78,79,551
1,787.96
1,78,79,551
1,787.96
Issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
1,78,79,551
1,787.96
1,78,79,551
1,787.96
3.14.2 Terms / Rights attached to Equity Shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of I10/- per share. The holders of the equity shares are 
entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to voting rights proportionate to their share holding 
at the meetings of shareholders.
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining assets of 
the company in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders, after distribution of all preferential amounts. 
However, no such preferential amounts exist currently.
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
164
165
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3.14.3 Shares held by holding Company and/or their subsidiaries/ associates
Name of the Company
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Nos.
K in Lakhs
Nos.
K in Lakhs
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited  
(Holding Company)
1,34,09,663
1,340.97
1,34,09,663
1,340.97
3.14.4 Details of Shareholders Holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Nos.
% of Holding
 Nos. 
% of Holding
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
 1,34,09,663 
75.00%
 1,34,09,663 
75.00%
3.14.5 There are no bonus shares issued, share issued for consideration other than cash and shares bought back during the period 
of five years immediately preceding the reporting date.
3.14.6 There are no shares reserved for issue under options and contracts/ commitments for the sale of shares/ disinvestment.
3.14.7 The company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed dividend amount declared in August 2016 to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (IEPF) fund on October 21, 2023. This transfer was delayed by 10 days due to a technical error faced while 
filing the form on the Ministry of Corporate Affairs website.
3.14.8 Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2024
No. of Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% Change 
during the year
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
1,34,09,663
75.00%
-
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2024
No. of Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% Change 
during the year
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
1,34,09,663
75.00%
-
3.15 Other Equity
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
General Reserve
538.56
538.56
Security Premium
9,701.53
9,701.53
Capital Reserve 
1.73
1.73
Capital Redemption Reserve
142.10
142.10
Retained Earnings
17,133.94
16,394.96
Revaluation Surplus
80.08
80.08
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
(167.12)
(82.62)
Total
27,430.82
26,776.34
Nature and purpose of reserves
General Reserve
General reserve was created for declaration of dividends as per statutory requirement.
Security Premium
Security Premium represents premium on preferential shares issued (net of issue expenses).
Capital reserve
Capital reserve was created on forfeiture of shares as per statutory requirement.
Capital Redemption Reserve
Capital redemption reserve was created on Redemption of Preference Shares as per statutory requirement.
Retained Earnings
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, net-off any transfers to general reserve, dividends or 
other distributions paid to shareholders.
Revaluation Surplus
Gains/losses arising on the revaluation of the Company’s owned properties. On disposal of the asset, the balance of the revaluation 
reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Non Current Liabilities
3.16 - Lease Liability - Non Current
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lease Liability
373.48
493.38
Less: Current Maturities of Lease Liability
102.76
119.90
Total
270.72
373.48
3.17 - Long Term Provisions 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Compensated Absences
267.83
-
Total
267.83
-
3.18 - Deferred Tax Liabilities
3.18.1 Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities are attributable to the following:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Liability
Property, Plant and Equipment
1,017.73
1,702.09
Others
4.27
-
Right of Use Assets
145.09
248.29
Sub Total
1,167.09
1,950.38
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
227.60
303.82
Provision for Advances
31.44
58.44
Financial Guarantee
0.49
11.17
Remeasurements of defined benefit plan acturial gains - OCI
73.91
45.49
Employee Benefits
159.81
228.41
Lease Liability
94.00
172.41
Others
3.40
-
Sub Total
590.65
819.74
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities
(576.44)
(1,130.64)
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
166
167
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Movement in Deferred Tax balances during the year ended March 31, 2024
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Balance As at 
April 01, 2023
Recognised in 
Profit & Loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Balance As at 
March 31, 2024
Property, Plant and Equipment
(1,702.09)
684.36
-
(1,017.73)
Right of Use Assets
(248.29)
103.20
-
(145.09)
Provision for Advances
58.44
(27.00)
-
31.44
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
303.82
(76.22)
-
227.60
Financial Guarantee
11.17
(10.68)
-
0.49
Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plan
45.49
-
28.42
73.91
Employee Benefits
228.41
(68.60)
-
159.81
Lease Liability 
172.41
(78.41)
-
94.00
Others
-
(0.87)
-
(0.87)
Total
(1,130.64)
525.78
28.42
(576.44)
Movement in Deferred Tax balances during the year ended March 31, 2023
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Balance As at 
April 01, 2022
Recognised in 
Profit & Loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Balance As at 
March 31, 2023
Property, Plant and Equipment
(1,762.85)
60.76
-
(1,702.09)
Right of Use Assets
(61.35)
(186.94)
-
(248.29)
Provision for Advances
33.15
25.29
-
58.44
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
350.72
(46.90)
-
303.82
Financial Guarantee
9.95
1.22
-
11.17
MAT Credit Entitlement
798.34
(798.34)
-
-
Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plan
(9.78)
-
55.27
45.49
Employee Benefits
114.80
113.61
-
228.41
Lease Liability
36.86
135.55
-
172.41
Total
(490.16)
(695.75)
55.27
(1,130.64)
Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets -Nil (P.Y Nil)
3.18.2 Tax Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Defined benefit plan Acturial Gains
28.42
55.27
Total
28.42
55.27
3.18.3 Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rates
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit Before Tax
562.86
8,045.33
Enacted tax Rate (under Normal Provisions)
25.17%
34.94%
Computed Expected Tax Expenses - Normal Provision
141.66
2,811.36
Non-deductible expenses
239.73
214.10
Others
(3.30)
-
OCI Expenses
(28.42)
(55.27)
MAT Credit Entitlement
-
(787.20)
Current Tax
349.67
2,183.00
Deferred Tax (Credit)/Charges
(525.79)
695.75
Tax (Credit)/Expenses for the year
(176.12)
2,878.75
As the Company is liable to pay tax under normal provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961, the effective tax rate reconciliation has 
been presented as per the rate applicable for Current Tax.
Current Liabilities
3.19 - Lease Liability - Current
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Maturities of Lease Liability
102.76
119.90
Total
102.76
119.90
3.20 - Trade Payables 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade Payables
-	
Total Outstanding Dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises; and
2,540.99
2,756.93
-	
Total Outstanding Dues of Creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
9,753.06
9,744.03
Total
12,294.05
12,500.96
Note - Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 90 day terms.
3.20.1 Details as required under MSME Act, 2006 - Refer Note 9
3.20.2 Trade Payables Ageing Schedule
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Payment
Total
No Due
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
2,527.47
13.53
-
-
-
2,541.00
(ii)	 Others
6,449.94
3,118.87
178.28
5.96
-
9,753.05
(iii)	 Disputed Dues- MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Dues- Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
8,977.41
3,132.40
178.28
5.96
-
12,294.05
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of Payment
Total
No Due
Less than 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
2,744.49
12.44
-
-
-
2,756.93
(ii)	 Others
7,324.14
2,052.11
362.83
4.95
-
9,744.03
(iii)	 Disputed Dues- MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Dues- Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
10,068.63
2,064.55
362.83
4.95
-
12,500.96
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
168
169
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
3.21 - Other Financial Liabilities 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Creditors for Capital Goods and Services*
56.41
81.00
Unclaimed Dividends
29.66
36.35
Payable to Employees
466.24
568.19
Security Deposits from Customers
269.03
296.18
Financial Guarantee Liability
1.93
31.95
Derivative Liabilities
339.71
134.97
Provision for Expenses
8,008.81
4,376.07
Total
9,171.79
5,524.71
* Includes payable to MSME I8.43 lakhs (Previous Year I26.47 lakhs)
Note: Financial guarantee liability is towards First Loss Default Guarantee (FLDG) provided by the company to financial institutions
3.22 - Other Current Liabilities
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Statutory Liabilities
439.63
558.71
Advance from Customers
536.58
446.72
Others
55.63
49.14
Total
1,031.84
1,054.57
3.23 - Short Term Provision 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Gratuity
264.73
288.48
Provision for Compensated Absences
29.10
199.99
Provision for Warranties
361.89
386.67
Total
655.72
875.14
3.24 - Current Tax Liabilities (net) 
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Income Tax
-
2,316.66
Less: Advance Tax and Tax Deducted at Source
-
2,189.84
Total
-
126.82
4.1 - Revenue From Operations
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Sale of Products
91,945.55
1,04,191.05
Other Operating Revenue - Scrap Sales
1,182.70
1,464.19
Total
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
4.2 - Other Income
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Change in fair value of Financial Assets
68.06
0.52
Interest income from Financial Assets measured at Amortised cost
284.65
289.75
Profit on Sale of Asset
15.08
9.51
Exchange Fluctuation (net)
30.88
66.45
Other Income
87.10
160.48
Provision for Bad & Doubtful Debts written back
-
132.32
Total
485.77
659.03
4.3 - Cost of Materials Consumed
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening Stock
Raw Materials and Components
4,958.63
8,615.83
Add: Cost of
Raw Materials and Components
42,055.77
37,198.57
Processing Charges
2,049.71
1,836.55
Less: Closing Stock
Raw Materials and Components
3,929.08
4,958.63
Total
45,135.03
42,692.32
4.4 - Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in-Progress and Stock in trade
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening Balance
Work in Progress
1,148.95
1,688.07
Finished Goods
3,475.69
7,215.52
Stock in Trade
2,926.16
3,449.72
Less Closing Balance
Work in Progress
1,036.56
1,148.95
Finished Goods
4,084.04
3,475.69
Stock in Trade
4,223.19
2,926.16
Net (increase)/ decrease
(1,792.99)
4,802.51
4.5 - Employee Benefits Expense
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Salaries, Wages, Bonus etc. (including payment to contractors)
10,116.55
8,829.01
Contribution to Provident and Other Funds
516.49
472.23
Staff Welfare Expenses
933.09
834.40
Total
11,566.13
10,135.64
Notes:
(a)	
For remuneration paid to key management personnel Refer Note 17.1
(b)	
During the year, the Company has capitalised Employee benefits expense of I172.98 lakhs under Product Development 
& Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
170
171
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
4.6 - Finance Cost
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Interest cost on Financial Liabilities measured at Amortized cost
526.19
585.77
Interest Expense on Lease Liability
53.95
43.99
Other Borrowing Cost - Processing Fee
62.30
20.83
Total
642.44
650.59
4.7 - Depreciation and Amortisation
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Depreciation / Amortisation for the year
-	
Tangible Assets
1,484.94
1,344.69
-	
Intangible Assets
321.33
270.57
Total
1,806.27
1,615.26
4.8 - Other Expenses
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Power and Fuel
969.78
944.79
Rent
489.74
497.78
Repairs and Maintenance
- Buildings
8.12
0.98
- Machinery
337.44
438.82
- Others
573.86
540.34
Freight and Forwarding (Including Warehouse Charges)
5,336.85
5,902.81
Insurance
127.33
115.86
Rates and Taxes
173.49
151.07
Travel and Conveyance
1,020.11
873.58
Communication
48.97
43.13
Payment made to Auditors (Refer Note 4.8.1 below)
33.42
33.76
Professional and Consultancy Charges (Refer Note 4.8.2 below)
736.22
2,048.11
Advertisement, Publicity and Sales Promotion Expenses
8,002.54
6,069.74
After Sales Service Expenses
923.75
881.30
Royalty
56.53
52.65
Bank Charges
48.10
72.04
Provision for Doubtful Debts
34.85
-
Extended producers responsibility
120.00
-
Miscellaneous Expenses
407.90
390.02
Total
19,449.00
19,056.78
Note: During the year, the Company has capitalised Other expense of I140.19 lakhs under Product Development & Intangible 
assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
Note 4.8.1 Payment made to Auditors
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
a)	 As Auditor
	
i.	
Audit Fees for Statutory Audit
22.00
22.00
	
ii.	 Audit Fees for Tax Audit
7.50
7.50
	
iii.	 For Certification
2.80
3.65
	
iv.	 Out of Pocket Expenses
1.12
0.61
Total
33.42
33.76
Note: 4.8.2 : Professional & Consultancy charges includes Director sitting fee I48.30 lakhs (Previous Year I53.10 lakhs) and 
Director’s commission I8.39 lakhs (Previous Year I80.00 lakhs)
5. Other Financial Information
5.1 Contingent Liabilities:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(to the extent not provided for)
Central Excise / Customs {of which I3.31 lakhs (Previous Year I3.31 lakhs) have been paid under 
protest} – Refer Note below
66.24
66.24
VAT / Sales Tax {of which I26.48 lakhs (Previous Year I26.47 lakhs) have been paid under protest}
128.66
128.66
Goods and Services Tax {of which I15.84 lakhs (Previous Year I0.68 lakhs) have been paid  
under protest}
248.84
15.27
Employee State Insurance and Labour matter {of which I Nil (Previous Year I22.36 lakhs) have 
been paid under protest}
-
48.22
Total
443.74
258.39
Note: Above contingent liabilities exclude the demands raised by the Central Excise Department on earlier assessment aggregating 
to I1,899.67 lakhs which have been allowed in favour of the Company by the CESTAT. The department has filed an appeal with the 
Honourable Supreme Court, which is pending disposal. Also, with regards to Customs, the appeal filed by the Company against 
a demand of I48.14 lakhs has been allowed by the Commissioner (Appeals) against which the department has filed an appeal 
with the CESTAT, which is pending disposal.
Notes:
1.	
The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
2.	
It is not practicable to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any, in respect of matters pending resolution of the arbitration/
appellate proceedings.
5.2 Capital Commitments
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital Commitments (net of advance)
79.36
344.50
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
172
173
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
5.3 Assets Held for Sale
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‘held for sale’ when all the following 
criteria are met : (i) decision has been made to sell, (ii) the assets are available for immediate sale in its present condition, (iii) the 
assets are being actively marketed and (iv) sale has been agreed or is expected to be concluded within 12 month of the Balance 
sheet date.
Subsequently, such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as ‘held for sale’ are measured as the lower of its carrying 
value and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
The company has decided to move from inhouse to outsourcing within some of the non-core activities and classified certain assets as 
“asset held for sale” and consequently provided an impairment loss of I211.54 lakhs. The details of whereas as under:
I in Lakhs
Groups of assets held for sale
WDV as at
31st March 2024
Impairment of 
Assets as at 
31st March 2024
Asset value as at
31st March 2024
Plant & Machinery
280.99
182.13
98.86
Electrical equipment
3.77
2.63
1.14
Lease hold improvements
26.78
26.78
-
Total
311.54
211.54
100.00
6. Disclosures in respect of Ind AS 107 - Financial Instruments
6.1. Financial Instruments by Categories
The carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories were as follows:
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Amortized
Cost
Financial Assets/ 
Liabilities at fair 
value through 
profit or loss
Financial Assets/
Liabilities at fair 
value through OCI
Total Fair Value
Financial Assets
Non-Current financial assets
Non-Current Investment
-
-
-
-
Other Non-Current Financial Assets
272.68
-
-
272.68
Current financial assets
Current Investment
-
3,216.98
-
3,216.98
Current Trade Receivables
13,187.65
-
-
13,187.65
Cash & Cash Equivalents
4,091.10
-
-
4,091.10
Other Bank Balances
423.43
-
-
423.43
Other Financial Assets
24.19
-
-
24.19
Total
17,999.05
3,216.98
-
21,216.03
Financial Liabilities
Non-Current financial liabilities
Lease Liabilities
270.72
-
-
270.72
Current financial liabilities
Lease Liabilities
102.76
-
-
102.76
Trade Payables
12,294.05
-
-
12,294.05
Other Current Financial Liabilities
8,830.15
341.64
-
9,171.79
Total
21,497.68
341.64
-
21,839.32
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Amortized
Cost
Financial Assets/ 
Liabilities at fair 
value through 
profit or loss
Financial Assets/
Liabilities at fair 
value through OCI
Total Fair Value
Financial Assets
Non-Current financial assets
Non-Current Investment
-
34.92
-
34.92
Other Non-Current Financial Assets
282.44
-
-
282.44
Current financial assets
Current Investment
-
-
-
-
Current Trade Receivables
12,370.80
-
-
12,370.80
Cash & Cash Equivalents
3,268.84
-
-
3,268.84
Other Bank Balances
2,890.51
-
-
2,890.51
Other Financial Assets
88.40
-
-
88.40
Total
18,900.99
34.92
-
18,935.91
Financial Liabilities
Non-Current financial liabilities
Lease Liabilities
373.48
-
-
373.48
Current financial liabilities
Lease Liabilities
119.90
-
-
119.90
Trade Payables
12,500.96
-
-
12,500.96
Other Current Financial Liabilities
5,357.79
166.92
-
5,524.71
Total
18,352.13
166.92
-
18,519.05
The carrying amounts of trade receivables, trade payables, capital creditors, cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, 
other financial assets and other financial liabilities (other than those specifically disclosed) are considered to be the same as their 
fair values, due to their short-term nature.
6.2 Fair Value Hierarchy
The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note 6.1 above has been classified into three categories depending on the 
inputs used in the valuation technique. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
The categories used are as follows:
•	 Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical Assets or Liabilities.
•	 Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., 
as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices).
•	 Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
6.3 Valuation Technique used to determine Fair Value:
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
1.	
Use of quoted market prices for Listed instruments
2.	
Expected credit loss model valued by the independent valuer
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
174
175
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
6.4 The following table presents fair value hierarchy of Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Asset
Investments in Quoted Mutual Funds
3,216.98
-
-
3,216.98
34.92
-
-
34.92
Financial Liability
Financial Guarantee Liability*
-
-
1.93
1.93
-
-
31.95
31.95
Derivative Liabilities
339.71
-
-
339.71
134.97
-
-
134.97
*Represents fair value of First Loss Default Guarantee (FLDG) – I1,400 Lakhs (Previous Year: I2,400 Lakhs)
7. Financial Risk Management
The Company is primarily exposed to fluctuation in Market risk, Credit risk and Liquidity risk. The Company has a risk management 
policy which addresses the risk associated with the financial asset and liabilities.
Risk management framework
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management 
framework. The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) for identification, evaluation and mitigation of 
operations, strategic and external risks. RMC has the overall responsibility for monitoring and recovering the Risk Management 
Plan and associated practices of the Company.
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate 
risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed 
regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities. The Company, through its training and management 
standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand 
their roles and obligations.
The RMC oversees how management monitors compliance with the company’s risk management policies and procedures and 
reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The committee is assisted 
in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and 
procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit committee.
7.1 Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices – will affect 
the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive 
financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and payables. The Company is exposed to market risk primarily 
related to foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of investments. Thus, Company’s exposure to market 
risk is a function of investing and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign currency. The objective of market risk 
management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency revenues and costs.
Market risk comprises two types of risks.
7.1.1 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the Statement of Profit or Loss, other comprehensive 
income and equity.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. Currently 
the Company follows a policy of hedging 100% of its trade payables. On an overall basis, the Company has hedged 52.58% of its 
foreign exchange exposure thus minimising the currency risk.
Sensitivity analysis of foreign currency risk for as estimated fluctuation of +/- 5% to the outstanding foreign currency exposure 
is provided below.
FC in Lakhs
Foreign Currency Exposure
Liabilities
Assets
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2023
USD
4.08
1.64
4.53
1.19
I in Lakhs
Sensitivity at the year end
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Receivables:
Weakening of INR by 5%
18.62
5.71
Strengthening of INR by 5%
(18.62)
(5.71)
Payables:
Weakening of INR by 5%
(17.12)
(6.82)
Strengthening of INR by 5%
17.12
6.82
Amount in bracket represents additional cash outflow. Other amounts represent additional cash inflow.
7.1.2 Interest Rate Risk
The Company is exposed to short-term and long-term borrowings. Long-term borrowing’s interest rates are fixed and not subject 
to any interest rate risk. Short-term borrowings, being working capital loans, are subject to interest rate fluctuation based on the 
performance and external credit rating of the Company.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest – bearing financial instruments as follows:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed Rate Instruments
Financial Asset
-	
Bank Deposits
4,193.77
2,854.16
Financial Liabilities
-	
Term Loan from Bank / Others
-
-
-	
Lease Liability
373.48
493.38
Variable Rate Instruments
Financial Liabilities
-	
Short Term Borrowings
-
-
The interest expenses and impact on statement of Profit on Loss on account of Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest 
rates at the balance sheet date is provided in table below:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Interest Expenses arising on account of variable rate of interest on short term borrowings
-
37.96
Impact on Interest Cost:
Increase in 100 basis point (Increase in Interest Cost)
-
(7.39)
Decrease in 100 basis points (Decrease in Interest Cost)
-
7.39
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
176
177
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
7.2 Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from customers, investment in mutual funds and 
cash and cash equivalents. The Company makes provision on trade receivables based on Expected Credit loss (ECL) method 
based on provision matrix.
Trade Receivables:
The Company has outstanding trade receivables amounting to I13,187.65 lakhs and I12,370.80 lakhs as of March 31, 2024, and 
March 31, 2023, respectively. Trade receivables are unsecured in nature, except to the extent of security deposits received from 
the distributors. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. 
Default on account of Trade Receivables happens when the counterparty fails to make contractual payment when they fall due.
Credit risk is managed by the Company by continuous monitoring of overdue receivables and also by making adequate provision 
towards expected credit loss in the books of account as per the simplified approach stated in the accounting policy.
Expected credit loss provision matrix provided below.
Particulars
Overdue Period
Within the 
credit period
0-180 days
More than 180 days
Trade Receivables
-	
31.03.2024
-
0.70%
42.01%
-	
31.03.2023
-
0.26%
71.66%
Credit Risk Exposure:
An analysis of age of trade receivables at each reporting date is summarized as follows:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Gross
Impairment
Gross
Impairment
Within the credit period
4,654.84
-
7,427.66
-
0 to 180 days
7,014.25
49.23
4,504.73
11.91
More than 180 days
2703.73
1,135.94
1,588.73
1,138.41
Total
14,372.82
1,185.17
13,521.12
1,150.32
Expected credit loss assessment
Exposures to customers outstanding at the end of each reporting period are reviewed by the Company to determine incurred and 
expected credit losses. Management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still collectible in full, based on 
historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at the beginning of the year
1,150.32
1,284.52
Add: Provided for the year
34.85
61.20
Less: Reversal of provision due to collection
-
193.51
Less: Utilization for the year
-
1.89
As at the end of the year
1,185.17
1,150.32
7.3 Liquidity Risk
Liquidity needs of the Company are monitored on the basis of monthly and yearly projections. The company’s principal sources 
of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from the operations and bank borrowings.
The Company manages the liquidity needs by continuously monitoring cash inflows and by maintaining adequate cash and cash 
equivalents. Net cash requirements are compared to available cash in order to determine any shortfalls.
Short term liquidity requirements consist mainly of sundry creditors, expense payable, employee dues and repayment of loans 
arising during the normal course of business as of each reporting date. The Company meets its short-term liquidity requirements 
primarily through efficient working capital management and by accessing additional and alternative credit facilities available in 
the financial market. The Company has acceptances in line with supplier’s financing arrangements which might invoke liquidity 
risk as a result of liabilities being concentrated with few financial institutions instead of a diverse group of suppliers. The Company 
has established an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Company’s short, medium and 
long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company assesses long-term liquidity requirements on a periodical basis and manages them through internal accruals and 
bank borrowings.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual cash outflow for financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based 
on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company is required to pay.
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
On demand 
and less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1-3 years
3-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Security Deposits
269.03
-
-
-
-
269.03
Trade Payables
12,294.05
-
-
-
-
12,294.05
Other Financial Liabilities
8,902.76
-
-
-
-
8,902.76
Lease Liability
73.10
69.69
250.57
65.47
-
458.83
I in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
On demand 
and less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1-3 years
3-5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
Security Deposits
296.18
-
-
-
-
296.18
Trade Payables
12,500.96
-
-
-
-
12,500.96
Other Financial Liabilities
5,228.53
-
-
-
-
5,228.53
Lease Liability
91.11
82.75
268.07
190.75
-
632.68
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
178
179
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
8. Capital Management
Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Company’s capital management. The Company manages 
its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimize returns to shareholders. The capital structure 
of the Company is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus on total equity so as 
to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence. The management and the Board of Directors monitor the return on capital 
as well as the level of dividends to shareholders. The Company may take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary, 
adjust, its capital structure.
The Board of Directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of 
borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘total equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined 
as total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances. 
Total equity comprises all components of equity.
The Company’s adjusted net debt-to-equity ratio of March 31, 2024, was as follows:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Total Debt*
373.48
493.38
Total Equity
29,218.78
28,564.30
Debt to Equity Ratio
0.01
0.02
*Total Debt represents lease liabilities
9. Disclosures Required Under the “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006”
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a.	 Principal amount due to Suppliers under the Act
2,540.99
2,756.93
b.	 Interest accrued and due to Suppliers under the Act, on the above amount
0.35
-
c.	 Payment made to Suppliers (Other than interest) beyond the appointed day during the year
1,851.04
86.68
d.	 Interest paid to Suppliers under the Act (Other than Section 16)
-
-
e.	 Interest paid to Suppliers under the Act (Section 16)
-
-
f.	
Interest due and payable to suppliers under the Act, for payments already made
7.65
1.24
g.	 Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the year to Suppliers under the Act
9.24
1.24
This information has been given in respect of such vendors to the extent they could be treated as ‘Micro and Small Enterprises’ 
on the basis of information available with the Company on which the Auditors have relied upon.
10. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)-115 “Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers”
a) Disaggregation of Revenue:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
LPG Stoves
25,271.50
24,145.58
Mixer Grinder
29,842.39
31,860.69
Tabletop Wet Grinder
10,137.42
9,894.45
Pressure Cooker
16,560.76
16,215.52
Others
11,316.18
23,539.00
Total Revenue from Contract with Customers
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
b) Contract liabilities such as advance from customers and liability for schemes and discounts are 
given below.
I in Lakhs
Contract Liabilities
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance from Customers
536.58
446.72
Liability for Scheme
4,529.59
2,106.10
c) Reconciliation of Revenue recognized with the contracted price and adjustments:
I in Lakhs
Description
2023-24
2022-23
Revenue as per contracted price
1,03,286.53
1,11,583.86
Less: Adjustments*
(10158.28)
(5928.62)
Total revenue from contract with customers
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
*includes discounts, schemes & others.
11. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)-116 “Leases”
a) Following are the changes in carrying value of liabilities.
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance as at the beginning of the year
493.38
105.47
Additions
-
567.28
Finance cost accrued during the year
53.95
43.99
Adjustments for disposals
(4.33)
-
Payment of lease liabilities
(169.52)
(223.36)
Balance as at the end of the year
373.48
493.38
b) Following amount were recognized as expense:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Depreciation of right of use assets
48.43
32.33
Expense relating to short term leases
2,613.35
2,436.70
Interest on lease liabilities
53.95
43.99
Total amount recognized in statement of Profit & Loss
2,715.73
2,513.02
c) Maturity analysis of lease liabilities under Ind AS 116 (undiscounted)
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2023
Within 1 year
142.79
173.86
Between 1 to 3 years
250.57
268.07
Between 3 to 5 years
65.47
190.75
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
180
181
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
d) Amounts recognised in statement of Cash Flows
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Total Cash outflow for leases
169.52
223.36
e) Company applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months 
of lease term.
f) The lease agreements do not impose any restrictions or covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets 
that are held by the lessor.
12. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)-19 “Employee Benefits”
12.1 General description of various defined employee’s benefits schemes are as under:
a) Provident Fund:
The Company’s Provident Fund (defined contribution fund) is managed by Regional Provident Fund Commissioner. 
The Company pays fixed contribution to provident fund at pre-determined rate.
b) Gratuity:
Gratuity is a defined benefit plan, in respect of past services provided by the employees is quantified based on 
the actuarial valuation.
The scheme is funded by the Company and the liability is recognized on the basis of contribution payable to the insurer. Disclosure 
of information as required under Ind AS-19 have been made in accordance with the actuarial valuation.
The summarized position of various defined benefits recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss, Other Comprehensive Income 
(OCI) and Balance Sheet and other disclosures are as under:
Movement in Defined Benefit Obligation:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Defined Benefit Obligation at the beginning of the year
1,034.79
1,092.87
Current Service Cost
144.00
122.36
Interest Cost
67.72
64.88
Past Service Cost
4.47
-
Benefits Paid
(193.56)
(415.46)
Re-measurements - Actuarial Loss
103.40
170.14
Defined Benefit Obligation at the end of the year
1,160.82
1,034.79
Movement in Plan Asset:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Fair value of Plan Assets at the beginning of the year
746.32
1,078.98
Employer Contributions
295.30
6.72
Benefits Paid
(193.56)
(415.46)
Re-measurements – Return on Plan Assets
57.56
64.11
Re-measurements - Actuarial (Loss) / Gain
(9.53)
11.97
Fair value of Plan Assets at the end of the year
896.09
746.32
Amount Recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Current Service Cost
144.00
122.36
Net Interest on Net Defined Benefit Liability
10.16
0.77
Past Service Cost
4.47
-
Expenses recognized in the statement of profit and loss
158.63
123.13
Amount recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Actuarial Loss due to assumption changes
103.40
170.13
Difference between Actual Return and Interest Income on Plan Assets - Loss / (Gain)
9.52
(11.97)
Actuarial Loss recognized in OCI 
112.92
158.16
Sensitivity Analysis
I in Lakhs
Particulars
Change in 
Assumption
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
+0.50%
(58.18)
(56.68)
-0.50%
63.04
61.77
Salary Growth Rate
+0.50%
63.00
61.01
-0.50%
(58.94)
(56.57)
Actuarial Assumption
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
6.97%
7.22%
Rate of Salary Increase
7.00%
7.00%
Attrition Rate
3.00%
3.00%
Retirement Age
58 Years
60 Years
Average Future Service
13.4 Years
14.9 Years
Expected Benefit Payments
I in Lakhs
Sr. 
No.
Year of payment
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
1
Year 1
56.97
43.70
2
Year 2
63.94
53.77
3
Year 3
87.35
56.16
4
Year 4
83.37
63.99
5
Year 5
79.83
58.83
6
Next 5 Years
515.09
442.43
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
182
183
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Category of Investment in Plan Assets
Category of Investment
% of fair value of plan assets
Insurer Managed Funds (LIC)
100% (P.Y 100%)
These plans typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
Investment risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate which is determined 
by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. When there is a deep 
market for such bonds; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit. Currently, for 
these plans, investments are made in gratuity fund maintained by the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
Interest risk
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s investments.
Longevity risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the 
mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the 
plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
Salary risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
c) Compensated absences
Disclosure of information as required under Ind AS-19 are as follows.
Movement in Defined Benefit Obligation:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24 
Defined Benefit Obligation as at the beginning of the period
199.99
Interest Cost
11.64
Current service cost
42.92
Past service cost
(1.40)
Benefits paid
(77.43)
Actuarial loss on obligation (balancing figure)
121.21
Defined Benefit Obligation as at the end of the period
296.93
Movement in Plan Asset:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the period
-
Expected return on plan assets
-
Contributions
77.43
Benefits paid
(77.43)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets (balancing figure)
-
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the period
-
Amount Recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
Current service cost
42.92
Interest on obligation
11.64
Expected return on plan assets
-
Net actuarial loss recognised during the period
121.21
Past service cost
(1.40)
Expenses recognized in the statement of profit and loss
174.37
Actuarial Assumption
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.97%
Rate of increase in compensation levels
7.00%
Attrition Rate
3.00%
Expected rate of return on Plan Assets
0.00%
Retirement Age 
 58 years 
Estimated Average Future working life
 13.4 years 
Expected Benefit Payments
I in Lakhs
Year of payment
As at 
March 31, 2024
Year 1
12.50
Year 2
12.73
Year 3
15.48
Year 4
13.94
Year 5
17.10
Next 5 Years
95.59
Note: The Company has implemented the leave encashment policy to the eligible employees in line with the group policy during 
the year and thus the comparable is not applicable.
13. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting standard (Ind AS)-108: “Operating Segments”
a) Information about major customers
Since the Company primarily operates in one segment – Domestic appliances and there is no reportable Geographical 
segment either.
The Company has derived revenues from one customer which amount to more than 10 per cent of Company’s revenues, 
the details are given below:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Customers (Nos)
1
2
Revenue
15,850.71
29,858.09
b) Information about Geographical area:
The Company is Domiciled in India. The amount of its revenue from external customers broken down by location of customers 
is tabulated below:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
India
91,444.57
1,03,963.97
Outside India
1,683.68
1,691.27
Total
93,128.25
1,05,655.24
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets, broken 
down by location of assets are shown below:
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
India
16,653.20
16,878.12
Outside India
-
-
Total
16,653.20
16,878.12
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
184
185
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
14. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)-33 “Earnings Per Share (EPS)”
a) Basic EPS
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Profit for the year, attributable to the owners of the Company
I738.98 Lakhs
I5,166.58 Lakhs
Earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share (A)
I738.98 Lakhs
I5,166.58 Lakhs
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share (B)
1,78,79,551
1,78,79,551
Basic EPS = (A/B) (Face Value of I10 per share)
I4.13
I28.90
b) Diluted EPS
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Equity shares that would 
be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Profit for the year, attributable to the owners of the Company
I738.98 Lakhs
I5,166.58 Lakhs
Earnings used in calculation of diluted earnings per share (A)
I738.98 Lakhs
I5,166.58 Lakhs
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share (B)
1,78,79,551
1,78,79,551
Diluted EPS = (A/B) (Face Value of I10 per share)
I4.13
I28.90
15. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS)-37 “Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets”
Warranty:
The Company gives warranties on certain products and services, undertaking to repair / replace products, which fail to perform 
satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made represents the amount of the expected cost of meeting such obligation 
on account of repair / replacement. The timing of outflows is expected to be within a period of two to five years.
Movement of provision for Warranty:
I in Lakhs
2023-24
Balance as at 
April 01, 2023
Additions 
during the year
Utilization 
during the year
Reversal 
during the year
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for Warranties
386.67
302.73
327.51
-
361.89
I in Lakhs
2022-23
Balance as at 
April 01, 2022
Additions 
during the year
Utilization 
during the year
Reversal 
during the year
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Warranties
842.56
51.39
507.28
-
386.67
16. Disclosures in respect of Ind As 7 - Statement of Cash Flow
Reconciliation of liabilities from financing activities: -
(i) Long Term Borrowings (Including Current maturities)
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at
April 01,2023
Proceeds
Repayments
As at
March 31,2024
Term Loan from Bank
-
-
-
-
Term Loan from Others
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at
April 01,2022
Proceeds
Repayments
As at
March 31,2023
Term Loan from Bank
933.70
-
(933.70)
-
Term Loan from Others
2.18
-
(2.18)
-
Total
935.88
-
(935.88)
-
(ii) Short Term Borrowings
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at
April 01,2023
Cash Flow
Foreign exchange 
Movement
As at
March 31,2024
Working Capital Facilities
-
-
-
-
Other Short-Term Borrowings
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at
April 01,2022
Cash Flow
Foreign exchange 
Movement
As at
March 31,2023
Working Capital Facilities
4,290.59
(4,290.59)
-
-
Other Short-Term Borrowings
-
-
-
-
Total
4,290.59
4,290.59
-
-
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
186
187
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
17. Disclosure in respect of Indian Accounting Standard 24 “Related Parties Disclosures”
Holding Company
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (CGCEL)
Fellow Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of CGCEL)
1.	
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
2.	
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
3.	
Crompton CSR Foundation
Name of Post-employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out during the year
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust Fund
Key Managerial Personnel
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
Mr. P. M. Murty – Chairman, Non- Executive Independent Director
Mr. P.M. Murty – Chairman, Non- Executive Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2022)
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram – Managing Director  
(Re-appointed w.e.f. 30.03.2024 to 29.03.2026)
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram – Managing Director  
(Appointed w.e.f. 30.03.2022)
-
Mr. P.R. Ramesh – Independent Director (Resigned w.e.f. 
09.11.2022)
Mr. Shantanu Maharaj Khosla – Non-Independent Director
Mr. Shantanu Maharaj Khosla – Non-Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 30.03.2022)
Mr. Promeet Ghosh - Non-Independent Director  
(Appointed w.e.f. 12.05.2023)
-
Mr. Mathew Job – Non-Independent Director  
(Resigned w.e.f. 30.04.2023)
Mr. Mathew Job – Non-Independent Director  
(Resigned w.e.f. 30.04.2023)
Mr. M. Padmanabhan – Independent Director
Mr. M. Padmanabhan – Independent Director
Mr. A. Balasubramanian – Independent Director
Mr. A. Balasubramanian – Independent Director
Mr. G.S. Samuel – Independent Director
Mr. G.S. Samuel – Independent Director
Mr. T.R. Srinivasan – Independent Director
Mr. T.R. Srinivasan – Independent Director
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan – Independent Director
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan – Independent Director
Ms. Smita Anand – Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2022)
Ms. Smita Anand – Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2022)
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam - Non-Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 09.11.2023)
-
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar - Non-Independent Director 
(Appointed w.e.f. 09.11.2023)
-
Mr. K.E. Ranganathan – Independent Director  
(Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2024)
-
Mr. V.A. Joseph- Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  
(Appointed w.e.f. 09.11.2023)
-
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya – Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya – Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
(Appointed w.e.f. 25.03.2023)
Ms. Ananda Shalini – Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  
(Appointed w.e.f. 06.04.2023 and Resigned w.e.f. 20.10.2023)
Ms. Ananda Shalini – Chief Financial Officer  
(Appointed w.e.f. 06.04.2023)
Mr. R. Nagarajan – Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  
(Resigned w.e.f. 05.04.2023)
Mr. R. Nagarajan – Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  
(Resigned w.e.f. 05.04.2023)
-
Ms. Priya Varshinee V M – Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
(Resigned w.e.f. 03.02.2023)
Compensation to Key Managerial Persons (KMP)
17.1 Managerial Remuneration:
i. Directors: -
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Short-term employee benefits
243.58*
279.79*
Post-employment benefits (PF)
-
-
Sitting Fees to Directors
48.30
53.10
Commission to Independent Directors
8.39
80.00
Total
300.27
412.89
*Represents secondment cost debited by Holding Company.
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Payable
0.14
-
Commission Payable to Independent Directors
8.39
80.00
ii. Others (CFO & CS): -
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Remuneration and Short-term Benefits
85.17*
52.40
Post-employment benefits
-
2.01
Total
85.17
54.41
*Represents secondment cost debited by Holding Company.
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Payable
-
5.25
Note: Liabilities for post-retirement benefits being Gratuity, Leave encashment and Post retirement medical benefits are provided 
on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole. The amount pertaining to Key management personnel are not included above.
Transactions during the year and outstanding balances
a) Holding Company
Transactions during the year
I in Lakhs
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
1
Purchase and Services Received
672.29
660.96
-	
Purchase
11.90
-
-	
Secondment Cost
578.51
600.31
-	
Royalty
56.53
52.65
-	
Warehouse
5.35
-
-	
Others
20.00
8.00
2
Sales and Services Provided
1,010.67
20.07
-	
Sales and Services
967.26
20.07
-	
Secondment Cost
43.41
-
Total
1,682.96
681.03
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
188
189
Annual Report 2023-24
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Outstanding balances
I in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Receivable 
148.79
-
Payable* 
-
273.07
*Includes secondment cost payable INil (P.Y I259.08 Lakhs)
18. Details of CSR Expenditure
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
a.	 Gross amount required to be spent during the year
107.59
3.44
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
In Cash
Yet to be 
Paid in Cash
In Cash
Yet to be 
Paid in Cash
b.	 Amount spent during the year
i.	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
-
-
ii.	 On purposes other than (i) above
111.02
-
2.80
0.64
I in Lakhs
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Promotion of education
109.44
-
Transfer to PM Cares Fund*
-
0.64
* Unspent amount of I0.64 lakhs pertaining to FY 2022-23 was transferred to Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations 
Fund (PM CARES Fund) on July 18, 2023.
19. Ratios
Key Ratios of the Company are summarized below.
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Current 
period
Previous 
period
Variance 
(%)
Reason for variance (Explanation for 
change in the ratio by more than 25%)
Current ratio
Current Assets 
Current Liabilities
 1.57 
 1.64 
(3.97) -
Debt equity ratio
Total Debt
Shareholders fund
 0.01 
 0.02 
(26.00) Improved self generated funds 
leading to non-utilisation of debt 
Debt service  
coverage ratio
Earnings avaliable 
for Debt Service
Debt Service
 18.80 
 6.32 
197.71 Reduction in borrowings as 
compared to previous year
Return on equity ratio
Net Profit after Tax Avg. Shareholders 
fund
 0.03 
 0.20 
(87.11) Decline is on account of lower 
profitability
Inventory turnover ratio
Cost of Goods 
Sold 
Avg. Inventory
 4.61 
 3.99 
15.40 -
Trade receivables  
turnover ratio
Net Credit Sales
Avg Accounts 
Receivable
 7.29 
 9.76 
(25.34) Increase in debtors with sale 
concentration in channels with 
higher credit period and lower 
sales compared to previous year
Trade payables turnover 
ratio
Net Credit 
Purchases 
Avg Trade Payables
 4.85 
 4.44 
9.35 -
Net capital turnover ratio
Net Sales
Working Capital
 7.00 
 8.21 
(14.74) -
Net Profit ratio
Net Profit
Net Sales
 0.01 
 0.05 
(83.77) Decline is on account of lower 
Profits and lower sales
Return on capital 
employed
Earning Before 
Interest & Taxes
Capital employed 
(equity+ debt + 
Deferred tax Liability)
 0.05 
 0.21 
(77.99) Decline is on account of lower 
Profits
Return on investments
Net Gain
Opening Value of 
Investment
 0.08 
 0.02 
422.14 Volatility in market conditions
20.	 Reconciliation of Quarterly returns furnished with the bank and books of accounts
a.	 Name of the Bankers - State Bank of India, South Indian bank, IndusInd, IDBI
I in Lakhs
Quarter
Amount as 
reported in the 
quarterly Return/ 
Statement
Amount as per 
Books of Accounts
Amount of 
Differences
Reason for Material Discrepancies
Jun-23
13,799
14,721
 (922) Provisions, Regrouping, Final Entries 
are not part of Bank data, the details 
get shared with initial reports.
Sep-23
15,549
16,525
(976)
Dec-23
20,763
19,959
804
Mar-24
17,255
15,352
1,903
b.	
The Company has been sanctioned a working capital  facility of I10,500 Lakhs, by SBI Bank, valid upto January 14, 2025. The 
outstanding balance as on March 31, 2024 – I Nil (Previous Year – I Nil). This facility is secured by way of a hypothecation of 
inventories, receivables and other current assets on pari-passu first charge basis both present & future. Further, it is secured 
by collateral property through equitable mortgage on factory land & buildings and other fixed assets including Plant & 
machinery along with Corporate Guarantee from Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited.
21. Code of Social Security, 2020
The date on which the Code of Social Security, 2020 (“the code”) relating to employee benefits during the employment and 
post-employment benefit will come into effect is yet to be notified and the related rules are yet to be finalized. The company will 
evaluate the code and its rules, assess the impact, if any, on account of the same once they become effective.
22. Additional Disclosures
Additional information and disclosures as required under Schedule III to the act to the extent applicable to the company has 
been disclosed.
(i)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami property.
(ii)	
The Company does not have any transactions with companies struck off.
(iii)	 The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies beyond 
the statutory period.
(iv)	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the year ended March 31, 2024.
(v)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall: (a) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (b) provide any 
guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall: (a) directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) 
or (b) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vii)	 The Company has no such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
(viii)	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
(ix)	 The Company has neither declared nor paid any dividend during the year.
Notes forming part of Financial Statements
as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
190
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
(x)	
Disclosure on number of layer of companies is not applicable as there are no such transactions.
(xi)	 There are no scheme of arrangements approved by the Competent authority in terms of Sections 230 to 237 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 during the year.
(xii)	 The title deeds of all of the immovable properties included in Property, Plant and Equipment are held in the name of 
the Company.
(xiii)	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible assets or both 
during the current or previous year.
(xiv)	 There are no outstanding loans or advances in the nature of loans that are granted to Promoters, Directors, KMPs and 
the related parties.
23.	 Figures for the comparative period have been regrouped wherever necessary in conformity with the current period classification.
24.	 The Financial statements were reviewed and recommended by the Audit Committee and has been approved by the 
Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 14, 2024
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For ASA & Associates LLP
BUTTERFLY GANDHIMATHI APPLIANCES LIMITED
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn No. 009571N/N500006
G.N.RAMASWAMI
P.M. MURTY
RANGARAJAN SRIRAM
Partner
Non- Executive Independent Chairman
Managing Director
Membership No. 202363
DIN:00011179
DIN:09550640
A.BALASUBRAMANIAN
V. A.JOSEPH
Independent Director
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:00490921
VIRAL SARVAIYA
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A33764
Place: Chennai
Date: May 14, 2024
BUTTERFLY GANDHIMATHI APPLIANCES LIMITED  
143, Pudupakkam Village, Vandalur, Kelambakkam Road,  
Chengalpet District- 603 103, Tamil Nadu, India,
Email: service@butterflyindia.com 
Website: www.butterflyindia.com
Content and design consultants                        |  whatsup@stirrup.works
