 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited  
Corporate Identity Number: L99999MH1995PLC094641 
Registered Office: Edelweiss House, off. C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Mumbai - 400 098 Tel No.: +91 22 40795199  
Email: cs@edelweissfin.com Website: www.edelweissfin.com 
 
EW/Sec/2024-25/189 
 
September 4, 2024 
 
BSE Limited 
P J Towers,  
Dalal Street,  
Fort,  
Mumbai – 400 001. 
 
Scrip Code: - 532922 
National 
Stock 
Exchange 
of 
India 
Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 
 
 
 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),  
Mumbai – 400 051. 
 
Symbol: – EDELWEISS 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Annual Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
 
In accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed 
herewith the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
including the Notice (Annual Report) convening the 29th Annual General Meeting of the 
Members of the Company to be held on Friday, September 27, 2024 at 4.00 P.M. through 
Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”). 
 
The Annual Report is also available on the website of the Company at 
www.edelweissfin.com. 
 
Kindly take the same on record. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
 
 
 
Tarun Khurana 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: as above 
TARUN 
KHURANA
Digitally signed 
by TARUN 
KHURANA 
Date: 2024.09.04 
21:13:21 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPOR T 2023-24
Crafting excellence on time's canvas
,QGH[
"UUIFDPSFPG&EFMXFJTThPSHBOJTBUJPOBMFUIPTMJFTB
EFEJDBUJPOGPSWBMVFDSFBUJPO"TXFJOUFHSBUFBXJEF
BSSBZPGSFTPVSDFTFYUFOTJWFFYQFSUJTFBOEJOOPWBUJWF
BQQSPBDIFTUPOVSUVSFPVSCVTJOFTTWFOUVSFTPWFS
UJNFXFJODIBTUFQDMPTFSUPBDIJFWJOHFYDFMMFODF

-JLFBOBSUJTUXIPCMFOETBTQFDUSVNPGDPMPVST
XFCFMJFWFJOVTJOHBNJYPGTUSBUFHJFTXIFSFFWFSZ
TUSPLFBOEDIPJDFPGDPMPVSJTDSJUJDBMUPQBWFUIFQBUI
UPXBSETUIFEFTJSFEFYDFMMFODF8IJMFXPSLJOHBXBZ
GSPNUIFQVCMJDHB[FXFBTQJSFGPSBIBSNPOZPG
TUSBUFHZDSFBUJWJUZBOEEJTDJQMJOF0OFhTQFSDFQUJPO
7KHPH 1RWH
)< +LJKOLJKWV
2XU *XLGLQJ 3ULQFLSOHV
2XU 'LYHUVLųHG %XVLQHVV 0RGHO
2XU *RYHUQDQFH
2XU &XVWRPHU ([SHULHQFH
2XU 3HRSOH
2XU 7HFKQRORJ\
&KDLUPDQ
V /HWWHU
6XVWDLQDELOLW\ 2YHUYLHZ
(GHO*LYH )RXQGDWLRQ
%RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV
$ZDUGV
&RPSDQ\ ,QIRUPDWLRQ
%RDUGŒV 5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW 'LVFXVVLRQ 	 $QDO\VLV
&RUSRUDWH *RYHUQDQFH 5HSRUW
&RQVROLGDWHG )LQDQFLDO 6WDWHPHQWV
6WDQGDORQH )LQDQFLDO 6WDWHPHQWV
1RWLFH





















PGDPMPVSTDBOCFEJGGFSFOUCVUUIFTVDDFTTPGB
NBTUFSQJFDFJTBMXBZTSFTPVOEJOH
5IFUIFNFCBTFEPOUIFDPODFQUPGDPMPVSBOE
JUTWBSJFEQSBDUJDBMBQQMJDBUJPOTBTTFSUTUIBUTVDDFTT
JTOPUJOTUBOUBOFPVTCVUBNFUJDVMPVTBOEHSBEVBM
QSPDFTTVOGPMEJOHPWFSUJNF*UBEWPDBUFTUIF
JNQPSUBODFPGQBUJFODFBOEMPOHUFSNWJTJPOXIJMF
VOMPDLJOHWBMVFUISPVHIDBSFGVMQMBOOJOH
JOOPWBUJPOBOETUSBUFHJDFYFDVUJPOUIVTDPOWFZJOH
UIFNFTTBHFUIBUh&YDFMMFODFJTBTVTUBJOFEKPVSOFZh
$QQXDO5HSRUW
&RUSRUDWH2YHUYLHZ
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG
$SBGUJOHFYDFMMFODFPOUJNFhTDBOWBT


Financial Performance
`421 Cr
Consolidated PAT
22% Increase YoY
`661 Cr
Ex-Insurance PAT
Robust Balance Sheet & Liquidity
`6,216 Cr
Strong Net Worth
`13,090 Cr
Net Debt Declined
by 20% YoY
16% of Debt
Comfortable Liquidity
Value Unlocking in Nuvama
Successful listing of Nuvama Wealth Management in September 2023
Well-capitalised Businesses
Capital Adequacy
Solvency ratio of more than
170% in Insurance businesses
CAPAD of 39%+
(Credit and ARC businesses)
`9,602 Cr
Consolidated Revenue
03
04
Growing Customer Assets
Customer assets at `2.1 trillion,
grew 13% YoY demonstrating 
the continued trust reposed
by customers
Growing Customer Reach
Customer reach continues to 
expand to 7.6 million, 
growing 35% YoY
Robust Customer Franchise
FY24
Highlights
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Alternative Asset Management
Robust response
received in ISAF III;
fund raised `110 billion
AUM `547 billion,
~3x growth in
last 5 years
Fee-Paying AUM
`322 billion,
up 39% YoY
Deployed
`66 billion
during the year
Realised
`92 billion
during the year
Number of unique LPs
grew ~2x to 3,400+,
with 750+ repeat LPs
Conferred with the
“Market Award - India” category
at the AsianInvestor
Asset Management Award
Asset Reconstruction
Acquired Debt Assets of
`132 billion, up 98% YoY
AUM of `316 billion
PAT more than doubled YoY
to `0.38 billion
Strong uptick in SIP book
by 56% YoY to `2.34 billion
Total folios grew by 32% YoY
to ~1.55 million
Mutual Fund
AUM up 21% YoY to
`1,270 billion
(market share of 2.37%)
Equity AUM grew 61% YoY
to `437 billion; Equity AUM
34% of total AUM
Inflows of `48 billion
into equity schemes,
up 41% YoY
Robust Recoveries of `94 billion;
13% from retail portfolio
Share of retail assets in capital
employed stood at 15%
NBFC
Disbursed `10.50 billion in the year;
80% via co-lending model
Wholesale book reduced
by 42% YoY to `41.50 billion;
expect momentum to continue
05
06
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Life Insurance
Gross Premium increased by
15% YoY to `19.26 billion
Embedded Value at
`19.51 billion
13-month Persistency improved to
78%; Claim Settlement Ratio
of 99.23%
Nido Home Finance
Disbursed `13.25 billion
in the year; 32% via co-lending model
GNPA at 1.69%;
improved from 1.91% YoY
Zuno General Insurance
Fastest growing in the industry;
56% YoY growth in GDPI
Motor segment grew by 32% YoY
against industry growth of 13%
Issued 4.3 lakh policies in the year;
up 11% YoY
07
08
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
09
10
Board
Directors
of
Standing: L to R: C. Balagopal, Venkatchalam Ramaswamy, Ashok Kini | Sitting: L to R: Dr. Ashima Goyal, Shiva Kumar, Rashesh Shah, Vidya Shah
Rashesh Shah
Chairman & Managing Director
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Vidya Shah
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
& Chairperson, Edelweiss ESG Council
Ashok Kini
Independent Director
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Independent Director
Shiva Kumar
Independent Director
C. Balagopal
Independent Director
Pastels, cherished for their delicate yet vibrant hues,
have a rich history dating back to the Renaissance.
th
This medium, perfected in the 16 century, quickly
became a favourite among artists for its ability to
capture nuanced tones and subtle transitions in colour.
Pioneers like Rosalba Carriera, Edgar Degas, and Jean-
François Millet harnessed the unique qualities of pastels
to create expressive and detailed works of art. The term
"pastel" itself is derived from the Italian word "pastello,"
meaning "paste," which aptly describes its adaptable
nature, while maintaining a consistent core of precision,
distinction, and versatility. The medium's capacity to
deliver definitiveness in lines and shades made it
invaluable in the creation of detailed and
impactful compositions.
Shaping ideals,
cultures and values
In our corporate context, we draw inspiration from the
inherent balance and adaptability of pastels. Much like
the diverse pigments in a pastel set, our guiding
principles provide a flexible yet cohesive framework.
This framework allows us to adapt to changing times
while maintaining a consistent core of precision,
distinction, and versatility. Our 13 Guiding Principles
blend our ideals, culture, and business ethics, ensuring
that we consistently take the right path for the right
reasons without compromising our long-term vision.
These principles are a harmonious blend of
our foundational ideals, helping us create a cohesive
corporate culture. They showcase our direction and
resilience, standing the test of time as we continue
to create value for all our stakeholders.
11
12
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Our Guiding
Principles
At Edelweiss, our guiding principles are like a palette of soft pastels, creating a harmonious canvas that keeps us centred and
focussed. These principles are the foundation of our business, seamlessly blending into our corporate culture. They mix our ideals,
culture, and values into a beautiful picture that brings purpose to our business and our lives. With hues of ethics, transparency, and
customer centricity, we colour all our dealings with care, always prioritising our stakeholders' interests. These guiding principles,
painted with inspirational values, provide a strong foundation and continue to drive us toward success.
We are a Thinking Organisation. We constantly bring
thought to everything we do. Our clients' and our own
success depends on our ability to use greater ideation
and more imagination in our approach.
Our Palette of Values
We are Fair to our clients, our employees, and
all stakeholders.
We operate as a Partnership, internally and externally.
Though individuals are often brilliant, we believe
teamwork and collaboration always ensure a better
and more balanced organisation. We also treat our
clients as partners and extend them the same respect
and consideration as our internal team members.
We focus on the Long Term. As the world is poised on
the threshold of change and may not hold up our
assumptions for the future in the coming years, we
reflect on the long-term implications of our actions.
Even short-term decisions are made with an awareness
of long-term implications.
We focus on Growth for our clients, employees,
and shareholders.
Our Reputation and Image is more important than
any financial reward. Reputation is hard to build and
even harder to rebuild. It is impacted by our ability to
think for our clients, maintain confidentiality and by
adherence to our ethical value system.
We Obey and Comply with the rules of the land.
We maintain the highest standard of integrity and
honesty. When we are unclear, we seek clarifications
from experts.
We take care of our People. Our policies—in letter and
in spirit—ensure transparency and equal opportunity
for all. We go beyond the normal goals of attracting,
recruiting, retaining, and rewarding fine talent.
We ensure that every individual in Edelweiss has
an opportunity to achieve their fullest potential.
We Respect Risk. Our business presents a constant
challenge of balancing risk and reward. Our ability to
continually keep an eye on risk guides us through this
fine balance.
Our Financial Capital is a critical resource for growth.
We endeavour to grow, protect, and use our financial
capital wisely.
Our Customer Experience defines us.
We strive to make it outstanding every time.
We Listen and Fulfil the customer's needs. Listening is
the start of the relationship with our customers
wherein we understand their needs and fulfil these
with the most appropriate products and solutions.
We satisfy the needs of all stakeholders.
Shareholders who entrust us with their capital,
employees who create the organisation, customers
who are the reason we exist, and society which gives
us the resources and opportunity to create value.
Shaping ideals, cultures and values
13
14
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Crayons have a rich history, originating in Europe
th
in the early 19 century as colouring tools made
from a mixture of charcoal and oil. By the early
th
20 century, crayons evolved into the wax-based
versions we recognise today with the addition of
paraffin wax (a by-product of petroleum refining) to
enhance durability and ease of use. First popularised
by brands like Crayola, the first set of Crayola
crayons was released as a box of eight in 1903,
retailing for just five cents and making them
accessible to a wide audience. This in turn helped
in cementing their place in classrooms and homes
around the world.
Many hues, many possibilities
Our business model mirrors the flexibility and
ingenuity of crayons. Much like how crayons can be
used to meet diverse needs - from art sessions to
serious therapeutic applications - our business
model embraces flexibility across various sectors.
This diversified approach enables us to innovate
and grow, ensuring each business segment not only
thrives but also contributes positively to society, just
like crayons that continuously evolve to inspire and
aid in development across all ages.
15
16
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
A Canvas of Diverse Ventures
Alternative
Asset
Management
Mutual
Fund
Asset
Reconstruction
NBFC
Housing
Finance
Life
Insurance
General
Insurance
Largest
Alternative
Assets
platform
One of
the fastest
growing
AMCs
Largest Asset
Reconstruction
Company in
the country
Capital-light
model
focussed on
co-lending
Capital-light
model
focussed on
co-lending
Fastest
growing
Digital Insurer
Among
the fastest
growing Life
Insurers
Edelweiss
Alternative
Asset
Advisors Ltd
Edelweiss
Asset
Management
Ltd
Edelweiss Asset
Reconstruction
Company Ltd
ECL Finance
Ltd
Edelweiss
Retail Finance
Ltd
Nido Home
Finance Ltd
Zuno General
Insurance Ltd
Edelweiss
Life Insurance
Company Ltd
`7.63 billion 
`2.40 billion 
`31.50 billion
`34.87 billion 
`8.15 billion
`2.49 billion 
`7.19 billion
100%
100%
60%
100%
100%
100%
75%
Strengths
Key Entities
EFSL Stake
Equity
Diversified
Business Model
Our
Many hues, many possibilities
17
18
Edelweiss is dedicated to painting a vibrant future for our shareholders, blending legacy and innovation. We aim to transform
traditional businesses into modern masterpieces while nurturing new-age ventures. Our focus is on crafting strong foundations
and quality, ensuring businesses can flourish and expand. By doing so, Edelweiss seeks to reshape the business landscape and
make a positive societal impact.
Our portfolio of seven businesses is a well-curated palette—well-capitalised, operationally independent, and ready for growth.
Economic tailwinds offer ample opportunities for expansion, and we will continue to invest in and support these ventures as they
create value. With robust equity, ample liquidity, and agile operating platforms, we have a solid canvas and look forward to
painting a bright FY25 with confidence and optimism.
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
The business has had a robust year both in terms of scale and profitability. Our AUM increased 18% YoY to `547 billion and FPAUM
grew by 39% YoY to `322 billion. We raised `95 billion, deployed nearly `66 billion and realised `92 billion during the year.
There has been a rise in demand for Alternative products. ISAF III, our 3
 rd generation Special Situations Fund, witnessed a robust
nd
response, the fund raised `110 billion and marked its final close. IYP II, our 2 generation Infrastructure Yield Strategy, has raised
`80 billion till March 2024. During the year, we launched Rental Yield Plus (first-of-its-kind pre-REIT offering for Indian investors,
the fund invests in pre-leased commercial buildings), C SIP (investments in performing credit opportunities across sectors) and
Energy Transition Fund (opportunity to participate in India's sustainable energy transition). The business completed the acquisition
of L&T Infrastructure Development Projects (L&T IDPL), which owns various road assets and a power transmission line, further
scaling up our Real Assets platform.
Alternative Asset Management
Net Worth
`7.63 billion
Net Revenue
`5.99 billion
Profit After Tax
`2.10 billion
Validating Investor/Customer Trust
3,400+ Unique LPs | 750+ repeat LPs
across multiple products
57% of AUM from global institutional investors
Geographically diversified client base with
46% of fund commitments coming from India,
28% from EMEA/APAC and 26% from clients
based in North America
Conferred with the "Market Award - India" category
at the AsianInvestor Asset Management Award 2024
& the "Best Overall Performance of the Year" by
IVCA at the Alternate Capital Excellence Awards
Expanding Customer Assets
The business manages an AUM of `1,270 billion
under 61 schemes across categories
Equity AUM grew 61% YoY to `437 billion of equity
assets with a market share of 1.34%
Total net inflows stood at `81 billion
Total net equity inflows of `48 billion,
a growth of 41% YoY
During the year, we launched 5 new products
Earned Investor Trust
SIP book grew by 56% YoY to `2.34 billion
Total folios increased by 32% YoY to 1.55 million vs
industry growth at 22%
Our systematic transactions increased by
51% YoY to 6,10,000 in FY24
We are the 13
 th largest and among the fast growing AMCs in the industry with `1,270 billion in assets, growth of 21% YoY.
We witnessed robust performance in our Equity AUM with `437 billion in assets, growth of 61% YoY with a market share of 1.34%
as on March 2024. During the year, `81 billion of net inflows were recorded. We catered to 15.5 lakh active folios compared to 11.7
lakh at the end of FY23.
Mutual Fund
Net Worth
`2.40 billion
Gross Revenue
`2.55 billion
Profit After Tax
`0.38 billion
Many hues, many possibilities
19
20
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Witnessing growing interest in India from LPs
based in Australia, Korea, Japan, and Middle East
Our NBFC business is focussed on an asset-light model through partnerships with banks. Historically, we concentrated on
wholesale lending, but over the past few years, we have committed to scaling down the wholesale book and building a digital-led,
asset-light, retail credit portfolio through bank collaborations. Our strategic pivot towards retail has shown significant results this
year, with disbursements reaching `10.50 billion, a 2.5x YoY increase. Additionally, our conservative approach and consistently
provisioning above IRAC norms for our credit assets have resulted in a strong balance sheet and adequately capitalised businesses,
providing a solid foundation for future growth.
NBFC (SME & Business Loans)
Net Worth
`34.87 billion
AUM
`69.24 billion
Capital Adequacy
42.4%
Disbursed `10.50 billion in the year; 80% via CLM
Partnership with Central Bank of India, IDFC First Bank
and Standard Chartered Bank continues to deepen
Asset-light Business Model
Wholesale book reduction of 42% in the year to `41.50
billion; expect momentum to continue
Wholesale Book Reduction on Track
Strong, well-capitalised balance sheet with
well-matched ALM across all durations
Steady fee income anchoring profitability;
PAT 5.0% of the AUM since FY18
7.6% Return on Assets (RoA)
12.0% Return on Equity (RoE)
Strong Balance Sheet, Steady Income & Profitability
As India's largest asset reconstruction platform, Edelweiss ARC plays an important role in the reconstruction and redeployment of
productive assets into the economy. Our AUM stood at `316 billion as of March 2024. With a focus on optimal resolution and
turnaround of portfolio assets, we have recovered `94 billion and deployed `16 billion. With a key focus on recoveries, we have
recovered ~`475 billion over the last six years despite the pandemic. Our share of retail assets in capital employed stood at 15%.
Asset Reconstruction
Net Worth
`31.50 billion
Gross Revenue
`10.69 billion
Profit After Tax (pre-MI)
`3.55 billion
Robust Recoveries
Specialist team focussed on facilitating turnaround
of portfolio assets
Robust recoveries of `94 billion during the year,
up 25% YoY; 13% from retail portfolio
Debt assets acquisition nearly doubled during
the year to `132 billion
Many hues, many possibilities
Forged new CLM partnership with Godrej Capital
21
22
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Our Housing Finance business continues to focus on facilitating homeownership and wealth building for individuals within the
low-income, new to credit, women borrowers and informal-income customer segments. Our granular portfolio predominantly
consists of retail home loans, with nine out of ten customers having a loan ticket size of less than `3 million. Further, more than
50% of the housing loans financed during the year were in the affordable housing segment, with an average ticket size of
`1.6-1.7 million. To achieve our vision of enabling home ownership to our target segment, we have established a future-ready,
asset-light business model that is built on strategic collaborations, including co-lending tie-ups with marquee banks. During the
year, the business disbursed `13.25 billion, an increase of 40% YoY.
Housing Finance (Nido)
Net Worth
`8.15 billion
AUM
`39.62 billion
Capital Adequacy
39.1%
Disbursed `13.25 billion in the year; 32% via CLM
Partnerships with State Bank of India, Standard
Chartered Bank, Bank of Baroda, and UCO Bank have
been established for co-lending across HL and LAP
products
Asset-light Business Model
GNPA improved to 1.69% as on 31
 st March, 2024
compared to 1.91% on 31
 st March, 2023
Collection efficiency remained robust at 99%
Improved Asset Quality and Collection Efficiency
Many hues, many possibilities
Digital payments - 93%
Digital issuance - 100%
APIs (Application Programming Interface) offered - 350+
Technological Edge
Gross Written Premium
`8.51 billion
Solvency Ratio
172%
No. of Policies Issued
4,30,000
Unassisted transactions - 85%
AI-based claims intimation - 43%
Onboarded & activated marquee names such as Maruti
Suzuki, Volkswagen, Skoda
15 new brokers were onboarded for Corporate Sales
Strategic Partnerships
General Insurance (Zuno)
Made payments simple, easy through Bharat
Bill Pay integration for renewal journeys across
payment gateways like Razorpay & Bill desk
23
24
Zuno GI is a digital native Insurer that started with the purpose of reimagining Insurance to make it easy, friendly, and transparent
through the pillars of customer experience, innovation, and an efficient digital delivery platform. In FY24, Zuno GI emerged as
the fastest growing player with a growth rate of 56%. Zuno GI's Gross Written Premium (GWP) for the year was `8.51 billion,
growing 5.4 times over FY20. Motor & Health segments expanded by 32% & 100%, respectively, versus industry averages of
13% & 19%. During the year, 'Zuno Driving Quotient' a first-of-its-kind driving score using telematics, accessible through the
Zuno app was launched. Further, various customer-centric features in Health and Motor Insurance were launched like Pay As
You Drive (PAYD), Pay How You Drive (PHYD), Health Product add-ons (241), etc. We continue to record higher than industry NPS,
closing the year FY24 at 53.
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
The past financial year was marked by a relentless pursuit of delivering customer delight, underpinned by a growth mindset.
The company reported a 15% YoY growth in Total Premium, reaching `19.26 billion. Since inception, the company has achieved
an impressive 40% CAGR in individual APE. We have maintained a well-balanced distribution mix and an optimal product mix, with
approximately 80% of traditional policies and a higher ratio of longer-duration policies. Two biggest product launches during the
year were Bharat Savings STAR and Legacy Plus. We have a remarkable track record of consistently providing bonus payouts for the
past 12 consecutive years. Our focus will continue to be on enhancing distribution strength, providing agile support to sales teams
for customer engagement, driving innovation and personalisation, and optimising processes.
Life Insurance
Customers
~3,84,000
Agents
75,000+
No. of Policies Issued
~58,400
Gross Premium grew 15% YoY to `19.26 billion
Individual APE stood at `5.14 billion
Long-term Value Creation
13-month persistency at 78%; improved
300 bps YoY
Embedded Value as on March 31, 2024, at `19.51 billion
High Quality Franchise
AUM increased 20% YoY to `79.90 billion
Solvency ratio at 179%
Recorded highest ever Claim Settlement Ratio of 99.23%
and full year Customer NPS score of 56
Many hues, many possibilities
26
Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd
Alternative Asset Mgt.
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Ltd
Mutual Fund
Asset Reconstruction
NBFC
Housing Finance
General Insurance
Life Insurance
Edelweiss Asset Management Ltd
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd
ECL Finance Ltd
Edelweiss Retail Finance Ltd
Nido Home Finance Ltd
Zuno General Insurance Ltd
Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Ltd
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
25
Ink has been a vital aspect of governance since
its development around the 23
 rd century BC in ancient
China. The first formulation of ink was made from
plant extracts and soot for writing on silk and
bamboo. As civilisations evolved, so did the
preparation methods, from the indelible inks of
ancient Egypt and the enduring iron gall inks of
medieval Europe to the complex formulation we see
today, ink has played an instrumental role in
documenting significant legal and historical texts
through the passage of time.
The act of signing with ink symbolises commitment
and enforceability in governance, illustrating its role in
A governing stroke
shaping societal norms through documented
laws and agreements.
We draw inspiration from the vitality of ink in
governance. Just as ink formalises laws and agreements,
we prioritise integrity, transparency, and accountability,
ensuring our decisions are as impactful as ink on paper.
Through our governance approach, inspired by the
enduring significance of ink, we foster a culture that
delivers consistent value and upholds the principles of
good corporate citizenship.
27
28
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
At Edelweiss, our commitment to integrity, transparency, and discipline is indelibly inked into our corporate governance.
We have crafted a culture where governance is not just a guideline but a vital aspect of our ethos. This approach allows us to
inscribe a robust foundation for business growth and purpose while supporting all stakeholders. With policies and procedures
meticulously aligned with national and global laws, Edelweiss provides a clear manuscript that outlines the expected standards
of professionalism and behaviour for all employees. Our focus on governance is to enable independent functioning within our
businesses while ensuring seamless interdependence. Through our Boards, Councils, and various operating review mechanisms,
we remain steadfast in our pursuit of good governance.
6-member Board of Directors comprising 2 women
directors, collectively representing over ~230 years of rich
and diverse experience.
An Inked Commitment to Integrity
Tenets of Our Corporate Governance Philosophy
Simplification for
enhanced effectiveness
Competence
Uphold the laws of the
land in letter and spirit
Respect
Key Highlights
Anti-bribery and Corruption, Gifts and Entertainment
policy safeguards and promotes legitimate business.
The Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy
overseen by the ESG Council, is spearheaded by women
leaders and aims to embed sustainability across Edelweiss.
Our subsidiaries follow a strong culture of compliance,
regulatory standards and remediation of escalations.
Regular policy refresher workshops and e-learning
modules are conducted for employees to ensure
awareness, assimilation, and adherence.
EFSL is ISO 27701:2019 certified and has implemented cloud
security framework and state-of-the art security solutions
for data classification, data protection, data loss prevention,
advanced threat protection, zero-day protection, etc.
To know more about our Corporate Governance initiatives, please refer to our Sustainability Report.
Governance
Our
Senior management and directors are governed by conflict-
of-interest policy, in addition to the code of conduct.
We preserve the confidentiality of unpublished price
sensitive information to prevent any misuse of such
information.
'Eleven-risk Framework' is institutionalised to assess, avoid,
manage, and mitigate risks across businesses in a continual
manner, along with Board-level oversight.
Major subsidiaries have independent directors who
ensure keen external oversight and transparency.
Regulatory compliance is automated through
technology-based applications.
Edelweiss Code of Conduct is designed to sensitise all
employees about our philosophy, values, culture, and
practices. The Code sets out an ethical roadmap for the
conduct of business.
Responsible decision-making
and responsiveness
Accountability
Transparency, authenticity
and fairness
Legitimacy
No compromise on
ethics and integrity
Trust
The tenets of our Corporate Governance Philosophy are more than just a series of policies and practices. They are deeply
engraved elements of the Edelweiss culture, guiding our efforts to conduct business ethically, responsibly, and transparently.
A governing stroke
29
30
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Pencils have evolved significantly since their inception,
beginning as crude tools made of clay and wax and
advancing to the modern graphite versions of today.
The discovery of graphite in the 16
 th century near
Borrowdale, England, marked a pivotal improvement
in pencil technology, leading to the creation of more
durable and reliable writing instruments. The first
mass-produced pencils were made in Nuremberg,
th
Germany, in the 17 century, which set the standard
for pencil manufacturing globally. Additionally, the
invention of the wood-clad pencil in 1662 by Kaspar
Faber further developed the pencil as a
user-friendly tool.
Pencils empower users with the ability to erase
mistakes and refine their work, embodying the
concept of customisation and iterative improvement.
Power to customise
At Edelweiss, we prioritise our customers and strive
to tailor their experiences. Like the versatile strokes
of a pencil that adapts to the user's intentions, we
strive to provide a canvas where our customers can
express their preferences freely. Our commitment
to empowering each customer interaction mirrors
the pencil's role in facilitating personalised and
meaningful creations, ensuring every engagement
leaves a distinctive, lasting impression.
31
32
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Customer
Experience
Our
Power to customise
At Edelweiss, we focus on painting exceptional customer experiences with vibrant hues of intuition and insight. We strive to
understand and empathise with our clients' wants and objectives, creating a masterpiece that captures their vision. By providing
excellent customer experiences, we aim to colour deep, meaningful relationships that will endure and thrive over time. With an
uncompromising dedication to assisting our clients in achieving their goals, we blend winning technologies with personalised
touches, creating a vivid tapestry that resonates with our 7.6 million customers.
Mutual Fund business implemented new features on its
website (Edelweissmf) and mobile app (Einvest) for
seamless customer experience, including features to invest
in multiple schemes in one click, chatbots for WhatsApp
and website and options for SIP renewal and modification.
Significant progress has been achieved in our digitisation
efforts through the development of Digital Lending
Platform (DLP) for MSME customers. The goal is to digitalise
the entire business loan process, eliminating the need for
manual intervention or paperwork.
Zuno's AI-based voice bot lets garages register claims
quickly and 24/7; the fastest claims were settled in
16 minutes.
Zuno's “h'app'ening” app was updated with enhanced
features and performance. 90% of motor service journey is
now enabled on the app and processing capacity
increased to 5,000 transactions per second.
Sketching Meaningful Relationships
Our Promise: ASSURED Customer Experience
We will be Accessible
to our customers
We will be on the Same Side
and listen to our customers with empathy
We will be Upfront and
transparent in our dealings
We will Remove Limitations
for our customers
We will be uncomplicated
and Easy to Deal with
Key Highlights in Our Businesses
Nido's in-house tools optimise the digital journey, ensuring
that offerings meet market demands seamlessly, thereby
enhancing the quality of the customer experience.
Zuno Driving Quotient (ZDQ): First-of-its-kind driving score
tailored for today's mobile savvy customer. ZDQ initiative
provides users with an opportunity to assess their driving
skills and get an objective score. This score not only offers
valuable insights into one's driving habits but also
encourages safer driving practices.
Zuno integrated with NHCX (National Health Claim
Exchange) and enabled creation of ABHA ID.
Life Insurance business upgraded Pragati (customer
onboarding journey) to allow digital workflows, WhatsApp
channel for servicing and renewal payments, etc.
Digital claims processing for our Life Insurance customers,
ensuring a smooth, hassle-free experience, enabling a
claim settlement ratio of 99.23%.
We will be Dependable and
take ownership
33
34
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Textures of emotions and expressions
Watercolours, celebrated for their subtle and translucent
qualities, have deep historical roots, dating back to
ancient Egyptian and Chinese civilisations where they
were initially used for manuscript illumination and
decorative scrolls. In Europe, the Renaissance marked a
pivotal period of advancement for watercolour
techniques. The medium gained significant popularity in
18
 th century England with artists like William Turner,
who explored atmospheric effects and landscape
scenes, further demonstrating watercolour's ability
to capture light and mood.
These techniques, such as wet-on-wet or wet-on-dry,
allow artists to express deep emotions and diverse
perspectives, making watercolours a household staple
and a tool for adding depth and texture to the artwork.
At Edelweiss, our team embodies the spirit of
watercolour painting - where diverse skills and
personalities blend seamlessly, creating a rich tapestry of
talent and expression. We recognise the essential role
each member plays and are committed to fostering an
environment that supports their growth and wellbeing.
Just as watercolour artists explore the nuanced interplay
of colours and techniques to convey deep emotions and
perspectives, we encourage our employees to develop
their unique capabilities, ensuring their contributions
are both valued and impactful.
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
35
36
At Edelweiss, we celebrate the diverse hues and expertise of our workforce across all departments. Our policies
are designed to uphold fairness and eliminate discrimination, ensuring equal opportunities for all employees and
candidates. We are dedicated to nurturing an inclusive culture, rooted in the principles of diversity, equality, and
inclusion. Our goal is to create an environment where every individual can thrive, feel respected, and be appreciated
for their unique perspectives and contributions, allowing them to reach their highest potential. Our open-door policy
promotes an atmosphere of mutual support and transparent communication, enabling employees to freely connect
with others across all levels of the organisation.
Painting Our Future Together
Key Highlights in Our Businesses
Inclusion & Workplace Diversity
Our performance management, succession planning,
and career development practices prioritise inclusivity,
offering equal opportunities to all. We promote
respectful communication, active listening, and
appreciation for diverse perspectives, encouraging
interaction among employees.
st
As of 31 March, 2024, women comprised 25%
of our workforce.
We have implemented focussed initiatives such as
Manthan, Writing Her Story, mentoring programmes,
recruitment sensitisation, etc. to promote inclusivity.
We have adopted a zero-tolerance policy against sexual
harassment. Training sessions under the Prevention of
Sexual Harassment (POSH) Act are conducted to educate
employees on appropriate behaviours.
Various platforms and committees address sensitive
employee matters in a respectful and unbiased manner.
People
Our
We prioritise continuous learning by offering tailored
training programmes designed to meet specific needs.
Our comprehensive approach includes both functional
and behavioural training initiatives across our businesses.
We partnered with Udemy to start building a digital
learning and self-learning culture. It catered to
employees and functions looking for deep skill
functional learnings. LinkedIn Learning was also
added to our digital learning services this year to
add byte-sized learnings.
Our learning journeys aimed at mid-level managers are
centred around enhancing managerial effectiveness,
focussing on three key outcomes: self management,
team management, and upward management.
Our learning programmes such as “Wings to Fly” and
“Athithi Devo Bhava” are tailored to equip employees
with essential knowledge and skills.
Learning and Development
We have steadfastly focussed on building a robust
leadership pipeline that empowers us to navigate
and thrive in an ever-evolving landscape.
“Young Leaders” programme is tailored for Front-Line
Supervisors, Branch Operations Executives, and
Associates, targeting the development of a strong
first-line managerial cadre.
We prioritise interlinkages between leadership groups
across all levels. This approach enables senior leaders
to tap into the fresh perspectives of young leaders
and refine their expertise through specialised forums.
“Emerging Leaders” programme is designed for
Managers and Chief Managers, concentrating on
enhancing functional capability and competence.
Leadership Development
“Business Leaders” programme is centred on nurturing
functional leaders who possess the capability to guide
the organisation towards its vision.
Textures of emotions and expressions
37
38
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
We place a high priority on the health and safety
of our employees by ensuring a secure working
environment and implementing safety training
programmes. We also extend our focus on the
health and wellbeing of employees' families by
providing support through our central incident
room, which is available 24/7 to handle emergency
situations and provide accurate information on
emergency protocols.
Employees and their spouses are provided with
the opportunity to undergo a thorough annual
health assessment at any of our network hospitals
or diagnostic centres.
We offer comprehensive health coverage, which
extends not only to our employees but also to
their immediate family members.
Initiatives such as Wellness Wednesdays, Stepathon,
What The Health, etc. aim to raise awareness about
overall health, fitness, and wellbeing.
Employee Wellbeing and Safety
“Mental Health Day” was celebrated at work and
employees were made aware of why focussing on
mental health is important.
As part of the Stress Management Programme, we have
set up an exclusive helpline to connect employees with
qualified practitioners who quell myths and provide
counselling services.
To read more about workplace diversity, learning and development initiatives, employee safety & welfare, employee engagement, please refer to
our Sustainability Report.
Textures of emotions and expressions
“Edelweiss Marvels”- annual R&R programme based
on core values of the Company where we celebrate
and appreciate individual and team excellence.
“Jump-Start Friday” is an initiative providing employees
2 free hours on the first Friday of the month to pursue
their non-work passions. The idea is to promote holistic
wellbeing and work-life balance.
“WoW Café” - leadership connect forum wherein
employees are nominated monthly for one-on-one
interaction with the MD & CEO. “WoW Champions”,
a platform for recognising top performers PAN India
monthly was newly launched in FY24.
Hosted “Family Day” wherein members of our esteemed
senior management engaged in meaningful one-on-one
interactions with the families of our employees.
Employee Engagement
We have introduced new HR policies and practices
which have been well-received, with highlights
including quarterly team lunch sponsored by company
and Happiness Leave which provides 1 additional paid
leave that can be opted for birthday or anniversary.
Business and functional offsites are planned and
undertaken to foster team bonding, encouraging
employees to come together and plan the
departmental strategy for the year ahead.
39
40
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
UV paint, featuring fluorescent pigments that glow under
ultraviolet light, revolutionised security printing by
enabling the creation of hidden markings on sensitive
materials like documents and currency to combat
th
counterfeiting. First developed in the mid-20 century,
these paints leverage properties of certain materials that
react to UV light, remaining invisible under normal light
conditions but glowing brightly when exposed to UV rays.
This dual nature makes UV paint ideal for applications
where discretion and security are paramount.
Beyond security, UV paint's vibrant effects are utilised in
art installations and entertainment, bringing dynamic
visual experiences to life in the dark.
The leap of innovation
Mirroring the innovative spirit of UV Paint at Edelweiss,
our technology drives our operations, enhancing
efficiency and ensuring business continuity. Just the
way UV paint transforms under UV light to reveal its
vibrant colours, similarly our strategic technologies
operate seamlessly behind the scenes, preparing us for
future challenges. Our approach is dynamic and
innovative, akin to the transformative and hidden
strokes of UV paint, enabling us to lead and shape the
ever-evolving business landscape.
41
42
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Our
Technology
At Edelweiss, we are dedicated to painting a vibrant future by harnessing the transformative power of technology. By blending
cutting-edge cloud and digital tools with the personal touch of human interaction, we create a seamless and engaging palette
of experiences for our stakeholders. This fusion of innovation and connection enhances customer experiences, boosts operational
efficiency, and ensures business continuity, driving our progress towards becoming a high-tech organisation that maintains a rich,
colourful bond with our stakeholders.
Radiating the Spirit of Innovation
Key Highlights
AI Adoption: Successfully
integrated Gen AI into our
operations to enhance user
productivity. Our team has been
leveraging Co-pilot, an AI-powered
tool, to streamline workflows and
improve efficiency.
Increased Information Security
Awareness: Our commitment to
security extends to our entire
workforce, including our outsourced
staff and consultants. We achieved
a 90% adoption rate on our
Information Security training,
demonstrating our team's
dedication to maintaining a secure
and reliable digital environment.
Cybersecurity Maturity: Our
commitment to securing our
digital assets and protecting our
business from cyber threats has
yielded results as we have
witnessed improvement in our
Cybersecurity Maturity Score.
ISO Certification Upgrade: In our
pursuit of excellence, we have
upgraded our ISO certificate from
27001:2013 to 27001:2022. This
upgrade underscores our
commitment to implementing the
best practices in information
security management.
Data Leak Protection Solutions:
To further strengthen our security
posture, we have deployed Data
Leak Protection solutions. These
solutions will help us prevent
unauthorised access to sensitive
data and mitigate the risk of
data breaches.
Key Business Initiatives
Evault: Enhanced Mutual Fund
business's management
information system with an
advanced tool providing deep
business insights, including CRM
analytics and sales dashboards,
making information access easier
than ever.
U2 (need analysis tool):
U2 has empowered Life Insurance
distributors to bring a personalised
approach to customer engagement,
enhancing customer trust and
reducing grievances.
CashTrea: Implemented CashTrea
to enhance treasury operations of
MSME business by optimising cash
management, improving liquidity
forecasting and mitigating
financial risks.
Oracle Fusion: MSME business'
enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system was upgraded from Oracle
EBS to Oracle Fusion. The platform
provides modern tools and
technology for more efficient
financial management, procurement,
and supply chain operations.
Zuno Driving Quotient (ZDQ):
First-of-its-kind driving score tailored
for today's mobile savvy customer.
ZDQ initiative provides users with
an opportunity to assess their driving
skills and get an objective score. This
score not only offers valuable insights
into one's driving habits but also
encourages safer driving practices.
Mfund Plus: Upgradation of the
order management system of the
Mutual Fund business to
effortlessly handle a wide range
of asset classes. It also incorporates
new regulatory requirements,
ensuring liquidity with an
advanced tech stack and top-
notch security.
My Zindagi App (unified app for
Distribution teams): Life Insurance
business successfully conducted
pilot launches for select channels
and zones.
It will enable ease of business for
distributors by offering a holistic
view from prospecting to sales
to servicing.
FinnOne Neo: Upgraded from
FinnOne to FinnOne Neo, a more
advanced and comprehensive
loan origination and management
system. This transition has enabled
our MSME business to enhance the
efficiency of lending processes and
improve customer experience.
Bolt (insta-issuance): The AI and
ML-powered Bolt has helped in
enabling quick life insurance policy
issuances. In FY24, insta-issuance
rate went up to 20%.
BALM: Implemented BALM
(Banking and Accounting Log
Manager) to meet regulatory
reporting obligations in MSME.
This solution simplifies the process
of generating and submitting
regulatory reports, ensuring
compliance with regulatory
requirements.
The leap of innovation
43
44
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
FY24 was marked by significant global challenges. We saw the year begin with central banks worldwide
adopting tight monetary policies to curb persistently high inflation, stoking fears of a recession. The financial
sectors in both the US and Europe encountered significant turbulence, with several bank collapses adding
to the uncertainty. Moreover, geopolitical tensions impaired supply chains, contributing to inflationary
pressures. However, as the year unfolded, thanks to robust consumption and a strong focus on infrastructure by
governments globally, normalcy began to return as inflation started to stabilise, and the world economy
managed to grow by 3.2%, surpassing initial expectations.
The Year Gone By
India – Continuing to be The Bright Spot
It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the
most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change.
– Charles Darwin
The Global Context
India's economic journey in FY24 was nothing short of remarkable. India's real GDP grew by 8.2%, up from 7.0%
in the previous fiscal year, propelled by a robust performance in both the manufacturing and services sectors.
Despite global trade headwinds, India managed to shrink its merchandise trade deficit, while services exports
surged. The fiscal deficit narrowed to 5.6% of GDP, better than initially projected, reflecting improved fiscal
management and higher-than-expected revenue collections. Capital inflows hit record highs with net
investments by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) reaching `3.4 lakh crore. Moreover, the inclusion of Indian bonds
in prominent global indexes like J P Morgan and Bloomberg, aimed to further integrate India into the global
financial system, brought in substantial inflows.
Brushstrokes of Adversity, Recovery and Resilience
Chairman's Letter
46
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
7.0%
8.2%
The Reserve Bank of India's effective monetary policy helped ease retail inflation to a 10-month low of 4.85%.
Notably, the Manufacturing PMI reached a 16-year high of 59.1 in March, underscoring the strength of India's
industrial sector. It is very heartening and encouraging to witness that India is on track to become the
world's fourth-largest economy, with over $4 trillion GDP by FY25.
This year has been pivotal for Edelweiss, marked by strategic achievements that have positioned us for
future growth. The successful listing of Nuvama was a cornerstone of our value creation and value unlock
strategy, reflecting our commitment to unlocking shareholder value and creating a win-win
for all stakeholders.
Growth and value creation in the underlying businesses was on track as our Alternative Asset Management
and Mutual Fund businesses saw impressive scale-up, with Alternative Asset Management AUM increasing by
18% YoY to `54,700 crore and Mutual Fund AUM growing by 21% YoY to `1,27,000 crore. The profitability
of these segments also improved significantly, with Alternative Asset Management PAT rising by 32% YoY to
`210 crore, and Mutual Fund PAT more than doubling to `38 crore. Our General Insurance business emerged
as the fastest-growing player in the industry, with Gross Written Premium (GWP) increasing by 54% YoY to
`851 crore. The Life insurance business achieved EV break-even last year, this year LI PAT improved by 21% YoY,
from `(199) crore to `(157) crore. Both the insurance businesses are poised to break-even in 2027. For the last few
years, growth in retail credit has been slower than expected and the focus in FY24 was to strengthen our existing
relationship with partner banks and build tech capabilities. The efforts have yielded results - MSME
disbursements via CLM tripled YoY whereas the same doubled for HFC.
Edelweiss - FY24 Paves The Path to The Future
Structurally, this year witnessed more strides on the path to unbundling, as we strengthen the Boards of all
the businesses. We have seven businesses with robust operating platforms, dedicated management teams
and strong independent boards. As we look back through time's canvas, FY24 will certainly be an important
year in our journey.
Alternative Asset
Management AUM
18% YoY
Mutual Fund AUM
21% YoY
We also reduced our net debt by 20% year-on-year, and we remain committed to this priority and to
strengthen our balance sheet further.
Inflation
4.85%
PMI
59.1
GDP (2025)
+
$4trillion
20% YoY
General
Insurance GWP
54% YoY
10-month low
16-year high
4
th largest economy*
`
GWP
India's GDP Growth
Debt Reduction
2024
2023
*Projected GDP
`54,700 Cr
`1,27,000 Cr
`851 Cr
47
48
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Power of Time's Canvas
No great thing is created suddenly. If you tell me that
you desire a fig, I answer you that there must be time.
Let it first blossom, then bear fruit, then ripen.
- Epictetus
India - A Story of Patience, Time, and Compounding at Scale
India's growth story is a testament to the power of patience, time, and compounding at scale. It took India
over 75 years to become a $4 trillion economy, a journey marked by steady, disciplined growth. In 2008, India
became a $1 trillion economy, and since then, GDP has doubled every 7-8 years. By 2023, India had risen to the
5
 th position in global GDP rankings, and in the next decade, we expect to reach $10 trillion, securing our spot
as the world's third-largest economy. The Indian capital markets have mirrored this growth, with the Sensex
taking 12 years to climb from 20,000 to 40,000 but doubling to 80,000 in just five years - a clear illustration of
compounding in action!
India's progress extends beyond financial markets. India became an IT powerhouse, growing from a modest $150
million industry in the early 1990s to a $245 billion powerhouse by 2023, employing over 5.4 million people and
contributing significantly to the country's GDP. The pharmaceutical sector has also expanded significantly, evolving
from a $6 billion industry in 2000 to around $50 billion by 2023, establishing India as a major global supplier of
generic medicines. The automotive sector has seen substantial growth as well, growing from producing just 40,000
vehicles annually in 1950 to over 5 million units by 2023, making India a global automotive hub. Furthermore, even
the telecommunications sector has evolved dramatically, with mobile subscribers increasing from just 5 million in
2001 to over 1.2 billion by March 2024, bolstered by the launch of 5G services in 2022.
There has also been an incredible shift in how Indians engage with their finances. Today, Indians are not just
saving; they are investing and actively participating in the economy. In 2012, there were 20 million demat
accounts, a number that doubled to 40 million by 2020. Today, there are over 160 million accounts - quadrupling
in just four years! Similarly, the Mutual Fund industry has seen exponential growth, growing sixfold from `10
trillion in 2014 to `60 trillion today. Digital payments have surged as well, with UPI recording 13 billion
transactions worth `19.8 lakh crore in March 2024 alone. Financial inclusion has made significant strides, with
over 510 million bank accounts opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) by November 2023,
facilitating direct subsidy transfers and improving economic efficiency.
$150 million
$245 billion
1990s
2023
5.4 million
People employed
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana
510 million
Bank accounts
Transacted amount
`19.8 lakh crore
Number of UPI transactions
13 billion transactions
1 trillion
5
 th Rank
Global GDP
10 trillion
India: The IT Powerhouse
These achievements underscore the importance of strategic patience and long-term planning.
Digital Payments March 2024
2008
2023
2035
GDP in $
India - The Great Compounding
India's journey reflects this philosophy, as does our journey at Edelweiss.
The Wide-angle View
49
50
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Growth and Value Creation are the cornerstones of our journey.
The steady structural shifts that were initiated in 2016 as decentralisation of the complex conglomerate, were
catalysed by the challenging circumstances following the IL&FS crisis in 2018 and then by COVID-19. True to our
spirit, we used these events to transition from an integrated diversified conglomerate into an unbundled,
structurally simple, well-governed HoldCo with eight underlying independent businesses. This structural
transition ensured that each business had its own strategic plan, Udaan, appropriately named as the birds took
the first flight out of the nest. The primacy of the business imperatives with robust management teams,
operating platforms, and strong independent boards have enabled focussed value creation.
This architectural shift has also set the stage for unlocking value in the businesses and the Nuvama Unlock
journey embodies our ideology of an unlock. Not many of you know that we started our wealth management
business in 2005, and what seems like an overnight success as always, took nearly a decade and a half to build.
By 2020, it had become one of the top two independent wealth management players, recognised as the market
leader in the affluent segment with an AUM of `1 lakh crore.
Last September, Nuvama successfully debuted on the stock exchanges, creating a win-win situation for all
stakeholders. For Nuvama, the deal led to primary capital infusion and paved the way for listing. Edelweiss
shareholders received 30% of Nuvama shares, providing a direct opportunity to participate in Nuvama's
growth journey. For Edelweiss, the listing provided capital to reduce debt and further invest in and scale
up our other businesses. This truly underscores our ideology for a value unlock in our businesses – we are
committed to finding the right time and method to create value for all stakeholders.
Nature does not hurry, yet everything is accomplished.
- Lao Tzu
Edelweiss - A Journey of Creating and Unlocking Value
Value creation at Edelweiss has always been a pioneering journey. We believe that creating value
consistently as an organisation is a sustained journey, where patience and adapting to a changing environment
are key. This philosophy has guided us in observing and anticipating market shifts and embracing new
opportunities. In 2008, recognising the potential in private credit, we became pioneers in the Alternative
Asset Management industry. We launched our first performing credit fund, and over time, introduced other
innovative products like the industry-first Special Situations Fund and Infra Yield Strategy. In 2023, we were
early movers in sustainable energy with the launch of our Climate Fund. The Alternative Asset
Management business, which had an AUM of `1,000 crore in 2010, has grown 50 times over 14 years,
reaching `54,700 crore in FY24.
2010
2024
`54,700 Cr
AUM
`1,000 Cr
AUM
Recognising the growing opportunity in the retail market, we launched our Mutual Fund business in 2008
with a vision to provide investment solutions that deliver enduring value for customers. During this journey, we
focussed on building the foundation for a strong retail franchise, making strategic choices like innovative product
launches - particularly in the Fixed Income category - becoming a leader in Passive Debt, and establishing a
distinct investment platform driven by a process-oriented approach. In 2017, our AUM stood at `7,000 crore,
ranking us 26
 th in the industry. By 2024, our AUM has grown to
th
`1,27,000 crore, making us the 13 largest
AMC in the country.
2017
2024
AUM - `7,000 Cr
Industry Rank - 26
th
AUM - `1,27,000 Cr
Industry Rank - 13
th
51
52
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Another pivotal moment in our journey was our involvement in the Asset Reconstruction space. With a firm belief
that not all Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) are bad assets, we have worked towards their revival and turnaround to
the greatest possible extent. In this business, we have successfully achieved cumulative recoveries worth `52,000
crore over the last 8 years.
Our business model has shifted from being asset and balance sheet-heavy to an asset-light model, focussing on
businesses that don't require heavy borrowings, positioning us well for future growth. As we move forward,
Edelweiss will continue to evolve into an Investment Company (InvesCo), focussing on existing businesses with
limited operational involvement and incubating new ventures.
I am a slow walker, but I never walk back.
- Abraham Lincoln
The Path on the Canvas Ahead
Global - Complexity With Emerging Hope
As we step into FY25, the global landscape remains complex. Countries continue to focus on keeping inflation
in check, while geopolitical tensions and election cycles add layers of uncertainty. Yet, there is hope - leading
indicators suggest an upturn in economic activity, driven by expansions in both manufacturing and service sectors.
At the same time, we have focussed on systematically reducing net debt over the past five years. In March 2019,
our net debt stood at `40,000 crore. By March 2024, we reduced this figure by `27,000 crore.
Reduction in net debt
2024
2019
40,000
13,090
Business
We have witnessed growth across our businesses
Metrics
FY20
FY24
Growth
Asset
Reconstruction
Alternative
Asset Mgt.
Mutual Fund
General
Insurance
Life
Insurance
AUM
FPAUM
AUM
Equity AUM
Cum. Recoveries*
GWP
AUM
Gross Premium
AUM
21,700
11,000
28,000
6,500
22,600
160
310
1,050
2,707
54,700
32,200
1,27,000
43,700
51,900
851
1,122
1,926
7,990
2.5x
2.9x
4.5x
6.7x
-
5.3x
3.6x
1.8x
3.0x
INR Cr
*Since FY16
Forging Hope and Possibilities
53
54
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
As we advance in our journey of sustained value creation, positioned to engage in the retailisation, financialisation,
and digitisation of the Indian economy, I sincerely thank our shareholders. Your unwavering support and trust have
been the cornerstone of our success. As we navigate the dynamic landscape and seize new opportunities, we
remain committed to delivering sustained value and growth through adaptability, effective change management,
and patience. As we often say at Edelweiss,
Yours sincerely,
CHAIRMAN & MD
Edelweiss - Poised to Participate in India's Growth
The green reed which bends in the wind is stronger
than the mighty oak which breaks in a storm.
– Confucius
Patience is not only the ability to wait, but the
ability to keep a positive attitude while waiting.
India - Towards a $10 Trillion Economy
India is at an inflection point in its economic journey. The pace of financial inclusion has accelerated dramatically over
the past decade, driven by key government initiatives and outreach programmes. Continued focus on education,
infrastructure development, and innovative approaches will further strengthen India's financial inclusion efforts.
This is an incredibly exciting time for India. We've
reached a point of capital surplus, experiencing strong
economic growth since 2020-21.
Our journey, much like the Green Revolution that transformed India from a food-scarce nation to one with surplus
production, is now focussed on achieving economic self-reliance. We have transitioned from being dependent on
Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) for capital, to becoming self-reliant, or atmanirbhar. As India moves forward, the
right policies and reforms, focussing on inclusive growth and sustainable development, will guide us towards
becoming a $10 trillion economy.
We remain committed on our key priorities
Focus on growth and value
creation in our businesses
Create a win-win by unlocking
value for shareholders
in the long term
Continue on the path
of debt reduction
Edelweiss is strategically positioned to leverage India's growth landscape, with a clear focus on resilience and
quality as the cornerstones of our strategy. We will continue to focus on growth and value creation in our
underlying businesses, viewing growth as a natural by-product of operational excellence and India's inherent
growth dynamics. Our strategy prioritises long-term success with a focus on creating a win-win opportunity for all
shareholders through value unlocking in our businesses at opportune times. Furthermore, we remain committed
on our stated path to reduce debt.
55
56
Annual Report 2023-24
Chairman’s Letter
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
At Edelweiss, we have consistently led
the way in promoting sustainable
growth for our diverse stakeholders and
society as a whole. Our governing
philosophy is underpinned by 13
guiding principles, which are rigorously
Aligning with the SDG framework as early adopters of SDGs, we have proactively committed to upholding these objectives across
all our operations.
We currently align with 10 of the 17 SDGs and continue to monitor our progress, and the impact we create for our numerous
stakeholders across varied areas of focus.
upheld by our management and staff,
shaping the values that drive our
operations.
Regular training ensures that employees
integrate these principles into their
Sustainability
daily activities. This report provides a
detailed exploration of these values
and our dedication to not only our
own growth but also to tackling
broader societal, environmental,
and governance issues.
Responsible
Governance
Contribution
to Society
Protecting
the Environment
Overview
Contribution to Society
Gender Equality
Decent Work and
Economic Growth
Responsible Governance
Developing effective, accountable,
and transparent institutions.
Responsive, inclusive, participatory,
and representative decision-making.
Promote a culture of compliance with
the highest standards of integrity.
Regulators
Investors
Customers
Employees
Sustainable
Development Goals
Stakeholders Impacted/
Operating Environment
Key Areas of Focus
Peace, Justice and
Strong Institutions
Ending discrimination and violence
against women.
Promoting women's empowerment.
Equal access to economic resources
and equal opportunities for leadership.
Society
Sustainable
Development Goals
Stakeholders Impacted/
Operating Environment
Key Areas of Focus
Creating a safe and healthy working
environment and enhancing efficiency
and productivity.
Supporting job creation.
Promoting entrepreneurship and
encouraging growth of SMEs.
Contribution to economy by financing real
estate infrastructure and affordable housing.
Employees
Society
Economy
57
58
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Good Health
and Wellbeing
Providing healthcare facilities to employees.
Encouraging healthy lifestyles.
Supporting reproductive rights.
Employees
Quality Education
Ensuring access to quality early-childhood
and primary education.
Supporting development of education
infrastructure and teaching capabilities.
Society
Reduced Inequalities
Supporting women to get access to
rights and entitlements.
Ensure equal opportunities and reduce
inequalities.
Society
Industry, Innovation,
and Infrastructure
Improve access to financial services, including
affordable credit for small-scale industrial
and other MSMEs.
Facilitating investments in quality, reliable,
sustainable, and resilient infrastructure to
support economic growth and increase
quality of life.
Society
Investors
Sustainable
Development Goals
Stakeholders Impacted/
Operating Environment
Key Areas of Focus
Protecting the Environment
Aiding the development of
resilience and adaptability to
climate-related changes.
Enhancing awareness, education and
capacity of climate change mitigation
and adaptation.
Environment
Society
Climate Action
Increasing the share of renewable energy
in power consumption.
Improving energy efficiency.
Environment
Affordable
and Clean Energy
Using natural resources efficiently.
Environmentally sound management of waste
and limiting waste generation.
Reducing release of emissions and GHGs.
Environment
Responsible Consumption
and Production
Sustainable
Development Goals
Stakeholders Impacted/
Operating Environment
Key Areas of Focus
Our values and dedication not only result in our own
growth but also tackling broader societal,
environmental, and governance issues.
59
60
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
At Edelweiss, we consider sustainability
integral to our operational frameworks,
ensuring that sustainable practices
permeate all aspects of our business
operations. We actively collaborate with
a wide range of stakeholders to grasp
their primary needs and concerns. Our
objective is to meet these requirements
by implementing effective systems,
processes, and strategies throughout
the organisation, thereby delivering
significant value.
Satisfactory services
Multiple channels
Responsiveness
Data privacy & security
Ensure consistent, high-quality
customer experience by creating
a customer-centric culture
focussed on their needs.
Read More…
Enhancing
Customer
Experience
Corporate
Governance
Compliance
Ethical and
transparent practices
Key Stakeholder /
Areas of Impact
Material Topics
Adhere to the highest standards
of corporate governance
practices and ethical behaviour;
Create a safe and reliable
financial services ecosystem
through policy advocacy.
Objective
SDG Mapping
Read More…
Responsible
Governance
Link to the
Detailed Report*
Regulators
Customers
Stakeholders
and Operating Environment
Our
Shareholder value
Financial performance
Corporate governance
Compliance
Risk management
Disclosures
& transparency
Protect and increase shareholder
value and focus on sustainable
growth and profitability.
Read More…
Catering
to Our
Shareholders
Enriching career
Learning, development
& training
Health & wellness
benefits
Enable employees to thrive,
be respected, and valued,
and thereby achieve their
full potential;
Provide a safe and enabling
environment with a focus
on employee wellbeing.
Read More…
Our People
Women's
empowerment
Gender equality
Education
Livelihoods
Rural development
Read More…
Contribution
to Society
Enable sustainable and
equitable development.
Employees
Society
Investors
Responsible
consumption
Waste and emissions
Efficient use of
natural resources
Read More…
Protecting the
Environment
Promotion of SMEs
Civic infrastructure
and housing
Read More…
Contribution
to Our
Economy
Contribute to the national
agenda by supporting small
businesses, financially empower
enterprises and individuals and
develop housing infrastructure.
Minimise adverse
environmental impacts.
Economy
Environment
Key Stakeholder /
Areas of Impact
Material Topics
Objective
SDG Mapping
Link to the
Detailed Report
61
62
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
*To read the report go to www.edelweiss.com
Our Stakeholders and Operating
At Edelweiss, Governance forms the
cornerstone of our operations. It
empowers us to serve our stakeholders
effectively, establishing a robust
framework for business growth and
fulfilment of our mission. Our policies
and procedures adhere to relevant
national and global laws and regulations,
Board Committees and Organisation
Responsible Governance
offering transparent directives for
expected standards of professionalism
and conduct.
Governance forms the cornerstone of our operations.
It empowers us to serve our stakeholders effectively,
establishing a robust framework for business growth
and fulfilment of our mission.
Balanced board composition with
~230 man-years of experience.
Board members strive for 100% attendance and active
participation in all Board and Committee meetings.
Governance Structure
6-member Board with two Women directors as on March 31, 2024
Board
Composition
Rashesh Shah
(Chairman & MD)
Venkatchalam
Ramaswamy
(Vice Chairman &
Executive Director)
Non-Executive
Director
Vidya Shah
(Non-Executive Non-Independent Director &
Edelweiss ESG Council Chairperson)
Independent
Directors
Shiva Kumar
Executive
Directors
Board of
Directors
Chairman
Committees
of the Board
Chief
Operating
Officer
Business
CEOs
Compliance
&
Secretarial
Chief
Financial
Officer
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
Stakeholders
Relationship
Committee
Audit
Committee
Risk
Committee
CSR
Committee
63
64
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Ashok Kini
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Two Board Members are below 60 years of age and two above 70 years.
< 60 years – 2
> 60 to 70 years – 2
> 70 Years – 2
Detailed profile of our directors and
details of the composition of the Board
Committees and their terms of reference
are available on our website.
6 Board Members
All businesses at Edelweiss operate with a strong culture of compliance, regulatory standards, and remediation of escalations.
Business compliance officers and decentralisation
of ownership
Automation of regulatory compliance through
technology-based application
Periodic review of regulatory compliances, directives of
sectoral regulators, and the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015, by the Board and its Committees
E-learning modules and expert sessions by law firms and
experienced relevant consultant firms to keep updated
on governance practices
ESG Council is in place since FY20 to provide effective governance for addressing ESG parameters.
Edelweiss' ESG agenda is further augmented by a CSR Committee and EdelGive Foundation.
Legal and Regulatory Compliance
ESG Governance at Edelweiss
Brings together rich and varied
experience of managing key
stakeholder relationships
As a women-led majority body, the
ESG Council comprises heads of various
enterprise units including HR, admin,
compliance and governance, marketing,
and investor relations
Frameworks and Policies
The Edelweiss Code of Conduct adopted at an organisational level outlines our commitment and sets out a roadmap for
employees, senior management, and Directors, covering critical areas such as professional integrity, honesty, and ethical conduct.
These policies are available for reference on our website,
Additionally, our detailed report on
www.edelweissfin.com.
responsible governance summarises the key highlights and details on implementation of these policies.
Conflict of Interest
Information Security
Anti-bribery
and Corruption
Data Privacy
Anti-fraud
Prohibition of
Insider Trading
Anti-money Laundering
and Counter Financing
of Terrorism
Whistle-blower
Policy
POSH Policy
Code of
Conduct
Periodic communication on awareness and training on POSH provided for all relevant stakeholders:
Over 92 members of the Internal Complaints
Committee (ICC) across businesses trained on
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy
investing over 289 training-hours
Employees at the time of joining Edelweiss and
thereafter on an annual basis, complete trainings
on anti-money laundering and counter-financing
of terrorism (AML/CFT) POSH prohibition of
insider training whistle-blower policy through
the SHIELD module
No POSH cases in EFSL in FY24
4 POSH cases across businesses in FY24
65
66
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Risk Management
Risk Committee constituted to
devise and adopt risk management
frameworks and plans for
identification, evaluation,
and assessment of risks
We have formulated a Risk
Management Policy. It is included
in our 13 guiding principles, and is
a crucial element of our philosophy
Incident/Exception reporting
mechanism adopted to ensure
timely reporting on any deviation
from policies and processes
Risk management training
programme facilitated for
employees
Eleven-risk Framework adopted to
identify, quantify, and monitor risk
events in a comprehensive risk
register across Edelweiss
Independent assurance on the
effectiveness of the risk framework
provided by Internal Audit
11-Risk
Framework
Physical &
Infrastructural Risk
Fraud Risk
People Risk
Business Risk
Credit Risk
Market Risk
Liquidity Risk
Operation &
Process Risk
Technology Risk
Regulatory Risk
Reputation Risk
Active participation in industry bodies and associations, policy discussions to highlight, address concerns and to contribute
views and experience to consultation papers and exposure drafts impacting public policy on subjects like women
entrepreneurship, financial and economic growth, sustainable development, and climate change.
Policy Advocacy
Data privacy policy and processes
in place to ensure adequate
safeguards for collection, storage,
and processing of personal and
sensitive information and data of
customers and third parties
Enabling firewalls, intrusion
detection systems, network
monitoring encryption, and other
tools to prevent and detect
cyber-security attacks
Ongoing process to embed
data privacy programme in the
enterprise-wide risk-management
framework
No reported cases of losses of
customer data and breaches of
customer privacy
Achieved ISO 27701:2019
certification across Edelweiss,
which is the international
standard in privacy information
management systems
Data Privacy
Security & IT Governance
Upgraded the Information Security
Management system to ISO
27001:2022 standard. This certificate
validates the firm's efforts for
safeguarding the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of our
clients' valuable data
Adopted zero-trust security model
to optimise productivity and
reduce risk. This shift in working
model requires strict identity
verification for every person and
device trying to access resources
on a private corporate network
Implemented state-of-the-art
security solutions for data
classification, data protection, data
loss prevention, advanced threat
protection, zero-day protection, etc.
Strengthened IT governance and
focus on process standardisation
Enhanced cloud security framework
and governance at Edelweiss
67
68
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Suppliers and Vendor Relationship Management
We recognise our shareholders and investors as important stakeholders and strive to create and protect value for them.
We engage proactively with our shareholders and have developed effective mechanisms and relationship management
systems to enable us to effectively plan, execute and keep track of investor outreach initiatives.
Investor Relationship Management
Shareholder base of over 2,30,000
retail and institutional investors as
of March 2024. Timely and accurate
disclosure of regulatory compliance
with material events, updates, and
financial performance
Proactive engagement with
shareholders
Adoption of effective mechanisms
and information systems to enable
planning, execution, and tracking
investor outreach initiatives
Multiple modes of communication
with investors
Stock exchange filings
Continued focus on enhancing the
quality of disclosures to investors
and analysts through benchmarking
with peers
Investor collaterals
Analyst calls
E-mails
Investor letters
Website
AGM
Proactively gathered investor
feedback that was channelised
to the Company management
after analysis for potential
actionable inputs
User-friendly interface for contact
through web query/request form
on service and information
requirements
Adoption of robust investor
grievance redressal systems.
470 investor complaints received
and disposed in FY24
Rolled out and adopted the
framework across business groups
within Edelweiss
Framed Comprehensive Enterprise
Procurement Guidelines in
accordance with the Edelweiss
ESG policy
Mandatory vendor sign-off on a
supplier code of conduct initiated,
specifically enumerating vendor
compliance with applicable
environmental laws, regulations,
and other ESG parameters
Know Your Vendor (KYV) norms
adopted by Edelweiss, covering
all stages of the vendor lifecycle
Customer Experience
Addressing customer concerns through physical, digital,
ATL and BTL engagement, across customer journey, from
pre-sales to servicing
At Edelweiss, customer centricity is the bedrock of all that we do. We serve a diversified client base that includes
corporations, institutions, and individuals
7.6 million customer base as of FY24
Constitution of a customer council and retail forum
comprises senior business leaders for improved synergies
and collaboration
Sophisticated complaint management systems adopted
Robust customer-experience framework adopted, based
on the CWOW assured guidelines
Customer experience officers forum initiated to share best
practices and drive learning across customer representatives
Robust measurement of customer experience through a
combination of metrics
Digital net promoter score
Individual business-led performance measures
Robust measurement of customer experience through a
combination of metrics:
69
70
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Contribution to
Society
At Edelweiss, our dedication lies in
generating value for both our
stakeholders and society as a whole.
We firmly believe that an inclusive
society hinges on educated children,
empowered women, and resilient
communities. Through our business
endeavours and philanthropic efforts,
we strive to foster an equitable and
sustainable environment where
communities can flourish and thrive.
Gender
Equality
Good Health
and Wellbeing
Reduced
Inequalities
Decent Work and
Economic Growth
Quality
Education
We firmly believe that an inclusive society hinges
on educated children, empowered women, and
resilient communities.
EdelGive has supported 12 projects with 12 NGO partners across 10 states in India in FY24. Over the years, through our NGO
partners, we have been able to create a significant impact:
57,146 (4,432 in FY24) women
supported to get access to rights
and entitlements
25,605 (9,750 in FY24) grassroots
leaders developed and supported
Formed 6,082 (98 in FY24)
SHGs/JLGs
Gender Equality
Women Empowerment and Gender Equality
Our philanthropic initiative, EdelGive Foundation, is committed to addressing the social and economic inequalities that
prevent women and girls from achieving their full potential, with a focus on the following five priority areas:
Freedom from Violence
and Discrimination
Access to Legal
Justice
Grassroots
Leadership
Access to Rights and
Entitlements
Freedom from Economic
Dependence
2.53 lakh (15,562 in FY24) women
and girls supported in their fight
for addressing gender equality-
related issues
Supported 39,557 (6,633 in FY24)
survivors of domestic violence
and/or sexual violence in the
legal journey
26,545 (2,389 in FY24) women
and girls supported under
financial inclusion programmes
71
72
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
This was initiated by EdelGive in 2019,
bringing together funding organisations
and grassroots organisations as
stakeholders united by a common
mission of facilitating social and
economic empowerment of women
and girls in India. It focusses on
providing 360-degree support to
grassroots organisations through
enabling funding for critical rights-based
EdelGive Foundation has launched the
#UdyamStree Campaign in 2020 to boost
women's entrepreneurial spirit.
In April 2021, EdelGive Foundation
launched the Landscape Study on Women
Entrepreneurship. The study offered insights
into the multifaceted challenges women
In 2023, UdyamStree's mandate pivoted
from women entrepreneurship to
women's participation in the workforce.
The core objective of the campaign has
been to set a conducive environment for
the growth of women leaders, enhance
private sector performance, reduce
income inequality, and stimulate
economic growth. To develop targeted
solutions, “A Study on Pathways to
Leadership for Women in the Finance
and Economic Sectors” was
commissioned by EdelGive Foundation in
2023. The study highlighted the barriers
women face in their professional journeys
while offering recommendations for
corporate and government to pave the
way for women in leadership in the
private sector.
The Coalition for Women Empowerment
The UdyamStree Campaign
Stree-Leads: Women in Leadership
Key Milestones of the Campaign
April 2023
Mandate provided to Women
in Leadership
March 2024
To reach the right set of TG
the campaign was named as
Stree-Leads
December 2023
Report Launch “A Study on
Pathways to Leadership for
Women in the Finance and
Economic Sectors”
programmes. The coalition is currently
supported by Ford Foundation, Chintu
Gudiya Foundation, Forbes Marshall, and
David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
face during their entrepreneurial journeys
and how policy implementation, advocacy
and multi-stakeholder groups can
overcome them.
In March 2024, the campaign was
named as Stree-Leads to reach the
right set of target groups. Stree-Leads
envisions to inspire and motivate
women professionals across career
stages to challenge stereotypes and
collaborate with seasoned women
leaders to collectively align on solutions
for their growth to leadership.
We have one of the better female workforce participation rates in the financial services industry in India.
Workforce Distribution
Female Employees as on March 2024
Proportion of female employees by Management level as against total employees, new hires, exits;
25% female employees
in total workforce as of
March 31, 2024
23% of the total
567 contract staff
is female
New Hires
Exits
Junior
Mid
Senior
Junior
Mid
Senior
Junior
Mid
Senior
27%
21%
21%
27%
22%
17%
20%
14%
29%
73
74
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
We promote respectful communication,
active listening, and appreciation
for diverse perspectives, encouraging
interaction among employees
irrespective of background.
Inclusive Behaviours
Cross-functional teams leverage diverse
backgrounds, skills, and experiences to
promote collaboration and creativity.
Cross-functional Teams
Various platforms and committees
address sensitive employee matters in
a respectful and unbiased manner.
Grievance Platforms and Committees
Employees are empowered to
provide feedback and participate
in decision-making through various
channels like 1:1 meetings, focus
groups, and townhall meetings.
Employee Engagement
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Inclusion and workplace diversity are integral components of our organisational ethos, enhancing decision-making and fostering a
culture of belonging and respect. Embracing diversity not only promotes fairness and equality but also attracts and retains top
talent. Our All In. diversity and inclusion themes underscore the importance of collective involvement in fostering an inclusive
workplace community.
Inclusion and Workplace Diversity
Our Equal Opportunity and
Parental Leave policies ensure
diversity and inclusion throughout
the employee lifecycle.
Inclusive Policies
Our performance management, succession
planning, and career development
practices prioritise inclusivity, offering equal
opportunities regardless of race, gender, or
other characteristics.
Inclusive People Practices
Leaders actively combat unconscious
bias and promote inclusivity in
decision-making processes.
Inclusive Leadership
Training sessions under the
Prevention of Sexual Harassment
(POSH) Act educate employees on
appropriate behaviours.
Sensitisation and Employee Awareness
We offer flexible work arrangements to
accommodate diverse employee needs,
whether through hybrid work or
in-office presence.
Flexibility
Edelweiss has always been extremely
focussed on attracting the right talent,
who bring in diverse perspectives and
add to our strength as an organisation.
It is a strategic approach with a
differentiated model for junior, mid, and
senior talent. In the new normal, our
process of identification, interview, and
SMART Goal-setting
Talent Acquisition
At Edelweiss, our strong performance
management system empowers
employees to recognise their strengths,
areas for improvement, and align
individual goals with overarching
business objectives. Through this
process, performance is enhanced via
regular feedback from supervisors,
facilitated by annual performance
assessments. This fosters mutual
Performance Management
Mid-year Review
Annual Appraisal Process
choice also evolved to adapt to remote
and hybrid working, while keeping
candidate experience and our brand
at the core.
understanding between reporting
authorities and employees, promoting
alignment and support for each other's
perspectives and needs.
Our training and development initiatives enable employees to enhance technical and behavioural skills required for their
professional and personal growth.
Learning & Development
hours of training
undertaken in FY24
learners covered
over FY24
of employees belong to a
leadership group at Edelweiss
79,192
5,655
2%
75
76
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Male
Female
Overall
Senior
Mid
Junior
Overall
Average hours of training/employee by gender (FY24)
A key design principle embraced in programme leadership design is interlinkages between leadership groups at various levels.
Average hours of training/employee by management level (FY24)
13.9
14.2
14.0
16.6
18.6
10.1
14.0
The Group Operating Council is composed of business CEOs
and key executives within Edelweiss. Beyond their daily
management responsibilities, they hold pivotal roles in
shaping Edelweiss' overarching strategic direction.
This group consists of senior leaders from different businesses
within Edelweiss. While their focus is on managing their
individual functions, this forum serves as a platform for them to
interact and build connections with each other, promoting
collaboration and synergies.
GOC
MANCO
The Young Leaders programme
is tailored for FLS (Front-Line
Supervisors), Branch Operations
Executives, and Associates, targeting
the development of a strong first-line
managerial cadre.
The Emerging Leaders
programme is designed
for Managers and Chief
Managers, concentrating on
enhancing functional capability
and competence.
The Business Leaders
programme is centred on
nurturing functional leaders
who possess the capability to
guide the organisation towards
its vision.
The launch of the 'CEO Circle' for MSME business and enterprise functions introduces
an aspirational year-long programme. 22 mid-level employees, identified through a
rigorous selection process based on performance and potential, will participate. The
programme encompasses developmental touchpoints, exposure opportunities,
leadership connections, and heightened organisational visibility for its members.
Besides MANCO, other leadership development initiatives include:
Employee Welfare
Fostering a supportive working environment and enabling work-life balance through employee-friendly policies
Open-door Policy
Flexi Working Hours
Parental Leave Policy Availed
by 3% Employees in FY24
Sabbatical Leave
Bereavement Policy
Young Leaders
Emerging Leaders
Business Leaders
CEO Circle
77
78
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Supporting Small Enterprises
Affordable Housing
Asset Reconstruction
Forged 1 new co-lending partnership,
furthering the objective of reduction
in the overall exposure to risk while
offering competitive pricing
Over 50% of the housing loans financed in FY24 were in affordable housing segment, with an average ticket size of
`1.6 to `1.7 million of the loans extended
In FY24, acquired distressed assets
worth `13,200 crore for revival and
restructuring
Revived 60 assets during the year
with total recoveries of `9,400 crore
29% of the retail customers are
new to credit customers
Protected over 30,000 jobs
through revival of sick companies
since inception
Over 45% of the loan book accounts
for homes in non-metro cities
Over 63% of the retail disbursals
are for self-employed customers
Widened product coverage under the
co-lending model
Scaled up on disbursements under
co-lending model
Insurance
Covered ~9,30,000 lives as on
March 31, 2024
Covered 16,39,331 individuals
under our health insurance
policies as on March 31, 2024
...our objective is to maximise returns for
stakeholders while positively impacting society
and the economy.
Employment by Edelweiss
diverse workforce
as of March 31, 2024
of the workforce is less
than 30 years of age
Responsible Investment
Invested towards renewable energy assets, of which
~USD 120 million were invested till date, thereby
contributing to India's clean energy transition
Supported ~26,500 mid-income and affordable housing
development by providing completion finance to residential
real estate projects
24.8 MMTCO₂ reduction in Carbon emissions over the life of
our solar assets
6,117
23%
Delivered electricity to households, thereby increasing the
per capita consumption through transmission assets
Asset Management platform (Sekura) – Four of our
infrastructure assets (1 Transmission, 1 Solar, and 2 Road)
have received the British Safety Council, International Safety
Award and the "Gold Award" in the Power Category,
the highest recognition at the OHSSAI 8
 th Annual HSE
Excellence & ESG Global Awards
Claimed the "Impact Award" for Sustainability Initiatives at
the Build India Infra Awards, 2024, recognising Dhola Infra
Projects Limited’s contributions to sustainable projects
One road asset (Dibang Infra Projects Limited) won the International Safety Award in Distinction Category. Our Solar Asset ESPL had
won the International Safety Award in Distinction Category last year (2023) and this year (2024) as well. EAAA became signatory to
the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in January 2023. We have been publishing comprehensive
ESG Reports since FY20 which showcases our performance against adopted benchmarks and aligned with globally accepted
reporting standards (GRI, SASB, UNGC & UN SDG)
At Edelweiss, our objective is to maximise returns for stakeholders while positively impacting society and the economy. Our
strength lies in our diverse business model, offering customers a range of financial products and services to help them
achieve their economic goals.
Contribution to Economy
79
80
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Edelweiss has always recognised that its greatest asset lies in its people, and ensuring their wellbeing and safety remains
paramount within our culture of employee care. As we adapt to hybrid work environments, our commitment to the
holistic wellness of our employees remains steadfast. Under the banner of #FitWithEdelweiss, we pledge to support our
employees in mind, body, and soul.
Good Health and Wellbeing
Employee Health & Safety
19% of employees availed Mediclaim
benefit for self and 7% availed for their
family members.
Initiatives such as Wellness Wednesdays,
Stepathon, What The Health, etc. aim to
raise awareness about overall health,
fitness, and wellbeing.
“Mental Health Day” was celebrated
at work and employees were made
aware of why focussing on mental
health is important.
Employees and their spouses are
provided with the opportunity to
undergo a thorough annual health
assessment at any of our network
hospitals or diagnostics centres.
We offer comprehensive health
coverage, which extends not only
to our employees but also to their
immediate family members.
We place high priority on the health and
safety of our employees by ensuring a
secure working environment and
implementing safety training
programmes. We also extend our focus
on the health and wellbeing of
employees' families by providing support
through our central incident room, which
is available 24/7 to handle emergency
situations and provide accurate
information on emergency protocols.
Fire safety site inspections executed at
regular intervals.
Reduce employee risk against drugs and
illegal substances by providing a Drug-
free Workplace.
As part of the Stress Management
programme, we have set up an
exclusive helpline to connect
employees with qualified practitioners
who quell myths and provide
counselling services.
EdelGive aspires to provide all children equal access to quality education, irrespective of background, gender, and socio-
economic standing. We work in collaboration with government systems to achieve widespread, long-term change and
empower communities to make this change sustainable. EdelGive Foundation broadly categorised its work around four
priority areas:
In FY24, EdelGive worked with 8 NGO partners while supporting 10 projects across 4 states of India. Over the years, through
our NGO partners, we have been able to create a significant impact:
Reached out to 20 lakh children
through our learning
enhancement programmes,
surpassing our own target this year
Supported 31,000 schools through
the Quality Education programme
Worked closely with, and
supported over 74,000 teachers
and government officials for
delivery of quality education
In 2016, EdelGive launched an initiative to
support the Government of Maharashtra
in addressing persistent gaps in learning
outcomes of children in government
schools. With a modest beginning in four
out of 36 districts in Maharashtra, the
programme has now entered its third
phase called State Transformation and
working with state-level structures and
officials in the education system for the
systemic capacity building and change.
The Collaborators has also been
recognised as one of the most important
public-private partnerships (PPP) in
Maharashtra. The coalition has earned the
Government of India's recognition for
being among the best practices in CSR
when presented by the Government of
Maharashtra to the Government of India.
World Bank and UNICEF partnered with
Maharashtra State Education Department
to conduct a Leadership Dialogue with
Enhancing Learning
Outcomes and
School Transformation
Early Childhood
Education
Innovation &
Experimentation
Research &
Advocacy
influential industry personalities who
would boost enterprise development
among school children, especially young
girls in the state with an objective to
sensitise young minds, around
entrepreneurship being a viable career
option.
Quality Education
81
82
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Average 49% (FY24) enhancement in
annual income of farmers
EdelGive became strategic partners
to the Migrants Resilience
collaborative, a multi-stakeholder
coalition, focussed on ensuring safe
and responsible recovery of migrant
families and their livelihoods in India
post-COVID-19. The Collaborative will
support 10 million workers and their
families in 100 districts and cities
(across source and destination) over
the next 5 years. In the last six
quarters, it has achieved 60% of the
total planned outreach. Through their
initiatives, EdelGive has provided
support to 125 NGOs during the last
financial year through various training,
workshops, intensive support, etc.
EdelGive offers non-financial support
to NGOs, by providing capacity
building across four key areas: finance
and sustainability, human resources
Trained 2,52,221 families (69,051 in
FY24) for sustainable agriculture
Strengthened 8 Farmer Producer
Companies (FPCs)
Through contextual and targeted interventions developed by EdelGive Foundation's NGO partners, we are working to
develop sustainable livelihood options for some of the most vulnerable communities, through systemic transformation in
four focus areas:
In FY24, EdelGive has supported 11 projects of 9 NGO partners, working with the most vulnerable communities across 9
states in India. Over the years, through our NGO partners, we have been able to create significant impact, achieving our
targets in a few critical areas:
Water for
Livelihood
Financial
Inclusion
Employability
Skill Building
Skill & Institutional
Building
and communication, strategy and
leadership, and processes and
technology. EdelGive strategised
capacity building for organisational
strengthening by focussing on
long-term sustainable problem-
solving, and willingness to adopt
new technologies.
Reduced Inequalities
Protecting the
Environment
Building and supporting sustainable practices form the foundation of our stewardship towards protecting our
environment. Edelweiss is committed to adopting and supporting responsible usage of natural resources and
safeguarding our environment and climate through varied initiatives across the businesses.
Climate Action
Affordable
and Clean Energy
Responsible Consumption
and Production
Building and supporting sustainable practices form
the foundation of our stewardship towards
protecting our environment.
83
84
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Supported (construction or repairs)
1,911 (348 in FY24) watershed structures
for water conservation
Brought under irrigation 3,419 (427 in
FY24) hectares of land, for enhanced
agriculture yield
Funded and influenced `767 crore
(`446 crore in FY24) including advisory
towards sustainable livelihood
programmes, over the past 7 years
(2017-2024)
Supported 26,969 farmers (4,771 in
FY24) for climate-smart agriculture/
organic farming
EdelGive Foundation became a
core partner to the India Climate
Collaborative, a first-of-its-kind
initiative bringing together India's
top philanthropies to address the
increasing and pressing climate crisis
in India. This partnership aims to work
towards promoting ecological balance
through a co-benefits approach.
Eminent global philanthropies like
MacArthur Foundation, Bloomberg
Philanthropies, Oak Foundation, to
name a few, have extended their
support to this alliance.
Climate Action
Watersheds and Livelihoods
EdelGive works with grassroots organisations in remote parts of rural India to build resilience amongst communities.
We are committed to improving energy efficiency and increasing the proportion of renewable energy usage across our
operations, through investments in sustainable energy solutions.
Through energy consumption optimisation
initiatives, energy intensity was contained to pre-
pandemic levels to 133 kWh/sq. mt. p.a. in
FY24, which is 25% lower than BEE standards
Total electricity consumed in FY24
declined by 14% YoY to 6,846 MwH
Energy Consumption and Savings
Affordable and Clean Energy
Renewable Energy Capacity
Solar power installation of 1.2 MW
capacity established at Solapur,
Maharashtra for Edelweiss House. This
plant is under restoration and shall be
commissioned in May 2024. Solar-power
installation of 0.06 MW capacity at
Alibaug, Maharashtra for Fountainhead.
This plant generated electricity of ~52
MwH during the year which led to
carbon emission savings of 39 tonnes.
Wind power under the purchase
agreement for Edelweiss House is 1.28
MW capacity. Generation of 728 MwH in
FY24 led to carbon emission savings of
546 tonnes.
Energy-saving Initiatives
Automatic Monitoring & Control
drive on Treated Fresh Air (TFA) is
saving 15 MwH/p.a. units and
reducing 11 Kt of CO₂/ p.a.
Automatic Temperature Control
drive on Outdoor Unit Ventilation
system is saving 11MwH/p.a. units
and reducing 8 Kt of CO₂/p.a.
Across all offices and premises,
Edelweiss has converted 100%
of fixtures from conventional
lighting to LED
Automatic switches and sensors
have been installed in unmanned
areas to reduce energy
consumption
Sleep mode and Night mode
lighting automation has been
enabled to conserve electricity
HVAC schedule running operation
has been modified, helping us to
reduce the unnecessary
operation of ACs
Default ambient temperature of all
public areas and meeting rooms
has been set at 24°-26°C as per
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)
and government regulations
We have integrated the Air-Handling Unit (AHU) variable frequency drive with
AHU room sensors, which modulates the Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) on
sensing the return air temperature resulting in better optimisation
85
86
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Protecting the Environment
*Data for our 3 key locations (Edelweiss House, Kohinoor House, and Fountainhead) which house nearly 1/3
 rd of our total workforce)
Emissions
Reduction of 14% in GHG
emissions via effective carbon
management initiatives
GHG Emissions (Kilotonnes)
Scope 1: 6.1
Scope 2: 4.6
Scope 3 emissions were NIL during
the year
3 Rs of Waste Management, viz
Reduce, Re-use and Recycle have
been organically incorporated in
our day-to-day routines
Compost production from food
waste decreased by 51% to
2.4 tonnes
Recycling of sewage water
increased 52% in FY24 to 33
megalitres
6.1 Tonnes of Paper Waste Converted
into Green Edelweiss Writing Pads
with the Help of Associated NGOs
2.4 Tonnes of Food Waste
Converted into Compost by
Composting Machine
Initiatives for Paper Conservation & Waste Management
Waste Management*
We are committed to ensuring resource efficiency in our operations, by responsibly managing waste and attempting to
reduce the GHG emissions wherever possible.
Water Consumption
Total water consumption reduced by 30% in comparison to pre-pandemic level of FY20
Total Water Consumption (Megalitres)
Water Conservation Initiatives
Recycled 33 megalitres of waste
and sewage water through a
sewage treatment plant and
supplied to the garden
Compost production from food
waste decreased by 51% to
2.4 tonnes
Recycling of sewage water
increased 52% in FY24 to
33 megalitres
Reduction of water consumption
through use of fine aerator and
regulation of water flow
Operation of alternate wash
basin/outlet fixtures due to
low occupancy
Water conservation by installing
waterless pots at all urinals
Installation of a borewell with
tube-settler mechanism which
collects water flowing from the
canal during the monsoon and
transports it to the bore casing
through a sediment filter
Responsible Consumption and Production
2020
59.9
2024
41.8
87
88
Annual Report 2023-24
Sustainability Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
EdelGive Foundation is a
philanthropic asset manager and
advisory partner to funders such
as individuals, HNIs, corporates,
institutions and foundations – both
international and domestic – with
a specialisation in multi-stakeholder
collaboration. Through a unique
philanthropic model, EdelGive places
itself at the centre of grant-making
EdelGive Foundation
Our Influence Over the Years
NGO partners
supported
influenced through
commitments to NGOs
1- Included investments raised in that state and by the philanthropists collective organised as the Grassroots Resilience Ownership and Wellness (GROW) NGOs.
lnfluence through GROW is not included in the district count as GROW provides non-programmatic support.
CHILDREN
(Access to
Quality Education)
Financial Support
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE
AND CLIMATE ACTION
(Resilient Livelihoods)
Grants to high-calibre, small to mid-sized NGOs empowering
WOMEN
(Social and Economic
Empowerment)
System strengthening
Capacity building
Institutionalisation of process
Financial Support
Capacity building
Awareness building
Financial Support
Collectivisation
Capacity building
Sustainability
In FY24, we are proud to share that
we have been able to influence over
`461 crore as commitments to the
Grants are used towards both the financial and capacity building needs of the NGO partners we support.
1
states
dedicated employee
engagement hours
Theory of Change
With the belief that an inclusive society is built on the foundation of educated children, empowered women, and resilient
communities, EdelGive supports organisations working towards these objectives through targeted, community-driven, and
high-impact interventions.
districts of
India
by providing initial grants and
managing funding from other
institutions, HNIs and corporate
partners. These grants are used
for both financial and non-financial
growth of high calibre, small to
mid-sized grassroots NGOs,
committed to empowering
vulnerable children, women, and
communities. EdelGive is committed
to bringing about sustainable
long-term change by working with
the system to enable the system.
By supporting grassroots NGOs
committed to empowering
vulnerable children, women, and
communities, EdelGive Foundation
fosters and expands philanthropy
in India.
NGOs working across the country.
Out of 51 total NGOs, 29 NGOs
have received regular grants while
18 NGOs have received cause-
based/one-time grants.
23
167
277
~1,000
`1,319 Cr
Supporting the Growth of Credible NGOs
89
90
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Education
EdelGive aspires to provide all children equal access to
quality education, irrespective of background, gender, and
socio-economic standing. We work in collaboration with
government systems to achieve widespread, long-term
change and empower communities to make this change
sustainable. EdelGive Foundation broadly categorises its
work around four priority areas:
In FY24, EdelGive worked with 8 NGO partners while
supporting 10 projects across 4 states of India. Over the years,
through our NGO partners, we have been able to create a
significant impact:
Reached out to 20 lakh children through our learning enhancement programmes, surpassing our own target this year
Supported 31,000 schools through the Quality Education programme
Worked closely with, and supported over 74,000 teachers and Government officials for delivery of quality education
In 2016, EdelGive launched The
Collaborators for Transforming Education
(CTE) to support the Government of
Maharashtra in addressing persistent
gaps in learning outcomes of children in
government schools. With a modest
beginning in four out of 36 districts in
Maharashtra, the programme now
entered its third phase called State
Transformation and working with
state-level structures and officials in the
education system for the systemic
capacity building and change.
The Collaborators has also been
recognised as one of the most important
Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) in
Maharashtra. The coalition has earned
the Government of India's recognition
for being among the best practices in
CSR when presented by the Government
of Maharashtra to the Government of
India. World Bank and UNICEF partnered
with Maharashtra State Education
Department to conduct a Leadership
Dialogue with influential industry
personalities who would boost
enterprise development among school
children especially young girls in the
state with an objective to sensitive
young minds, around entrepreneurship
being a viable career option.
Enhancing Learning Outcomes and School Transformation
Early Childhood Education
Innovation & Experimentation
Research & Advocacy
Community Resilience and
Climate Action
Through contextual and targeted interventions
developed by EdelGive Foundation's NGO partners,
we are working to develop sustainable livelihood
options for some of the most vulnerable communities
through systemic transformation in four focus areas:
Water for Livelihood
Financial Inclusion
Skill & Institutional Building
Employability Skill Building
In FY24, EdelGive has supported 11 projects of 9 NGO
partners, working with the vulnerable communities
across 9 states in India. Over the years, through our NGO
partners, we have been able to create significant impact,
achieving our targets in a few critical areas:
Average 49% (FY24) enhancement
in annual income of farmers
Trained 2,52,221 families (69,051
in FY24) for sustainable agriculture
Strengthened 8 Farmer Producer
Companies (FPCs)
EdelGive offers non-financial support to NGOs by providing capacity building across four key areas: finance and sustainability,
human resources and communication, strategy and leadership, and processes and technology. EdelGive strategised capacity
building for organisational strengthening by focussing on long-term sustainable problem-solving, and willingness to adopt
new technologies.
91
92
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Stree-Leads: Women in Leadership
Following the success of UdyamStree campaign to boost
women's entrepreneurial spirit, EdelGive's mandate
pivoted from women entrepreneurship to women's
participation in the workforce. In 2023, EdelGive launched
the Stree-Leads campaign to support women in leadership.
The core objective of the campaign has been to set a
conducive environment for the growth of women leaders,
enhance private sector performance, reduce income
inequality, and stimulate economic growth. To develop
targeted solutions, “A Study on Pathways to Leadership for
Women in the Finance and Economic Sectors” was
commissioned by EdelGive Foundation in 2023. The study
highlighted the barriers women face in their professional
journeys while offering recommendations for corporate
and government to pave the way for women in leadership
in the private sector. Anchored in the insights gleaned
from the study, the campaign is committed to bolstering
women's participation in the workforce, with a special
emphasis on leadership roles in the private sector with a
focus on the Finance, Economic, Tech, and Social
Enterprise/Philanthropy sectors.
UdyamStree: National Campaign to Promote Women Entrepreneurship
Some of the key impacts of the campaign include – educating 2,800 women on government schemes across 4 districts,
of which 2,040 women received benefits under relevant schemes and loans with a collective value of more than `26 lakh
disbursed. Partnership with FICCI to foster women entrepreneurship, and with the State Education Department of Maharashtra
to sensitise young minds around entrepreneurship being a viable career option. Under the campaign, EdelGive also engaged
with key government institutions and government representatives to amplify the communication and outreach. The campaign
was awarded on several occasions which included the Best Campaign in the Not-for-Profit and Association Sector at the Fulcrum
Awards, 2022, as well as the Gold Award in the Not-for-Profit category at the SABRE South Asia Awards, 2022.
In its endeavour to promote women entrepreneurship as a key driver for women's economic empowerment in India, EdelGive
launched the UdyamStree campaign in 2021.
Freedom from violence and discrimination
Access to legal justice
Grassroots leadership
Access to rights and entitlements
Freedom from economic dependence
EdelGive has supported 12 projects with
12 NGO partners across 10 states in India
in FY24. Over the years, through our NGO partners
we have been able to create a significant impact:
EdelGive Foundation is committed to address the
social and economic inequalities that prevent women
and girls from achieving their full potential with focus
to five key priority areas:
Women Empowerment
2.53 lakh (15,562 in FY24) women and girls supported in their fight for addressing Gender Equality-related issues
26,545 (2,389 in FY24) women and girls supported under financial inclusion programmes
57,146 (4,432 in FY24) women supported to get access to rights and entitlements
Supported 39,557 (6,633 in FY24) survivors of domestic violence and/or sexual violence in the legal journey
25,605 (9,750 in FY24) grassroots leaders developed and supported
93
94
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Formed 6,082 (98 in FY24) SHGs/JLGs
In March 2024, EdelGive launched the campaign 'Stree-Leads' to promote women-in-leadership. Stree-Leads envisions to inspire
and motivate women professionals across career-stages to challenge stereotypes, collaborate with seasoned women leaders to
collectively align on solutions for their growth to leadership. The objectives of the campaign are:
To bring together and sustain
a network of aspiring women
leaders on a common platform
To leverage the insights and
experiences of women leaders and
mentors from across sectors to inspire
greater female representation in the
private sector roles
Build creative interventions to
drive dialogue and communicate
the impact and pathways of promoting
women in leadership to the target
audience to effectively lead the change
Building Credible Partnerships
Our unique philanthropic model places
us at the centre of grant-making. In
addition to providing grants to our
partners, we also invest our energies in
sourcing and managing funding from
other institutional, individual, and
corporate partners. This assists both
partners – the NGOs and funders – to
diversify their outreach and impact.
We follow four
approaches to
grant-making
EdelGive Grants
EdelGive individually
funds organisations
and their
programmes
Large funders,
foundations and
individuals join EdelGive
in making grants
EdelGive builds
structured and
transparent collaborative
models for pooled
funding
EdelGive provides
strategic counsel to
organisations on
grant-making
Co-funding
Advisory
Pooled Funding
EdelGive believes in a Collaborative Philanthropic Approach and is currently engaged
in six collaborative initiatives:
The Collaborators for Transforming Education
In 2016, EdelGive launched The
Collaborators for Transforming
Education, a public-private partnership
with the Department of School
Education and Sports (DSES),
Government of Maharashtra, facilitated
by the EdelGive Foundation. Through
this coalition, EdelGive intends to solve
the multifaceted problems of education
by bringing reforms at a systemic level
to elevate learning levels. Initially, the
programme started with 4 districts in
Maharashtra, and soon expanded. The
Collaborators has established itself as
a trusted brand for government
stakeholders at all levels which has
been reflected on various occasions,
for example, the best practices are
shared with central, within, and outside
states with UNICEF and The World Bank.
The Government of Maharashtra signed
an extended MoU with EdelGive
Foundation up to 2026 with the
provision to expand the programme
across Maharashtra.
The intervention focusses on three specific objectives:
For more information, read here: https://www.edelgive.org/the-influencers/
The Coalition for Women Empowerment
Driven by its conviction in the systems-
thinking approach, The Coalition for
Women Empowerment was initiated by
EdelGive in 2019, bringing together
funding organisations and grassroots
Enhancement in learning outcomes of children
Support the education system by conducting capacity building of educational functionaries at multiple levels
Improved community engagement for sustainability
organisations as stakeholders, united by
a common mission of facilitating social
and economic empowerment of women
and girls in India. The coalition is
currently supported by Ford Foundation,
Chintu Gudiya Foundation, Forbes
Marshall, and David and Lucile Packard
Foundation. The coalition focusses on
providing 360-degree support to
grassroots organisations through
95
96
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
India Climate Collaborative
The learnings from both our ongoing
coalitions encouraged and enabled
EdelGive Foundation to become
a core partner to the India Climate
Collaborative, a first-of-its-kind initiative
bringing together India's top
philanthropies to address the increasing
and pressing climate crisis in India.
EdelGive Foundation brings years
of rich experience of working with
organisations with a deep penetration
at the grassroots to ICC's enriching
technical expertise. With the combined
holistic understanding of the
development space from a climate lens,
the partnership aims to work towards
promoting ecological balance through a
co-benefits approach. Eminent global
philanthropies like MacArthur
Foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies,
Oak Foundation, Good Energies, IKEA
Foundation, to name a few, have
extended their support to this alliance.
We have launched a multi-year Just
Transitions (JT) India Programme, with
funding support from IKEA Foundation.
The programme is aimed at raising
climate ambition in India while ensuring
social and economic inclusion, backed
by national momentum and a strong,
connected JT ecosystem in India. The
three priority sectors have been
identified for this programme – energy,
mobility, and land use.
For more information, read here: https://indiaclimatecollaborative.org/
Migrants Resilience Collaborative
In 2020, amidst the COVID-19 pandemic,
EdelGive also became a strategic partner
to the Migrants Resilience Collaborative
(an initiative of one of our partners in
our investee portfolio, Jan Sahas), which
is a multi-stakeholder collaborative of
non-profit, philanthropic, and private
sector actors focussed on ensuring safe
and responsible recovery of migrant
families and their livelihoods in India
post-COVID-19. The Collaborative will
support 10 million workers and their
families in 100 districts and cities (across
source and destination) over the next
5 years.
enabling funding for critical rights-based
programmes that are often under-
invested, and by investing additionally
in institution building for improved
For more information, read here: https://www.edelgive.org/the-influencers/
effectiveness and efficiency. Insights and
learnings from the interventions
supported through CWE, have also
informed EdelGive's other initiatives for
enabling women empowerment including
the UdyamStree and Stree-Leads
campaigns for promoting women’s
economic empowerment in India.
In 2020, EdelGive joined the Pay-What-It-
Takes initiative, a multi-year initiative
working towards awareness building,
strategic guidance, and engaging NGOs
to get their inputs on building a resilient
non-profit sector. The initiative is led by
The Bridgespan Group and the five
anchor partners in addition to EdelGive:
A.T.E. Chandra Foundation (ATECF),
Children's Investment Fund Foundation
(CIFF), the Ford Foundation, and the
Omidyar Network India. Each partner
believes strongly in the importance
of understanding true costs and
approaches the initiative from a
different perspective.
For more information, read here: https://www.bridgespan.org/insights/library/pay-what-it-takes/funding-practices-to-
build-strong-ngos-in-india
The GROW (Grassroots, Resilience, Ownership and Wellness) Fund
The GROW Model
GROW initiative was conceived to address the crisis faced by NGOs, who were shouldering the costs of acting as first
responders for communities devastated during the pandemic. As we move ahead, the GROW Fund has been redefined to
influence the philanthropic ecosystem towards grant-making that supports non-profit resilience and sustainability alongside
programmatic outcomes.
GROW's Journey So Far
With almost two years' worth of
accomplishments under its belt, the
GROW Fund has made tremendous
strides in enabling its 100 organisations
to champion their understanding of
non-programmatic funding through
regular capacity building and
organisational development initiatives
across multiple domains. GROW's 100
also received support from a Learning
Management System – The HUB.
Under the Organisation Development
track, organisations participated in
regular advisory sessions and check-ins,
thus receiving consistent feedback
to improve their existing systems
and processes while also being
part of knowledge sharing and peer-
learning sessions. Organisations have
recorded 100% attendance across
1:1 CB check-ins.
Pay-What-It-Takes Initiative
97
98
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
39% organisations allocated resources to hire external
consultants, trainers, and experts to support the capacity-
building initiatives
69% organisations allocated resources for miscellaneous
items such as tools, softwares, and other operational needs
44% organisations invested in knowledge management to
facilitate the capacity building process. This included
conducting workshops, and developing templates for
reporting and documentation
61% organisations invetsed in branding, website
maintenance, social media visibility, newsletters and other
communication channels
Employee Engagement
EdelGive Foundation draws on the Edelweiss employee volunteer pool and external (volunteer) agencies to cater to NGO needs.
This year, over `18.51 lakh were raised through employee donations. Some of the volunteering activities included tree plantation,
webinar on mental health, beach cleaning and session on financial literacy – comprising close to 400 man-hours in FY24.
Thought Leadership and Media
EdelGive is present on governing boards of global agencies and has a presence on discussion platforms like Asian Venture
Philanthropy Network (AVPN) and Empower Families for Innovative Philanthropy (ERFIP). To nurture the ecosystem of giving by
energising and influencing philanthropic support for need-based, credible grassroots work, we host roundtables, discussion
forums bringing together multiple stakeholders on a common platform. Through conversations and communiques, EdelGive's
ecosystem initiatives help generate opinion and understanding of the sector, build a repository of information, and influence
collaborative, philanthropic action.
EdelGive participated in several conversations on themes ranging from collaborative philanthropy for collective impact,
gender lens for impact investing and climate on platforms such as G20 Empower – Inception Meeting, India Global
Forum – Annual Summit.
We were also present in key discussions across media channels
this year, including reputed regional & national platforms such
as India Times, DNA, Navbharat, Firstpost, The Financial Express
Online, Social Changemakers, Samaana, Jagran Sakshi, Divya
Bhaskar, and The Mint.
EdelGive Foundation has garnered several articles this year,
on multiple issues to do with financial independence of rural
women, women empowerment, education, climate
perspectives, philanthropy in the Global South, and more.
99
100
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Public Platforms
Our CEO, Naghma Mulla, shared her experiences at TedxYouth @AUS on the remarkable journey that led to the beginning of
GROW and her thoughts on the importance of working for the betterment of society.
EdelGive Hurun India Philanthropy
List and Report 2023
In November 2023, Hurun India and
EdelGive released the 10
 th annual
ranking of the most generous individuals
in India. EdelGive Foundation has
partnered with Hurun India towards
creating this report, to understand and
acknowledge philanthropy in India from
a data and evidence point of view.
Ranking 119 philanthropists who
cumulatively donated `8,445 crore, in
2023, the list includes stalwarts of giving,
such as Shiv Nadar, Azim Premji, Cyrus
and Adar Poonawalla, and Rohini and
Nandan Nilenkani. Through this report,
we aim to highlight the strength of the
social sector and access areas which
require further growth.
EdelGive Hurun India Philanthropy List 2023: Shiv Nadar,
Rohini Nilekani, Nithin Kamath, AM Naik Excel - Forbes India
Shiv Nadar and Azim Premji top philanthropy list: EdelGive
Hurun India - The Hindu BusinessLine
From Nikhil Kamath to Prashanth Prakash: Key Highlights
from EdelGive Hurun India Philanthropy List 2023 -
BusinessToday
101
102
Annual Report 2023-24
EdelGive Foundation
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah is Chairman & Managing
Director of Edelweiss, one of India's
leading diversified financial services
Rashesh Shah
Chairman & Managing Director
organisations. With more than 35 years
of experience in financial services,
Rashesh is particularly driven about
the transformational role that
financial services can play in
translating India's vast savings into
investments. A regular commentator
on macroeconomic policies,
development matters, financial
markets in the mainstream and
financial media, he serves on the
Boards of various companies. He
has served as the President of FICCI,
India's apex industry association.
Rashesh has also been a member of
several government and regulatory
committees including the Insolvency
Law Committee on IBC.
An MBA from the Indian Institute of
Management, Ahmedabad, Rashesh
also holds a Diploma in International
Trade from the Indian Institute of
Foreign Trade, New Delhi.
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy has three
decades of experience in financial
markets and has been a driving force
Vidya Shah is the Chairperson of
EdelGive Foundation, an organisation
set up by Edelweiss, with the
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Vidya Shah
Non-Executive, Non-Independent
Director & Chairperson, Edelweiss
ESG Council
in transforming what was once India's
first new-age boutique investment
bank into a leading independent
financial services company. His
responsibilities as the Chairman of
Edelweiss's Asset Management
Business includes oversight over
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction
Company. With his keen ability to
establish and maintain large
institutional relationships, including
those with international pension
funds and insurance companies,
the Edelweiss Alternative Asset
Management business has become
among the largest in India over the
last five years.
objective of funding and building the
capacities of India's not-for-profit
sector. With over three decades of rich
industry experience, she has
established EdelGive as a platform for
strategic philanthropy. Under her
stewardship, EdelGive has been
instrumental in growing over 150
organisations, besides scaling their
budgets, impact and reach
exponentially. She also serves on the
board of various prominent civil
society organisations such as Agastya
International Foundation, Janaagraha
Centre for Citizenship and Democracy,
Centre for Social Impact and
Philanthropy at Ashoka University,
Mann Deshi Foundation and the
An MBA from the University of
Pittsburgh, USA, he also holds a
bachelor's degree in electronics
engineering.
Indian School of Public Policy. She
spent the first 11 years of her career
in the field of investment banking
with companies like ICICI, Peregrine,
and NM Rothschild.
Vidya holds an MBA degree from the
Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad.
Board Of
Directors
103
104
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Dr. Ashima Goyal has over three
decades of experience. She is
Emeritus Professor at the Indira
Gandhi Institute of Development
Research, has served on several
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Independent Director
boards and policy committees
including as a part-time member of
Economic Advisory Council to the
Prime Minister and is currently a
member of India's Monetary Policy
Committee. She has received many
national and international awards.
The editorial team at Business Today
selected her as one of the most
powerful women in Indian business
in 2021 and 2022. She is a specialist
in the areas of open economy
macroeconomics, international
finance, institutional economics and
development economics. She has
been a visiting fellow at the
Economic Growth Centre, Yale
University, USA and a Fulbright
Senior Research Fellow at Claremont
Graduate University, USA.
She has an M.Phil., MA and BA in
Economics from the University of
Delhi and holds a PhD in Economics
from University of Mumbai.
Ashok Kini
Independent Director
Ashok Kini has over four decades of
experience in the financial services
sector. He joined State Bank of India
as Probationary Offcer in 1967 and
retired as the Managing Director in
2005. He has earlier served as
Independent Director on the
Boards of IndusInd Bank Limited,
UTI Trustee Company Private
Limited, Gulf Oil Lubricants India
Limited, and Edelweiss Life
Insurance Company Limited.
Shiva Kumar has served at State Bank
of Bikaner & Jaipur (now merged
Shiva Kumar
Independent Director
with the State Bank of India) as
Managing Director. At State Bank of
India, he was Deputy Managing
Director and held various other
positions too. He was the Project
Leader for the business process
re-engineering programme for the
complete transformation of the
largest Bank in India in collaboration
with McKinsey & Company. He was a
part of their credit card project and
also set up the metal gold business
for the Bank. He was a representative
of Associate Banks on the Managing
Committee of Indian Banks'
Association. In 2013, he received the
'Business Leadership Award', from the
Institute of Public Enterprises.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Patna University and is an
associate member of the Indian
Institute of Bankers.
He holds a bachelor's degree in
science from Mysore University and
a master's degree in English
Literature from Madras Christian
College, Chennai.
C. Balagopal is the former Chairman
(Independent) of the Board of Federal
Bank Ltd. He is also a Trustee of Anaha
Trust; Member of the Governing
Council of the Centre for
Management Development,
C. Balagopal
Independent Director
Trivandrum; Member of the Advisory
Board of Fourth Wave Foundation;
Member of the Board of TIMed
Medical Devices Incubator of SCTIMST.
Balagopal completed his BA and MA
from Loyola College, Madras
University, and joined the IAS in 1977
and worked in Manipur and Kerala.
In 1983, he resigned from the IAS to
promote a venture to make hi-tech
biomedical devices for the first time in
the country. Acquiring the knowhow
from Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for
Medical Sciences & Technology,
Trivandrum (SCTIMST) and with
the support of National Research
Development Corporation and
KSIDC, he set up his venture,
Penpol Ltd, near Trivandrum.
In 1999, Penpol entered into a joint
venture with the Terumo Corporation
of Japan. Today, Terumo Penpol Ltd is
the biggest manufacturer of blood
bags in India and one of the world's
biggest makers of high-tech bio-
medical devices. In 2012, he sold his
stake in Penpol and turned to
investing in startups, mentoring
entrepreneurs, writing (four books
to his credit), travel, and his many
other interests.
Balagopal runs a Trust, which supports
social projects in Kerala and Manipur
in primary health, primary education,
and rural livelihoods.
105
106
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Awards
Alternative Asset Management
at the IVCA Alternate Capital
Excellence Awards, 2024
"Private Credit Fund: Best Overall
Performance of the Year"
Mutual Fund
under sub-branded content category at the
Drivers of Digital Awards and Summit, 2024,
by INKSPELL
Special mention award for “Learn with RG”
NBFC
by the India NBFC Summit
& Awards, 2023
"Best NBFC in Co-lending”
at the CXO Summit & Awards, 2023
"Most Trusted Service Provider for the
BFSI Sector"
(ECL Finance) at the India Credit
Risk Management Summit & Awards
March, 2024
"The Resilient Organization of the Year”
Nido
at Innovation Confex &
Awards, 2024
“Best Risk Management Housing
Finance Company”
at Innovation Confex & Awards, 2024
“Best Data Analytics Housing
Finance Company”
at 7
 th Annual Insurance Conclave
& Awards
“India's Best Emerging General
Insurance Company for Claim
Management”
at Bharat BFSI Leadership Summit &
Awards, 2024
“General Insurance Company of the Year”
and “Best Motor Insurance Company
of the Year”
107
108
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Only Indian Alternatives player
to consistently feature in
"Top PDI Fund Raisers" of the year
for 3 consecutive years (2023, 2022, 2021)
at the ET NOW Best BFSI Brands, 2024
"Best BFSI Brand”
category in AsianInvestor Asset
Management Award, 2024
"Market Award - India”
at Bharat Insurance and Fintech
Summit and Awards
“Digital Insurer of the Year”
at Data Analytics & AI Show, 2024
“Best Use of Predictive Analysis in
Fraud Detection”
Life Insurance
at IBEX BFSI Technology Awards
“Insurtech Innovation for
U Unlimited”
for Risk Management
“Golden Peacock Award, 2023”
by Marksmen Daily
Recognised among“Most
Trusted BFSI Brands, 2023”
for the 4
 th year in a row, and ranked among the
Top 100 workplaces promoting a culture
of innovation, 2024
Certified as a“Great PlaceTo Work”
Company Information
Board of Directors
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Vidya Shah
Ashok Kini
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Shiva Kumar
C. Balagopal
Chief Financial Officer
Ananya Suneja
Company Secretary
Tarun Khurana
Statutory Auditors
M/s Nangia & Co. LLP,
Chartered Accountants
Registered Office
Edelweiss House, Off C.S.T. Road, Kalina,
Mumbai - 400 098.
CIN: L99999MH1995PLC094641
Tel: +91 22 4079 5199
Email: efsl.shareholders@edelweissfin.com
Website: www.edelweissfin.com
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg,
Vikhroli (W), Mumbai - 400 083.
Tel: +91 22 81081 16767
Fax: +91 22 4918 6060
Email: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
www. linkintime.co.in
Website:
Equity Shares & Debentures
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda
Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032
Tel: +91 40 6716 2222
Fax: +91 40 6716 1563
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
www.kfintech.com
Website:
Debentures
Edelweiss Presence
253 offices in 136 cities
109
110
Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
111
112
	BOARD’S REPORT
To the Members of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited,
Your Directors hereby present the 29th Board’s Report on the business, operations and state of affairs of the Company 
together with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024: -
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
I.	
Consolidated Financial Performance:
(` in million)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Total Income
96,015.75
86,325.91
Total Expenses
91,641.75
83,796.60
Profit before share in profit of associates and tax
4,374.00
2,529.31
Share in profit of associates
-
1,317.94
Profit before tax
4,374.00
3,847.25
Tax expense
(906.47)
 (208.32)
Profit for the year
5,280.47
4,055.57
Other Comprehensive Income
1,458.95
185.77
Total Comprehensive Income
6,739.42
4,241.34
Profit for the year attributable to the
•	
Owners of the Company
4,207.00
3,441.63
•	
Non-controlling interests
1,073.47
613.94
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to the
•	
Owners of the Company
1,097.43
197.73
•	
Non-controlling interests
361.52
(11.96)
Total Comprehensive Income for the year attributable to the
•	
Owners of the Company
5,304.43
3,639.36
•	
Non-controlling interests
1,434.99
601.98
Earnings Per Share (`) (Face Value of ` 1 each)
Basic
 4.68
 3.83
Diluted
 4.68
 3.83
II.	
Standalone Financial Performance: 
(` in million)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Total Income
 10,276.82
30,886.92
Total Expenses
5,121.57
7,740.36
Profit before tax
 5,155.25
23,146.56
Tax expense
(1,796.87)
(735.91)
Profit for the year
 6,952.12
 23,882.47
Other Comprehensive (Loss)/Income
(4.27)
0.33
Total Comprehensive Income
 6,947.85
23,882.80
Earnings Per Share (`) (Face Value of ` 1 each)
Basic
 7.73
26.59
Diluted
 7.72
26.59
SHARE CAPITAL
During the year under review, 5,09,750 Equity Shares of the face value of ` 1 each were allotted on exercise of the Stock Options/
SARs granted under Edelweiss Employee Stock Incentive Plan, 2011 and Edelweiss Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, 2019.
Consequently, as at March 31, 2024, the total paid-up share capital of the Company stood at 943.79 million divided into 
94,37,85,026 Equity Shares of the face value of ` 1 each.
Except Employee Stock Options and Stock Appreciations Rights (SAR), the Company has not issued any sweat equity to 
the employees of the Company. The disclosures with regard to the Employee Stock Options and SAR as required under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 is 
available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on May 14, 2024, have recommended a dividend of ` 1.50 per Equity Share of the 
face value of ` 1 each, subject to the approval of Members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM) and shall be 
subject to deduction of income tax at source.
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing 
Regulations), the Dividend Distribution Policy is provided as Annexure I to this Report and is available on the website of the 
Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
INFORMATION ON THE STATE OF AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY
Information on the operational and financial performance of the Company is given in the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report, forming part of this Report, and is in accordance with the Listing Regulations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements (both standalone and consolidated) are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Rules framed thereunder (the Act) and the applicable Accounting Standards and forms part of this Report.
The Auditors’ Report issued by M/s. Nangia & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, the Auditors of the Company on the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 is unmodified and is annexed to the financial statements.
SUBSIDIARIES
During the year ended March 31, 2024, Nuvama Investment Advisors LLC ceased to be the subsidiary of the Company.
The salient features of the financial statements of each of the subsidiaries as required under the Act is provided in the financial 
statements in Form AOC-1. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are available on the website of the Company at 
www.edelweissfin.com. Any Member interested in obtaining a copy of financial statements of the subsidiaries may write to 
the Company Secretary. 
SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT
The Board at its Meeting held on May 13, 2022 approved the Scheme of Arrangement between the Company and Nuvama 
Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities Limited) {Nuvama/Resulting Company} and their 
respective shareholders and creditors (the Scheme) under Sections 230 to 232 read with Section 102 and other applicable 
provisions of the Act. The NCLT vide its Order dated April 27, 2023, approved the Scheme. The Scheme became effective 
from May 18, 2023. As per the provisions of the Scheme, the Effective Date is also the Appointed Date. Pursuant to the 
Scheme, the Demerged Undertaking of the Company has been demerged and vested into the Resulting Company on a going 
concern basis.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
113
114
As per the provisions of the Scheme, Nuvama has allotted the equity shares to those equity shareholders of the Company 
whose names were appearing in the Register of Members/Beneficial Owners of the Company on June 2, 2023, being the 
Record Date fixed in this behalf. The Equity Shares of Nuvama listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited on September 26, 2023.
FINANCE
During the year under review, the Company issued Non-convertible Debentures (NCDs) through public issuance which are 
listed on BSE Limited.
LOANS, INVESTMENTS AND GUARANTEES
Particulars of loans given, investments made, guarantees given and securities provided are reported in the financial statements, 
forming part of this Annual Report.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
All the Related Party Transactions entered by the Company during the year ended March 31, 2024, were at arm’s length and 
in the ordinary course of business. The Company has not entered into transactions with the Promoters, Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel, which may have potential conflict of interest with the Company and its subsidiaries.
In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated the Related Party Transactions 
Policy, which is available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
Particulars of contracts or arrangements with the related parties as prescribed in Section 188 of the Act is provided in 
the financial statements in Form AOC-2. All the Related Party Transactions as required under the applicable Accounting 
Standards are reported in the financial statements.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
(i)	
Independent Directors
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 149 of the Act and the Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors 
have given a declaration that they meet the criteria of independence as provided in the said Section and in the Listing 
Regulations. 
	
The second term of appointment of Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra (DIN: 06990345), an Independent Director, ended at 
the conclusion of the 28th AGM of the Company held on September 26, 2023. The Board placed on record its sincere 
appreciation for the services rendered by Mr. Mahapatra during his tenure as an Independent Director of the Company.
	
Pursuant to the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board has, subject to the 
approval of the Members, appointed Mr. C. Balagopal (DIN: 00430938) as an Independent Director of the Company for 
a term of 5 years with effect from August 2, 2024.
	
The necessary Resolution for the appointment of Mr. C. Balagopal is placed for the approval of the Members at the 
forthcoming AGM.
	
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors are persons of integrity and possess relevant expertise, experience 
and proficiency.
(ii)	 Executive Directors
	
Mr. Himanshu Kaji (DIN: 00009438), who was subject to retirement by rotation at the 28th AGM, although eligible did not 
seek re-appointment. Accordingly, Mr. Kaji ceased to be a Director at the conclusion of the 28th AGM held on September 
26, 2023.
	
The Board placed on record its sincere appreciation of the services rendered by Mr. Kaji during his tenure as an Executive 
Director and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
(iii)	 Retirement by rotation
	
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy (DIN: 00008509) retires by rotation at the ensuing AGM and, being eligible, has offered 
himself for re-appointment.
NUMBER OF BOARD MEETINGS HELD
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Board met 5 times. The details of the Board Meetings and the attendance of the 
Directors at the Meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this Report.
REMUNERATION POLICY
The Company has formulated a Remuneration Policy pursuant to Section 178 of the Act and the Listing Regulations. The 
Policy is provided as Annexure II to this Report.
EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BOARD
A Board Evaluation Policy (the Policy) for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman, the 
Managing Director, the Executive Directors, the Non-executive Directors and the Independent Directors has been adopted 
by the Company.
The Policy inter alia provides the criteria for performance evaluation such as Board effectiveness, quality of discussion, 
contribution at the Meetings, business acumen, strategic thinking, time commitment, relationship with the stakeholders, 
corporate governance practices, review of the terms of reference of the Committees and the contribution of the Committees 
to the Board in discharging its functions, etc.
A separate Meeting of the Independent Directors was held wherein the annual performance of the Non-Independent Directors, 
performance of the Board as a whole (including the Committees) and also that of the Chairman, in terms of the provisions of 
the Act, the Listing Regulations and the Guidance Note issued by SEBI in this regard was discussed.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has in place adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. The Company’s 
internal control system is designed to ensure operational efficiency, protection and conservation of resources, accuracy and 
promptness in financial reporting and compliance with the laws and regulations. The internal control system is also supported 
by an internal audit process.
M/s. JHS & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants, were appointed as Internal Auditors of your Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
115
116
Risk management is an integral part of the Company’s business strategy that seeks to minimise adverse impact on business 
objectives and capitalize on opportunities. The Risk Committee oversees the risk management framework of the Company 
through regular and proactive intervention by identifying risks and formulating mitigation plans. Further details are provided in 
the Management Discussion and Analysis Section forming part of this Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises of the following Independent Directors of the Company:
Mr. Shiva Kumar (Chairman) 
Mr. Ashok Kini
Dr. Ashima Goyal.
Further details of the Audit Committee are provided in the Corporate Governance Report which forms part of this Report.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY/ VIGIL MECHANISM
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy to report genuine concerns/grievances. The Policy is available on the 
website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
The Policy provides for adequate safeguards against the victimisation of the persons who use the vigil mechanism. The vigil 
mechanism is overseen by the Audit Committee.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Board has constituted the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 
The CSR Committee comprises of: -
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy (Chairman)
- Executive Director
Ms. Vidya Shah
- Non-executive Director
Mr. Shiva Kumar
- Independent Director
The Company has made contributions under CSR mainly through its philanthropic arm EdelGive Foundation, a wholly owned 
subsidiary. The CSR Projects of the Company largely focuses on the broad areas such as sustainable livelihood, quality 
education, women empowerment, climate action, reducing inequality, promotion of sports and various sectors as covered 
under Schedule VII of the Act.
CSR REPORT
The CSR Report on the activities undertaken during the year is provided as Annexure III to this Report. The CSR Policy is 
available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
AUDITORS
At the 28th AGM of the Company held on September 26, 2023, the Members had appointed M/s. Nangia & Co. LLP (Firm 
Registration Number 002391C/N500069), as the Auditors of the Company, for a term of 5 years to hold the office until the 
conclusion of the 33rd AGM to be held in the year 2028.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, were appointed as the Secretarial Auditors to conduct the Secretarial 
Audit for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. The Report of the Secretarial Auditors is unmodified and provided as 
Annexure IV to this Report. 
As required under the Listing Regulations, the Secretarial Audit Report of Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited (ELIC), 
the Material Unlisted Subsidiary of the Company, for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, forms part of this Report. The 
Secretarial Audit Report of ELIC is unmodified.
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE
The Company has a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace. No cases were reported during 
the year under review. There were no complaints pending as on March 31, 2024. The Company has complied with the 
provisions relating to the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS/ OUTGO
A.	 Conservation of energy
	
i)	
The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy – The operations of the Company are not energy intensive. 
However, adequate measures have been taken for conservation of energy wherever possible.
	
ii)	
The steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate sources of energy – Though the operations of the Company 
are not energy intensive, the Company explores alternative sources of energy, as and when the necessity arises.
	
iii)	
The capital investment on energy conservation equipments – Nil
B.	 Technology absorption
	
i)	
The efforts made towards technology absorption – The Company extensively uses the information technology in its 
operations and has absorbed the technology required in this regard.
	
ii)	
The benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import substitution – The 
Company has leveraged the technology to optimise cost reduction and product development.
	
iii)	
In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the financial 
year):
	
	
(a)	
the details of technology imported: Not Applicable
	
	
(b)	
the year of import: Not Applicable
	
	
(c)	
whether the technology has been fully absorbed: Not Applicable
	
	
(d)	
if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof: Not Applicable
	
iv)	
the expenditure incurred on Research and Development – Not Applicable.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
117
118
C.	 Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
	
During the year under review, the Company earned foreign exchange of ` 42.60 million (previous year: ` 33.16 million) 
and there was outgo of foreign exchange of ` 24.75 million (previous year: ` 84.88 million).
OTHER DISCLOSURES
i)	
There are no significant material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company that occurred 
between the end of financial year and the date of this Report.
ii)	
There has been no change in the nature of business of the Company.
iii)	
There was no revision in the financial statements of the Company.
iv)	
There was no application made or proceeding pending against the Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016. There was no instance of one-time settlement with any Bank/Financial Institution in respect of loan taken 
by the Company.
v)	
No significant or material orders were passed by the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in future.
vi)	
No fraud has been reported by the Auditors to the Audit Committee and the Board.
vii)	 Disclosure pertaining to maintenance of cost records as specified under the Act is not applicable to the Company.
viii)	 The Company has not issued equity shares with differential voting rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise.
ix)	
The Company has not accepted any deposits covered under Chapter V of the Act.
x)	
The Company has complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India.
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to Sections 92 and 134 of the Act, the Annual Return as at March 31, 2024 in Form MGT-7, is available on the 
website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 197 OF THE ACT
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, the particulars of the employees are set out in the Annexure to this Report. In terms of the provisions of Section 
136 of the Act, the Report is being sent to the Members of the Company excluding the Annexure. Any Member interested in 
obtaining a copy of the annexure may write to the Company Secretary.
Further, disclosure on managerial remuneration as required under Section 197 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided as Annexure V to this Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to maintain the highest standards of Corporate Governance and adheres to the Corporate 
Governance requirements set out by SEBI. The Company has implemented several best governance practices.
Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, the Report on Corporate Governance together with the certificate issued by M/s. BNP 
& Associates, Company Secretaries, on compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance during the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 is provided in Annexure VI and forms part of this Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, pursuant to the Listing 
Regulations is provided in Annexure VII and forms part of this Report.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Pursuant to Section 134 of the Act, the Directors confirm that:
i)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable Accounting Standards have been followed;
ii)	
such accounting policies have been selected and applied them consistently and made judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024 and 
the profits of the Company for the financial year ended on that date;
iii)	
proper and sufficient care had been taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
iv)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis;
v)	
internal financial controls have been laid down and the same are adequate and were operating effectively; and
vi)	
proper systems had been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems 
were adequate and operating effectively.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Board acknowledges the valuable guidance and continued support extended by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, the Reserve Bank of India, Stock Exchanges, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, other government authorities, Banks and other stakeholders. Your Directors would also like to take this 
opportunity to express their appreciation for the dedicated efforts of the employees of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
*OEJBhTFDPOPNJDFOHJOFJTSPBSJOH"QFSGFDUTUPSNPGHSPXUIGSJFOEMZSFGPSNTNBTTJWFJOGSBTUSVDUVSFTQFOEJOHBOEBEJHJUBM
SFWPMVUJPOJTQSPQFMMJOHUIFOBUJPOUPXBSETCFDPNJOHBHMPCBMFDPOPNJDQPXFSIPVTF#VTJOFTTGSJFOEMZSFGPSNTJODMVEJOH
UIF(PPETBOE4FSWJDFT5BY	(45
BOEDPSQPSBUFUBYSFEVDUJPOTBSFGPTUFSJOHBGFSUJMFFOWJSPONFOUGPSFOUSFQSFOFVSJBMBDUJWJUZ
$PODVSSFOUMZUIF/BUJPOBM*OGSBTUSVDUVSF1JQFMJOFJTNFUJDVMPVTMZMBZJOHUIFHSPVOEXPSLGPSBGVUVSFFDPOPNJDKVHHFSOBVUCZ
QSJPSJUJTJOHDSJUJDBMJOGSBTUSVDUVSBMEFWFMPQNFOU#FZPOEQIZTJDBMJOGSBTUSVDUVSF*OEJBhTEJHJUBMSFWPMVUJPOTQFBSIFBEFECZJOJUJBUJWFT
MJLF"BEIBBSBOEUIF6OJGJFE1BZNFOUT*OUFSGBDF	61*
JTGPTUFSJOHGJOBODJBMJODMVTJPOBOETUSFBNMJOJOHFDPOPNJDBDUJWJUZBDSPTTUIF
OBUJPO5IJTQPUFOUDPNCJOBUJPOJTGVSUIFSBNQMJGJFECZ*OEJBhTGBWPVSBCMFEFNPHSBQIJDTDIBSBDUFSJTFECZBZPVOHBOEUFDITBWWZ
QPQVMBUJPOXJUIHSPXJOHEJTQPTBCMFJODPNFGVFMMJOHBSPCVTUEPNFTUJDNBSLFU5IJTDPOGMVFODFPGUSBOTGPSNBUJWFQPMJDZJOJUJBUJWFT
TUSBUFHJDJOGSBTUSVDUVSFJOWFTUNFOUTBOEBCVSHFPOJOHEJHJUBMFDPTZTUFNJTQSPQFMMJOH*OEJBhTFDPOPNJDFOHJOFUPXBSETBSPCVTU
BOETVTUBJOFEHSPXUIUSBKFDUPSZ$POTFRVFOUMZ*OEJBJTOPUNFSFMZUIFXPSMEhTGBTUFTUHSPXJOHNBKPSFDPOPNZJUJTSBQJEMZ
FTUBCMJTIJOHJUTFMGBTBQSFFNJOFOUEFTUJOBUJPOGPSMPOHUFSNJOWFTUNFOUBUUSBDUJOHHMPCBMQMBZFSTTFFLJOHUPDBQJUBMJTFPOJUT
JNNFOTFQPUFOUJBM
5IFHMPCBMFDPOPNZOBWJHBUFEBDPNQMFYZFBSJO8IJMFHSPXUIQFSTJTUFEDPODFSOTBCPVUJOGMBUJPOBOEHFPQPMJUJDBM
UFOTJPOTMPPNFEMBSHF*OJUJBMXPSSJFTBCPVUQFSTJTUFOUJOGMBUJPOFBTFETPNFXIBUBTJOGMBUJPONFUSJDTJNQSPWFEUISPVHIPVUUIFZFBS
5IJTBMPOHXJUIJODSFBTFEFYQFDUBUJPOTGPSBTPGUMBOEJOHGPSUIF64FDPOPNZBNJEBTMPXEPXOJONPOFUBSZQPMJDZUJHIUFOJOH
CPPTUFENBSLFUDPOGJEFODF-BCPVSNBSLFUTJOUIF64BOE&VSP[POFTIPXFETVSQSJTJOHSFTJMJFODFXJUIUIF64FDPOPNZOPUBCMZ
EFGZJOHSFDFTTJPOGFBSTCZBDIJFWJOHBSPCVTUSFBM(%1HSPXUISBUFPGJO)PXFWFSUIFZFBSXBTOPUXJUIPVUTJHOJGJDBOU
DIBMMFOHFT5IFFBSMZNPOUITXFSFNBSLFECZEJTSVQUJPOTJOUIFCBOLJOHTFDUPSJODMVEJOHSFHJPOBMCBOLGBJMVSFTJOUIF64BOEB
NBKPSNFSHFSBNPOH4XJU[FSMBOEhTMBSHFTUGJOBODJBMJOTUJUVUJPOTMFBEJOHUPWPMBUJMFJOUFSFTUSBUFT'PSUVOBUFMZTUBCJMJUZSFUVSOFEBT
SFHJPOBMCBOLTSFDPWFSFE(FPQPMJUJDBMUFOTJPOTDPOUJOVFEUPGVFMVODFSUBJOUZXJUIUIFPOHPJOHDPOGMJDUJO6LSBJOFBOETUSBJOFE
SFMBUJPOTCFUXFFOUIF8FTUBOE$IJOBDBTUJOHBMPOHTIBEPX"EEJUJPOBMMZSFOFXFEIPTUJMJUJFTJOUIF.JEEMF&BTUGVSUIFS
IFJHIUFOFEDPODFSOTBCPVUHMPCBMTUBCJMJUZ
"OBMZTJT
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	
.BDSP&DPOPNJD3FWJFX0VUMPPL
'PS*OEJBQPMJUJDBMTUBCJMJUZGJSN(%1HSPXUIDPOUSPMMFEJOGMBUJPOSBUFTBOEFGGFDUJWFNPOFUBSZQPMJDJFTGSPNUIFDFOUSBM
CBOLDPMMFDUJWFMZQBWFEUIFXBZGPSTUSPOHFDPOPNJDHSPXUIJO':3FUBJMJOGMBUJPOSFNBJOFETUFBEZXJUIJOUIFUBSHFUSBOHF
JOEJDBUJOHTUBCJMJUZXIJMFDPSFJOGMBUJPOFYQFSJFODFEBEPXOXBSEUSBKFDUPSZTVQQPSUFECZEPNFTUJDFDPOPNJDFYQBOTJPOBOE
GBWPVSBCMFHMPCBMDPNNPEJUZQSJDFT"EEJUJPOBMMZSPCVTUJOWFTUNFOUBDUJWJUZGSPNCPUIQVCMJDBOEQSJWBUFTFDUPSTQMBZFEBQJWPUBM
SPMFJOESJWJOHHSPXUIQBSUJDVMBSMZCZTUJNVMBUJOHUIFNBOVGBDUVSJOHBOEDPOTUSVDUJPOTFDUPST*OEJBIBTEFNPOTUSBUFEOPUBCMF
SFTJMJFODFUPHMPCBMTIPDLTTJODFUIFPOTFUPGUIFQBOEFNJD5IJTSFTJMJFODFDBOCFBUUSJCVUFEJOQBSUUPJUTMPXFSDVSSFOUBDDPVOU
EFGJDJUCPMTUFSFECZBHSPXJOHTFSWJDFTUSBEFTVSQMVTBTXFMMBTBTVCTUBOUJBMGPSFJHOFYDIBOHFSFTFSWFTCVGGFS5IFTFDPOEBEWBODF
FTUJNBUFPGOBUJPOBMJODPNFSFMFBTFECZUIFOBUJPOBMTUBUJTUJDTPGGJDF	/40
PO'FCSVBSZIBEQFHHFESFBM(%1HSPXUI
JO':UPCFWFSTVT	GJSTUSFWJTFEFTUJNBUF
JO':#FZPOEFDPOPNJDTUSJEFTi#SBOE*OEJBwDFMFCSBUFEBSFNBSLBCMFZFBS
XJUIOPUBCMFBDIJFWFNFOUTUIBUTJHOJGJDBOUMZFOIBODFEJUTTPGUQPXFSBOEHMPCBMJOGMVFODF5IJTXBTIJHIMJHIUFECZUIFUSJVNQIBOU
MBOEJOHPG$IBOESBZBBOPOUIF.PPOhTTPVUIQPMFBIJTUPSJDNJMFTUPOFJOTQBDFFYQMPSBUJPOUIBUSFBGGJSNFE*OEJBhTMFBEFSTIJQ
JOUIFGJFME"EEJUJPOBMMZIPTUJOHBTVDDFTTGVM(4VNNJUGVSUIFSTPMJEJGJFE*OEJBhTFTUFFNFEQPTJUJPOPOUIFHMPCBMTUBHF
TIPXDBTJOHJUTEJQMPNBUJDDBQBCJMJUJFTBOETUSFOHUIFOJOHJUTJOUFSOBUJPOBMTUBOEJOH*OEJBIBTTUSBUFHJDBMMZMFWFSBHFEJUTTPGU
QPXFSFODPNQBTTJOHDVMUVSBMEJQMPNBDZFDPOPNJDJOGMVFODFBOEQSPBDUJWFEJQMPNBUJDJOJUJBUJWFTOPUPOMZUPFOIBODFJUT
HMPCBMJNBHFCVUBMTPUPTUSFOHUIFOJUTJOUFSOBUJPOBMSFMBUJPOT5IJTNVMUJGBDFUFEBQQSPBDIIBTDSFBUFEBXFCPGJOGMVFODFUIBU
FYUFOETGBSCFZPOEJUTHFPHSBQIJDBMCPVOEBSJFTFOBCMJOH*OEJBUPGPSHFBMMJBODFTTIBQFHMPCBMOBSSBUJWFTBOEHBSOFSTVQQPSUGPS
JUTQPTJUJPOTPOJOUFSOBUJPOBMQMBUGPSNT
-PPLJOHBIFBEUPUIFHMPCBMFDPOPNZJTGJOEJOHJUTGPPUJOHBGUFSBQFSJPEPGUVSCVMFODF(SPXUIJTFYQFDUFEUPSFNBJOTUFBEZ
UIJTZFBSEFTQJUFPOHPJOHDIBMMFOHFT8IJMFHFPQPMJUJDBMUFOTJPOTBOESJTJOHJOUFSFTUSBUFTQPTFSJTLTUIFSFBSFTJHOTPGTUBCJMJTBUJPO
*OGMBUJPOJTPOUSBDLUPNPEFSBUFBMCFJUBUBTMPXFSQBDFUIBOBOUJDJQBUFE$FOUSBMCBOLTBSFMJLFMZUPNBJOUBJOBDBVUJPVTBQQSPBDI
XIFOJUDPNFTUPFBTJOHNPOFUBSZQPMJDZ)PXFWFSEPXOTJEFSJTLTQFSTJTU,FZDPOGMJDUTTVDIBTUIF6LSBJOFXBS64$IJOB
SFMBUJPOT"SBC*TSBFMJSFMBUJPOTBOE*SBOhTGPSFJHOSFMBUJPOTSFNBJOJOBhIPMEJOHQBUUFSOhBXBJUJOHTIJGUTJOGMVFODFECZUIFPVUDPNF
PGUIF64FMFDUJPO&TDBMBUJOHHFPQPMJUJDBMUFOTJPOTDPVMEMFBEUPWPMBUJMFDPNNPEJUZQSJDFT*OUIFDPOUFYUPGFMFWBUFEUSBEFQPMJDZ
VODFSUBJOUZGVSUIFSUSBEFGSBHNFOUBUJPOSJTLTBEEJUJPOBMEJTSVQUJPOTUPUSBEFOFUXPSLT"HBJOTUUIJTCBDLESPQJTTIBQJOHVQUP
CFUIFh4VQFS#PXMPGFMFDUJPOThXJUIPWFSCJMMJPOQFPQMFBDSPTTNPSFUIBODPVOUSJFTQBSUJDJQBUJOHJOTJHOJGJDBOUFMFDUPSBM
FWFOUT5IFTFJODMVEF3VTTJBhTQSFTJEFOUJBMFMFDUJPOJO.BSDI*OEJBhTHFOFSBMFMFDUJPOTJO"QSJM.BZUIF&VSPQFBO6OJPOhTCMPDXJEF
FMFDUJPOTJO+VOFBOEUIF6OJUFE4UBUFThMFHJTMBUJWFBOEQSFTJEFOUJBMFMFDUJPOTMBUFSJOUIFZFBS
*OEJBhTFDPOPNJDPVUMPPLGPS':BQQFBSTIJHIMZQSPNJTJOHNBSLFECZBSPCVTU(%1HSPXUIGPSFDBTUVQHSBEFECZNPTUSBUJOH
BHFODJFT1PTJUJPOFEBTUIFGBTUFTUHSPXJOHBNPOH(FDPOPNJFT*OEJBhTFDPOPNZTVSHFEBIFBEDMPDLJOHJOJNQSFTTJWFHSPXUI
SBUFTPOUIFCBDLPGSPCVTUNBOVGBDUVSJOHBDUJWJUZBOEJOGSBTUSVDUVSFTQFOEJOH(SPXUICBDLFECZCPUIHPWFSONFOUDBQFYBOE
QSJWBUFJOWFTUNFOUBOESFTJMJFOUVSCBODPOTVNQUJPOCVPZFECZGBDUPSTMJLFJODSFBTFEWFIJDMFBOEIPVTJOHTBMFTIJHIFSBJSUSBWFM
BOEBTVSHFJOEJHJUBMUSBOTBDUJPOTBSFQPJTFEUPQSPQFMUIFFDPOPNJDUSBKFDUPSZGPSXBSE5IFBOUJDJQBUFEOPSNBMNPOTPPOJO':
JTFYQFDUFEUPCPMTUFSSVSBMDPOTVNQUJPOGVSUIFSESJWJOHFDPOPNJDNPNFOUVN)JHIGSFRVFODZJOEJDBUPSTTVHHFTUDPOUJOVFE
NPNFOUVNXIJMFBDDFMFSBUJPOTJOCPUINBOVGBDUVSJOHBOETFSWJDFTFDUPSTBGGJSN*OEJBhTTUBUVTBTPOFPGUIFGBTUFTUHSPXJOHNBKPS
FDPOPNJFT8JUIJOGMBUJPONPEFSBUJOHUIF3FTFSWF#BOLPG*OEJBNBJOUBJOTBDBVUJPVTNPOFUBSZQPMJDZTUBODFIPMEJOHUIFSFQP
SBUFTUFBEZJO'FCSVBSZEFTQJUFTPMJEHSPXUIEZOBNJDT4USFOHUIFOJOHFDPOPNJDNJMJUBSZBOEQPMJUJDBMUJFTXJUIUIF64VOEFSTDPSF
*OEJBhTHFPQPMJUJDBMTJHOJGJDBODFBUUSBDUJOHJOUFSFTUGSPN64CBTFEJOWFTUPST"EEJUJPOBMMZ*OEJBhTJODMVTJPOJO+1.PSHBOhTXJEFMZ
USBDLFE(MPCBM#POE*OEFY&NFSHJOH.BSLFUT	(#*&.
GSPN+VOFGBDJMJUBUFTFBTJFSBDDFTTUPJUTGJOBODJBMNBSLFUTGVSUIFS
FOIBODJOHJUTBQQFBM
*OUFHSBUJPOPGUFDIOPMPHZIBTCFFOBLFZESJWFSPG*OEJBhTFDPOPNJDEFWFMPQNFOUMFBEJOHUPTVCTUBOUJBMHSPXUIJOUIFEJHJUBM
FDPOPNZ5IJTUSBOTGPSNBUJPOIBTFNQPXFSFE*OEJBUPDSFBUFJOOPWBUJWFQSPEVDUTBOETPMVUJPOTGPSJUTWBTUDPOTVNFSNBSLFU
XJUIHPWFSONFOUQPMJDJFTQMBZJOHBDSVDJBMSPMFJOGPTUFSJOHJOOPWBUJPOBOEFOTVSJOHJOGSBTUSVDUVSFBOETFDVSJUZ/PUBCMFPVUDPNFT


$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG
&EFMXFJTTJTPOFPG*OEJBhTMFBEJOHEJWFSTJGJFEGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTDPNQBOJFTPGGFSJOHBCSPBESBOHFPGGJOBODJBMQSPEVDUT
BOETFSWJDFTUPBTVCTUBOUJBMBOEWBSJFEDMJFOUCBTF5IJTJODMVEFTSFUBJMJOEJWJEVBMT)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT	)/*T

BOE6MUSB)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT	6)/*T
DPSQPSBUJPOTBOEJOTUJUVUJPOTBDSPTTCPUIEPNFTUJDBOEHMPCBMHFPHSBQIJFT
*UTCVTJOFTTFTTQBO"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU.VUVBM'VOE"TTFU3FDPOTUSVDUJPO)PVTJOH'JOBODF4.&'JOBODF
(FOFSBM*OTVSBODFBOE-JGF*OTVSBODF
*OEVTUSZ4USVDUVSFBOE%FWFMPQNFOUT
JODMVEFJNQSPWFEGJOBODJBMJODMVTJPOUISPVHIEJHJUBMQBZNFOUNPEFTTUSFBNMJOFEUBYQSPDFTTFTBOEJODSFBTFEEPNFTUJD
QBSUJDJQBUJPOJOUIFDBQJUBMNBSLFU"EEJUJPOBMMZ*OEJBhTGPDVTPOOJDIFBOEDPNQMFYNBOVGBDUVSJOHTVQQPSUFECZJOJUJBUJWFTMJLFUIF
1SPEVDUJPO-JOLFE*ODFOUJWF4DIFNFBOEOBUJPOBMJOGSBTUSVDUVSFQMBOTBJNTUPCPPTUUIFTFDUPShTDPOUSJCVUJPOUPUIF(%1BOE
DBQJUBMJTFPOUIFDPVOUSZhTDPNQFUJUJWFBEWBOUBHFT"T*OEJBDPOUJOVFTJUTNBOVGBDUVSJOHGPDVTBEESFTTJOHUIFEFNBOEGPSDMFBOFS
FOFSHZTPVSDFTJTDSVDJBMGPSSFEVDJOHEFQFOEFODFPOGPTTJMGVFMTBOEFOIBODJOHFOFSHZTFDVSJUZ
8IJMF*OEJBhTSFNBSLBCMFSJTFBTBLFZQMBZFSJOUIFHMPCBMCVTJOFTTBSFOBJTBTJHOJGJDBOUNJMFTUPOFBDLOPXMFEHJOHQPUFOUJBMSJTLTJO
UIFFWPMWJOHHMPCBMSJTLMBOETDBQFJTFTTFOUJBM$VSSFOUMZUIFTQPUMJHIUJTPOUIFVSHFOUUISFBUPG"*HFOFSBUFENJTJOGPSNBUJPOBOE
EJTJOGPSNBUJPOESJWFOCZUIFTXJGUEJTTFNJOBUJPOPGGBMTFJOGPSNBUJPOJOPVSUFDIOPMPHJDBMMZBEWBODJOHXPSME5IJTJOIFSFOUSJTL
CFBSTUIFQPUFOUJBMUPNPVMEQVCMJDPQJOJPOJOGMVFODFEFDJTJPONBLJOHQSPDFTTFTBOETPXTPDJBMEJTDPSE"MTPUIFSFJTBOPUBCMF
FNQIBTJTPODMJNBUFSFMBUFEUISFBUTVOEFSTDPSJOHUIFFTDBMBUJOHBXBSFOFTTPGFOWJSPONFOUBMDIBMMFOHFTUIBUEFNBOETVTUBJOFE
HMPCBMBUUFOUJPOBOEDPMMBCPSBUJWFFGGPSUT'VSUIFSNPSFUIFBOUJDJQBUFEFNFSHFODFPGBNVMUJQPMBSPSGSBHNFOUFEHMPCBMPSEFSPWFS
UIFOFYUEFDBEFTJHOBMTBTJHOJGJDBOUTIJGUJOQPXFSEZOBNJDTXJUIQPUFOUJBMJNQMJDBUJPOTGPSJOUFSOBUJPOBMSFMBUJPOTUSBEFBOE
HFPQPMJUJDBMTUBCJMJUZ"OJOTJHIUGVMVOEFSTUBOEJOHPGUIJTFWPMWJOHSJTLMBOETDBQFJTQBSBNPVOUGPSFGGFDUJWFMZOBWJHBUJOHUIF
JOUSJDBUFUFSSBJOPGHMPCBMBGGBJSTJOUIFZFBSTUPDPNF
*OEJBJTVOEFOJBCMZBUBDVTQPGJUTHSFBUFTUFDPOPNJDFYQBOTJPOBTJUTUSJEFTGPSXBSEPOJUTUSBOTGPSNBUJWFQBUIVTIFSJOHJOBOFSB
GPDVTTFEPOFNQPXFSJOHJUTZPVUI5IJTKPVSOFZMBZTUIFGPVOEBUJPOGPSh7JLTJU#IBSBUhBOBUJPOEFEJDBUFEOPUPOMZUPFDPOPNJD
QSPHSFTTCVUBMTPUPUIFTFBNMFTTGVTJPOPGQSPTQFSJUZXJUIFOWJSPONFOUBMIBSNPOZUIFSFCZDSFBUJOHPQQPSUVOJUJFTGPSUIF
QSPTQFSJUZPGFWFSZDJUJ[FO*OUIFQVSTVJUPGBEFWFMPQFE*OEJBUIFOBUJPOTUBOETBUUIFDSPTTSPBETPGJOOPWBUJPOFDPOPNJDSFGPSN
BOESFTQPOTJCMFTUBUFDSBGU5IJTWJTJPOJTOPUNFSFMZBHPWFSONFOUJOJUJBUJWFJUJTBDPMMFDUJWFESFBNFODPNQBTTJOHUIFIPQFTBOE
BTQJSBUJPOTPGFWFSZ*OEJBO*UDBMMTGPSIBSOFTTJOHUIFQPUFOUJBMPGUIFZPVUIMFWFSBHJOHUFDIOPMPHJDBMBEWBODFNFOUTBOE
QSPNPUJOHJODMVTJWFHSPXUIUIBUSFTQFDUTUIFOBUJPOhTEJWFSTFDVMUVSBMGBCSJD"T*OEJBOBWJHBUFTUIFDPNQMFYJUJFTPGUIFHMPCBM
TUBHFJUTFNQIBTJTPOSFTQPOTJCMFHPWFSOBODFFDPOPNJDSFTJMJFODFBOEJOOPWBUJPOQPTJUJPOTUIFDPVOUSZBTBCFBDPOPGQSPHSFTT
BOEQPTTJCJMJUJFT
5IFBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUJOEVTUSZJO*OEJBDPNQSJTFT"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOUBOE.VUVBM'VOET
"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOUDBOCFDMBTTJGJFEBT1VCMJD"MUFSOBUJWFT	IFEHFGVOETDPODFOUSBUFEQVCMJDFRVJUZTUSBUFHJFT

1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFT	QSJWBUFFRVJUZQSJWBUFDSFEJUSFBMBTTFUT
BOE1FSQFUVBM4USBUFHJFT	*OW*5TBOE3&*5T

8JUIJO*OEJBhT1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFTJOWFTUNFOUMBOETDBQFPWFSUIFMBTUEFDBEF1SJWBUF$SFEJUBOE3FBM"TTFUTIBWFQSPWJEFE
JOWFTUPSTTVQFSJPSSJTLBEKVTUFESFUVSOTMFBEJOHUPEFWFMPQNFOUPGUIJTNBSLFU*OEJBhTQSPKFDUFE(%1HSPXUIUPXBSETUSJMMJPO
XJUIJOUIFOFYUEFDBEFQSFTFOUTBNBTTJWFCJMMJPOPQQPSUVOJUZGPSBMUFSOBUJWFBTTFUTDSFBUJOHBOBUUSBDUJWFJOWFTUNFOU
FOWJSPONFOU8JUIJOUIJT1SJWBUF$SFEJUBOE3FBM"TTFUTJO*OEJBBSFFYQFDUFEUPSFBDIPGUIF*OEJBO"MUFSOBUJWFTNBSLFUCZ
UPCJMMJPOMFBEJOHUIFJOEVTUSZhTHSPXUI
"MPOHXJUI*OEJBhT(%1TDBMFVQUIFSFJTBMTPBSPCVTUFYQBOTJPOJOUIFJOWFTUPSCBTF5IFOVNCFSPG)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT
	)/*T
BOE6MUSB)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT	6)/*T
BSFBOUJDJQBUFEUPEPVCMFCZ"EEJUJPOBMMZUIFJODSFBTJOHDPSQVTPG
QFOTJPOGVOETBOEJOTVSBODFDPNQBOJFTJTFYQFDUFEUPQSPWJEFBTVCTUBOUJBMQPPMPGDBQJUBMBDUJWFMZTFFLJOHBMUFSOBUJWF
JOWFTUNFOUPQUJPOT5IJTJTFYQFDUFEUPUSBOTMBUFJOUPTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIQPUFOUJBMGPS1SJWBUF$SFEJUBOE3FBM"TTFUTJO*OEJB
1SJWBUF$SFEJUGVOETMPPLUPQSPWJEFGMFYJCMFGJOBODJOHTPMVUJPOTGPSNFFUJOHUIFHSPXUIBOESFGJOBODJOHSFRVJSFNFOUTGPS$PSQPSBUF
*OEJB5IFZBSFCFDPNJOHBOJOUFHSBMQBSUPGUIFGJOBODJBMFDPTZTUFNBOEBSFQMBZJOHBOJNQPSUBOUSPMFJOUIFEFWFMPQNFOUPGCPOE
NBSLFUTJO*OEJB1SJWBUF$SFEJUEFMJWFSFEUISPVHI1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFGVOETXJUINBUDIFEBTTFUMJBCJMJUZTUSVDUVSFTTPMWFTBUBOHJCMF
QSPCMFNGPSUIFCPSSPXFST
3FBM"TTFUTGVOETGPDVTPOEFWFMPQNFOUBOENPOFUJTBUJPOPGBTTFUTUPSFMFBTFQSPEVDUJWFDBQJUBMJOUIFDPVOUSZBOEBSFBMBSHF
JOWFTUNFOUPQQPSUVOJUZGPS1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFBTTFUNBOBHFST5IJTFYDFQUJPOBMHSPXUIUSBKFDUPSZQPTJUJPOT*OEJBhT1SJWBUF
"MUFSOBUJWFJOWFTUNFOUTQBDFBTBQSFFNJOFOUEFTUJOBUJPOGPSJOWFTUPSTTFFLJOHSJTLBEKVTUFEMPOHUFSNIJHIQPUFOUJBMSFUVSOT
*OEJBhTNVUVBMGVOETJOEVTUSZJTBMTPNBLJOHTJHOJGJDBOUTUSJEFTDIBSBDUFSJTFECZDPOTJTUFOUHSPXUIBOEQSPNJTJOHJOEJDBUPST8JUIB
TUSPOHUSBDLSFDPSEPGQFSGPSNBODFBOEBEJWFSTFSBOHFPGJOWFTUNFOUPQUJPOTJUJTXFMMQPTJUJPOFEUPNFFUUIFOFFETPGWBSJPVT
JOWFTUPST*O':.VUVBM'VOET*OEVTUSZ"6.HSFXSFBDIJOHCUSJMMJPOBTPG.BSDIDPNQBSFEUPCUSJMMJPO
BTPG.BSDI5IJTHSPXUIJTGVFMMFECZBDPNCJOBUJPOPGGBDUPSTJODMVEJOHUIFSJTJOHGJOBODJBMMJUFSBDZBNPOHUIFQPQVMBDF
GBWPVSBCMFQFSGPSNBODFPGUIFTUPDLNBSLFUBOEUIFDPOWFOJFODFPGEJHJUBMJOWFTUJOH/PUBCMZUIFSFJTBSJTJOHJOWPMWFNFOUPG
ZPVOH*OEJBOTJOFRVJUZJOWFTUNFOUTESJWFOCZUIFEFTJSFUPCVJMEXFBMUIJOBDIBOHJOHFDPOPNJDMBOETDBQF5FDIOPMPHZIBT
QMBZFEBQJWPUBMSPMFJOEFNPDSBUJTJOHBDDFTTUPNVUVBMGVOETPGGFSJOHTJNQMJGJFEQSPDFTTFTBOEVTFSGSJFOEMZQMBUGPSNTUIBUNBLF
JOWFTUJOHNPSFBDDFTTJCMFUPBXJEFSBVEJFODF
-PPLJOHGPSXBSEUIFPVUMPPLGPS*OEJBhTNVUVBMGVOETJOEVTUSZSFNBJOTQSPNJTJOH8JUIBNQMFPQQPSUVOJUJFTGPSFYQBOTJPOBOEUIF
QPUFOUJBMUPBUUSBDUOFXJOWFTUPSTUIFJOEVTUSZJTQPJTFEGPSGVSUIFSHSPXUI"TNPSFQBSUJDJQBOUTFOUFSUIFNBSLFUBOEJOOPWBUJWF
QSPEVDUTFNFSHFXFBOUJDJQBUFBOFYDJUJOHKPVSOFZPGXFBMUIDSFBUJPOBOEGJOBODJBMFNQPXFSNFOU8IJMFDIBMMFOHFTNBZBSJTF
UIFSFTJMJFODFBOEBEBQUBCJMJUZPG*OEJBhTNVUVBMGVOETJOEVTUSZQPTJUJPOJUGPSDPOUJOVFETVDDFTTJOUIFZFBSTBIFBE8JUIBTUSPOH
GPVOEBUJPOBOEBDPNNJUNFOUUPJOOPWBUJPOUIFJOEVTUSZJTXFMMFRVJQQFEUPOBWJHBUFPCTUBDMFTBOEDBQJUBMJTFPOFNFSHJOH
PQQPSUVOJUJFTESJWJOHTVTUBJOFEHSPXUIBOEQSPTQFSJUZGPSJOWFTUPST
"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


"TTFU3FDPOTUSVDUJPO
"3$TQJWPUBMJOBDRVJSJOHBOESFWJUBMJTJOHEJTUSFTTFEBTTFUTTFSWFBTFTTFOUJBMCSJEHFTUPSFJOUFHSBUFUIFNJOUPUIFFDPOPNZ
FBSOJOHHMPCBMSFDPHOJUJPOBTSFTPMVUJPOJOTUJUVUJPOT5IJTQPTJUJPOTUIFNXFMMBNJETU*OEJBhTTVCTUBOUJBMWPMVNFPGTUSFTTFEBTTFUT
QSFTFOUJOHSPCVTUHSPXUIQSPTQFDUT"DDPSEJOHUPB$SJTJM3BUJOHTSFQPSUSFMFBTFEBUBO"TTPDIBNTFNJOBSPO"3$TBOETUSFTTFE
BTTFUTUIFTFDUPSJTFYQFDUFEUPDSPTTUIFCMBLIDSPSF"6.NBSLUIJTGJTDBMZFBSVQGSPNCMBLIDSPSFBZFBSBHP
)PXFWFSUIFSFQPSUBMTPJOEJDBUFTUIBUUIFTFDUPShTHSPXUISBUFPGUIFJOEVTUSZJTFYQFDUFEUPUFNQFSEPXOJO':DPNQBSFEUP
UIFHSPXUIUSBKFDUPSJFTTFFOJOQSFWJPVTZFBST5IJTNPEFSBUJPOJTMBSHFMZPOBDDPVOUPGMBSHFUSBOTBDUJPOTDPODMVEFECZ/"3$-BOE
RVJDLFSSFTPMVUJPOTJOUIFSFUBJMQPSUGPMJP
5IFSFUBJMMFOEJOHFOWJSPONFOUSFNBJOTSPCVTUXJUIBTJHOJGJDBOU:P:HSPXUIPG	BTPG4FQUFNCFS
DPNQBSFEUPUIF
NPSFNPEFTUHSPXUIJODPSQPSBUFBDDPVOUT8JUIJOUIFSFUBJMTFDUPSUXPXIFFMFSBOEFEVDBUJPOMPBOTIBWFTFFOUIFIJHIFTU
HSPXUIJOPVUTUBOEJOHCBMBODFT6OTFDVSFEMPBOTFHNFOUT	QFSTPOBMMPBOTDSFEJUDBSET
NBJOUBJOFEUIFJSHSPXUINPNFOUVN
XIJMFNPSUHBHFMPBOTBSFFYQFDUFEUPFYIJCJUTUBCMF:P:HSPXUI%FTQJUFMPXFSEFMJORVFODJFTBDSPTTTFDVSFEBOEVOTFDVSFEMPBOT
JODMVEJOHNJDSPGJOBODFUIFDPNJOHZFBSNJHIUTFFIJHIFS/PO1FSGPSNJOH"TTFUT	/1"T
EVFUPBOJODSFBTFJOMPBOUJDLFUTJ[FT
5IJTSJTLJTQBSUJDVMBSMZSFMFWBOUGPSQFSTPOBMMPBOTBOEDSFEJUDBSETXIJDIBSFBMSFBEZFYQFSJFODJOHSJTJOHEFMJORVFODZUSFOET
*OUFSFTUJOHMZ/#'$MFOEJOHTIPXTTJHOTPGEFDMJOJOHEFMJORVFODJFTEFTQJUFNPEFTUHSPXUI5IFTFEZOBNJDTTVHHFTUBQPTJUJWF
PVUMPPLGPSUIFHSPXUIPGUIFSFUBJMBTTFUTCVTJOFTTJOUIF"3$TQBDF
0OUIFDPSQPSBUFBTTFUTTFHNFOUUIFTVQQMZPGTUSFTTFEBTTFUTGSPNQVCMJDTFDUPSCBOLTDPOUJOVFTUPCFMJNJUFEBOEUIFUFSNT
PGTBMFJTTLFXFEUPXBSETBMMDBTIUSBOTBDUJPOT.BKPSJUZUSBOTBDUJPOTBWBJMBCMFXPVMEDPOUJOVFUPCFGSPNUIF/#'$TBOE
QSJWBUFCBOLT
-PXFSGVOEJOHSFRVJSFNFOUBOEMFOEFShTSFRVJSFNFOUGPSVQGSPOUFYJUIBWFBMTPSBJTFEUIFQSPQPSUJPOPGDBTIEFBMTDPNQBSFEUP
43EFBMT':IBTTFFOIJHIFSQBSUJDJQBUJPOGSPN"*'TBOE2*#TUPTVQQPSUUIFUSBOTBDUJPOTBOEMPXFSDBQJUBMEFQMPZNFOUCZ"3$
JOUIFCBDLESPQPGSFWJTFENJOJNVN43TVCTDSJQUJPOSFRVJSFNFOUGSPN"3$BUGSPNFBSMJFS5IFUSFOEJTFYQFDUFEUP
DPOUJOVFGVSUIFS
5IF$PNQBOZSFNBJOTDBVUJPVTMZPQUJNJTUJDPOUIFCVTJOFTTHSPXUIJOXIPMFTBMFTFHNFOUBOEQPTJUJWFMZPQUJNJTUJDJOSFUBJM
TFHNFOUJOUIFOFBSUPNFEJVNUFSNEFTQJUFIFJHIUFOFEHMPCBMVODFSUBJOUZDPOTJEFSJOHWBSJPVTQPMJDZBOEFOBCMFSTGSPNUIF
HPWFSONFOUSFHVMBUPSTBOEJNQSPWFECVTJOFTTTFOUJNFOUT
*OEJBhTFDPOPNZDPOUJOVFTUPHSPXQSJNBSJMZQSPQFMMFECZSPCVTUEPNFTUJDEFNBOEBOEOPUBCMFFYQBOTJPOTJONBOVGBDUVSJOH
BOETFSWJDFTTFDUPST5IJTHSPXUIUSBKFDUPSZJTBOUJDJQBUFEUPTVTUBJOTUSPOHEFNBOEGPSDSFEJUFTQFDJBMMZBNPOH.JDSP4NBMMBOE
.FEJVN&OUFSQSJTFT	.4.&T
BOESFUBJMDSFEJU
5IF.4.&TFDUPSJTFYQFDUFEUPQMBZBTJHOJGJDBOUSPMFJO*OEJBhTHSPXUITUPSZXJUIUIFJSDPOUSJCVUJPOUPUIF(%1FYQFDUFE
UPJODSFBTFGSPNJO':UPJOUIFOFYUGJWFUPTFWFOZFBST'PSNBMDSFEJUEFQMPZNFOUXJMMQMBZBDSVDJBMSPMFJOUIF
HSPXUIPGUIJTTFDUPSBOE/#'$TXJMMCFBDSJUJDBMDPOUSJCVUPS
/#'$TIBWFFNFSHFEBTQJWPUBMGJOBODJBMTPVSDFTTFSWJOHBCSPBETQFDUSVNPGUIFQPQVMBUJPOJODMVEJOH4.&TBOEFDPOPNJDBMMZ
VOEFSTFSWFEJOEJWJEVBMT5IFJSFYQBOTJWFSFBDIVOEFSTUBOEJOHPGEJWFSTFGJOBODJBMOFFETBOESBQJEUVSOBSPVOEUJNFTIBWF
GBDJMJUBUFEFGGJDJFOUCPSSPXJOHQSPDFTTFT/#'$TIBWFDPOUSJCVUFETJHOJGJDBOUMZUPGJOBODJBMJODMVTJPOCZGPTUFSJOHUIFHSPXUIPG
OVNFSPVT.4.&TBOETFMGFNQMPZFEJOEJWJEVBMT5IFGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTTFDUPSIBTXJUOFTTFETVCTUBOUJBMHSPXUIXJUIWBSJPVT
QMBZFSTBEPQUJOHEJWFSTFCVTJOFTTNPEFMT/#'$"6.JTQSPKFDUFEUPHSPXCZJO':BOEDSPTTUIFCUSJMMJPONBSL
CZ.BSDI
.4.&'JOBODF
5IFSFQPSBUFSFNBJOFEVODIBOHFEUISPVHIPVU':
)PXFWFS.$-3MJOLFECBOLMPBOTXFSFSFQSJDFEVQXBSET
EVFUPBMBHSFTVMUJOHJOIJHIFSCPSSPXJOHDPTUTGPS/#'$T
BOEJNQBDUJOHUIFJS/*.T
5IFDPMFOEJOHBTTFUTVOEFSNBOBHFNFOUPG/#'$T
UPVDIFEUIFCMBLIDSPSFNBSL
5IFSFHVMBUPSZMBOETDBQFGPS/#'$TTBXTJHOJGJDBOU
DIBOHFTXJUIUIFJOUSPEVDUJPOPGSJTLXFJHIUTGPS
DPOTVNFSDSFEJUFYQPTVSF"EEJUJPOBMMZUIFSFXBT
JODSFBTFETDSVUJOZUPFOTVSFUJNFMZDPNQMJBODFXJUI
FYJTUJOHSFHVMBUJPOT
4USBUFHJDQBSUOFSTIJQTCFUXFFOCBOLTBOE/#'$T
BNPOH/#'$TBOECFUXFFO/#'$TBOE'JOUFDI
DPNQBOJFTDPOUJOVFEUPSFTIBQFUIFTFDUPSCZDSFBUJOH
BSPCVTUFDPTZTUFN
)FSFBSFUIF,FZ)JHIMJHIUTPG':GPSUIF*OEVTUSZ
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


)PVTJOH'JOBODF
(FOFSBM*OTVSBODF
"TXFBTTFTTUIFIPVTJOHGJOBODFTFDUPShTQFSGPSNBODFJO':JUhTDMFBSUIBUUIFJOEVTUSZIBTOBWJHBUFEBEZOBNJDFOWJSPONFOU
XJUISFTJMJFODF5IF3FTFSWF#BOLPG*OEJBhTMBUFTUEBUBPOi4FDUPSBM%FQMPZNFOUPG#BOL$SFEJUwSFWFBMTUIBUPWFSUIFQBTUUXP
GJOBODJBMZFBSTUIFSFIBTCFFOBSPCVTUHSPXUIPG*OEJBhTSFTJEFOUJBMSFBMFTUBUFNBSLFUBOEUIFSJTJOHEFNBOEGPSIPNFT
OBUJPOXJEF"DDPSEJOHUPUIFEBUBDSFEJUPVUTUBOEJOHUPUIFIPVTJOHTFDUPSXIJDIQSJNBSJMZJODMVEFTIPNFMPBOTIBTTVSHFE
CZCMBLIDSPSFPWFSUIFMBTUUXPZFBSTSFBDIJOHBOJNQSFTTJWFCMBLIDSPSFBTPG.BSDI5IJTNBSLTBOPUBCMF
JODSFBTFGSPNCMBLIDSPSFBUUIFFOEPG.BSDI
8IJMFIJHIFSJOUFSFTUSBUFTQPTFBIVSEMFUIFSFTJEFOUJBMQSPQFSUZTFDUPSDPOUJOVFTUPTFFIFBMUIZEFNBOE5IJTJTESJWFOCZB
TUSPOHFDPOPNZDIBOHJOHQSFGFSFODFTGPSNPSFTQBDJPVTBOEBNFOJUZSJDIIPNFTQPTUQBOEFNJDBOEUIFSJTFPGSFNPUFBOE
IZCSJEXPSLNPEFMT5IJTUSFOEJTSFGMFDUFEJOUIFTUFBEZHSPXUIPG)PVTJOH'JOBODF$PNQBOJFTh	)'$T
BTTFUTVOEFSNBOBHFNFOU
	"6.
BTUIFZDBUFSUPUIJTSPCVTUEFNBOEJOUIFSFUBJMIPNFMPBONBSLFU-PPLJOHBIFBEUIFTFDUPSSFNBJOTTVQQPSUFECZ
GBWPVSBCMFNBDSPFDPOPNJDDPOEJUJPOTBOEPOHPJOHHPWFSONFOUQPMJDJFT8JUIDPOUJOVFEEFNBOEGPSIPVTJOHBOEBGPDVT
PORVBMJUZMFOEJOHQSBDUJDFT)'$TBSFXFMMQPTJUJPOFEUPOBWJHBUFUIFDIBMMFOHFTBOEPQQPSUVOJUJFTUIBUMJFBIFBEJOUIF
DPNJOHGJTDBMZFBS
8IJMF/FU*OUFSFTU.BSHJOT	/*.
NBZGBDFTPNFQSFTTVSFPWFSBMMQSPGJUBCJMJUZJTFYQFDUFEUPJNQSPWFBTBTTFURVBMJUZDPODFSOT
EJNJOJTI5IFTFDUPShTSFTJMJFODFJTGVSUIFSVOEFSTDPSFECZUIFTVTUBJOFENPNFOUVNJOSFTJEFOUJBMTBMFTBOEMBVODIFTEFTQJUFUIF
3FTFSWF#BOLPG*OEJBhTSFQPSBUFJODSFBTFT
)PXFWFSJUhTJNQPSUBOUUPBDLOPXMFEHFQPUFOUJBMSJTLTUPUIJTPVUMPPLJODMVEJOHSFHVMBUPSZDIBOHFTUJHIUFOJOHMJRVJEJUZ
DPOEJUJPOTQFSTJTUFOUMZIJHIJOUFSFTUSBUFTBOEJODSFBTFEDPNQFUJUJPOGSPNCBOLT.BOBHJOHBOENJUJHBUJOHUIFTFDIBMMFOHFT
XJMMCFFTTFOUJBMGPS)'$TUPTVTUBJOUIFJSHSPXUINPNFOUVNBOEFOTVSFGJOBODJBMTUBCJMJUZJOUIFGPSFTFFBCMFGVUVSF
5IFHFOFSBMJOTVSBODFJOEVTUSZIBTFOEFE':QPTUJOHB:P:HSPXUIJOHSPTTEJSFDUQSFNJVNVOEFSXSJUUFODPNQBSFEUP
JOUIFQSFWJPVTGJOBODJBMZFBS8JUIHSPXUISBUFTPGBOESFTQFDUJWFMZ1SJWBUF*OTVSFSTJOUIFHFOFSBMBOETUBOEBMPOF
IFBMUITFDUPSTFYQBOEFEGBTUFSUIBOUIFJOEVTUSZBWFSBHF#PUITFHNFOUTPG1SJWBUF*OTVSFSTIBWFHBJOFENBSLFUTIBSFBUUIF
FYQFOTFPGUIFQVCMJDTFDUPS1SJWBUF(FOFSBM*OTVSFSTOPXDPOUSJCVUFUPPGUIFNBSLFU	WTJO':
146*OTVSFST
EPXOUP	WTJO':
4UBOEBMPOF)FBMUI*OTVSFST	WTJO':
BOEUIF4QFDJBMJTFE146*OTVSFSTIBWF
	WTJO':

5IFHFOFSBMJOTVSBODFJOEVTUSZDPOUJOVFTUPCFEPNJOBUFECZUIFIFBMUIBOENPUPSJOTVSBODFTFHNFOUT)FBMUIIBTDPOUJOVFEJUT
EPNJOBODFPWFS.PUPSJOCPUIDPOUSJCVUJPOHSPXUIQPTU$07*%
5IFGJOBODJBMZFBSIFSBMEFEUIFBEWFOUPGBMBOENBSLSFHVMBUPSZDIBOHFGPSUIF*OEVTUSZXJUI&0.SFHVMBUJPOTQSFTDSJCJOHPOFMJNJU
GPSFYQFOTFTBOETVCTVNJOHBMMPUIFSFYQFOTFTVOEFSJU5IJTHBWFUIFJOEVTUSZUIFGMFYJCJMJUZUPEFDJEFUIFJSPXOTVCMJNJUTGPS
DPNNJTTJPOBOEBDRVJTJUJPODPTUT5IJTDBOBOEIBTSFTVMUFEJOTPNFQBJOJOUIFTIPSUUFSNBEKVTUNFOUQFSJPEIPXFWFSPWFSUIF
MPOHUFSNJUJTFYQFDUFEUPESJWFHSFBUFSDPTUFGGJDJFODZGPSDVTUPNFST
5IFZFBSVOEFSTDPSFEUIF3FHVMBUPShTGPDVTPOUIF)FBMUITFHNFOUXJUIBWJFXUPTJNQMJGZBOEJNQSPWFDVTUPNFShTFYQFSJFODF
XJUIDMBJNTBOEDSFBUJPOPGNPSFJODMVTJWFQSPEVDUT*OUFHSBUJPOXJUIUIF*OEJB)FBMUI4UBDLFNFSHFODFPGUIF/BUJPOBM)FBMUI
$MBJNT&YDIBOHFBOE*OEVTUSZXJEFDBTIMFTTOFUXPSLTBSFTJHOJGJDBOUNJMFTUPOFTUIBUDBOFOBCMFDBTIMFTTDMBJNTGPS
DVTUPNFSToUIFTUBUFEBTQJSBUJPOGSPNUIF3FHVMBUPS
5IFZFBSFOEFEXJUIBTQBUFPGSFHVMBUJPOToMBSHFMZUIFGPDVTCFJOHUPDPOTPMJEBUFUIFNVMUJQMJDJUZPGHVJEFMJOFTNBLJOHJUFBTJFS
GPSSFGFSFODFBOEUIFNPWFUPiQSJODJQMFCBTFEwSFHVMBUPSZSFHJNF5IFTFTFUUIFTUBHFGPSUIFBDIJFWFNFOUPGUIFNJTTJPO
iJOTVSBODFGPSBMMw5IFJOEVTUSZOFFETUPFWPMWFJUTPXOGSBNFXPSLXJUIJOUIFTFHVJEFMJOFTBOEFOTVSFBEIFSFODFUPGBDJMJUBUF
PSEFSMZEFWFMPQNFOU
*OUIFDPNJOHZFBSUIFSFHVMBUPSZJTFYQFDUFEUPPWFSIBVMUIFEJTUSJCVUJPOSFHVMBUJPOTTJNJMBSUPUIFXBZUIFZDIBOHFEUIF
QSPEVDUSFHVMBUJPOTJOUIFMBTUUXPZFBST#FTJEFTUIJTXFFYQFDUUPTFFSFHVMBUJPOTBSPVOE3JTLCBTFE$BQJUBMBOE"DDPVOUJOH
GPS$PNNJTTJPOBOE1SFNJVNXIJDIXJMMJNQBDUUIF1-BOEDBQJUBMFGGJDJFODZ5IFJOEVTUSZJTDBVUJPVTMZPQUJNJTUJDBCPVU
UIFTFEFWFMPQNFOUT
*OEJBhTWBTUBOEZPVUIGVMQPQVMBUJPOQSFTFOUTBTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIPQQPSUVOJUZGPSUIFMJGFJOTVSBODFTFDUPS"TBTJHOJGJDBOUOVNCFS
PGJOEJWJEVBMTFOUFSUIFXPSLGPSDFBOEBUUBJOGJOBODJBMJOEFQFOEFODFUIFEFNBOEGPSMJGFJOTVSBODFQSPEVDUTJTFYQFDUFEUP
JODSFBTF8JUIBTVCTUBOUJBMQSPUFDUJPOHBQPGJOBOEJOTVSBODFQFOFUSBUJPOBUKVTUPG(%1JO':*OEJBhTJOTVSBODF
NBSLFUJTQPJTFEUPCFUIFGBTUFTUHSPXJOHBNPOH(DPVOUSJFTPWFSUIFOFYUGJWFZFBSTBDDPSEJOHUP4XJTT3F
%FTQJUFDIBMMFOHFTTVDIBTIJHIUJDLFUUBYBUJPOJOUIFOPOMJOLFETFHNFOU*OEJBhTMJGFJOTVSBODFTFDUPSIBTEFNPOTUSBUFESFTJMJFODF
BOETUBCMFHSPXUI5IFQSJWBUFTFDUPSJOQBSUJDVMBSIBTTUSFOHUIFOFEJUTGPPUIPMEDBQUVSJOHPGUIFNBSLFUTIBSFJO':VQ
GSPNJOUIFQSFWJPVTZFBS5IJTJOEJDBUFTBSPCVTUFYQBOTJPOBOEJODSFBTJOHDPNQFUJUJWFOFTTXJUIJOUIFNBSLFU5IFHSPXUIJO
OFXCVTJOFTTQSFNJVNDPMMFDUJPOTTIPXJOHBZFBSPOZFBSJODSFBTFJO.BSDIGPS':VOEFSTDPSFTTUSPOHEFNBOEGPSMJGF
JOTVSBODFQSPEVDUTBNPOHJOEJWJEVBMBOEDPSQPSBUFDVTUPNFST
5IFSJTFPG*OTVSUFDIJTSFWPMVUJPOJTJOHUIFMJGFJOTVSBODFJOEVTUSZJO*OEJB*OOPWBUJWFUFDIOPMPHJFTBSFFOIBODJOHCSBOESFDBMM
BOETIJGUJOHDPOTVNFSQSFGFSFODFTUPXBSETNPSFQFSTPOBMJTFEBOEJOUVJUJWFFYQFSJFODFT5IJTTIJGUVOEFSTDPSFTUIFJNQPSUBODF
PGTIJGUJOHDPOTVNFSQSFGFSFODFTUPXBSETNPSFQFSTPOBMJTFEBOEJOUVJUJWFFYQFSJFODFT5IJTTIJGUVOEFSTDPSFTUIFJNQPSUBODF
PGBHJMJUZBOEJOOPWBUJPOGPSJOTVSFSTUPNFFUUIFFWPMWJOHOFFETPGDPOTVNFSTJOUIFEJHJUBMBHF&TUBCMJTIFEQMBZFSTDPOUJOVF
UPBTTFSUUIFJSEPNJOBODFCVUDIBMMFOHFSCSBOETBSFHBJOJOHHSPVOEJOUFOTJGZJOHDPNQFUJUJPOBOEESJWJOHJODSFBTFE
NBSLFUDPOTJEFSBUJPO
3FHVMBUPSZMJCFSBMJTBUJPOIBTCFFOBTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIESJWFSGPSUIFMJGFJOTVSBODFTFDUPSJO*OEJB5IF*OTVSBODF3FHVMBUPSZBOE
%FWFMPQNFOU"VUIPSJUZPG*OEJB	*3%"*
BJNTUPBDIJFWF*OTVSBODFGPSBMMCZFOTVSJOHFWFSZDJUJ[FOBOEFOUFSQSJTFIBT
BQQSPQSJBUFJOTVSBODFDPWFSBHF3FDFOUSFHVMBUPSZDIBOHFTIBWFCFFOMBOENBSLJOTVQQPSUJOHUIJTNJTTJPOBOEGPTUFSJOH
NBSLFUFYQBOTJPO5IFTFDIBOHFTDPVQMFEXJUITUSPOHFDPOPNJDHSPXUIQSPWJEFBGBWPVSBCMFFOWJSPONFOUGPSUIFMJGF
JOTVSBODFTFDUPSUPUISJWF
-JGF*OTVSBODF
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


&EFMXFJTT0VUMPPL
0QQPSUVOJUJFT
"QBSBEJHNTIJGUJTVOEFSXBZXJUIJO*OEJBhTGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTTFDUPS5FDIOPMPHZQFSTPOBMJTBUJPOBOEBHSPXJOHFNQIBTJTPO
TVTUBJOBCJMJUZBSFDPOWFSHJOHUPSFTIBQFUIFJOEVTUSZ5IJTQPXFSGVMDPOGMVFODFFNQPXFSTCPUIJOEJWJEVBMTBOECVTJOFTTFTUP
OBWJHBUFUIFDPNQMFYJUJFTPGBSBQJEMZFWPMWJOHXPSMEBOEFNFSHFTUSPOHFS'VFMMFECZBHSPXJOHEFNBOEGPSJOOPWBUJWFGJOBODJBM
TPMVUJPOTTVQQPSUJWFHPWFSONFOUQPMJDJFTBOEBOFWFSFYQBOEJOHNBSLFUSFBDIBXBWFPGTJHOJGJDBOUPQQPSUVOJUZJTHBUIFSJOH
NPNFOUVN8FBU&EFMXFJTTTUBOEJOHBUUIFGPSFGSPOUPGUIJTUSBOTGPSNBUJPOBSFBDUJWFMZQPTJUJPOJOHPVSTFMWFTUPDBQJUBMJTFPO
UIFTFQSPTQFDUTBOEDPOUSJCVUFUPUIFDPOUJOVFEHSPXUIBOEFWPMVUJPOPG*OEJBhTGJOBODJBMMBOETDBQF
8JUIBEJWFSTFCVTJOFTTQPSUGPMJPXFhSFQPJTFEGPSTVCTUBOUJBMHSPXUI0VSEJWFSTJGJFEGSBODIJTFBDUTBTBOBUVSBMIFEHFFOTVSJOH
SFTJMJFODFJOFBSOJOHTBOEQFSGPSNBODFXIJMFQSPWJEJOHVOJRVFDSPTTTFMMJOHPQQPSUVOJUJFT0WFSUIFOFYUZFBSPVSTUSBUFHJD
QSJPSJUJFTBOEJOJUJBUJWFTXJMMDPOUJOVFUPGPDVTPOGPSUJGZJOHQSPGJUBCJMJUZTUSFBNMJOJOHPQFSBUJPOTBOEMFWFSBHJOHFNFSHJOH
UFDIOPMPHJFTUPJOOPWBUFBOEXJUITUBOENBSLFUUVSCVMFODF-FWFSBHJOHPVSFYQFSUJTFBOEGPSXBSEUIJOLJOHBQQSPBDIXFhSF
SFBEZUPDBQJUBMJTFPOFNFSHJOHUSFOET0VSVOXBWFSJOHDPNNJUNFOUUPJEFOUJGZJOHBOEOVSUVSJOHHSPXUIPQQPSUVOJUJFT
VOEFSTDPSFTPVSSPMFBTBO*OWFTUNFOU$PNQBOZ	i*OWFT$Pw
DPNNJUUFEUPVOMPDLJOHTJHOJGJDBOUWBMVFGPSTUBLFIPMEFST
8JUIJOUIFFWFSFWPMWJOHEPNBJOPGGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTTFWFSBMLFZUSFOETBOEGBDUPSTQSFTFOUBDPNQFMMJOHTUSBUFHJDGSBNFXPSL
GPSPVSPSHBOJTBUJPOhTDPOUJOVFEFYQBOTJPO#ZNFUJDVMPVTMZBOBMZTJOHUIFTFPQQPSUVOJUJFTXFDBOTPMJEJGZPVSQPTJUJPOBTB
QSFFNJOFOUMFBEFSJOUIFJOEVTUSZ
&EFMXFJTT0VUMPPL4USBUFHZ
(PWFSONFOUQPMJDJFTFYFSUBTJHOJGJDBOUJOGMVFODFPOOVSUVSJOHBWJCSBOUGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTJOEVTUSZ*OEJBhTPOHPJOHSFGPSNTBOEUIF
JNQMFNFOUBUJPOPGEJHJUBMDFOUSJDUBYBOEDPNQMJBODFGSBNFXPSLTHPCFZPOENFSFCVSFBVDSBUJDTUSFBNMJOJOHUIFZSFQSFTFOUUIF
GPVOEBUJPOBMQJMMBSTPGBUSBOTQBSFOUBOEFGGJDJFOUFDPTZTUFN4USFBNMJOFESFHVMBUJPOTDPVQMFEXJUIBSFEVDUJPOJOBENJOJTUSBUJWF
CVSEFOTBOEBGPDVTPOQSPNPUJOHPQFSBUJPOBMFGGJDJFODZDSFBUFBGFSUJMFHSPVOEGPSCVTJOFTTFTMJLFPVSTUPGMPVSJTI5IJTTVQQPSUJWF
FOWJSPONFOUFNQPXFSTVTUPDPODFOUSBUFPOJOOPWBUJPOBOEDPOTJTUFOUMZEFMJWFSFYDFQUJPOBMWBMVFUPPVSDMJFOUFMF
4VQQPSUJWF1PMJDZ'SBNFXPSL
5IFSJTFPGGJOBODJBMJODMVTJPOJO*OEJBVOEFSTDPSFTUIFUSBOTGPSNBUJWFQPXFSPGUFDIOPMPHZ*OJUJBUJWFTTVDIBTUIF1SBEIBONBOUSJ
+BO%IBO:PKBOBBOE4UBOE6Q*OEJBQSPHSBNNFTFYUFOECFZPOETJNQMZPQFOJOHCBOLBDDPVOUTUIFZFRVJQNJMMJPOTQBSUJDVMBSMZ
UIPTFXJUIJOWVMOFSBCMFTFHNFOUTPGTPDJFUZXJUIUIFUPPMTBOEBDDFTTOFDFTTBSZUPDPOTUSVDUBTFDVSFGJOBODJBMGVUVSF
5FDIOPMPHJDBMBEWBODFNFOUTTVDIBTNPCJMFCBOLJOHBOEEJHJUBMXBMMFUTUSBOTDFOENFSFDPOWFOJFODFUIFZSFQSFTFOUHBUFXBZTUP
GJOBODJBMFNQPXFSNFOU'VSUIFSNPSFUIFFYQBOEJOHQBSUJDJQBUJPOPG)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT	)/*T
TJHOJGJFTBNBUVSJOH
NBSLFUCSJNNJOHXJUIVOUBQQFEQPUFOUJBM#ZNFUJDVMPVTMZEFWFMPQJOHJOOPWBUJWFGJOBODJBMTPMVUJPOTUBJMPSFEUPUIJTTPQIJTUJDBUFE
TFHNFOUXFDBOTUSBUFHJDBMMZFYQBOEPVSSFBDIBOETPMJEJGZPVSQSFFNJOFODFXJUIJOUIFNBSLFUQMBDF
5FDIOPMPHZESJWFO'JOBODJBM*ODMVTJPO
5IFEJHJUBMUSBOTGPSNBUJPOFSBTJHOJGJFTBQBSBEJHNTIJGUCFZPOENFSFUFDIOPMPHJDBMBEPQUJPOJUSFQSFTFOUTBGVOEBNFOUBM
DIBOHFJOIPXXFDVMUJWBUFSFMBUJPOTIJQTXJUIPVSDMJFOUFMF"SUJGJDJBM*OUFMMJHFODF	"*
JTSBQJEMZUSBOTJUJPOJOHGSPNSVEJNFOUBSZ
BVUPNBUJPOUPBTPQIJTUJDBUFEUPPMTFUDBQBCMFPGGPTUFSJOHEFFQFSDMJFOUVOEFSTUBOEJOH(FOFSBUJWF"*UIFOFYUGSPOUJFSPG
UIJTUFDIOPMPHJDBMSFWPMVUJPOXJMMEZOBNJDBMMZUBJMPSGJOBODJBMQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFTUPJOEJWJEVBMOFFETBOEQSFGFSFODFT
5IJTFNQPXFSTVTUPDVSBUFIZQFSQFSTPOBMJTFEFYQFSJFODFTBDSPTTBMMDMJFOUUPVDIQPJOUToGSPNNPCJMFBQQMJDBUJPOTBOE
POMJOFQMBUGPSNTUPJOQFSTPOJOUFSBDUJPOT#ZGPTUFSJOHEFFQFSDVTUPNFSSFMBUJPOTIJQTCVJMUVQPOBGPVOEBUJPOPGUSVTU
BOEDPNQSFIFOTJWFVOEFSTUBOEJOHXFDBOVOMPDLTJHOJGJDBOUCVTJOFTTHSPXUIUISPVHIBUFDIOPMPHZESJWFO
DMJFOUDFOUSJDBQQSPBDI
"*QPXFSFE1FSTPOBMJTBUJPO
5IFDPOUFNQPSBSZNBSLFUQMBDFEFNBOETOPUPOMZSPCVTUGJOBODJBMQFSGPSNBODFCVUBMTPBEFNPOTUSBCMZTUSPOHDPNNJUNFOUUPB
TVTUBJOBCMFGVUVSF#ZQSJPSJUJTJOHTVTUBJOBCJMJUZJOJUJBUJWFTBOENFUJDVMPVTMZJOUFHSBUJOH&OWJSPONFOUBM4PDJBMBOE(PWFSOBODF
	&4(
QSJODJQMFTJOUPPVSPWFSBSDIJOHCVTJOFTTTUSBUFHZXFVOFRVJWPDBMMZEFNPOTUSBUFPVSBMJHONFOUXJUIUIFFWPMWJOH
FYQFDUBUJPOTPGTUBLFIPMEFST5IJTVOXBWFSJOHDPNNJUNFOUUPQPTJUJWFTPDJBMJNQBDUOPUPOMZFOIBODFTPVSCSBOEJNBHFCVU
BMTPBUUSBDUTFOWJSPONFOUBMMZBOETPDJBMMZDPOTDJPVTDMJFOUTBOEJOWFTUPSTVMUJNBUFMZDPOUSJCVUJOHUPPVSMPOHUFSNTVDDFTT
BOETPMJEJGZJOHPVSQPTJUJPOBTBSFTQPOTJCMFJOEVTUSZMFBEFS
$PNNJUNFOUUP4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


5IFHMPCBMGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTJOEVTUSZUPEBZTUBOETBUBDSJUJDBMKVODUVSF(FPQPMJUJDBMUFOTJPOTGSPNUSBEFXBSTUPSFHJPOBM
DPOGMJDUTBMPOHTJEFFDPOPNJDVODFSUBJOUJFTUISFBUFOUPEJTSVQUWJUBMSFTPVSDFTBOEPWFSBMMTUBCJMJUZ%PNFTUJDBMMZSJTJOHJOUFSFTU
SBUFTJODSFBTFESFHVMBUPSZTDSVUJOZBJNFEBUDVSCJOHGJOBODJBMSJTLTBOEQFSTJTUFOUJOGMBUJPODSFBUFBDIBMMFOHJOHFOWJSPONFOUGPS
*OEJBOGJOBODJBMJOTUJUVUJPOT*OUIJTVOQSFEJDUBCMFMBOETDBQFBEBQUBCJMJUZTUSBUFHJDGPSFTJHIUBOEBDVTUPNFSDFOUSJDBQQSPBDI
XJMMCFUIFIBMMNBSLTPGTVDDFTT
*OBXPSMEEPNJOBUFECZEJHJUBMJOUFSBDUJPOTUIFTQFDUSFPGDZCFSUISFBUTMPPNTMBSHF4BGFHVBSEJOHTFOTJUJWFEBUBMJLFBDDPVOU
JOGPSNBUJPOBOEUSBOTBDUJPOEFUBJMTJTQBSBNPVOU'JOBODJBMJOTUJUVUJPOTNVTUJOWFTUJOSPCVTUDZCFSTFDVSJUZJOGSBTUSVDUVSF
JNQMFNFOUJOHBEWBODFEFODSZQUJPOBOEGSBVEEFUFDUJPOTZTUFNT'VSUIFSNPSF*OEJBhTDZCFSTFDVSJUZMBXTBOESFHVMBUJPOTOFFE
UPLFFQQBDFXJUIFWPMWJOHUISFBUTFOTVSJOHFGGFDUJWFFOGPSDFNFOUBOEJOUFSOBUJPOBMDPPQFSBUJPO)PXFWFSEFGFODFBMPOFJTOPU
FOPVHI&NQPXFSJOHDPOTVNFSTUISPVHIGJOBODJBMMJUFSBDZQSPHSBNNFTJTFRVBMMZDSJUJDBM#ZFRVJQQJOHJOEJWJEVBMTXJUIUIF
LOPXMFEHFUPOBWJHBUFPOMJOFUSBOTBDUJPOTBOEJEFOUJGZTVTQJDJPVTBDUJWJUZXFDBOCVJMEBDPMMFDUJWFSFTJMJFODFBHBJOTUDZCFS
DSJNFBOEGJOBODJBMFYQMPJUBUJPO&EVDBUJPOBMJOJUJBUJWFTDBOSBOHFGSPNJOUFSBDUJWFXPSLTIPQTUPHBNJGJFEMFBSOJOHQMBUGPSNT
NBLJOHGJOBODJBMMJUFSBDZFOHBHJOHBOEBDDFTTJCMFGPSBMMBHFHSPVQT
5IFEJHJUBMUSBOTGPSNBUJPOJOGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTIBTJOUFOTJGJFEUIFDPNQFUJUJPOGPSUBMFOUQBSUJDVMBSMZJOUFDISPMFTMFBEJOH
UPBDSJUJDBMTIPSUBHFPGTLJMMFEQSPGFTTJPOBMT5PTUBOEPVUBOESFUBJODSJUJDBMUBMFOUPSHBOJTBUJPOTNVTUDPNNJUUPQSPGFTTJPOBM
HSPXUICZPGGFSJOHNFOUPSTIJQQSPHSBNNFTDPOUJOVPVTMFBSOJOHPQQPSUVOJUJFTBOESFTLJMMJOHJOJUJBUJWFTJOLFZBSFBTTVDIBT
EBUBBOBMZUJDTBSUJGJDJBMJOUFMMJHFODFBOEDMPVEDPNQVUJOH"EBQUJOHUPUIFFWPMWJOHXPSLMBOETDBQFCZFNCSBDJOHSFNPUF
XPSLGMFYJCJMJUZBOEGPTUFSJOHDPMMBCPSBUJPOUISPVHIXFMMEFTJHOFEQSPHSBNNFTDBOTVQQPSUUIFHSPXJOHQSFGFSFODFGPS
XPSLMJGFCBMBODF6MUJNBUFMZGJOBODJBMJOTUJUVUJPOTUIBUQSJPSJUJTFCVJMEJOHBDVMUVSFPGJOOPWBUJPOHSPXUIBOEGMFYJCJMJUZ
XJMMCFCFTUQPTJUJPOFEUPBUUSBDUBOESFUBJOUIFUBMFOUOFDFTTBSZUPUISJWFJOUIFEJHJUBMBHF
*OEJBhTGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTMBOETDBQFJTOPMPOHFSTPMFMZEPNFTUJD5IFFOUSZPGJOUFSOBUJPOBMQMBZFSTCSJOHTBOFXMBZFSPGDPNQMFYJUZ
BOEGJFSDFDPNQFUJUJPO5IFTFHMPCBMHJBOUTBSNFEXJUIWBTUSFTPVSDFTDVUUJOHFEHFUFDIOPMPHZBOEJOOPWBUJWFGJOBODJBM
QSPEVDUTQSFTFOUBTJHOJGJDBOUDIBMMFOHF5PSFNBJODPNQFUJUJWFEPNFTUJDJOTUJUVUJPOTNVTUFNCSBDFBDVMUVSFPGDPOUJOVPVT
JOOPWBUJPO5IJTNFBOTEFWFMPQJOHOFXQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFTUIBUDBUFSUPFWPMWJOHDVTUPNFSQSFGFSFODFTTVDIBTQFSTPOBMJTFE
XFBMUINBOBHFNFOUTPMVUJPOTPSTFBNMFTTNPCJMFCBOLJOHFYQFSJFODFT$PMMBCPSBUJPOXJUI'JO5FDITUBSUVQTLOPXOGPSUIFJSBHJMJUZ
BOEUFDIESJWFOBQQSPBDIDPVMEBMTPCFBTUSBUFHJDNPWF
5ISFBUT
'PSUJGZJOHUIF%JHJUBM'SPOUJFS
"UUSBDUJOHBOE3FUBJOJOH5BMFOU
3JTJOH(MPCBM$PNQFUJUJPO
#ZFNCSBDJOHUIFTFUSFOETBOEDBQJUBMJTJOHPOUIFBTTPDJBUFEPQQPSUVOJUJFTXFTUSBUFHJDBMMZQPTJUJPOPVSTFMWFTGPSTVTUBJOFE
HSPXUISFTJMJFODFBOEMFBEFSTIJQXJUIJOUIFFWFSFWPMWJOHMBOETDBQFPGPVSJOEVTUSZ5IJTDPNQSFIFOTJWFGSBNFXPSLFNQPXFST
VTUPOPUPOMZBDIJFWFFYDFQUJPOBMCVTJOFTTHSPXUICVUBMTPDPOUSJCVUFNFBOJOHGVMMZUPUIFDPOTUSVDUJPOPGBNPSFJODMVTJWFBOE
TVTUBJOBCMFGJOBODJBMGVUVSFGPS*OEJB
':XBTBZFBSPGTUSPOHQFSGPSNBODFBOEHSPXUIESJWFOCZTVDDFTTGVMFYFDVUJPOPGPVSTUSBUFHZ0VSQSPGJUBCJMJUZTBXTVCTUBOUJBM
HSPXUIQSJNBSJMZESJWFOCZUIFFYQBOTJPOPGPVS"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU.VUVBM'VOEBOE"TTFU3FDPOTUSVDUJPO
CVTJOFTTFT0VS*OTVSBODFCVTJOFTTHBJOFEHPPENPNFOUVNBOEXFhSFPOUSBDLUPBDIJFWFCSFBLFWFO#ZGPDVTTJOHPO
SFEVDJOHXIPMFTBMFMPBOBTTFUTPQUJNJTJOHEFCUTUSVDUVSFTBOEJNQSPWJOHMJRVJEJUZNBOBHFNFOUXFTVDDFTTGVMMZSFEVDFE
PVSOFUEFCUSFJOGPSDJOHPVSGJOBODJBMTUBCJMJUZBOEMBZJOHBTPMJEGPVOEBUJPOGPSGVUVSFFOEFBWPVST

-PPLJOHBIFBEUP':PVSTUSBUFHJDEJSFDUJPOJTDMFBS8FBJNUPTDBMFVQQSPGJUBCJMJUZJO"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOUBOE
.VUVBM'VOEXIJMFBMTPJOUFOTJGZJOHFGGPSUTUPFYQBOESFUBJMDSFEJUUISPVHIBOBTTFUMJHIUDPMFOEJOHNPEFM"EEJUJPOBMMZ
XFhSFGPDVTTFEPOFOTVSJOHUIFTVTUBJOBCJMJUZBOEQSPGJUBCJMJUZPGPVS*OTVSBODFCVTJOFTTFTXJUIBDMFBSPCKFDUJWFUPBDIJFWF
CSFBLFWFOTUBUVTCZ':0VSDPNNJUNFOUUPSFEVDJOHOFUEFCUSFNBJOTTUFBEGBTUFOTVSJOHGJOBODJBMTUBCJMJUZBOEGMFYJCJMJUZ
GPSGVUVSFFOEFBWPVST
"TUIFFOWJSPONFOUFWPMWFTTPEPFTPVSBQQSPBDI8JUIDMBSJUZJOPVSLFZGPDVTBSFBTGPSUIFOFYUZFBSXFhSFQPJTFEUPUISJWFJOUIF
FWPMWJOHMBOETDBQFEFMJWFSJOHWBMVFUPPVSTUBLFIPMEFSTBOESFJOGPSDJOHPVSQPTJUJPOBTBMFBEFSJOUIFGJOBODJBMTFDUPS
5IF8BZ'PSXBSE
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


8FFOTVSFUIBUBOBEFRVBUFMJRVJEJUZDVTIJPOJTNBJOUBJOFEUPUBLFDBSFPGBMMNBUVSJOHMJBCJMJUJFTXJUIBGPDVTPOPQUJNVNSFWFOVF
HFOFSBUJPOGSPNMJRVJEBTTFUT
"UUIFFOEPG':XFNBJOUBJOFEBWBJMBCMFMJRVJEJUZPGCDSPSF5IJTJODMVEFEPWFSOJHIUMJRVJEBTTFUTPGCDSPSF
IJHIRVBMJUZMJRVJEBTTFUTPGPWFSCDSPSFXIJDIDBOCFMJRVJEBUFEXJUIJOBTIPSUTQBO	JGUIFOFFEBSJTFT
BOEVOESBXO
DPNNJUUFECBOLDSFEJUMJOFTPGCDSPSF
0WFSUIFZFBSTXFIBWFEFNPOTUSBUFEBTUSPOHUSBDLSFDPSEPGGVOESBJTJOHGSPNCPUISFUBJMBOEJOTUJUVUJPOBMMFOEFST8JUIUIFIFMQ
PGQVCMJDJTTVFTBOEPVSSFUBJMCPSSPXJOHQSPHSBNNFTXFIBWFJODSFBTFEUIFQSPQPSUJPOPGGVOEJOHUISPVHISFUBJMTPVSDFTGSPN
UPJOUIFQBTUPOFZFBS
0OUIFBTTFUTJEFXFDPOUJOVFUPGPDVTPOBOESFPSJFOUPVSCBMBODFTIFFUUPXBSETSFUBJMHSPXUI"TXIPMFTBMFSFDPWFSJFTSFNBJO
TMJHIUMZTMPXFSUIBOBOUJDJQBUFEXFIBWFPQUJNJTFEUIFUFOPSBOEGPDVTTFEPONFEJVNUPMPOHUFSNCPSSPXJOHT-POHUFSN
CPSSPXJOHTOPXTUBOEBUPGUIFUPUBMEFCU
"MMUIFTFTUFQTIBWFFOTVSFEUIBUXFNBJOUBJOBQPTJUJWF"-.HBQBDSPTTBMMUJNFCVDLFUT
1FSGPSNBODF)JHIMJHIUT
-JRVJEJUZBOE"-.1SPGJMF
8FIBEBTUSPOHGJOJTIUP':XJUIJNQSFTTJWFHSPXUIJOPVSDPSFCVTJOFTTFTNBJOUBJOJOHUIFTUSPOHNPNFOUVNGSPNUIF
QSFWJPVTZFBS5IJTZFBSXFBDIJFWFEBTJHOJGJDBOUNJMFTUPOFCZDPNQMFUJOHUIF7BMVF6OMPDL+PVSOFZGPS/VWBNBDVMNJOBUJOH
JOJUTMJTUJOHPO4FQUFNCFSBOEEJTUSJCVUJPOPGPGUIFTIBSFTUPPVSTIBSFIPMEFST5IJTZFBSXFFYQFSJFODFE
TJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIJOPVSBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUBOEJOTVSBODFCVTJOFTTFT
5IF"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOUQMBUGPSN
DPOUJOVFEJUTTUSPOHUSBDLSFDPSEBDIJFWJOHBO
JODSFBTFJO"6.:P:UPCDSPSFXJUIGFF
QBZJOH"6.HSPXJOHCZBSFNBSLBCMFUP
CDSPSF*O.VUVBM'VOE"6.TVSHFE:P:
UPSFBDICLDSPSFXJUI&RVJUZ"6.HSPXJOHB
IFBMUIZ:P:UPCLDSPSF3FUBJMDSFEJU
XJUOFTTFEBTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIWJBDPMFOEJOH
NPEFMXIFSF.4.&EJTCVSTFNFOUTUSJQMFEBOE
)PVTJOH'JOBODFEJTCVSTFNFOUTEPVCMFEJOUIF
ZFBS(FOFSBM*OTVSBODFBMTPSFDPSEFEBO
FYDFQUJPOBMHSPXUIJO(SPTT8SJUUFO1SFNJVN
	(81
TFDVSJOHUIFJOEVTUSZhTIJHIFTUHSPXUISBUF
(SPTT1SFNJVNPG-JGF*OTVSBODFCVTJOFTTHSFXCZ
:P:UPCDSPSF
$VTUPNFSSFBDIFYQBOEFEGVSUIFSPOUIFCBDLPGB
SFUBJMTDBMFVQHSPXJOH:P:UPMBLI
5IJTIBTBMTPBJEFEB:P:HSPXUIJODVTUPNFS
BTTFUTUPPWFSCMBLIDSPSF0WFSBMMCVTJOFTTFT
TBXBTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIJODVTUPNFSCBTFo
EFNPOTUSBUJOHUIFDPOUJOVFEUSVTUJOVTCZPVS
DVTUPNFST5IFTFJNQSFTTJWFBDDPNQMJTINFOUT
BDSPTTBMMTFDUPSTTIPXDBTFUIFTUSFOHUIBOERVBMJUZ
PGPVSFTUBCMJTIFECVTJOFTTFT
0VSDPOTPMJEBUFE1SPGJU"GUFS5BY	1"5
CFGPSF
NJOPSJUZJOUFSFTU	QSF.*
GPS':HSFXCZUP
CDSPSFBTDPNQBSFEUPCDSPSFMBTUZFBS
1"5GSPNPVSOPOJOTVSBODFCVTJOFTTFTTUPPEBU
CDSPSF	WTCDSPSFJO':

5PUBMJODPNFGPSUIFZFBSJODSFBTFECZ:P:UP
CDSPSFESJWFOCZB:P:VQUJDLJOOFUHBJO
POGBJSWBMVFDIBOHFT	CDSPSFWTCDSPSF

5IFSFXBTB:P:EFDMJOFJOJOUFSFTUJODPNF
	CDSPSFWTCDSPSF
EVFUPBTUSBUFHJD
TIJGUUPXBSETBTTFUMJHIUNPEFMTJOSFUBJMDSFEJUBOE
UIFXJOEEPXOPGPVSXIPMFTBMFCPPL0VS
JOTVSBODFCVTJOFTTNBJOUBJOFEJUTHSPXUI
NPNFOUVNBDIJFWJOHBOFUQSFNJVNPGC
DSPSFGPS':VQGSPNCDSPSFJO':
SFGMFDUJOHBIFBMUIZHSPXUI
':FYQFOTFTJODSFBTFECZDPNQBSFEUP':	CDSPSFWTCDSPSF
5IFJODSFBTFJOFYQFOTFTJTMBSHFMZ
ESJWFOCZWBSJBCMFCVTJOFTTDPTUTQSPQPSUJPOBUFUPUIFHSPXUIJOSFWFOVFXIJMTUGJYFEBOEPWFSIFBEDPTUTIBWF
SFNBJOFEGMBUUIVTEFNPOTUSBUJOHFGGJDJFOUTDBMJOH*NQBJSNFOUPOGJOBODJBMJOTUSVNFOUTEFDSFBTFEUPCDSPSF
DPNQBSFEUPCDSPSFJO':"EEJUJPOBMMZUIFDIBOHFJOWBMVBUJPOPGDSFEJUJNQBJSFEMPBOTXBTBMTPMPXFSCZ
:P:BUCDSPSFWTCDSPSFJO':"TPG.BSDIUPUBMHSPTTEFCUTUPPEBUCDSPSFEFDSFBTJOH
QSPHSFTTJWFMZUISPVHIPVUUIFZFBSGSPNCDSPSFBUUIFFOEPG':'JOBODFDPTUTJODSFBTFEUPCDSPSF
DPNQBSFEUPCDSPSFJO':EVFUPBTMJHIUVQUJDLJOPVSDPTUPGCPSSPXJOH5ISPVHIPVUUIFZFBSXF
NBJOUBJOFEBQSVEFOUBQQSPBDIUPMJRVJEJUZNBOBHFNFOUFOTVSJOHSFBEJMZBWBJMBCMFSFTPVSDFTBUBQQSPYJNBUFMZ
PGPVSCPSSPXJOHT
1PTUEJTUSJCVUJPOPGUIFTUBLFJO/VWBNBUPPVS
TIBSFIPMEFSTJO4FQUUIFUPUBM/FU8PSUITUPPE
BUCDSPSFBTPO.BSDIJODMVEJOHUIF
BNPVOUPGFRVJUZDPOWFSUJCMFJOTUSVNFOUT	$$%T

WJTËWJTCDSPSFBTPO.BSDI
5IFEJMVUFE&14GPS':TUPPEBUCDPNQBSFEUPCGPS':#PPL7BMVFQFSTIBSFXBTCBUUIFFOEPG':
5IF#PBSEPG%JSFDUPSTIBWFSFDPNNFOEFEBGJOBMEJWJEFOEPGCQFSFRVJUZTIBSF5PUBM%JWJEFOEGPSUIFZFBS
TUBOETBUCQFSFRVJUZTIBSF
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


5IF1SPGJUCFGPSF5BY.BSHJOGPS':XBTDPNQBSFEUPJO':
5IF1SPGJUBGUFS5BY.BSHJOGPS':TUPPEBUDPNQBSFEUPGPS':

0UIFSQBSBNFUFSTOBNFMZ%FCUPST5VSOPWFS*OWFOUPSZ5VSOPWFS*OUFSFTU$PWFSBHF3BUJPBOE$VSSFOU3BUJPBSFOPU
BQQMJDBCMFUPPVS$PNQBOZ
%JTUSJCVUJPOPGFBSOJOHTBNPOHUIFTFCVTJOFTTFT
%FUBJMTPGBOZDIBOHFTJO3FUVSOPO/FU8PSUIBTDPNQBSFEUPUIFQSFWJPVTGJOBODJBMZFBS
#VTJOFTTXJTF"OBMZTJTPG1SPGJUBCJMJUZ
1SPGJUCFGPSF5BY.BSHJO	
/FU1SPGJU.BSHJO	
3FUVSOPO/FU8PSUIJF3FUVSOPO&RVJUZ	3P&
QPTU.*PODPOTPMJEBUFECBTJTGPS':TUPPE
BUDPNQBSFEUPGPS':
5IF%FCU&RVJUZ3BUJPBTPO.BSDITUPPEBUUJNFTDPNQBSFEUPUJNFTBTPO.BSDI5IFJODSFBTFJO
HFBSJOHJTPOBDDPVOUPGESPQJOFRVJUZQPTUEJTUSJCVUJPOPGUIFTUBLFJO/VWBNBUPPVSTIBSFIPMEFSTPO4FQUFNCFS
*ODMVEJOHUIFBNPVOUPGFRVJUZDPOWFSUJCMFJOTUSVNFOUT	$$%T
JOPVSOFUXPSUIBOEFYDMVEJOHUIFMJRVJEUSFBTVSZBTTFUTUIBUXF
IPMEGPSMJRVJEJUZNBOBHFNFOUUIF/FU(FBSJOH3BUJPJTUJNFTBTPO.BSDIDPNQBSFEUPUJNFTBTPO.BSDI
"TQFSUIF4&#*	-JTUJOH0CMJHBUJPOTBOE%JTDMPTVSF3FRVJSFNFOUT
3FHVMBUJPOTCFMPXJTUIFBEEJUJPOBMJOGPSNBUJPOJOSFTQFDU
PGUIFGJOBODJBMQBSBNFUFSTUIBUBSFBQQMJDBCMFUPPVSDPNQBOZ
"OBMZTJTPG4JHOJGJDBOU$IBOHFTJO'JOBODJBM3BUJPT
%FCU&RVJUZ3BUJP
8FBSFBEJWFSTJGJFE$PNQBOZXJUITFWFOLFZCVTJOFTTFTBTVOEFS
"TTFU
3FDPOTUSVDUJPO
"MUFSOBUJWF
"TTFU.HU
.VUVBM'VOE
/#'$
)PVTJOH
'JOBODF
(FOFSBM
*OTVSBODF
-JGF
*OTVSBODF
&EFMXFJTT
"MUFSOBUJWF
"TTFU
"EWJTPST-UE
&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

&RVJUZ
&'4-4UBLF

&EFMXFJTT
"TTFU
.BOBHFNFOU
-UE
&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

&EFMXFJTT
"TTFU
3FDPOTUSVDUJPO
$PNQBOZ-UE
&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

&$-'JOBODF
&EFMXFJTT
3FUBJM'JOBODF
-UE
&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

;VOP(FOFSBM
*OTVSBODF-UE
&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

&EFMXFJTT-JGF
*OTVSBODF
$PNQBOZ-UE


&RVJUZ
$S
&'4-4UBLF

/JEP)PNF
'JOBODF-UE
$S
#VTJOFTT
"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU


.VUVBM'VOE


"TTFU3FDPOTUSVDUJPO


/#'$


)PVTJOH'JOBODF


(FOFSBM*OTVSBODF
	
	
-JGF*OTVSBODF
	
	
$PSQPSBUF


	-FTT
.JOPSJUZ4IBSFIPMEFST1"5


&'4-$POTPMJEBUFE1"5	1PTU.*


&'4-&Y*OTVSBODF1"5	1PTU.*


:FBS&OEFE.BSDI
:FBS&OEFE.BSDI
&'4-$POTPMJEBUFE1"5	1SF.*


%FUBJMTPGTJHOJGJDBOUDIBOHFTJOLFZGJOBODJBMSBUJPT
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG
*/3$S


5IFGJOBODJBMMBOETDBQFJO*OEJBJTXJUOFTTJOHBOPUBCMFTVSHFJOBCTPMVUFXFBMUIBNPOH6MUSB)JHI/FUXPSUI*OEJWJEVBMT	6)/*T

BOE'BNJMZ0GGJDFTDPVQMFEXJUIBHSPXJOHUSFOEPGGJOBODJBMJTBUJPOPGTBWJOHT$PODVSSFOUMZUIFSFBSFJODSFBTJOHBMMPDBUJPOTUP
*OEJBDPNQBSFEUPPUIFSEFWFMPQJOHOBUJPOTESJWFOCZUIFDPVOUSZhTSPCVTU(%1HSPXUIQSPTQFDUTGVFMMFECZJOGSBTUSVDUVSF
EFWFMPQNFOUDBQJUBMFYQFOEJUVSFBOEQSPEVDUJWJUZFOIBODFNFOUT5IJTIBTMFEUPUIFTIJGUJOGPDVTBOENBJOTUSFBNJOHPG1SJWBUF
"MUFSOBUJWFTPGGFSJOHTUBCJMJUZVOMJOLFEUPNBSLFUWPMBUJMJUZ*OEJBhTSJTJOHBGGMVFOUDMBTTVOEFSTDPSFTTVCTUBOUJBMHSPXUIQPUFOUJBM
XJUIBMUFSOBUJWFBTTFUTTVDIBT1SJWBUF$SFEJUBOE3FBM"TTFUTHBJOJOHQSPNJOFODFBNJETUFWPMWJOHNBSLFUEZOBNJDT
&EFMXFJTT"MUFSOBUJWFTJTQPJTFEUPTFJ[FUIJTHSPXUIPQQPSUVOJUZXJUIJUTTUSPOHNBSLFUQSFTFODFJOUIF1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFTTQBDF
*UJTUIFQJPOFFSJO1SJWBUF$SFEJUBOE3FBM"TTFUTDMBTTIBTBEJWFSTJGJFE-1CBTFTQBOOJOH/PSUI"NFSJDB&.&""1"$BOE*OEJB
XJUIDPOTJTUFOUCFTUJODMBTTQFSGPSNBODFCBDLFECZMPDBMJTFEFYQFSUJTFBUFDIFOBCMFEJOTUJUVUJPOBMQMBUGPSNBOEBMPOHUFOVSFE
NBOBHFNFOUUFBN
"6.PGUIFBMUFSOBUJWFBTTFUGVOETIBWFHSPXOBUB$"(3PGPWFSUIFMBTUZFBSTUPCDSPSF%VSJOHUIFZFBSXFIBWF
SBJTFECDSPSFMFWFSBHFEPOHSPXJOHEFNBOEGPS1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFTJOHMPCBMNBSLFUTBTXFMMBT*OEJB
5IJTTUSPOHCVTJOFTTQFSGPSNBODFIFMQFEJOUIFSJTFPG'1"6.UPCDSPSF	$"(3PGPWFSMBTUZFBST
BOEBDDPSEJOHMZ
'FF3FWFOVFSPTF:P:UPCDSPSFJO':BOEB1SPGJU"GUFS5BYPGCDSPSF8JUITUSPOHHPWFSOBODFBOEGPDVTPOSPCVTU
SJTLNBOBHFNFOUUIFUPUBMEFQMPZNFOUXBTCDSPSFBOESFBMJTBUJPOXBTCDSPSFBDSPTTTUSBUFHJFTJO':8FNBEF
TVDDFTTGVMFYJUTJO&*4"'**0OTIPSFGVOEUIBUMFEUPTVSQBTTJOHUIFJOWFTUPSIVSEMFSBUFSFUVSOPGUIFGVOE
0VSUIJSETFSJFTPG4QFDJBM4JUVBUJPO'VOEEFDMBSFEJUT'JOBMDMPTFBU64%CJMMJPO	_CDSPSF
XIJMFTFDPOETFSJFTPG
*OGSBTUSVDUVSF:JFME'VOEIBTSBJTFENPSFUIBO64%CJMMJPO	_CDSPSF
BOEDPOUJOVFTUPTFFSPCVTUJOWFTUPSSFTQPOTF*O':
XFMBVODIFEUISFFOFXQSPEVDUT3FOUBM:JFME1MVT	3:1
$PSF$SFEJU'VOE	$4*1
BOE&OFSHZ5SBOTJUJPO'VOE3:1JTBGJSTUPGJUT
LJOEQSF3&*5PGGFSJOHGPS*OEJBO*OWFTUPSTUIFGVOEJOWFTUTJOQSFMFBTFEDPNNFSDJBMCVJMEJOHT$4*1GPDVTTFTPOHFOFSBUJOH
SFUVSOTUISPVHIJOWFTUNFOUTJOQFSGPSNJOHDSFEJUPQQPSUVOJUJFTBDSPTTTFDUPST&OFSHZ5SBOTJUJPO'VOEPGGFSTJOWFTUPSTBMPOHUFSN
JOWFTUNFOUWFIJDMFBOEPQQPSUVOJUZUPQBSUJDJQBUFJO*OEJBhTTVTUBJOBCMFFOFSHZUSBOTJUJPO
0VS*:1**'VOEBMTPDPNQMFUFEUIFBDRVJTJUJPOPG-5*OGSBTUSVDUVSF%FWFMPQNFOU1SPKFDUT	-5*%1-
XIJDIPXOTWBSJPVT
SPBEBTTFUTBOEQPXFSUSBOTNJTTJPOMJOFTGVSUIFSTDBMJOHVQPVS3FBM"TTFUTQMBUGPSNBOEJTPOFPGUIFMBSHFTUEFBMTJO*OEJB
JOUIJTTFDUPS
8JUITUSPOHJOTUJUVUJPOBMDBQBCJMJUJFTJODMVEJOHTLJMMFEUFBNTJOJOWFTUNFOUBOEBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUSPCVTUSJTLNBOBHFNFOU
BOEHPWFSOBODFGSBNFXPSLTXFXJMMSFNBJOXFMMQPTJUJPOFEGPSTVTUBJOFEHSPXUIJO':0VSTUSBUFHZXJMMDPOUJOVFUPGPDVT
POEFMJWFSJOHTUSPOHJOWFTUNFOUQFSGPSNBODFJOUSPEVDJOHOFXQSPEVDUTSFHVMBSMZFYQBOEJOHJOUPOFXDMJFOUTFHNFOUTBOE
HFPHSBQIJFTBOENBJOUBJOJOHSJHPSPVTSJTLBOEHPWFSOBODFTUBOEBSET
&EFMXFJTT"MUFSOBUJWFTJTBMTPPOFPGUIFGFX1SJWBUF"MUFSOBUJWFBTTFUNBOBHFSTXIPBSFTJHOBUPSZUPUIF6OJUFE/BUJPOT1SJODJQMFT
PG3FTQPOTJCMF*OWFTUJOH	6/13*
0VSGVOETBEIFSFUPUIFCFTUHMPCBMQSBDUJDFTPGBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUBOEBSFGPDVTTFEPO
TVTUBJOBCMFJOWFTUJOH
"MUFSOBUJWF"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU
*OEVTUSZ"DDPMBEFT
0VSBDIJFWFNFOUTJOUIFJOEVTUSZIBWFCFFOSFDPHOJTFEXJUITFWFSBMQSFTUJHJPVTBXBSET8FXFSFIPOPVSFEXJUIUIF
.BSLFU"XBSE*OEJBDBUFHPSZ"TJBO*OWFTUPS"TTFU.BOBHFNFOU"XBSETBOEOBNFEUIFh#FTU#'4*#SBOEhCZ&5&EHF
"EEJUJPOBMMZXFSFDFJWFEUIF#FTU0WFSBMM1FSGPSNBODFPGUIF:FBSBXBSEGSPNUIF*7$"BUUIF"MUFSOBUF$BQJUBM&YDFMMFODF
"XBSET/PUBCMZXFBSFUIFPOMZ*OEJBO"MUFSOBUJWFTQMBZFSUPDPOTJTUFOUMZGFBUVSFBNPOHUIFUPQ1%*GVOESBJTFSTPGUIFZFBSGPS
UISFFDPOTFDVUJWFZFBST
"U&EFMXFJTT.VUVBM'VOEPVSWBMVFTBSFDFOUSFEBSPVOEDSFBUJOHTJNQMFZFUJOOPWBUJWFTPMVUJPOTUIBUHFOVJOFMZBEESFTT
UIFOFFETPGPVSJOWFTUPST0VSDPSFQSPEVDUQIJMPTPQIZFNCPEJFTTJNQMJDJUZCPMEOFTTQJPOFFSJOHJOOPWBUJPOBOEBDVTUPNFSGJSTU
BQQSPBDI8FQSJPSJUJTFNBLJOHDPNQMFYGJOBODJBMDPODFQUTBDDFTTJCMFFNQPXFSJOHJOWFTUPSTUPNBLFDPOGJEFOUJOGPSNFE
EFDJTJPOT0VSEJWFSTFQSPEVDUQPSUGPMJPJODMVEJOHFRVJUZEFCUCBMBODFEBOEMJRVJEGVOETDBUFSTUPWBSJPVTGJOBODJBMHPBMTBOESJTL
BQQFUJUFT$PNNJUUFEUPJOOPWBUJPOXFTUSJWFUPTFUJOEVTUSZCFODINBSLTXJUIPVSJOWFOUJWFTPMVUJPOTDPOTJTUFOUMZFOIBODJOHPVS
PGGFSJOHTUPEFMJWFSTVQFSJPSWBMVF0VSFYQFSJFODFEUFBNFOTVSFTDPOTJTUFOUQFSGPSNBODFNBJOUBJOJOHPVSSFQVUBUJPOBTBUPQUJFS
BTTFUNBOBHFNFOUDPNQBOZ
0VSHSPXUIKPVSOFZJTBODIPSFECZBTPMJEGPVOEBUJPOBOEESJWFOCZUISFFEJTUJODUJOWFTUNFOUDBQBCJMJUJFTUIBUEFGJOFPVS
FYDFMMFODF0VSGVOEBNFOUBMJOWFTUJOHTUSBUFHJFTHVJEFECZUIF'"*3GSBNFXPSLEFMWFEFFQMZJOUPNBSLFUGVOEBNFOUBMTUP
VOFBSUIIJHIQPUFOUJBMPQQPSUVOJUJFT0VSGBDUPSCBTFERVBOUJUBUJWFJOWFTUJOHTUSBUFHJFTUIBUMFWFSBHFDPNQSFIFOTJWFEBUB
BOBMZTJTUPQJOQPJOUMVDSBUJWFJOWFTUNFOUPQQPSUVOJUJFT-BTUMZPVSGJYFEJODPNFTUSBUFHJFTVTFUIF$-&"3GSBNFXPSLBOEUBSHFU
IJHIRVBMJUZBTTFUTUIBUQSPWJEFTVTUBJOBCMFBOESFTJMJFOUSFUVSOT8FIBWFBSPCVTUSJTLNBOBHFNFOUGSBNFXPSLTFSWJOHBTB
TUSPOHGPVOEBUJPOJOXIJDIUIFTFBTQFDUTBSFGJSNMZHSPVOEFE
0VSFYDFQUJPOBMJOWFTUNFOUUFBNXJUIPWFSZFBSTPGDPMMFDUJWFFYQFSJFODFFRVJQTVTUPOBWJHBUFNBSLFUDPNQMFYJUJFTBOE
TFJ[FPQQPSUVOJUJFTXJUIDPOGJEFODF0VSGPDVTIBTBMXBZTCFFOPOTUSFOHUIFOJOHPVSJOUFSOBMJOWFTUNFOUQSPDFTTFTBOEIPX
UIFZBSFDPNNVOJDBUFEUPDVTUPNFSTBOEEJTUSJCVUJPOQBSUOFST5IJTDPNNJUNFOUJTSFGMFDUFEJOPVSQFSGPSNBODFXJUIPG
PVS&RVJUZ)ZCSJE'VOETSBOLJOHJOUIFUPQRVBSUJMF	22
PWFSUIFQBTUUISFFZFBST
5IJTEVBMGPDVTPOQSPDFTTFYDFMMFODFBOETUBLFIPMEFSUSVTUCVJMETTUSPOHSFMBUJPOTIJQTBOEBNQMJGJFTPVSJNQBDUJOUIFJOWFTUNFOU
DPNNVOJUZBOEGPSNTUIFCFESPDLPGPVSTVTUBJOFEHSPXUIBOETVDDFTT"TBSFTVMUPGUIFTFGBDUPSTXFIBWFFTUBCMJTIFEPVSTFMWFT
UI
BTBUSVTUFEBOESFQVUBCMFBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUDPNQBOZ8FBSFUIF MBSHFTU".$JOUIFDPVOUSZBOEDPOUJOVFUPCFPOFPGUIF
GBTUFTUHSPXJOHBNPOHUIFUPQNVUVBMGVOEIPVTFTJOUIFJOEVTUSZ1SPGJUBCJMJUZPGUIJTCVTJOFTTHSFXCZBSPCVTU:P:UP
CDSPSFJO':
8FNBOBHFBO"6.PGCMBLIDSPSFBTPO.BSDIBHSPXUIPGPWFSUIF"6.PGCMBLIDSPSFBZFBSBHP
0VS"6.FY#IBSBU#POEDSPTTFECDSPSFBTPO.BSDIBHSPXUIPG0VS&RVJUZ)ZCSJE"6.HSFXCZ
JO':UPCDSPSFJOBTTFUTGSPNCDSPSFBTPO.BSDI8FTBXOFUJOGMPXTPGCDSPSFJO':4*1CPPL
XJUOFTTFEBSPCVTUVQUJDLPG:P:UPCDSPSF8FDBUFSFEUPMBLIBDUJWFGPMJPTDPNQBSFEUPMBLIBUUIFFOEPG
':BOJODSFBTFPG:P:WTJOEVTUSZHSPXUIBU
.VUVBM'VOE
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


/JEP)PNF'JOBODF	GPSNFSMZLOPXOBT&EFMXFJTT)PVTJOH'JOBODF
IBTVOEFSHPOFBOPUBCMFUSBOTGPSNBUJPO*OJUJBMMZ
TFSWJOHIJHIJODPNFVSCBODMJFOUTXFhWFTIJGUFEGPDVTUPQSPWJEFBGGPSEBCMFIPVTJOHTPMVUJPOTUPBCSPBEFSTQFDUSVN
JODMVEJOHMPXJODPNFBOEJOGPSNBMJODPNFTFHNFOUT5IJTTIJGUIBTFYQBOEFEPVSSFBDIJOUPTNBMMFSUPXOTBOEBMMPXFE
VTUPDBUFSUPVOJRVFDVTUPNFSHSPVQTTVDIBTOFXUPDSFEJUJOEJWJEVBMTBOEXPNFOCPSSPXFST
/JEP)PNF'JOBODFIBTBQSFTFODFBDSPTTCSBODIFTTUSBUFHJDBMMZQPTJUJPOFEJONBSLFUTDIBSBDUFSJTFECZIJHIVSCBO
NJHSBUJPOUJFSUPXOTBOENJDSPHFPHSBQIJFTPGUJFSDJUJFT8FBSFQSPVEUPTFSWFBSPVOEDVTUPNFSTXJUIPVSMPBO
QPSUGPMJPQSJNBSJMZGPDVTTFEPOSFUBJMIPNFMPBOT/JOFPVUPGUFOPGPVSDVTUPNFSTIBWFBMPBOUJDLFUTJ[FPGMFTT
UIBOCNJMMJPO
8FIBWFFNCSBDFEBOFXBTTFUMJHIUCVTJOFTTNPEFM1PXFSFECZDPMFOEJOHUIJTBTTFUMJHIUNPEFMIBTFOBCMFEVTUP
QSPWJEFMPBOTBUBUUSBDUJWFMFOEJOHSBUFTUPDVTUPNFSTXIJMFDPNQMFNFOUJOHUIFCBOLTJOGVMGJMMJOHUIFJSOFFEGPSQSJPSJUZ
TFDUPSGJOBODJOH*NQPSUBOUMZUIJTDPMFOEJOHIBTQSPWJEFEVTBDDFTTUP"-.NBUDIFEDBQJUBM6OEFSUIJTCVTJOFTTNPEFM
XFIBWFFTUBCMJTIFETUSBUFHJDDPMFOEJOHQBSUOFSTIJQTXJUINBSRVFFCBOLTBDSPTT)-BOE-"1QSPEVDUTBOEXJMMMPPL
GPSXBSEUPMFWFSBHJOHUIFTBNFBTBQBSUPGPVSMPOHUFSNHSPXUITUSBUFHZ"OPUIFSEJNFOTJPOPGPVSBTTFUMJHIUCVTJOFTT
NPEFMJTUIFXBZXFIBWFEJWFSTJGJFEPVSMJBCJMJUJFTNJYUISPVHITFMMEPXOTJOUIFGPSNPGEJSFDUBTTJHONFOUBOE
TFDVSJUJTBUJPOUSBOTBDUJPOT
&"3$JTQMBZJOHBTJHOJGJDBOUSPMFJONBOBHJOHTUSFTTFEBTTFUTJOUIFDPVOUSZXJUIBOJNQSFTTJWF"6.PGCDSPSFUIF
MBSHFTU"3$JOUIFDPVOUSZ
8FQSJPSJUJTFDPOTJTUFOUFYDFMMFODFJOHPWFSOBODFDPNQMJBODFBOESJTLNBOBHFNFOUTUBOEBSET5IFTFBSFBTBSFFTTFOUJBM
GPSNBJOUBJOJOHUSVTUTUBCJMJUZBOETVTUBJOBCJMJUZXJUIJOBOZPSHBOJTBUJPOFTQFDJBMMZPOFEFBMJOHXJUITUSFTTFEBTTFUT&"3$
BEPQUTBNVMUJQSPOHFETUSBUFHZGPSSFTPMVUJPOPGTUSFTTFEBTTFUTXJUIQSJNBSZGPDVTUPh3FWJWFhPSh3FDPOTUSVDUhPQFSBUJOH
BTTFUTXJUIMBTUNJMFGVOEJOHOFFET#BTFEPOBTTFUTQFDJGJDDPNQMFYJUJFTTFUUMFNFOUFOGPSDFNFOUPGTFDVSJUZ
JOUFSFTUSFTPMVUJPOUISPVHI*#$BSFBMTPBEPQUFEXJUIBOBJNUPPQUJNJTFTUBLFIPMEFSCFOFGJUT
8FDPOUJOVFUPMPPLGPSQPUFOUJBMUVSOBSPVOEDBTFTCBTFEPOBHFOVJOFCPSSPXFSQSPGJMFCBDLFECZDPNNFOTVSBUFDBTI
GMPXTBOEDPMMBUFSBMT0WFSUIFNFEJVNUFSNBDRVJTJUJPOTXJMMDPOUJOVFJOBDBMJCSBUFEXBZXIJMFFYQMPSJOHQBSUOFSTIJQXJUI
JOWFTUPST	BTNJOJNVNJOWFTUNFOUCZUIF$PNQBOZDBOCFBTMPXBTPOTVDIEFBMT
XJUIGPDVTPOGFFCBTFECVTJOFTT
NPEFMT5IFFYQFSJFODFEBOERVBMJGJFENBOQPXFSBOENBOBHFNFOUUFBNBUUIF$PNQBOZJTBLFZGBDUPSJOCVJMEJOHB
TUSPOHNBSLFUQPTJUJPOBOEEFMJWFSJOHBTVTUBJOFEQFSGPSNBODFPWFSUIFZFBST
0VSBDRVJTJUJPOTDPOUJOVFUPUBSHFUPQFSBUJOHBTTFUTUIBUDBOCFSFWJWFE%VSJOHUIFZFBSXFJOWFTUFECDSPSF&"3$IBT
CFFOBCMFUPNBJOUBJOJUTNBSLFUMFBEFSTIJQXJUI_PGUIFNBSLFUTIBSFBTBU%FDFNCFS
5IFDPNQBOZIBTDPOTJTUFOUMZTIPXOJUTFYDFMMFODFPOUIFSFUBJMQPSUGPMJPGSPOUGPSUIFMBTUZFBSTBOEXJMMDPOUJOVFUP
GPDVTPOUIFSFUBJMTFHNFOUUPJNQSPWFUIFHSBOVMBSJUZBOEHFPHSBQIJDBMEJWFSTJGJDBUJPOPGUIFQPSUGPMJPFOIBODFDBTIGMPX
DFSUBJOUZBOEJNQSPWFPWFSBMMWBMVBUJPO5IFTIBSFPGUIFSFUBJMEJWJTJPOJTFYQFDUFEUPHSPXUPPWFSUIFNFEJVNUFSN
GSPNBTPO.BSDI
&"3$IBTCFFOBCMFUPSFDPWFSNPSFUIBOCDSPSFJO':BOEBUPUBMPGCDSPSFTJODFJODFQUJPO
*OEJBhT/#'$TFDUPSEFNPOTUSBUFESPCVTUQFSGPSNBODFJO':TFSWJOHBTBQJWPUBMTPVSDFPGDSFEJUOPUBCMZJOTFDUPSTTVDI
BTNJDSPGJOBODFBOEQFSTPOBMMPBOT*OEVTUSZ"6.XJUOFTTFEIFBMUIZHSPXUIXJUITPNFSFQPSUTTVHHFTUJOHJODSFBTFT
FYDFFEJOH:P:8IJMFOFXSFHVMBUPSZNFBTVSFTNBZUFNQFSHSPXUISBUFTDPNQBSFEUPQSFWJPVTZFBST/#'$TSFNBJO
XFMMQPTJUJPOFEUPTVQQPSUDSFEJUOFFETBDSPTTUIFDPVOUSZ
5IF/#'$CVTJOFTTIBTUXPEJTUJODUCVTJOFTTTFHNFOUTOBNFMZ.4.&'JOBODFBOE8IPMFTBMF-FOEJOH
&YQBOEJOH"6.BOETUBCMFBTTFURVBMJUZXFSFLFZESJWFSTPG.4.&QFSGPSNBODFJO':0VSTUSBUFHJDBQQSPBDIIBTMFEUP
BYKVNQJOEJTCVSTFNFOUTUPCDSPSFGPSUIFZFBSESJWFOCZPVSDPMFOEJOHQBSUOFSTIJQTXJUIUIF$FOUSBM#BOLPG
*OEJB*%'$'JSTU#BOLBOE4UBOEBSE$IBSUFSFE#BOLXIJDIDPOUSJCVUFEUPPGPWFSBMMEJTCVSTFNFOUT%VSJOHUIFZFBS
"TTFU3FDPOTUSVDUJPO
/#'$
)PVTJOH'JOBODF
XFGPSHFEBOFX$-.QBSUOFSTIJQXJUI(PESFK$BQJUBM8FNBJOUBJOTUSPOHBTTFURVBMJUZXJUIB(SPTT/PO1FSGPSNJOH"TTFU
	(/1"
SBUJPPG-PPLJOHBIFBEXFBOUJDJQBUFDPOUJOVFENPNFOUVNJOEJTCVSTFNFOUHSPXUIBOEQPSUGPMJP
PQUJNJTBUJPOESJWFOCZUFDIOPMPHZTUSPOHQBSUOFSTIJQTBOESJHPSPVTSJTLNBOBHFNFOUQPTJUJPOJOHVTBTBMFBEJOHQMBZFS
JO.4.&MFOEJOH
8JUIBQQSPYJNBUFMZNJMMJPO.4.&TJO*OEJBUIFTFDUPShTUPUBMGVOEJOHSFRVJSFNFOUJTFYQFDUFEUPSFBDICMBLI
DSPSF"DDPSEJOHUPB$BSF&EHFSFQPSUUIFEFCUEFNBOEJTFTUJNBUFEBUCMBLIDSPSFXJUICMBLIDSPSF	

QPUFOUJBMMZBDDFTTJCMFUISPVHIGPSNBMGVOEJOHDIBOOFMTTVDIBTCBOLTBOE/#'$T8FBJNUPFYQBOEPVSNBSLFUQSFTFODF
JOUIF.4.&1SJPSJUZ4FDUPS-FOEJOH	14-
TFHNFOUDBQJUBMJTJOHPOJUTTJHOJGJDBOUHSPXUIQSPTQFDUTBOEDVSSFOU
PQQPSUVOJUJFT0VSWJTJPOGPSUIF.4.&TFDUPSJTUPCFDPNFUIFNPTUUSVTUFEGJOBODJBMQBSUOFSJOUIFHSPXUIKPVSOFZTPG
*OEJBhTNJDSPBOETNBMMFOUFSQSJTFT5PBDIJFWFUIJTHPBMXFBSFGPDVTTFEPOFTUBCMJTIJOHBEJGGFSFOUJBUFEBTTFUMJHIUSFUBJM
.4.&MFOEJOHCVTJOFTT
8FIBWFEJTDPOUJOVFEPVS8IPMFTBMF-FOEJOHCVTJOFTTBTPG+BOVBSZ*OMJOFXJUIPVSQSPBDUJWFTUSBUFHZXFIBWF
CFFOTDBMJOHEPXOUIFXIPMFTBMFMFOEJOHCPPLUISPVHIBDPNCJOBUJPOPGPSHBOJDSFQBZNFOUTBOETFMMEPXOT0VS
SJHPSPVTSFTPMVUJPOQMBOTIBWFSFTVMUFEJOTJHOJGJDBOUJOGMPXTUISPVHIPVUUIFZFBS4VQQPSUFECZTUSPOHJOWFTUPSEFNBOE
UIFXIPMFTBMFCPPLIBTEFDSFBTFEUPBQQSPYJNBUFMZCDSPSFNBSLJOHBSFEVDUJPOJOUIFMBTUZFBST5ISPVHIPVU
UIFDVSSFOUGJTDBMZFBSXFIBWFHFOFSBUFETVCTUBOUJBMOFUMJRVJEJUZUISPVHISFDPWFSJFTSFTPMVUJPOTBOETFMMEPXOTFOTVSJOH
UIBUPVSXIPMFTBMF"-.SFNBJOTXFMMNBUDIFE
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


*O':XFXFSFBCMFUPTFDVSJUJTFBQPPMTJ[FPGCDSPSFWJBNVMUJQMFUSBOTBDUJPOTXJUI/#'$TBOEJOTVSBODFDPNQBOJFT0OUIF
CBDLPGEJTCVSTBMTPGCDSPSF/JEP)PNF'JOBODFFOEFE':XJUIBO"6.PGCDSPSFBOEBMPBOCPPLPGCDSPSF
"TPO.BSDIUIF/FUXPSUITUPPEBUCDSPSFBOEUIF$"1"%BU
6OEFSMZJOHQPSUGPMJPRVBMJUZNBOJGFTUFEJUTFMGJOB(/1"PGBTPO.BSDI	PO.BSDI
BOEDPMMFDUJPO
FGGJDJFODZUIBUXBTDPOTJTUFOUMZBCPWFUISPVHIUIFGJOBODJBMZFBS
5IF"6.NJYSFNBJOTCJBTFEUPXBSETHSBOVMBSSFUBJMIPNFMPBOTBOEOFXPSJHJOBUJPOXJMMBMTPDPOUJOVFUPGPDVTPOBGGPSEBCMF
IPVTJOHBOEJOGPSNBMJODPNFDVTUPNFSTFHNFOUT8FDPOUJOVFUPJOWFTUJOEFWFMPQJOHGVUVSFGJUDBQBCJMJUJFTTVDIBTEBUBTDJFODFT
XIJDIXFIBWFVTFEGPSESJWJOHNVMUJQMFVTFDBTFTBTTPDJBUFEXJUIQPSUGPMJPNBOBHFNFOUBOEOPXXJUIVTFDBTFTBMTPBTTPDJBUFE
XJUI$VTUPNFS7BMVF.BOBHFNFOU	$7.
BOEQSPDFTTFGGJDJFODZ
5IFGJOBODJBMZFBSHPOFCZXBTEFGJOFECZBSFMFOUMFTTQVSTVJUPGEFMJWFSJOHDVTUPNFSEFMJHIUTVQQPSUFECZBHSPXUINJOETFU
8JUIBIFBWZGPDVTPOJNQSPWJOHEJTUSJCVUJPOTUSFOHUIQSPWJEJOHBHJMFTVQQPSUUPTBMFTUFBNTGPSDVTUPNFSFOHBHFNFOU
DPOUJOVFEJOOPWBUJPOQFSTPOBMJTBUJPOQSPDFTTPQUJNJTBUJPOXFSFQPSUFEB:P:HSPXUIJOJUT5PUBM1SFNJVNBUCDSPSF
4JODFJODFQUJPOUIFDPNQBOZIBTSFDPSEFEBOJNQSFTTJWF$"(3PGJOEJWJEVBM"1&

8FBDIJFWFESFNBSLBCMFJNQSPWFNFOUTJORVBMJUZQBSBNFUFSTFOEJOH':XJUIPVSIJHIFTUFWFS$MBJN4FUUMFNFOU3BUJP
PGBNPOUI1FSTJTUFODZ3BUJPPGBOEB/FU1SPNPUFS4DPSFPGPVSIJHIFTUGVMMZFBS/14UPEBUF8FNBJOUBJOFE
BOPQUJNBMQSPEVDUNJYXJUIBQQSPYJNBUFMZPGPVSPGGFSJOHTCFJOHUSBEJUJPOBMQSPEVDUTBOEBIJHIFSSBUJP
PGMPOHFSEVSBUJPOQPMJDJFT

8FEFNPOTUSBUFEOPUBCMFBDIJFWFNFOUTBDSPTTWBSJPVTBSFBTEVSJOHUIFZFBS*ODVTUPNFSDFOUSJDJUZXFFOIBODFETFSWJDFRVBMJUZ
UISPVHIEJHJUBMXPSLGMPXTMJLF1SBHBUJGPSPOCPBSEJOHB8IBUT"QQDIBOOFMGPSTFSWJDJOHBOESFOFXBMTBOETUSFBNMJOFE
VOEFSXSJUJOHQSPDFTTFT*OQSPEVDUEFWFMPQNFOUXFMBVODIFE-FHBDZ1MVTBOE#IBSBU4BWJOHT45"3-FHBDZ1MVTJTBOJOOPWBUJWF
QBSUJDJQBUJOHQSPEVDUQSPWJEJOHMJGFDPWFSGPSUXPHFOFSBUJPOTBOEJODPNFGPSUISFFXIJMF#IBSBU4BWJOHT45"3TUBOETPVUGPSJUT
QFSTPOBMJTBUJPOGMFYJCJMJUZBOEDPTUFGGFDUJWFOFTT8FBMTPSFWBNQFEGPVSFYJTUJOHQSPEVDUTBOEGJMFETJYOFXPOFT4USBUFHJD
EJTUSJCVUJPOQBSUOFSTIJQTJODMVEJOHUIFBEEJUJPOPG&4"'4NBMM'JOBODF#BOLFYQBOEFEPVS#BODBTTVSBODFOFUXPSLQBSUJDVMBSMZ
TUSFOHUIFOJOHPVSQSFTFODFJOUIF4PVUIFSOSFHJPO0VS6EBBOTUSBUFHZGPDVTTFEPOFOIBODJOHEJHJUBMDBQBCJMJUJFTXJUIQSPKFDUT
TVDIBT6GPSQFSTPOBMJTFEDVTUPNFSFOHBHFNFOU#PMUGPS"*QPXFSFEJOTUBJTTVBODFUIF.Z;JOEBHJ"QQGPSBVOJGJFE
EJTUSJCVUJPOUFBNJOUFSGBDFBOE%BUBWFSTFGPSBDMPVECBTFEFOUFSQSJTFEBUBXBSFIPVTF*OSJTLNBOBHFNFOUPVSJOJUJBUJWFT
JODMVEFEB3JTL$VMUVSFBOE$BQBCJMJUZGSBNFXPSLBOEPQFSBUJPOBMSJTLFOIBODFNFOUTFBSOJOHVTUIF(PMEFO1FBDPDL"XBSE
5IFCSBOESFNBJOFEBMJHOFEXJUIDVTUPNFSDFOUSJDJUZMFWFSBHJOHDBNQBJHOTBOEJOUFSOBMFYQFSUJTFUPNBJOUBJOIJHIWJTJCJMJUZ

*O':UIFDPNQBOZXJMMDPOUJOVFUPCFHVJEFECZ6EBBOTUSBUFHZBOEFYQBOEPOJUTUSBOTGPSNBUJPOKPVSOFZUPXBSETJNQSPWJOH
DVTUPNFSBOEEJTUSJCVUPSFYQFSJFODFXIJMFFOTVSJOHDBQJUBMFGGJDJFODZ
-JGF*OTVSBODF
(FOFSBM*OTVSBODF
;VOPDPOUJOVFEUPEFNPOTUSBUFBDPOTJTUFOUHSPXUIUSBKFDUPSZFNFSHJOHBTUIFGBTUFTUHSPXJOHOPOMJGFJOTVSFSJO':
JODSFBTJOHGSPNJO':UPJO':BTDPNQBSFEUPUIFJOEVTUSZHSPXUIPG
8JUITUFBEZHSPXUIJOUIFUBSHFUNBSLFUT*O':UIF.PUPS)FBMUI	*ODMVEJOH(SPVQIFBMUI
TFHNFOUTJODSFBTFECZ
SFTQFDUJWFMZWFSTVTJOEVTUSZBWFSBHFTPG0VSFGGJDJFODZJNQSPWFEXJUI$PNCJOFE0QFSBUJOHSBUJPDPNJOHEPXO
CZBOEUIF0QFYSBUJPCZGSPN':MFWFM
0VSGPDVTPODVTUPNFSFYQFSJFODFXBTEFNPOTUSBUFECZUIFGBDUUIBUXFFOEFEUIFZFBSJO.BSDIXJUIBO/14PG#FTJEFT
HJWJOHVTBOJNNFEJBUFJOEJDBUPSPGDVTUPNFShTFYQFSJFODFXJUIVTUIJTIBTCFFOUIFNPTUJNQPSUBOUTPVSDFPGWBMVBCMFGFFECBDL
UIBUIBTIFMQFEVTUPDPOTUBOUMZJNQSPWFBOEFOIBODFPVSQMBUGPSN
8FDPOUJOVFUPFYQBOEPVSSFWFOVFBOETFSWJDFQBSUOFSTIJQTBDSPTTNPUPSBOEIFBMUITFHNFOUT"EEJUJPOBMMZXFLFQUGPSNJOH
BMMJBODFTGPSFYUFSOBMEJTUSJCVUJPOXJUI0&.TBOEDVUUJOHFEHFDPOUFNQPSBSZEJHJUBMQMBZFST8IJMFXFIBWFPOCPBSEFE
BDUJWBUFENBSRVFFOBNFTTVDIBT.BSVUJ4V[VLJ7PMLTXBHFO4LPEBXFBMTPIBWFNBEFQBZNFOUTTJNQMFFBTZUISPVHI#IBSBUCJMM
QBZJOUFHSBUJPOJOSFOFXBMKPVSOFZTBDSPTTQBZNFOUHBUFXBZTMJLF3B[PSQBZ#JMMEFTL8FDPOUJOVFEUPLFFQBOFZFPOOFX
EFWFMPQNFOUTJOUIFNPUPSBOEIFBMUITQBDF"GUFSGJWFZFBSTXFDVSSFOUMZCPBTUBOFOWJBCMFBDUJWFDMJFOUCBTFPGPWFSGPVSNJMMJPO
XJUIB9HSPXUIJO':
5ISPVHIPVU':XFNBJOUBJOFEBTUSPOHGPDVTPOJOOPWBUJPOPQFSBUJPOBMFGGJDJFODZBOEFOIBODJOHDVTUPNFSFYQFSJFODF,FZ
JOOPWBUJPOTJODMVEFEUIFMBVODIPGUIF;VOP%SJWJOH2VPUJFOU	;%2
BVOJRVFESJWJOHTDPSFBDDFTTJCMFWJBUIF;VOPBQQXIJDI
VUJMJTFTNPCJMFTFOTPSCBTFEUFMFNBUJDTUPFWBMVBUFESJWJOHCFIBWJPVSBOEQSPNPUFSPBETBGFUZ"EEJUJPOBMMZ;VOPJOUSPEVDFE&7
BEEPODPWFSTUBJMPSFEGPSFMFDUSJDBOEIZCSJEWFIJDMFTGFBUVSJOHQJPOFFSJOHQPMJDZFMFNFOUTUPFOTVSFDPNQSFIFOTJWFDPWFSBHF
5IFSPMMPVUPG)FBMUI1MVTQIBTFPGGFSFEFOIBODFECFOFGJUTTVDIBTFYQBOEFEDPWFSBHF[POFCBTFEQSJDJOHBOETUSFBNMJOFE
QPMJDZUFSNT0QFSBUJPOBMFGGJDJFODJFTXFSFBDIJFWFEUISPVHIFOIBODFNFOUTJOUIFUFMFNBUJDTQMBUGPSNJNQSPWFETDBMBCJMJUZPG
VOBTTJTUFEQPMJDJFTBOEUIFJNQMFNFOUBUJPOPGBO4%,CBTFE,:$TPMVUJPOUIBUNJOJNJTFEESPQPVUTBOEDPNQMBJOUT$VTUPNFS
FYQFSJFODFXBTGVSUIFSFOSJDIFEXJUIFOIBODFETFMGTFSWJDFPQUJPOTPOUIFXFCTJUFVQHSBEFEBQQGFBUVSFTJODMVEJOH;%2BOE
.PUPS)FBMUI$MBJN*OUJNBUJPO3FOFXBMTJNQSPWFNFOUTUPUIF1BSUOFS1MBUGPSN&%(&BOESFBMUJNFQPMJDZDPNNVOJDBUJPO
XJUIJOTFDPOET
5IFTFFGGPSUTXFSFVOEFSTDPSFECZUIFSFDFJQUPGBXBSETBDSPTTNVMUJQMFDBUFHPSJFTGSPNWBSJPVTJOEVTUSZGPSVNTIJHIMJHIUJOH
;VOPhTMFBEFSTIJQBOEJOOPWBUJPOJOUIFJOTVSBODFTFDUPSEVSJOH':
"QBSUGSPNCSJOHJOHJOOPWBUJWFTPMVUJPOTGPSDVTUPNFSTBOEFOIBODJOHUIFJSFYQFSJFODFXJUIVTXFUBLFDPOUJOVPVTTUSJEFTUP
JNQSPWFPQFSBUJPOBMFGGJDJFODZVTJOHPVSEJHJUBMQMBUGPSNBOEMFWFSBHJOHEBUBBOBMZUJDTGPSSJTLTFMFDUJPOBOEQSJDJOH8FBSF
DPOUJOVJOHPVSKPVSOFZPGFYQBOEJOHPVSEJTUSJCVUJPOOFUXPSLCZQBSUOFSJOHXJUIOFXQBSUOFSTBOEFTUBCMJTIJOHOFXQPJOUTPG
QSFTFODFDSFBUJOHB6#*DBUFHPSZDSFBUJOHOFXMJOFTUIBUBSF&0.GSJFOEMZBOEJNQSPWJOHPVSGSPOUFOEEJHJUBMBTTFUTUPCFDPNF
UIFCFTUJOUIFJSDMBTT
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


3JTLNBOBHFNFOUTUBOETBTUIFDPSOFSTUPOFPGTVDDFTTGPSBOZGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTGJSNTFSWJOHBTBWJUBMNFDIBOJTNUPJEFOUJGZ
BTTFTTBOENJUJHBUFQPUFOUJBMUISFBUTUIBUDPVMEVOEFSNJOFJUTTUBCJMJUZQSPGJUBCJMJUZBOESFQVUBUJPO*OBOJOEVTUSZDIBSBDUFSJTFE
CZWPMBUJMJUZVODFSUBJOUZBOESFHVMBUPSZTDSVUJOZFGGFDUJWFSJTLNBOBHFNFOUJTOPUKVTUBQSVEFOUQSBDUJDFCVUBTUSBUFHJD
JNQFSBUJWF'PSBMJTUFEGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTGJSNMJLF&EFMXFJTTXIJDIPQFSBUFTJOBEZOBNJDBOEIJHIMZDPNQFUJUJWFFOWJSPONFOU
UIFBCJMJUZUPBOUJDJQBUFBOENBOBHFSJTLTJTQBSBNPVOUUPTVTUBJOJOHMPOHUFSNHSPXUIBOEEFMJWFSJOHWBMVFUPTUBLFIPMEFST
"U&EFMXFJTTJOFBDIPGPVSCVTJOFTTFTUIFDPNNJUNFOUUPSPCVTUSJTLNBOBHFNFOUQSBDUJDFTJTEFFQMZJOHSBJOFEJOUIFJS
PSHBOJTBUJPOBMDVMUVSFBOECVTJOFTTPQFSBUJPOT5PGVSUIFSGPSNBMJTFUIJTQSPDFTTUIFZPQFSBUFWJBBOi&MFWFOSJTL'SBNFXPSLw
UIBUHVJEFTUIFNJOUIFDPOUJOVPVTBTTFTTNFOUWPJEBODFNBOBHFNFOUBOENJUJHBUJPOPGSJTLT
3JTL.BOBHFNFOU
(PWFSOBODF
"DSPTTBMMPVSCVTJOFTTFTPVSDPSFDPNNJUNFOUUPHPWFSOBODFHVJEFTFWFSZUIJOHXFEP5IJTHPFTCFZPOEKVTUGPMMPXJOH
SFHVMBUJPOTJUhTBCPVUVQIPMEJOHFUIJDTBOEWBMVFT'PSVTHPPEHPWFSOBODFFNCPEJFTUSVTUMFHJUJNBDZBDDPVOUBCJMJUZ
DPNQFUFODFBOESFTQFDUGPSUIFMBX8FCFMJFWFUIFTFBSFFTTFOUJBMGPSCVJMEJOHBUSBOTQBSFOUHFOVJOFBOEGBJSDVMUVSFo
BMMDSVDJBMGPSPVSPSHBOJTBUJPOhTTVDDFTT

0VSCPBSEQMBZTBWJUBMSPMFJOFOTVSJOHUIFTFIJHIHPWFSOBODFTUBOEBSETQFSNFBUFFWFSZPSHBOJTBUJPOBMMFWFM5IFJSVOXBWFSJOH
GPDVTPOFUIJDBMCFIBWJPVSJOUFHSJUZUSBOTQBSFODZBOEGBJSOFTTIBTFTUBCMJTIFEBSPCVTUGSBNFXPSLGPSDPOEVDUCFIBWJPVSBOE
QSPDFTTPWFSTJHIU

5PFOTVSFHPPEHPWFSOBODFUBLFTSPPUUISPVHIPVUUIFPSHBOJTBUJPOXFIBWFFTUBCMJTIFEDMFBSSVMFTGPSJOEJWJEVBMBOE
FOUJUZMFWFMCFIBWJPVSBOEDPOEVDU5IFTFDPWFSDSVDJBMBSFBTMJLFDPOGMJDUPGJOUFSFTUJOTJEFSUSBEJOHBOEIBOEMJOHTFOTJUJWF
JOGPSNBUJPO8FhSFBMTPMFWFSBHJOHUFDIOPMPHZUPFOIBODFPVSQSBDUJDFTBOEFOTVSFTNPPUIPQFSBUJPOFWFOJO
BXPSLGSPNIPNFFOWJSPONFOUBMMPXJOHVTUPNBJOUBJOUIFIJHIFTUDPNQMJBODFTUBOEBSET

6MUJNBUFMZPVSDPNNJUNFOUUPHPPEHPWFSOBODFSFGMFDUTPVSVOXBWFSJOHEFEJDBUJPOUPPVSTUBLFIPMEFSToDVTUPNFST
FNQMPZFFTTIBSFIPMEFSTBOEUIFDPNNVOJUJFTXFTFSWF#ZVQIPMEJOHUIFTFWBMVFTXFCVJMEUSVTUNBJOUBJOMFHJUJNBDZBOE
IPMEPVSTFMWFTBDDPVOUBCMFUPUIFIJHIFTUTUBOEBSETPGFYDFMMFODFJOBMMBTQFDUTPGPVSXPSL
%XVLQHVV
5LVN
5HSXWDWLRQDO
5LVN
0DUNHW
5LVN
&UHGLW
5LVN
/LTXLGLW\
5LVN
3HRSOH
5LVN
5HJXODWRU\
5LVN
)UDXG
5LVN
2SHUDWLRQDO
5LVN
3K\VLFDODQG
,QIUD5LVN
7HFKQRORJ\
5LVN
0OFPGUIFLFZBSFBTPGGPDVTXJUIJOPVSSJTLNBOBHFNFOUGSBNFXPSLJTUFDIOPMPHZSJTLQBSUJDVMBSMZDZCFSTFDVSJUZ"TGJOBODJBM
TFSWJDFTGJSNTJODSFBTJOHMZSFMZPOUFDIOPMPHZUPEFMJWFSQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFTUIFZCFDPNFNPSFWVMOFSBCMFUPDZCFSUISFBUT
BOEWVMOFSBCJMJUJFT"DZCFSBUUBDLPSEBUBCSFBDIDBOOPUPOMZEJTSVQUPQFSBUJPOTCVUBMTPFYQPTFTFOTJUJWFJOGPSNBUJPOBOE
FSPEFDVTUPNFSUSVTU5IFSFGPSFXFIBWFNBEFTJHOJGJDBOUJOWFTUNFOUTJOGPSUJGZJOHPVS*5JOGSBTUSVDUVSFJNQMFNFOUJOHSPCVTU
DZCFSTFDVSJUZNFBTVSFTBOEFOIBODJOHPVSDZCFSSFTJMJFODFDBQBCJMJUJFTUPNJUJHBUFUIFFWPMWJOHDZCFSUISFBUTMBOETDBQF
.PSFPWFSUIFSFDFOUFOBDUNFOUPGUIF%JHJUBM1FSTPOBM%BUB1SPUFDUJPO"DUCZUIFHPWFSONFOUIBTJOUSPEVDFEOFX
DPNQMJBODFPCMJHBUJPOTGPSGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTGJSNTMJLFPVST$PNQMJBODFXJUI%1%1"SFQSFTFOUTBTJHOJGJDBOUSJTLQSPKFDUGPS
&EFMXFJTTBTJUNBOEBUFTTUSJOHFOUNFBTVSFTUPQSPUFDUDPOTVNFSEBUBQSJWBDZBOEDPOGJEFOUJBMJUZ'BJMVSFUPDPNQMZXJUIUIFTF
SFHVMBUJPOTDPVMESFTVMUJOTFWFSFQFOBMUJFTMFHBMMJBCJMJUJFTBOESFQVUBUJPOBMEBNBHF5IFSFGPSFFOTVSJOHBEIFSFODFUP%1%1"
SFRVJSFNFOUTJTOPUKVTUBMFHBMPCMJHBUJPOCVUBTUSBUFHJDJNQFSBUJWFUPTBGFHVBSEPVSSFQVUBUJPOBOENBJOUBJOUIFUSVTUPG
PVSTUBLFIPMEFST
8FDPOUJOVFEUPFYDFMSFDFJWJOHJOEVTUSZSFDPHOJUJPOTPWFSUIFGJOBODJBMZFBSGPSPVSFGGPSUTJODVTUPNFSFYQFSJFODFCSBOE
CVJMEJOHBOESJTLNBOBHFNFOU)JHIMJHIUTJODMVEFCFJOHOBNFEB(SFBU1MBDF5P8PSLGPSUIFGPVSUIDPOTFDVUJWFZFBSBOESBOLJOH
BNPOHUIF5PQXPSLQMBDFTGPTUFSJOHBDVMUVSFPGJOOPWBUJPOJO8FBMTPXPOUIF(PMEFO1FBDPDL"XBSEGPS3JTL
.BOBHFNFOUGFBUVSFEJOUIF.PTU5SVTUFE#'4*#SBOETCZ.BSLTNBO%BJMZBOETFDVSFEUIF#FTU1SPHSBNNFGPS4BMFT&OBCMFNFOU
BUUIF5*44-FBQ7BVMU$-0"XBSET0UIFSQSFTUJHJPVTBXBSETJODMVEF3FUFOUJPO$IBNQJPOCZ8FC&OHBHF#FTU6TFPG
*OUFHSBUFE.BSLFUJOH$BNQBJHOGPS0SHBO%POBUJPOBUUIFFN*OEJBO.BSLFUJOH"XBSET*OTVSUFDI*OOPWBUJPOGPS6OMJNJUFEBUUIF
*#&9#'4*5FDIOPMPHZ"XBSETBOE#FTU4PDJBM8FMGBSF*OJUJBUJWFPGUIF:FBSBUUIF*OEJBO4PDJBM*NQBDU"XBSET
"XBSET"DDPMBEFT
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


5FDIOPMPHZ
,FZ1JMMBSTPG5FDIOPMPHZ3FTJMJFODZ
&EFMXFJTTIBTGPSUJGJFEJUTUFDIOPMPHZSFTJMJFODFUISPVHIUXPLFZQJMMBST'JSTUMZDMPVEPQUJNJTBUJPOTBXTUSBUFHJDFYQBOTJPOPGDMPVE
BEPQUJPOIBSOFTTJOHNVMUJQMFQSPWJEFSTGPSGMFYJCJMJUZBOEDPTUDPOUSPM$PODVSSFOUMZOFXBQQMJDBUJPOTBOEQMBUGPSNTXFSF
MBVODIFEPOUIFDMPVEGVFMMJOHHSPXUIBDSPTTCVTJOFTTTFHNFOUT4FDPOEMZBVUPNBUJPOBOENPEFSOJTBUJPOXFSFQSJPSJUJTFEXJUI
&EFMXFJTTFNCSBDJOHMPXDPEFUPPMTUPBVUPNBUFQSPDFTTFTBOEJOTUJMBHJMJUZBDPSOFSTUPOFPGUIFJSUFDIOPMPHZFUIPT
*OUPEBZhTGJFSDFMZDPNQFUJUJWFGJOBODJBMTFSWJDFTMBOETDBQFUFDIOPMPHZIBTCFDPNFUIFDPSOFSTUPOFPGEJGGFSFOUJBUJPOBOETVDDFTT
5IFHMPCBMQBOEFNJDTFSWFEBTBTUBSLSFNJOEFSPGUIFDSJUJDBMJNQPSUBODFPGQPTTFTTJOHBSFTJMJFOUBOEBEBQUBCMFUFDIOPMPHJDBM
JOGSBTUSVDUVSF.PWJOHGPSXBSEJUJTJNQFSBUJWFUPWJFXUFDIOPMPHZOPUNFSFMZBTBUPPMCVUBTBGVOEBNFOUBMQJMMBSPGUIF
PSHBOJTBUJPOBMCVTJOFTTNPEFM5ISPVHIUIPVHIUGVMJNQMFNFOUBUJPOUFDIOPMPHZDBOEFMJWFSBUSBOTGPSNBUJWFJNQBDUOPUPOMZCZ
TJHOJGJDBOUMZFOIBODJOHDVTUPNFSFYQFSJFODFCVUBMTPCZCPMTUFSJOHHPWFSOBODFBOEJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMGSBNFXPSLT5IJTTUSBUFHJD
BQQSPBDIGPTUFSTUIFDSFBUJPOPGBNPSFBHJMFFGGJDJFOUBOEGVUVSFQSPPGJOTUJUVUJPO
*OUFSOBM$POUSPM4ZTUFNTBOE5IFJS"EFRVBDZ
*OUFSOBM'JOBODJBM$POUSPMT
5IFJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMTBU&EFMXFJTTBSFXFMMFTUBCMJTIFEBOESPCVTUXIJDIBSFDPNNFOTVSBUFXJUIUIFOBUVSFPGJUTCVTJOFTTFTTJ[F
TDBMFBOEDPNQMFYJUZPGJUTPQFSBUJPOTUPFOTVSFPSEFSMZBOEFGGJDJFOUDPOEVDUPGCVTJOFTT5IFTFDPOUSPMTIBWFCFFOEFTJHOFEUP
FOTVSFBTTVSBODFXJUISFHBSETUPNBJOUBJOJOHQSPQFSBDDPVOUJOHDPOUSPMTTVCTUBOUJBUJPOPGGJOBODJBMTUBUFNFOUTBOEBEIFSFODFUP
*OE"4SFRVJSFNFOUTTBGFHVBSEJOHPGSFTPVSDFTQSFWFOUJPOBOEEFUFDUJPOPGGSBVETBOEFSSPSTFOTVSJOHPQFSBUJOHFGGFDUJWFOFTT
SFMJBCJMJUZPGGJOBODJBMSFQPSUJOHDPNQMJBODFXJUIBQQMJDBCMFSFHVMBUJPOTBOESFMFWBOUNBUUFSTVOEFSUIFSFRVJSFNFOUTPGUIF
$PNQBOJFT"DU
5IFJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMGSBNFXPSLPG&EFMXFJTTDPOUJOVFTUPGPMMPXUIFBTTVSBODFQSBDUJDFTMJLFUIF$040GSBNFXPSLBTTVSBODFPO
QSPDFTTFGGJDJFODZBOESFMJBCJMJUZPGJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMTCFJOHBMJHOFEUPSJTLTJEFOUJGJFEJO3JTL$POUSPM4FMG"TTFTTNFOU	3$4"
FUDUP
TUSFOHUIFOUIFPWFSBMMTZTUFN
*OEFQFOEFOU"VEJUBOE"TTVSBODF
5IFJOUFSOBMBVEJUPSTPG&EFMXFJTTGPMMPXTUBOEBSETPOJOUFSOBMBVEJUBMPOHXJUIHVJEFMJOFTJTTVFECZUIFSFHVMBUPSTBOEFOTVSF
DPNQMJBODFXJUI4FDUJPOPGUIF$PNQBOJFT"DUSFBEXJUI3VMFPGUIF$PNQBOJFT	"DDPVOUT
3VMFTBTBNFOEFE
BOEOPUJGJFEGSPNUJNFUPUJNF5IF*OUFSOBM"VEJUGVODUJPOPQFSBUFTVOEFSUIFTVQFSWJTJPOPGUIF"VEJU$PNNJUUFFPGUIF#PBSE
5IFJOUFSOBMBVEJUTBSFDBSSJFEPVUCZFYUFSOBMQSPGFTTJPOBMTXIPQSPWJEFJOEFQFOEFOUWJFXBOEBTTVSBODFCZBTTFTTJOHUIF
BEFRVBDZBOEFGGFDUJWFOFTTPGJOUFSOBMDPOUSPMTDPNQMJBODFUPJOUFSOBMBOEFYUFSOBMHVJEFMJOFTBOESJTLNBOBHFNFOUQSBDUJDFT
BDSPTT&EFMXFJTT
"*"EPQUJPOGPS&OIBODFE1SPEVDUJWJUZ
8FhWFTVDDFTTGVMMZJOUFHSBUFE(FO"*JOUPPVSPQFSBUJPOTTQFDJGJDBMMZMFWFSBHJOH$PQJMPUBO"*QPXFSFEUPPMUPTUSFBNMJOF
XPSLGMPXTBOEJNQSPWFVTFSQSPEVDUJWJUZ
*OGPSNBUJPO4FDVSJUZ*5(PWFSOBODF
*40$FSUJGJDBUJPO6QHSBEF
*OPVSQVSTVJUPGFYDFMMFODFXFhWFVQHSBEFEPVS
*40DFSUJGJDBUFGSPNUP
SFGMFDUJOHPVSDPNNJUNFOUUPJNQMFNFOUJOHUIF
CFTUQSBDUJDFTJOJOGPSNBUJPOTFDVSJUZ
NBOBHFNFOU
*ODSFBTFE*OGPSNBUJPO4FDVSJUZ"XBSFOFTT
0VSDPNNJUNFOUUPTFDVSJUZFYUFOETUPPVSFOUJSF
XPSLGPSDFBDIJFWJOHBBEPQUJPOSBUFPO
*OGPSNBUJPO4FDVSJUZUSBJOJOHEFNPOTUSBUJOHUIFJS
EFEJDBUJPOUPNBJOUBJOJOHBTFDVSFBOESFMJBCMF
EJHJUBMFOWJSPONFOU
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


%BUB-FBL1SPUFDUJPO4PMVUJPOT
8FhWFEFQMPZFE%BUB-FBL1SPUFDUJPOTPMVUJPOTUPQSFWFOUVOBVUIPSJTFEBDDFTTUPTFOTJUJWFEBUBBOENJUJHBUF
UIFSJTLPGEBUBCSFBDIFT5IJTTUFQTUSFOHUIFOTPVSTFDVSJUZQPTUVSFBOEFOTVSFTDPNQMJBODFXJUIEBUB
QSPUFDUJPOSFHVMBUJPOTTBGFHVBSEJOHUIFQSJWBDZPGPVSDVTUPNFSTBOEFNQMPZFFT
0VSFNQMPZFFTBSFPVSNPTUWBMVBCMFBTTFUTFTTFOUJBMGPSTVTUBJOJOHBOEBEWBODJOHPVSDPNNJUNFOUUPTUBLFIPMEFST(VJEFECZ
DPSFQSJODJQMFTXFGPTUFSBDVMUVSFPGTIBSFEWBMVFTQSPQFMMJOHVTUPXBSETDPOUJOVFETVDDFTT
0VSUBMFOUTUSBUFHZJOUFHSBUFTDPNQSFIFOTJWFQSBDUJDFTOVSUVSJOHBOBHJMFBEBQUBCMFFOWJSPONFOUUIBUFNQIBTJTFTDPMMBCPSBUJPO
BOEBDIJFWFNFOU8FBUUSBDUBOESFUBJOFYDFQUJPOBMUBMFOUPGGFSJOHQBUIXBZTGPSQSPGFTTJPOBMHSPXUIBOESFDPHOJUJPO&NQMPZFF
FOHBHFNFOUBOETBUJTGBDUJPOBSFDFMFCSBUFEUISPVHIEJWFSTFSFDPHOJUJPOJOJUJBUJWFT0VSXPSLEFTJHOPQUJNJTBUJPOJODMVEFT
GMFYJCMFQSPDFTTFTBOEUBJMPSFESFTLJMMJOHQSPHSBNNFT8FGPTUFSDPNNVOJUZTQJSJUUISPVHIJOUFSBDUJPOTUFBNBDUJWJUJFTBOETPDJBM
FWFOUTQSPNPUJOHBTFOTFPGCFMPOHJOH1FSGPSNBODFNBOBHFNFOUTVQQPSUTPVSUFBNXJUIDMFBSPCKFDUJWFTGFFECBDLBOE
SFGMFDUJWFQSBDUJDFT
)VNBO3FTPVSDFT
5BMFOU
#ZQSJPSJUJTJOHBSPCVTUBOEBEBQUBCMFUFDIOPMPHZCBDLCPOF&EFMXFJTTGPTUFSTCVTJOFTTDPOUJOVJUZESJWFTHSPXUIBOEFOTVSFTUIF
TFDVSJUZPGJUTDMJFOUThEBUB0VSDPNNJUNFOUUPDPOUJOVPVTJNQSPWFNFOUBOEJOOPWBUJPOJOUIFTFBSFBTFOTVSFTXFQSPWJEFUIF
CFTUTFSWJDFUPPVSDVTUPNFSTBOEQBSUOFST
0VSXPSLQMBDFFODPVSBHFTDSPTTUFBNDPMMBCPSBUJPOBOETVQQPSUTGMFYJCMFXPSLJOHBSSBOHFNFOUT8FQSJPSJUJTFFNQMPZFFTBGFUZ
BOEIFBMUIXJUISPCVTUQSPUPDPMTBOESFHVMBSUSBJOJOH"OPQFOEPPSQPMJDZGPTUFSTUSBOTQBSFODZBOEJODMVTJWFOFTTPGGFSJOHFRVBM
PQQPSUVOJUJFTBOEQSPNPUJOHXPSLMJGFCBMBODF8FFOGPSDFB[FSPUPMFSBODFQPMJDZUPXBSETEJTDSJNJOBUJPOIBSBTTNFOUPSCVMMZJOH
BEIFSJOHUP104)SFHVMBUJPOT5PSFJOGPSDFUIJTDPNNJUNFOUXFSFRVJSFBMMFNQMPZFFTUPDPNQMFUFNBOEBUPSZPOMJOFUSBJOJOHTFTTJPOT
0VSIVNBOSJHIUTQPMJDZFOTVSFTGBJSUSFBUNFOUBOEQSPUFDUJPOGSPNEJTDSJNJOBUJPO0VSDPNNJUNFOUUPEJWFSTJUZFRVJUZBOEJODMVTJPO
JTSFGMFDUFEJOEBJMZQSBDUJDFTNBLJOHFBDIJOEJWJEVBMGFFMWBMVFE
0VSXFMMCFJOHBQQSPBDIDPWFSTQIZTJDBMNFOUBMFNPUJPOBMBOETPDJBMBTQFDUTTVQQPSUFECZBDDFTTJCMFSFTPVSDFTBOECFOFGJUT
JODMVEJOHDPNQFUJUJWFMFBWFQPMJDJFTBOEFOIBODFE.FEJDMBJNCFOFGJUT*ODSJUJDBMTJUVBUJPOTPVSDFOUSBMJODJEFOUSPPNPQFSBUFTSPVOE
UIFDMPDLPGGFSJOHJNNFEJBUFBTTJTUBODFBOEPOHPJOHTVQQPSU0VSPVUSFBDIQSPHSBNNFTFOTVSFFNQMPZFFTUISJWFJOBMMGBDFUTPGMJGF
BTUIFJSXFMMCFJOHJTGVOEBNFOUBMUPPVSTVDDFTT
&GGFDUJWFMFBEFSTIJQJOBIZCSJEXPSLFOWJSPONFOUSFRVJSFTJOOPWBUJWFTUSBUFHJFT0VSMFBEFSTMFWFSBHFUFDIOPMPHZUPFOTVSFTFBNMFTT
DPNNVOJDBUJPOPGPSHBOJTBUJPOBMQMBOTBOEBDIJFWFNFOUT8FBSFDPNNJUUFEUPDPOUJOVPVTEFWFMPQNFOUGPTUFSJOHUPQUBMFOU
UISPVHIUJFSFEEFWFMPQNFOUPQQPSUVOJUJFTGPSFNQMPZFFTBUFWFSZTUBHF5IFTFQSPHSBNNFTDVSSFOUMZFODPNQBTTPGPVS
XPSLGPSDF0VSEJWFSTFUFBNPGFNQMPZFFTXJUIXPNFOSFQSFTFOUJOHPGUIFXPSLGPSDFSFNBJOTFTTFOUJBMBTXFCVJMEB
GVUVSFPSJFOUFE&EFMXFJTT
$BVUJPOBSZ4UBUFNFOU
4UBUFNFOUTNBEFJOUIJT"OOVBM3FQPSUNBZDPOUBJODFSUBJOXPSETPSQISBTFTUIBUBSFGPSXBSEMPPLJOHTUBUFNFOUTXIJDIBSFUFOUBUJWF
CBTFEPODVSSFOUFYQFDUBUJPOTPGUIFNBOBHFNFOUPG&EFMXFJTT'JOBODJBM4FSWJDFT-JNJUFEPSBOZPGJUTTVCTJEJBSJFTBOEBTTPDJBUFT
	i&EFMXFJTTw
"DUVBMSFTVMUTNBZWBSZGSPNTVDITUBUFNFOUTDPOUBJOFEJOUIJTSFQPSUEVFUPWBSJPVTSJTLTBOEVODFSUBJOUJFT5IFTFSJTLT
BOEVODFSUBJOUJFTJODMVEFUIFFGGFDUPGFDPOPNJDBOEQPMJUJDBMDPOEJUJPOTJO*OEJBBOEPVUTJEF*OEJBWPMBUJMJUZJOJOUFSFTUSBUFTBOEJOUIF
TFDVSJUJFTNBSLFUOFXSFHVMBUJPOTBOE(PWFSONFOUQPMJDJFTUIBUNBZJNQBDUUIFCVTJOFTTFTPG&EFMXFJTTBTXFMMBTUIFBCJMJUZUP
JNQMFNFOUJUTTUSBUFHZ5IFJOGPSNBUJPODPOUBJOFEIFSFJOJTBTPGUIFEBUFSFGFSFODFEBOE&EFMXFJTTEPFTOPUVOEFSUBLFBOZPCMJHBUJPO
UPVQEBUFUIFTFTUBUFNFOUT&EFMXFJTTIBTPCUBJOFEBMMNBSLFUPSJOEVTUSZEBUBBOEPUIFSJOGPSNBUJPOGSPNTPVSDFTCFMJFWFEUPCF
SFMJBCMFPSUISPVHIJUTJOUFSOBMFTUJNBUFTVOMFTTPUIFSXJTFTUBUFEBMUIPVHIJUTBDDVSBDZPSDPNQMFUFOFTTDBOOPUCFHVBSBOUFFE4PNF
QBSUPGUIFSFQPSUSFMBUJOHUPCVTJOFTTXJTFGJOBODJBMQFSGPSNBODFCBMBODFTIFFUBTTFUCPPLTPG&EFMXFJTTBOEJOEVTUSZEBUBIFSFJOJT
SFDMBTTJGJFESFHSPVQFECBTFEPO.BOBHFNFOUFTUJNBUFTBOENBZOPUEJSFDUMZDPSSFTQPOEUPQVCMJTIFEEBUB5IFOVNCFSTIBWFBMTP
CFFOSPVOEFEPGGPSBQQSPYJNBUFEJOUIFJOUFSFTUPGFBTJFSVOEFSTUBOEJOH1SJPSQFSJPEPSPUIFSGJHVSFTIBWFCFFOSFHSPVQFE
SFDMBTTJGJFESFDBTUFEXIFSFWFSOFDFTTBSZ':':':':':':BOE':/VNCFSTBSFBTQFS*OE"4XIFSFBTUIFSFTUBSF
BTQFS*(""1"MMJOGPSNBUJPOJOUIJTQSFTFOUBUJPOIBTCFFOQSFQBSFETPMFMZCZUIFDPNQBOZBOEIBTOPUCFFOJOEFQFOEFOUMZWFSJGJFE
CZBOZPOFFMTF
8PSLQMBDF
8FMMCFJOH
-FBEFSTIJQ
$QQXDO5HSRUW
0DQDJHPHQW'LVFXVVLRQ	$QDO\VLV
(GHOZHLVV)LQDQFLDO6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG


Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
147
148
Annexure I
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
Introduction:
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has 
mandated certain categories of listed companies to formulate 
a Dividend Distribution Policy (‘Policy’). This Policy is in 
accordance with Regulation 43A of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Objective:
One of the ways to reward a shareholder is by distributing 
portion of Company’s earnings in the form of dividend. 
Besides capital appreciation, an investor expects a 
consistent cash inflow in the form of dividend. Towards this 
end, the Policy lays down parameters to be considered by 
the Board of Directors of the Company for declaration of 
Dividend from time to time.
Definitions:
Unless repugnant to the context:
“Act” shall mean the Companies Act, 2013 including the 
Rules made thereunder.
“Company” shall mean Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
“Board” or “Board of Directors” shall mean Board of 
Directors of the Company.
“Dividend” shall mean Dividend as defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013
“SEBI Regulations” shall mean the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 together with the circulars 
issued thereunder, including any statutory modifications or 
re-enactments thereof for the time being in force.
Regulatory Framework
The 
Companies 
Act, 
2013 
provides 
for 
regulation, 
recommendation, declaration and payment of dividend, 
subject to approval of the Board (interim) / Shareholders (final).
Factors for considering Dividend:
The Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) may 
consider inter-alia the following factors viz., the financial 
performance of the Company, the past dividend trends, 
the liquidity position of the Company, capital expenditure 
requirements, if any, business expansions (including 
acquisitions) if any, debt obligations, the external market 
conditions, the future potential etc., before considering 
dividend proposition.
The Company will endeavour to maintain the dividend 
track record subject to the factors which the Board might 
appropriately consider at that point in time. When the 
performance of the Company coupled with the market 
conditions are conducive/ favourable, the Board may 
consider declaring interim dividends too.
In order to conserve resources, the Board may consider 
recommending a lesser rate of dividend (as compared to the 
earlier years). The retained earnings of the Company can 
be inter-alia utilized for capex, working capital requirement, 
investment in growth opportunities as deemed fit by the 
Board at appropriate time. The retained earnings may also 
be utilised for payment of dividend in subsequent years, or 
other permitted means of rewarding the shareholders.
In a year where the profits of the Company are inadequate or 
there is a loss, the Company would like to utilise the reserves 
judiciously and the Board may not consider payment of 
dividend as a viable proposition. Alternatively, in such a 
scenario the Board might consider declaring dividends, out 
of the Free Reserves or the accumulated profits and the 
dividend payment track record is maintained. The amounts 
paid as dividend in the past does not necessarily indicate 
the dividend to be paid in the future and so the rate and the 
amount of dividend may vary from time to time.
Provision regarding class of shares:
Currently, the Company has issued only Equity Shares and 
this Policy shall be made applicable only to Equity Shares. 
As and when the Company issues other kind of shares, the 
Policy shall be amended accordingly.
Review / Amendment:
The Board shall review and amend the policy periodically 
as may be deemed necessary, keeping in view the business 
environment, the performance of the Company, regulatory 
requirements and other relevant external factors. In case of 
any change/amendment in applicable statutes/regulations, 
the Policy shall stand revised to the extent thereto.
For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
	
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
Annexure II
REMUNERATION POLICY
Objective
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Listing 
Regulations requires a Company to frame a policy for 
determining the remuneration payable to the Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and other Senior level 
employees.
The objective of the Remuneration Policy (the Policy) of the 
Company is to provide a framework for the remuneration 
of the Independent Directors, Non-Executive Directors, 
Managing Directors, Executive Directors, KMPs, and other 
senior level employees of the Company.
The Objective of the Policy is to ensure that:
i.	
The level and composition of remuneration is reasonable 
and sufficient to attract & retain talent required to run 
the Company successfully;
ii.	
Relationship of remuneration to performance is clear 
and meets appropriate benchmarks; and
iii.	
Remuneration to the Directors, KMPs and Senior level 
employees comprises a balance of fixed and incentive 
pay reflecting short and long term performance 
objectives, appropriate to the working of the Company 
and its goals.
Remuneration of the Independent Directors and 
Non-executive Directors
•	
The 
Independent 
Directors 
and 
Non-Executive 
Directors are eligible for sitting fees for attending the 
meetings of the Board and the Committees thereof.
•	
The 
Independent 
Directors 
and 
Non-Executive 
Directors are also eligible for commission, subject 
to the limits prescribed under the Act and the Rules 
framed there under.
•	
The Independent Directors are not eligible for stock 
options.
•	
The Non-Executive Directors (other than promoter 
Directors) shall be eligible for the stock options.
Remuneration of the Managing Director and 
Executive Directors
•	
The remuneration of the Managing Director and 
Executive Directors is recommended by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee (‘NRC’) to the Board. 
Based on the recommendations of the NRC, the Board 
determines and approves the remuneration of the 
Managing Director and Executive Directors, subject to 
necessary approvals, if any.
•	
The remuneration paid to the Managing Director and 
Executive Directors shall be within the limits prescribed 
under the Act and approved by the shareholders of 
the Company. The remuneration structure includes 
fixed salary, perquisites, bonus, other benefits and 
allowances and contribution to funds, etc.
•	
The Executive Directors (other than the promoter 
Directors) shall be eligible for stock options.
Remuneration of the KMPs (other than Executive 
Directors) and Senior level employees
•	
The key components of remuneration package of the 
KMPs (other than Executive Directors) and Senior level 
employees shall comprise of fixed salary, perquisites, 
annual bonus, other benefits and allowances and 
contribution to Funds, etc. They shall be eligible for 
stock options.
Policy Review
This Policy shall be reviewed by the Board as may be 
deemed necessary and in accordance with any statutory /
regulatory requirements. In case of any change/amendment 
in applicable statutes/regulations, the Policy shall stand 
revised to the extent thereto.
The NRC shall implement the Policy, and may issue such 
guidelines, lay down the process etc. as it may deem fit.
For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
149
150
Annexure III
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities  
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024
As prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
To leverage the capacity and capital to equip and enable the social sector to achieve the greatest impact on the lives of 
the underprivileged in India.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:	
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
Committee held 
during the year
Number of 
meetings of 
CSR Committee 
attended during 
the year
1.
Mr. Venkatchalam 
Ramaswamy
Executive Director 
(Chairman of the Committee)
1
1
2.
Ms. Vidya Shah 
Non-executive Director
1
1
3.
Mr. Shiva Kumar 
Independent Director
1
1
4.
Mr. Himanshu Kaji *
Executive Director
1
-
	
* ceased as a Member w.e.f. September 26, 2023.
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board 
are disclosed on the website of the Company:
	
The composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects are available on the website of the Company at 
www.edelweissfin.com.
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with the weblink of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable: 
	
Not Applicable
5.	
(a)	
Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 6,250 million
	
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 125 million
	
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: Nil
	
(d)	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: ` 0.98 million
	
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: ` 124.02 million
6.	
(a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both ongoing project and other than ongoing projects): ` 125 million
	
(b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
	
(c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not applicable
	
(d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (a+b+c): ` 125 million
	
(e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year  
(` in million)
Amount Unspent 
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per  
sub-section (6) of section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified  
under Schedule VII as per second proviso to  
sub-section (5) of section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
125
Not Applicable
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount 
(` in million)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
125
(ii)
Total amount spent for the financial year
125
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
0.98
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.98
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years:- Nil
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub-section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Amount 
spent in the 
Financial 
Year  
(in `)
Amount transferred to 
any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to sub-
section (5) of section 
135, if any.
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years  
(in `)
Deficiency,  
if any
Amount  
(in `)
Date of 
transfer
1
FY 2022-23
Not Applicable
2
FY 2021-22
3
FY 2020-21
Total
Not Applicable
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:- Yes
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent 
in the Financial Year:
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
151
152
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars 
of the property or 
asset(s) [including 
complete address 
and location of the 
property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or  
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
spent 
(Amount 
in `)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR Reg No, 
if applicable
Name
Registered Address
1
Water filters
342307
31-12-2023
1,65,840 CSR00001526
Srirampura 
communuity 
members
Udat, Block Bap, 
District Phalodi
2
Printer
764020
09-06-2023
10,000 
CSR00011968
Pragati 
Office, 
Koraput
Pragati,koraput, 
Pujariput, Near Reeti 
Printers, Koraput
3
Desktop 
764020
09-06-2023
63,000 
CSR00011968
Pragati 
Office, 
Koraput
Pragati,koraput, 
Pujariput, Near Reeti 
Printers, Koraput
4
Furniture
380015
28-08-2023
30,444 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
5
Furniture
380015
28-09-2023
10,000 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
6
Laptop
393135
26-09-2023
42,000 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
7
 Desktop
393135
28-09-2023
45,500 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
8
Camera
393135
28-09-2023
52,400 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
9
Printer
380015
27-12-2023
11,650 
CSR00002389
Utthan
36, Chitrakut 
Twins, Nehru 
Park, Vastrapur, 
Ahmedabad 380015
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of 
section 135:
	
Not Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy	
Vidya Shah
Executive Director (Chairman of CSR Committee)	
Non-executive Director 
DIN: 00008509	
DIN: 00274831
April 18, 2024
Annexure - IV
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended 31st March, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To 
The Members 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited,
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of the applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by Edelweiss Financial 
Services Limited, having CIN: L99999MH1995PLC094641 
(hereinafter called the ‘Company’) during the financial year 
from 1st April 2023 to 31st March 2024, (‘the year’/ ‘audit 
period’/ ‘period under review’).
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit in a manner that 
provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
Company’s corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
We are issuing this Report based on:
(i)	
Our verification of the books, papers, minutes books, 
soft copies, hard copies information provided during 
the physical verification/virtually and other records 
maintained by the Company and furnished to us, forms/ 
returns, documents etc. filed and other relevant records 
and procedures completed by the Company during the 
year ended 31st March 2024 as well as before the issue 
of this Report.
(ii)	
Our observations during our visits to the office/s of the 
Company, and
(iii)	 Compliance Certificates confirming Compliance with 
all laws applicable to the Company given by the Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company and taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, and
(iv)	 Representations made, documents shown and 
information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents, and authorised representatives during our 
conduct of the Secretarial Audit.
We hereby report that in our opinion, during the audit period 
the Company has, to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter:
(i)	
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder; 
and
(ii)	
Board-processes and compliance mechanism are in 
place.
The members are requested to read this Report along with 
our letter of even date annexed hereto as Annexure- A.
1.	
Compliance with specific statutory provisions
1.1.	 We further report that:
	
We have examined the books, papers, minute books 
and other records maintained by the Company and the 
forms, returns, reports, disclosures and information 
filed or disseminated during the year according to the 
applicable provisions/ clauses of:
	
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 ( “the Act”) and the 
Rules framed thereunder;
	
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
and the Rules framed thereunder;
	
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
	
iv.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the Rules/ Regulations framed thereunder (FEMA) 
to the extent of Overseas Direct Investment, 
Foreign Direct Investment etc. as applicable to the 
Company;
	
v.	
The following Regulations, Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Regulations’):
	
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
153
154
	
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 (PIT Regulations) ( * );
	
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act, 2013 and dealing with the 
holders of securities;
	
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing 
Regulations); and
	
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(*)	
The Company has also maintained a 
Structured Digital Database (“SDD”) pursuant 
to the requirements of Regulation 3 (5) and 3 
(6) of the PIT Regulations.
	
	
The following Regulations were not applicable to 
the Company, during the year under review:
	
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021;
	
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
	
vi.	
During the year, the provisions of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992, were specifically applicable to 
the Company;
	
vii.	 Listing agreements entered by the Company 
with National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE), pursuant to the 
requirements of the Listing Regulations;
	
viii.	 The Secretarial Standard on Meetings of the Board 
of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meetings (SS-2) in relation to the meetings 
of the Board of Directors and General Meetings, 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and notified by the Central Government 
under Section 118(10) of the Act and mandatorily 
applicable to the Company.
1.2	 During the period under review, the Company has, to 
the best of our knowledge and belief and based on the 
records, information, explanations and representations 
furnished to us:
	
i.	
Complied with the applicable provisions/clauses of 
the Act, Rules, SEBI Regulations and Agreements 
mentioned under sub-paragraphs (ii) to (vii) of 
paragraph 1.1 above.
	
ii.	
Generally complied with the applicable provisions/ 
clauses of:
	
	
a)	
The Act and rules mentioned under paragraph 
1.1 (i);
	
	
b)	
FEMA to extent applicable mentioned under 
paragraph 1.1 (iv), and
	
	
c)	
The Secretarial Standard SS-1 and SS-2 
mentioned under paragraph 1.1 (viii) above 
to the extent applicable to the Meetings of 
the Board and the Committees thereof held 
during the year and the 28th Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) held on 26th September 2023. 
The compliance with the provisions of the 
Rules made under the Act with regard to the 
meetings of the Board and the Committees 
thereof held through Video Conferencing / 
Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM), during 
the period under review, was verified based 
on the minutes of the meetings provided by 
the Company;
1.3	 We have also examined, on test-check basis, the 
relevant documents and records maintained by the 
Company according to the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992, 
specifically applicable to the Company during the audit 
period.
2.	
Board processes:
	
We further report that:
2.1	 As on March 31, 2024, in terms of the provisions of the 
Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board of Directors 
of the Company comprised of six Members, as under:
	
i.	
One Managing Director, one Executive Director 
and 
one 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director- (Promoter Category);
	
ii.	
Three - Non-Executive Independent Directors, 
including a Woman Independent Director.
2.2	 During the year, the following changes in the Board 
of Directors and the Key Managerial Personnel, were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act 
and the Listing Regulations:
	
i.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Ms. 
Vidya 
Shah 
(DIN: 
00274831) as Director, retiring in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act, by rotation at the 28th 
AGM of the Company, held on September 26, 
2023.
	
ii.	
Cessation of Directorship of Mr. Himanshu Kaji 
(DIN: 00009438), who retired by rotation at 28th 
AGM held on September 26, 2023, being eligible, 
did not offer himself for re-appointment.
	
iii.	
Cessation of Directorship of Mr. Biswamohan 
Mahapatra (DIN: 06990345), an Independent 
Director of the Company, on conclusion of the 
second term, at the 28th AGM held on September 
26, 2023.
2.3	 Adequate notice with Agenda and the detailed notes 
to Agenda of at least seven days was given to all the 
directors to enable them to plan their schedule for the 
meetings of the Board and the Committees constituted 
by the Board, and where the meetings were held at 
a shorter notice, due compliance was ensured, as 
required under the Act and SS-1.
2.4	 A system exists for directors to seek and obtain further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items for 
their meaningful participation at the meetings.
2.5	 In respect of matters tabled at the meetings of the 
Board of Directors and the Committees thereof, where 
the relevant agenda and related notes were circulated 
less than seven days before the meetings and were 
considered with the consent of the members of the 
Board and the Committees, as the case may be, as 
required under SS-1.
2.6.	 We note from the minutes that, decisions at the Board 
meetings held during the year were carried through 
on the basis of majority and no dissenting views were 
expressed by any member of the Board of Directors on 
any of the subject matters discussed.
3.	
Compliance mechanism
	
There are adequate systems and processes in the 
company, which commensurate with its size and 
operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines and 
there is scope for improvement.
	
During the year under review, the Company has entered 
into related party transactions, including but not limited 
to sale / purchase of the investments to the related 
parties, in respect of which the Company has complied 
with the applicable provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations.
4.	
Specific events/ actions -
	
During the year, the following specific events/ actions 
having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs took 
place, in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, 
regulations and standards:
	
4.1	 The Company has allotted 5,09,750 Equity Shares 
of the face value of Re. 1 each, to the eligible 
employees, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Employee Stock Option/Stock Appreciation 
Rights Schemes of the Company.
	
4.2	 During the year, the Company has:
	
	
(A)	 (a)	
Pursuant to a Prospectus by way of 
Public Issue, which opened on April 
6, 2023 and closed on April 21, 2023, 
the Company has issued and allotted 
25,31,299 Secured Redeemable Non-
Convertible Debentures (NCDs), of Face 
Value of Rs. 1,000/- each, aggregating 
to an amount of Rs. 253,12,99,000/- and 
these NCDs are listed on BSE Limited 
w.e.f. May 2, 2023.
	
	
	
(b)	
Pursuant to a Prospectus, by way of 
Public Issue, which opened on July 4, 
2023 and closed on July 17, 2023, the 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
155
156
Company has offered, issued and allotted 
25,80,188 Secured Redeemable Non-
Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of Face 
value of Rs. 1,000/- each, aggregating 
to an amount of Rs. 258,01,88,000/- and 
these NCDs are listed on BSE Limited 
w.e.f. July 25, 2023.
	
	
	
(c)	
Pursuant to a Prospectus, by way of 
Public Issue, which opened on October 
6, 2023 and closed on October 19, 2023, 
the Company has offered, issued and 
allotted 17,61,382 Secured Redeemable 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(NCDs) 
of Face value of Rs. 1,000/- each, 
aggregating to an amount of Rs. 
176,13,82,000/- and these NCDs are 
listed on BSE Limited w.e.f. October 30, 
2023.
	
	
	
(d)	
Pursuant to a Prospectus by way of 
Public Issue, which opened on January 
9, 2024 and closed on January 23, 2024, 
the Company has issued and allotted 
21,40,939 Secured Redeemable Non-
Convertible Debentures (NCDs), of Face 
Value of Rs. 1,000/- each, aggregating 
to an amount of Rs. 214,09,39,000/- and 
these NCDs are listed on BSE Limited 
w.e.f. February 1, 2024.
	
	
(B)	 Redeemed NCDs (listed and unlisted), 
aggregating to Rs. 658.74 Crores.
	
	
(C)	 As on March 31, 2024, NCDs (listed and 
unlisted), aggregating to Rs. 2,802.36 Crores 
were outstanding.
	
4.3	 During the year, the Board of Directors of the 
Company, at its meeting held on March 7, 
2024, have approved, subject to approval of the 
authorities concerned, the proposal to act as an 
Investment Manager to Edelweiss Multi Strategy 
Investment Trust, managed by Edelweiss Asset 
Management Limited (EAML), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, presently managing 
a few Schemes and registered with SEBI as 
Investment Manager and for this, the Company 
would be paying the consideration of Rs.17.95 
crores as per the valuation carried out in this 
regard.
	
	
4.4	 The shareholders at the 28th AGM held on 
September 26, 2023, declared the dividend of 
Rs. 1.25 per share on the equity share of the face 
value of Re. 1/- each, and payable to all beneficial 
members of the Company, as on the Record Date 
determined therefor, and the interim dividend has 
been paid within the prescribed timelines.
	
4.5	 The shareholders, at the 28th AGM held on 
September 26, 2023, have approved by way of an 
Ordinary Resolution, pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 139 and 142 and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Rules framed thereunder (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment 
thereof, for the time being in force), pursuant to 
the recommendations of the Audit Committee 
of the Board and that of the Board of Directors, 
appointment of M/s. Nangia & Co. LLP, Chartered 
Accountants, (Firm Registration No. 002391C/
N500069) as Statutory Auditors of the Company, to 
hold office from the conclusion of the 28th AGM until 
the conclusion of the 33rd AGM of the Company to 
be held in the calendar year 2028 and authorised 
the Board of Directors to fix the remuneration from 
time to time as may be recommended by the Audit 
Committee in consultation with the Auditors.
	
4.6	 The shareholders, at the 28th AGM held on 
September 26, 2023, have approved by way of an 
Ordinary Resolution that pursuant to the provisions 
of the Securities & Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and all other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
subject to requisite approvals, if any, to provide 
financial support by the Company in the form 
of corporate guarantee or in any other manner 
on behalf of Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited (EARC), a subsidiary of the 
Company, in favor of the lenders of EARC for 
further amount of Rs. 1,000 crores, during a period 
of 24 months commencing from October 1, 2023, 
in addition to the corporate guarantee of Rs. 650 
crores already provided by the Company.
	
4.7	 The shareholders, at the 28th AGM held on 
September 26, 2023, have approved by way of a 
Special Resolution that pursuant to the provisions 
of Regulation 24 and all other applicable 
Regulations, if any, of the Listing Regulations and 
subject to requisite approvals, if any, as may be 
required, accorded their approval to Edelweiss 
Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (EARC), 
a Material Subsidiary of the Company as per the 
provisions of the Listing Regulations, to charge 
their assets exceeding in value 20% or more of its 
total assets, in connection with the proposed issue 
of Non-convertible Debentures and raising of 
funds from time to time, in one or more tranches.
	
4.8	 The shareholders, at the 28th AGM held on 
September 26, 2023, have approved by way of a 
Special Resolution insertion of the following sub-
clause (3) after the existing sub-clause (2) of Clause 
49 of the Company’s Articles of Association: -
	
	
‘(3)	 The 
Board 
shall 
appoint 
the 
person 
nominated by the Debenture Trustee(s) as 
per the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993 as a Director on the Board 
of the Company. Such appointment shall be 
subject to the provisions of Debenture Trust 
Deed(s), the Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI 
Regulations and all other applicable laws.’
	
4.9	 During the year under review, pursuant the Order 
dated April 27, 2023, and as directed therein, by 
the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai, 
the Scheme of Arrangement between Edelweiss 
Financial Services Limited (“Demerged Company” 
or “Company”) and Nuvama Wealth Management 
Limited (Formerly known as Edelweiss Securities 
Limited) (“Resulting Company”) and their respective 
Shareholders and Creditors (“Scheme”), became 
effective, from the Appointed Date / Effective Date 
i.e. May 18, 2023 and according to which the 
Wealth Management Business of the Company 
as defined in the Scheme was transferred to 
Nuvama and Nuvama allotted its equity shares in 
accordance with the provisions of the Scheme.
Date: May 14, 2024
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
PR No. 637/2019
Avinash Bagul
Partner
FCS No: 5578
COP: 19862
UDIN: F005578F000363298
Note: This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure - A and forms an integral part of 
this Report.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
157
158
Annexure - A
To, 
The Members, 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
The Company’s management is responsible for maintenance of secretarial records and compliance with the provisions 
of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the secretarial records produced for our audit.
2.	
We have followed such audit practices and processes as we considered appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records.
3.	
We have verified the secretarial records furnished to us on a test basis to see whether the correct facts are reflected 
therein. We also examined the compliance procedures followed by the company on a test basis. We believe that the 
processes and practices we followed, provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
4.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
5.	
We have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening 
of events wherever required.
6.	
Our Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Date: May 14, 2024
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
PR No. 637/2019
Avinash Bagul
Partner
FCS No: 5578
COP: 19862
UDIN: F005578F000363298
Form MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited  
(formerly known as Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company Limited)
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate governance practice by Edelweiss Life Insurance 
Company Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Tokio 
Life Insurance Company Limited) (hereinafter called “the 
Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing 
my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minutes books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I 
hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2024, complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company, 
for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2024, according 
to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder - Not Applicable;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder – Not Applicable;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment. Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings are not applicable;
v.	
The following regulations and guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,1992 (‘SEBI Act’) were not applicable to the 
Company, by virtue of the Company not being listed on 
any Stock Exchanges in F.Y. 2023-24: -
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; 
	
d)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993, regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
	
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
Further, I report that, based on the compliance mechanism 
established by the Company, which has been verified on 
test check basis and the compliance certificates submitted 
to and taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Company, I am of the opinion that the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 and 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
159
160
the rules, regulations, circulars, guidelines, instructions, etc. 
issued by Insurance and Regulatory Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI) from time to time.
I have examined compliances with applicable clauses of the 
following:
i.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of the 
Company Secretaries of India,
ii.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 – Not Applicable.
During the financial year under review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
I further report that: 
The Board of Directors of the Company is constituted 
with Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act.
Adequate notice, agenda and detailed notes have been 
given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings at least 
seven days in advance or on shorter notice and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
The decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
are carried out and recorded in the minutes of the Board of 
Directors and Committee of the Board accordingly.
I have relied on the representation made by the Company 
and its Officers for adequate systems and processes in the 
company commensurate with its size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable 
laws.
I further report that during the year under review, the 
Company has undertaken event / action having a major 
bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above 
referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
referred to above viz.
(i)	
Re-appointment of Mr. Subhrajit Mukhopadhyay as 
Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of 3 
years w.e.f. August 10, 2023;
(ii)	
Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kakar as an Independent 
Director till the conclusion of the 19th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company to be held in the year 2028;
(iii)	 Retirement of Mr. Loo Chuan Tang as Nominee Director; 
(iv)	 Appointment of Ms. Radhika Gupta as Additional Non-
Executive Director w.e.f. September 27, 2023, further 
the Company is under process of filing form DIR-12 due 
to technical issues faced with the MCA V3 portal; 
(v)	
Re-constitution of various committees;
(vi)	 Board approval for re-appointment of Mr. Sumit Rai as 
Managing Director & CEO w.e.f. August 8, 2024;
(vii)	 Member’s approval for change of name of the Company 
to “Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited” from 
“Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company Limited” and 
change in the name clause of the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association and consequent changes in the 
Articles of Association of the Company due to expiry of 
Joint Venture Agreement;
(viii)	 Board approval for issue of 6,60,00,000 Equity Shares 
of ` 10 each for cash aggregating to ` 66,00,00,000 to 
the existing members of the Company on rights basis.
 For Aashish K. Bhatt & Associates 
 Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code S2008MH100200)
Aashish Bhatt 
Proprietor 
Membership No.: 19639, COP No.: 7023 
UDIN: A019639F000775669 
Peer Review Cert. No.: 2959/2023
Place	: Mumbai	
Date	 : 25.07.2024
This Report is to be read with my letter annexed as 
Appendix A, which forms integral part of this report.
 
APPENDIX A
To, 
The Members, 
Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited  
(formerly known as Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company Limited)
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. 	
The responsibility of maintaining Secretarial record 
is of the management and based on my audit, I have 
expressed my opinion on these records.
2. 	
I am of the opinion that the audit practices and process 
adopted to obtain assurance about the correctness of 
the secretarial records were reasonable for verification 
on test check basis.
3. 	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and books of accounts of the 
Company.
4. 	
The management is responsible for compliances 
with corporate and other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, standards etc. My examination was limited 
to the verification of procedure on test basis and 
wherever required, I have obtained the Management 
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations etc.
5. 	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Aashish K. Bhatt & Associates 
 Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code S2008MH100200)
Aashish Bhatt 
Proprietor 
Membership No.: 19639, COP No.: 7023 
UDIN: A019639F000775669 
Peer Review Cert. No.: 2959/2023
Place: Mumbai	
Date	: 25.07.2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
161
162
Annexure - V
Disclosure pursuant to the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median employee’s remuneration and 
other details in terms of sub-section 12 of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is as under:
Sr. 
No.
Disclosure Requirement
Disclosure Details
Directors
Title
Ratio
1
Ratio of the Remuneration of each 
Director to the median remuneration 
of the employees of the Company for 
the financial year
Mr. Rashesh Shah	
Chairman & Managing 
Director
59.17
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Vice Chairman & 
Executive Director
36.10
Mr. Himanshu Kaji*
Executive Director
-
During the year, the Independent Directors and Ms. Vidya Shah, a Non-
executive Director, were paid commission of ` 2.5 million each, representing 
the ratio of 1.05.
Directors/ KMP
Title
% increase in 
remuneration
2
Percentage increase in remuneration 
of each Director, Chief Financial 
Officer, Chief Executive	 Officer, 
Company Secretary or Manager, if 
any, in the financial year
Mr. Rashesh Shah
Chairman & Managing 
Director
37.54%
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Vice Chairman & 
Executive Director
4.24%
Mr. Himanshu Kaji*
Executive Director
-
There was an increase of 25% in the remuneration (commission) paid to the 
Independent Directors and Ms. Vidya Shah, a Non-executive Director, during 
FY 2023-24 as compared to FY 2022-23.
Ms. Ananya Suneja		
Chief Financial Officer
22.79%
Mr. Tarun Khurana
Company Secretary
17.33%
3
Percentage increase in the median 
remuneration of employees in the 
financial year
17.33%
4
Number of permanent employees on 
the rolls of the Company at the end 
of the year
15 permanent employees were on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 
2024
5
Average percentile increase already 
made in the salaries of employees 
other than the managerial personnel 
in the last financial year and its 
comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial 
remuneration and justification 
thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances 
for increase in the managerial 
remuneration
The average increase in the remuneration for the managerial personnel is 
22.68% and for Non- managerial personnel is 14.76%.
(The employees joined/left the Company during the financial year 2023-24 are 
not considered for this purpose)
6
Affirmations that the remuneration is 
as per the Remuneration Policy of the 
Company
It is affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration Policy of 
the Company
* Mr. Himanshu Kaji, Executive Director, retired by rotation at the AGM held on September 26, 2023. Since Mr. Kaji was 
associated for part of FY 2023-24, hence ratio and percentage increase in remuneration is not reported.
For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
 
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
163
164
Annexure- VI
	CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
At Edelweiss, we strongly uphold good governance practices to promote fairness, transparency, accountability and integrity. 
In line with this philosophy, Guiding Principles have been articulated and these forms integral part of the Company’s corporate 
governance practices. Processes have been designed to run the businesses responsibly and harmonize diversified interests 
of various stakeholders thereby enhancing the stakeholders value.
Board of Directors
Composition, Meeting and Attendance
The Board of Directors (the Board) of the Company comprises of Executive and Non-executive Directors and the same is 
in conformity with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’) and the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’).
The annual calendar of the Board Meetings is agreed upon at the beginning of the year. The agenda for the Board Meetings 
is circulated in advance and is backed by comprehensive background information to enable the Board to take informed 
decisions. During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Board met 5 times i.e., on: May 26, 2023, August 4, 2023, 
November 10, 2023, February 12, 2024 and March 7, 2024. The Meetings of the Board and Committees were conducted 
physically and through electronic platform - Audio-Video conferencing also. Adequate facilities were provided to the Directors 
and invitees for active participation at the Meetings.
The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance at the Board Meetings held during the financial 
year 2023-24 and at the last Annual General Meeting (AGM), the number of directorships and committee positions held by 
them in other public limited companies and the name of the other listed entities where he/she is a Director and category of 
directorships as on March 31, 2024, are as under:
Name and DIN of 
the Directors
Category
No. of 
Board 
Meetings 
Attended
Attendance 
at the 
last AGM 
held on 
September 
26, 2023
No. of 
Directorships 
in other 
Public 
Limited 
Companies$
Name of other 
Listed entities 
where person 
is Director - 
Category of 
Directorship
Committee Position*
Member
Chairper-
son
Mr. Rashesh Shah 
[Chairman]  
(DIN 00008322) 
Executive 
(Promoter)
5
Yes
4
-
-
-
Mr. Venkatchalam 
Ramaswamy 
[Vice Chairman] 
(DIN 00008509)
Executive 
(Promoter)
5
Yes
5
-
4
1
Ms. Vidya Shah 
(DIN 00274831)
Non-Executive, 
Non- 
Independent 
(Promoter)
4
Yes
3
Vardhman 
Special 
Steels Ltd. – 
Independent 
Director
2
1
Name and DIN of 
the Directors
Category
No. of 
Board 
Meetings 
Attended
Attendance 
at the 
last AGM 
held on 
September 
26, 2023
No. of 
Directorships 
in other 
Public 
Limited 
Companies$
Name of other 
Listed entities 
where person 
is Director - 
Category of 
Directorship
Committee Position*
Member
Chairper-
son
Mr. Ashok Kini
(DIN 00812946)
Independent
5
Yes
4
-
2
2
Dr. Ashima Goyal
(DIN 00233635)
Independent
5
No
2
Procter & 
Gamble 
Hygiene & 
Health Care 
Limited –
Independent 
Director
1
-
Mr. Shiva Kumar
(DIN 06590343)
Independent
5
Yes
3
-
5
2
Mr. Himanshu Kaji#
(DIN 00009438)
Executive
1
Yes
-
-
-
-
Mr. Biswamohan
Mahapatra## 
(DIN 06990345)
Independent
2
Yes
-
-
-
-
$ Other than private limited companies, section 8 companies and foreign companies.
* Only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, in other companies have been considered for the Committee position.
# Retired by rotation at the 28th AGM held on September 26, 2023
## Ceased as Independent Director on conclusion of the second term at the 28
th AGM held on September 26,2023.
Except for Mr. Rashesh Shah and Ms. Vidya Shah, none of the Directors are related to each other. 
None of the Directors hold office in more than 10 public companies as prescribed under the Act. No Director holds Directorships 
in more than 7 listed companies. Further, none of the Non-executive Directors serve as Independent Director in more than 
7 listed companies as required under the Listing Regulations. The Managing Director and the Executive Director does not 
serve as an Independent Director in any equity listed company. None of the Directors on the Board is a Member of more 
than 10 Committees and Chairperson of more than 5 Committees, across all public limited companies in which he/she is a 
Director. Independent Directors are Non-executive Directors as defined under the Listing Regulations and the Act along with 
Rules framed thereunder. In terms of the Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors have confirmed that they are not 
aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability 
to discharge their duties.
Based on the declarations received from the Independent Directors, the Board has confirmed that they meet the criteria of 
independence as prescribed under the Listing Regulations and the Act and that they are independent of the management. 
Further, the Independent Directors have, in terms of Section 150 of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder, confirmed 
that they have enrolled themselves in the Independent Directors’ Databank maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors are persons of integrity and possess relevant expertise, 
experience and proficiency.
All the Directors of the Company have confirmed that they are not disqualified from being appointed as Directors pursuant to 
Section 164 of the Act.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
165
166
M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, have issued a certificate certifying that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the 
Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and any such statutory authority.
Board skills/expertise/competence matrix
The Board have identified the following parameters with respect to the skill/expertise/ competence that are available with the 
Board in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively:
Directors
Industry 
Knowledge/
Experience
Technical Skills/Experience
Behavioural 
Competencies
Financial and Capital Markets	
Understanding of laws and regulations
International Experience
Accounting and Finance
Risk Mamagement
Strategic Management
Legal and Compliance
Information Technology
Governance	
Leadership and Mentoring Skills
Interpersonal Relations
Mr. Rashesh Shah
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
*
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
*
Ms. Vidya Shah
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
*
Mr. Ashok Kini
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
Dr. Ashima Goyal
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
-
*
*
*
Mr. Shiva Kumar
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
Mr. C. Balagopal
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
-
*
*
*
Committees of the Board: 
A)	
Audit Committee
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Committee met 5 times on May 26, 2023, August 4, 2023, November 
10, 2023, February 12, 2024 and March 7, 2024.
	
The Committee comprises of the Independent Directors only. The composition of the Committee as on March 31, 2024 and 
attendance of the Members at the Committee Meetings held during the financial year ended March 31, 2024 is as under: -
Name of the Member	
No. of Meetings 
Attended
Mr. Shiva Kumar – Chairman
5
Mr. Ashok Kini	
5
Dr. Ashima Goyal	
5
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra^	
2
^ Ceased as a Member with effect from September 26, 2023.
	
All the Members have financial management expertise. The constitution and terms of reference of the Committee are in 
compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Listing Regulations.
	
Brief description of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee inter alia include:
	
1)	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that 
the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible
	
2)	
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of the Company
	
3)	
Approval of payment to the statutory auditors for any other service rendered by the statutory auditors
	
4)	
Reviewing, with the Management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission 
to the Board for approval with particular reference to:
	
	
a)	
matters required to be included in the Directors Responsibility statement to be included in the Board’s Report 
in terms of clause (c) of sub section 3 of the Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
	
b)	
changes if any, in the accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same
	
	
c)	
major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgement by management
	
	
d)	
significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings
	
	
e)	
compliance with the listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements
	
	
f)	
disclosure of any related party transactions
	
	
g)	
qualifications in the draft audit report.
	
5)	
Reviewing, with the Management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to the Board for approval
	
6)	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems
	
7)	
Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory auditors and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal 
control systems
	
8)	
Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up thereon
	
9)	
Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post 
audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern
	
10)	 To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower/Vigil mechanism
	
11)	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
	
The Auditors, Internal Auditors and the Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend the Meetings of the Committee. The 
Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
	
Mr. Shiva Kumar, the Chairman of the Committee, was present at the last AGM held on September 26, 2023.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
167
168
B)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Committee met once on May 26, 2023.
	
The composition of the Committee as on March 31, 2024 and attendance of the Members at the Committee Meeting 
held during the financial year ended March 31, 2024 is as under:-
Name of the Member	
No. of Meetings 
Attended
Mr. Ashok Kini (Independent Director) - Chairman
1
Mr. Shiva Kumar (Independent Director)
1
Ms. Vidya Shah (Non-executive Director)
1
	
The Committee at its Meeting held on May 26, 2023, had appointed Mr. Ashok Kini as the Chairman of the Committee.
	
Brief description of the terms of reference of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee inter alia include:
	
1)	
Identifying the persons who can become Directors
	
2)	
Formulating the criteria for determining the qualifications, positive attributes etc. and independence of a Director
	
3)	
Recommending to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration for the Directors & Key Managerial Personnel
	
4)	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management
	
5)	
Specify the manner for effective annual evaluation of performance of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors.
	
Mr. Ashok Kini, the Chairman of the Committee, was present at the last AGM held on September 26, 2023. 
	
The Company has formulated a Remuneration Policy which is annexed to the Board’s Report.
	
Board Evaluation
	
During the year, in accordance with the Board Evaluation Policy and the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by 
SEBI, an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Committees and Directors pursuant to the provisions 
of the Act and the Listing Regulations was carried out by the Board on various parameters which inter alia included 
composition, diversity, effectiveness, quality of discussion, contribution at the Meetings, business acumen, strategic 
thinking, time commitment, relationship with the stakeholders, corporate governance practices, contribution of the 
Committees etc.
	
A separate Meeting of the Independent Directors was held wherein the performance of the Non-Independent Directors, 
performance of the Board as a whole (including the Committees) and also that of the Chairman in terms of the provisions 
of the Act, the Listing Regulations and the Guidance Note issued by SEBI in this regard was discussed.
	
Familiarization Programme
	
The Independent Directors are familiarised with their roles, rights, responsibilities etc. in relation to the business model of 
the Company and its subsidiaries. The details are available on the website of the Company at: www.edelweissfin.com.
	
	
Remuneration to the Directors
	
The Company pays sitting fees of ` 75,000 per Meeting to the Independent Directors for attending the Meetings of the 
Board and the Committees thereof.
	
The commission is paid to the Non-executive Directors inter alia based on their attendance, contribution etc. at the 
Board and the Committee Meetings.
	
The details of the remuneration paid and shareholding of the Directors during the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
are as under:-
 ` in million
Name
Remuneration 
/ Perks^
Sitting Fees
Commission
Total
No. of  
shared held*
Mr. Rashesh Shah
110.03
-
-
110.03
14,56,01,730
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
67.15
-
-
67.15
5,95,76,560
Ms. Vidya Shah
-
-
2.50
2.50
3,10,66,200
Mr. Ashok Kini
-
1.28
2.50
3.78
-
Dr. Ashima Goyal
-
0.83
2.50
3.33
-
Mr. Shiva Kumar
-
1.35
2.50
3.85
-
Mr. Himanshu Kaji#
21.21
-
-
21.21
-
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra#
-
0.53
2.50
3.03
-
	
^ Includes bonus for FY 2022-23.
	
* Shareholding of the Directors as on March 31, 2024. Shares held singly or as a first shareholder are only considered.
	
# Retired with effect from September 26, 2023.
	
Service contract of the Managing Director and the Executive Director is as approved by the Members and notice period 
is as per the Rules of the Company. Severance fees – N.A.
C)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
The composition of the Committee as on March 31, 2024 and attendance of the Members at the Committee Meeting 
held during the financial year ended March 31, 2024 is as under:-
Name of the Member	
No. of Meetings 
Attended
Mr. Shiva Kumar (Independent Director) – Chairman
1
Mr. Ashok Kini (Independent Director)
1
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy (Executive Director)
1
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Committee met once on May 26, 2023.
	
The Committee at its Meeting held on May 26, 2023, had appointed Mr. Shiva Kumar as the Chairman of the Committee. 
The Chairman was present at the last AGM held on September 26, 2023.
	
Brief description of the terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee inter alia include:
	
1)	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate 
certificates, general meetings etc.;
	
2)	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders;
	
3)	
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being 
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent; and
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
169
170
	
4)	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Company.
 
Mr. Tarun Khurana is the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company.
	
Based on the reports received from the Registrar & Share Transfer Agents during the year ended March 31, 2024, 
the Company received 470 requests/complaints from the investors (both equity shares and non-convertible debentures) 
which were satisfactorily resolved/replied. As on March 31, 2024, there were no outstanding requests/complaints.
D)	 Risk Committee
 
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Committee met 4 times on May 26, 2023, August 4, 2023, November 
10, 2023 and February 12, 2024.
	
The composition of the Committee as on March 31, 2024 and attendance of the Members at the Committee Meetings 
held during the financial year ended March 31, 2024 is as under:-
Name of the Member	
No. of Meetings 
Attended
Mr. Ashok Kini (Independent Director) – Chairman
4
Mr. Shiva Kumar (Independent Director)
4
Ms. Vidya Shah$ (Non-executive Director)
1
Mr. Himanshu Kaji^ (Executive Director)
1
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra^ (Independent Director) 
2
$ Appointed as a Member with effect from September 29, 2023.
	
^ Ceased as a Member with effect from September 26, 2023.
	
Brief description of the terms of reference of the Risk Committee inter alia include:
	
1)	
To devise process / framework for management of operational risk
	
2)	
Identifying concerns & risks
	
3)	
Evaluating risks as to consequences & likelihoods
	
4)	
Assessment of options for Risk Management
	
5)	
Prioritizing the Risk Management efforts
 
6) 
Development of Risk Management Plans
	
7)	
Authorization for the implementation of the Risk Management Plans
	
8)	
Tracking the Risk management efforts and manage accordingly
	
9)	
Follow on Budgeting-Variance Analysis
	
10)	 Design, develop and implement various measures for cyber security as may be required.
	
The Risk Committee has framed and implemented a Risk Management Framework and Strategy. The Company did not 
have any exposure in commodity price and hedging activities during the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
E)	 Committee of Independent Directors
 
The Company has a Committee of Independent Directors comprising of all the Independent Directors. During the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, the Committee met once on August 4, 2023, which was attended by all the Independent 
Directors. 
	
Brief description of the terms of reference of the Committee of the Independent Directors inter alia include: -
	
1)	
To consider and recommend to the Board the Scheme(s) of Arrangement involving the Company.
 
2) 
Evaluation of the performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Chairman and the Board as a whole in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
 
3) 
Assessing the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Management and the Board 
 
4) 
Recommend to the Board all such matters as may be specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India and 
other regulators/authorities from time to time.
General Body Meetings
The last 3 AGMs of the Company were held through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means in accordance with the 
Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI from time to time.
The details regarding the date, time and number of special resolutions passed at the said AGMs are as under:
Financial Year
Date
Time
No. of Special 
Resolutions passed
2022-2023
September 26, 2023
4.00 p.m.
2
2021-2022
September 2, 2022
4.00 p.m.
2
2020-2021
September 3, 2021
4.00 p.m.
1
Resolution passed through Postal Ballot
There were no resolutions passed through postal ballot during the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
The resolution, if any, to be passed through Postal Ballot during the current financial year will be taken up as and when 
necessary, in the manner provided in the Act and the Listing Regulations.
Means of Communication
The financial results, press releases and the presentation made to the Investors/Analysts are submitted to the Stock Exchanges 
and are also uploaded on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com. The financial results are generally published 
in Free Press Journal (English) and Nav Shakti (Marathi).
I.	
General Shareholder Information
i.
AGM: Date, time and venue/ mode
Friday, September 27, 2024 at 4.00 P.M. through Video Conferencing /  
Other Audio-Visual Means (VC/ OAVM)
ii.
Financial Year:
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
iii.
Book Closure dates:
September 18, 2024 to September 26, 2024
iv.
Dividend payment date:
On and from the date of AGM
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
171
172
II.	
Listing of Securities on Stock Exchanges:
	
a.	
Equity Shares
	
	
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on:
Sr. 
No.
Name and address of the Stock Exchange	
Trading Symbol
i)
BSE Limited (BSE)
P J Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001
532922
ii)
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE),  
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051
EDELWEISS
	
	
The Company has paid the listing fees for the financial year ending March 31, 2025, to the Stock Exchanges. 
ISIN of the Equity Shares of the Company: INE532F01054
	
b.	
Non-convertible Debentures
	
	
The Company has issued Secured Non-convertible Debentures (NCDs) on private placement and through public 
issuances. Some of the NCDs are listed on BSE.
	
	
The Company has paid the listing fees to BSE for the financial year ending March 31, 2025.
	
	
Debenture Trustees:
	
	
The details of the Debenture Trustees for the NCDs issued by the Company are as under:
Beacon Trusteeship Limited 
5W, 5th Floor, The Metropolitan, 
E-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East),  
Mumbai – 400 051 
Tel.: +91 22 26558759 
Email: compliance@beacontrustee.co.in 
Website: www.beacontrustee.co.in
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited  
Windsor, 6
th Floor,  
Office No. 604, C.S.T. Road, Kalina, 
Santacruz (East), 
Mumbai – 400 098 
Tel.: +91 22 49220555 
Email: dt.mumbai@ctltrustee.com 
Website: www.catalysttrustee.com
III.	 Market Price Data
	
Stock Market price data for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and high/ low of market price of the Company’s 
equity shares traded at BSE and NSE during each month of the financial year, are as under:
Month
BSE
NSE
High (`)
Low (`)
No. of  
shares traded
High (`)
Low (`)
No. of  
shares traded
Apr-23
68.52
52.55
37,48,405
68.20 
52.70
4,77,19,385
May-23
71.36
59.30
83,93,690
71.45
59.20
12,67,29,103
Jun-23
68.21
37.43
1,64,53,198
68.40
35.00
3,22,07,054
Jul-23
51.25
47.31
21,63,909
51.30
47.45
2,03,73,000
Aug-23
57.45
43.67
85,58,898
57.50
43.70
11,12,92,010
Sep-23
62.50
52.25
1,24,55,173
62.55
52.00
13,91,54,891
Oct-23
77.06
59.37
1,85,43,978
77.05
59.35
24,83,06,634
Nov-23
75.95
59.36
1,75,13,098
76.00
59.45
24,78,68,567
Dec-23
87.80
69.54
2,38,16,849
87.80
69.40
27,86,91,288
Jan-24
80.04
69.77
1,13,63,533
80.10
69.75
9,26,88,817
Feb-24
81.18
66.00
1,42,53,483
81.20
65.90
14,80,98,752
Mar-24
80.00
62.35
58,00,903
80.10
62.35
6,28,07,338
IV.	 Performance of share price in comparison with the broad – based indices viz., NSE Nifty and BSE 
Sensex:
V.	
Registrar and Transfer Agent:
	
a.	
Equity Shares
	
	
Link Intime India Private Limited,
	
	
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400 083
	
	
Tel: +91 81081 16767 Fax: +91 22 4918 6060
	
	
e-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in Website: www.linkintime.co.in
	
b.	
Non-Convertible Debentures
Link Intime India Private Limited
C 101, 247 Park,  
L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai - 400 083
Tel: +91 81081 16767
Fax: +91 22 4918 6060
Email: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,  
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, 
Mandal, Hyderabad - 500 032
Tel: +91 40 6716 2222
Fax: +91 40 6716 1563
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
173
174
VI.	 Share Transfer System: The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form on BSE and NSE. 
99.94% of the outstanding equity shares of the Company are held in dematerialised form. Transfer of equity shares in 
dematerialised form are effected through the Depositories without any involvement of the Company.
VII.	 Distribution of shareholding of the Company as on March 31, 2024 was as under:-
No. of Equity Shares
No. of Shareholders
% of Shareholders
No. of shares held
% of Shares held
1 - 500
2,06,128
87.4613
2,03,69,746
2.1583
501 - 1000
13,546
5.7476
1,09,37,599
1.1589
1001 - 2000
7,256
3.0788
1,09,54,993
1.1607
2001 - 3000
2,555
1.0841
65,51,591
0.6942
3001 - 4000
1,266
0.5372
45,51,872
0.4823
4001 - 5000
1,114
0.4727
53,04,096
0.5620
5001 - 10000
1,764
0.7485
1,31,17,642
1.3899
10001 and above
2,050
0.8698
8,71,99,7487
92.3937
Total
2,35,679
100
94,37,85,026
 100
	
Shareholding Pattern of the Company as on March 31, 2024 was as under:-
Sr. 
No.
Category
No. of Shares held
% of Holding
1)
Promoters and Promoters Group
30,91,69,490
32.7585
2)
Mutual Funds / FIs / Banks / Insurance Companies
2,55,04,982
2.7024
3)
FII’s/ FPI’s
27,26,45,069
28.8885
4)
NRIs / Foreign Nationals / Foreign Bodies Corporate
4,13,97,763
4.3864
5)
Public and Others
25,01,70,942
26.5071
6)
Non-Promoter- Non-Public
4,48,96,780
4.7571
Total
94,37,85,026
100
VIII.	Dematerialisation of shares:
	
As on March 31, 2024, 94,32,04,546 equity shares representing 99.94% of the outstanding equity shares of the Company 
were held in dematerialised form and 5,80,480 equity shares representing 0.06% of the outstanding equity shares of the 
Company were held in physical form. At the end of each quarter, reconciliation of share capital audit is conducted 
by the Secretarial Auditors to reconcile the total issued capital, listed capital and capital held by the Depositories in 
dematerialised form and is submitted to the stock exchanges.
IX.	 Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on 
equity:
	
The Company has not issued GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any other instrument convertible into equity shares.
X.	 Details of equity shares lying in the suspense account pursuant to the Listing Regulations:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Details
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of shares
1)
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the beginning of the year
94
7,530
2)
Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of 
shares from the suspense account during the year
-
-
3)
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the 
suspense account during the year
-
-
4)
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the end of the year
94
7,530
	
The voting rights on above shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the same.
XI.	 Plant locations – Not Applicable
XII.	 Credit ratings: The credit ratings obtained by the Company during the year 2023-24 are as under: -
Rating Agency
Rating
Instruments
Date of revision 
(if any)
Remarks
Brickwork Rating
BWR AA-
Non-convertible Debentures
No revision
-
BWR
PP-MLA AA-
Principal Protected Market 
Linked Debentures
CARE
CARE A
Non-convertible Debentures
January 3, 2024
CARE A from CARE A+
CARE A1
Short term borrowing
CARE A1 from CARE A1+
CRISIL
CRISIL A+
Non-convertible Debentures
December 18, 2023
CRISIL A+ from CRISIL AA-
CRISIL
PP-MLD-A+
Principal Protected Market 
Linked Debentures
CRISIL PP-MLD-A+ from 
CRISIL PP-MLD-AA-
CRISIL A1+
Short term borrowing
No revision
-
ACUITE
ACUITE A+
Non-convertible Debentures
July 3, 2023
ACUITE A+ from ACUITE AA-
ICRA
ICRA A+
Non-convertible debentures
No revision
-
	
Other Disclosures
	
i.	
In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated the Related Party 
Transactions Policy, which is available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
	
	
All the Related Party Transactions entered by the Company during the year ended March 31, 2024, were at arm’s 
length and in the ordinary course of business. The Company has not entered into transactions with the Promoters, 
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, which may have potential conflict of interest with the Company and its 
subsidiaries.
	
	
The Company did not enter into any materially significant related party transactions having a potential conflict with 
the interest of the Company and its subsidiaries at large. Transactions with the related parties are disclosed in the 
financial statements.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
175
176
	
ii.	
The financial statements (both standalone and consolidated) have been prepared in accordance with the applicable 
Accounting Standards.
	
iii.	
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism to report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or 
suspected fraud or violation of our Code of Conduct and confirms that no personnel have been denied access to 
the Audit Committee.
	
iv.	
Code for Prohibition of Insider Trading in the securities of the Company is available on the website of the Company at: 
www.edelweissfin.com
	
v.	
In accordance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated the Policy for determining 
Material Subsidiaries, which is available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
	
	
The details of the material subsidiaries of the Company as required under the Listing Regulations are as under: -
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Material 
Subsidiaries
Details of Incorporation
Details of Statutory Auditors  
as at March 31, 2024
Place
Date
Name
Date of 
appointment
1.
ECL Finance Limited
Mumbai
July 18, 2005
M/s. Chetan T Shah & Co.
September 24, 2022
M/s. V.C. Shah & Co.
December 3, 2021
2.
Edelweiss Asset 
Reconstruction 
Company Limited
Mumbai
October 5, 2007
M/s. Nangia & Co LLP
November 10, 2021
3.
Edel Finance Company 
Limited
Mumbai
October 16, 1989
M/s. Dhiraj & Dheeraj
November 25, 2021
4.
Edelweiss Life Insurance 
Company Limited
Mumbai
November 25, 
2009
M/s. K. S. Aiyar & Co.
September 15, 2021
M/s. B. K. Khare & Co.
September 28, 2022
5.
Nido Home Finance 
Limited
Mumbai
May 30, 2008
M/s. NGS & Co. LLP
November 3, 2021
	
vi.	
There have been no instances where the Board has not accepted the recommendations of any Committee of the 
Board, during the financial year.
	
vii.	 The statutory auditors of the Company, M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Co. LLP were paid the consolidated amount of 
` 12.23 million (including out of pocket expenses of ` 0.25 million) by the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
services provided by them till the conclusion of the 28th AGM held on September 26, 2023 and M/s. Nangia & Co 
LLP were appointed as Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 26th AGM and were paid the consolidated amount 
of ` 48.09 million (including out of pocket expenses of ` 0.52 million) by the Company and its subsidiaries for the 
services provided by them during the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
	
viii.	 Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013:
	
	
a)	
Number of complaints filed during the financial year	
	
	
: Nil 
	
	
b)	
Number of complaints disposed of during the financial year 	
	
: Nil 
	
	
c)	
Number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year 	
	
: Nil.
	
ix)	
The Company has complied with the corporate governance requirements as prescribed in Regulations 17 to 27, 
46(2)(b) to (i) and Schedule V of Chapter IV of the Listing Regulations.
	
x)	
The Company has adopted the discretionary requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule II - the financial 
statements are accompanied with an unmodified audit report.
	
xi)	
The disclosures on loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested 
are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
	
xii)	 Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities
	
	
There is no agreement impacting the management and control of the Company or impose any restriction or create 
any liability upon the Company.
	
xiii)	 CEO / CFO Certification
	
	
The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board, the requirements of the Listing Regulations, with regard to financial 
statements.
	
xiv)	 Compliance Certificate
	
	
Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, a certificate issued by M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company, certifying the compliance by the Company with the provisions of the Corporate 
Governance forms part of this Report.
	
	
Address for correspondence:
	
	
For any assistance, request or instruction regarding transfer or transmission of securities, dematerialisation of 
securities, change of address, non-receipt of annual report, dividend and interest and any other query relating to 
the securities of the Company, the investors may write to:
The Company Secretary
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited  
Edelweiss House,  
Off C.S.T. Road, Kalina,  
Mumbai - 400 098.
Tel: +91 22 4079 5199
 
E-mail: efsl.shareholders@edelweissfin.com
Website: www.edelweissfin.com
Link Intime India Private Limited
C 101, 247 Park,  
L.B.S Marg,  
Vikhroli (West),  
Mumbai - 400 083. 
Tel: +91 81081 16767
Fax: +91 22 4918 6060
e-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, Mandal,  
Hyderabad - 500 032
Tel: +91 40 6716 2222
Fax: +91 40 6716 1563
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
177
178
Declaration by the Chairman & Managing Director under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 regarding adherence to the Edelweiss Code 
of Conduct
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, it is hereby confirmed that for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Directors and the Senior Management 
Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Edelweiss Code of Conduct.
For and on behalf of the Board
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI 
(LISTING OBLIGATION AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To, 
The Members of 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
Edelweiss House, Off. C. S. T Road, 
Kalina, Mumbai – 400098
We, BNP & Associates, Secretarial Auditors, have examined all relevant records of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
(hereinafter referred as “the Company”) for the purpose of certifying the compliance ensured by the Company for disclosure 
requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for the Listed Companies, as prescribed under Regulations 17 to 
27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of Chapter IV of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (LODR), for the financial 
year ended 31st March 2024. We have obtained all the information and explanations to the best of our knowledge and belief, 
which were necessary for the purpose of this certification.
We state that completing compliance requirements of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company and our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof as adopted by the Company for ensuring 
the compliance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified for listed company in the LODR for FY 2023-24.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company during the financial year.
For BNP & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400 
PR No. 637/2019
 
Avinash Bagul 
Partner 
Date: 14th May 2024 	
FCS No. 5578/ CP No. 19862 
Place: Mumbai 	
UDIN: F005578F000363419
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
179
180
Annexure- VII
	BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORTING (BRSR)
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 	
Details
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L99999MH1995PLC094641
2
Name of the Listed Entity
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited  
(EFSL/the Company)
3
Year of incorporation
1995
4
Registered office address
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina,  
Mumbai – 400098
5
Corporate address
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina, 
Mumbai – 400098
6
E-mail
efsl.shareholders@edelweissfin.com
7
Telephone
+91 22 4079 5199
8
Website
www.edelweissfin.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
Financial year ended March 31, 2024
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
i)	
BSE Limited
ii)	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
` 94,37,85,026
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of 
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR report
Tarun Khurana, Company Secretary
Telephone Number: +91 22 4079 5199
E-mail id: efsl.shareholders@edelweissfin.com  
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report 
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on 
a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, 
taken together).
The disclosures in this Report are made on a standalone 
basis.
14
Name of assurance provider
 - Not Applicable
15
Type of assurance provided
 - Not Applicable
II. 	 Products/Services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main activity
Description of Business activity
% of Turnover  
of the entity
1
Financial and Insurance Services 
Other financial activities, financial service 
activities	 (except insurance and pension funding)
100%
17.	 Products/services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Investment Banking & Holding 
Company activities
66190 & 64200
100%
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
N. A.
1
1
International
N. A.
-
-
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
1
International (No. of Countries)
-
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
The contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the Company for the financial year ended March 
31, 2024 was 0.41%.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
The Company is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India as a Merchant Banker. The Company 
is also engaged in holding company activities comprising of development, managerial and financial support to the 
business of Edelweiss group entities.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled): Refer table below for Employees.
S. 
No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
15
9
60%
6
40%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3
Total employees (D + E)
15
9
60%
6
40%
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
	
	
The Company does not have any worker and differently abled employees, hence, the information relating to them 
are not reported.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
181
182
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors (Refer Note 1)
6
2
33%
Key Management Personnel (Refer Note 2)
2
1
50%
	
Notes:
	
1 – Includes Managing Director and the Executive Directors	
	
2 – Comprises of Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary only
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
7%
-
7%
20%
30%
23%
38%
18%
33%
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity*
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1
ECap Securities and Investments Limited
Subsidiary
100%
Yes, 
the 
subsidiaries 
of the Company also 
participate 
in 
the 
Business 
Responsibility 
initiatives of the Company 
to the extent possible.
2
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
Subsidiary
100%
3
ECap Equities Limited
Subsidiary
100%
4
Edel Finance Company Limited
Subsidiary
100%
5
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services Limited
Subsidiary
100%
6
EdelGive Foundation
Subsidiary
100%
7
ECL Finance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
8
Nido Home Finance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
9
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
10
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited
Subsidiary
59.82%
11
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
Subsidiary
 100%
12
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Subsidiary
100%
13
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited
Subsidiary
100%
14
Allium Finance Private Limited
Subsidiary
88.28%
15
Edel Investments Limited
Subsidiary
100%
16
Edelcap Securities Limited
Subsidiary
100%
17
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited
Subsidiary
100%
18
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited
Subsidiary
51%
19
Comtrade Commodities Services Limited
Subsidiary
100%
20
Edelweiss Securities and Investments Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
21
Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited
Subsidiary
75.08%
22
Zuno General Insurance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
23
Edelweiss Real Assets Managers Limited
Subsidiary
100%
24
Sekura India Management Limited
Subsidiary
100%
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity*
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
25
EC International Limited
Subsidiary
100%
26
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte. Limited
Subsidiary
100%
27
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. Limited
Subsidiary
100%
	
	
*% shares held either directly or through subsidiaries
VI.	 CSR details
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
	
(ii)	
Turnover: ` 10,276.82 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iii)	 Net worth: ` 54,628.43 million as on March 31, 2024
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in  Place 
(Yes/ No)  (if 
Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redressal 
policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
Refer Note 
below
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Investors 
(both Equity 
Shares 
and Non-
convertible 
Debentures)
470
Nil
368
Nil
Employees 
and workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Customers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Value Chain 
Partners
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other (please 
specify)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Various Policies framed in this regard have been uploaded on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
183
184
	
The Board has constituted the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee to redress the complaints of the investors. The 
Company also has a Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism to report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or 
suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct.
	
The investors can send emails to the Company at efsl.shareholders@edelweissfin.com and customers/clients at MB.efsl@
edelweissfin.com / InvestorRelations.PublicAlts@edelweissfin.com for any grievances.
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
S. 
No.
Material 
identified 
issue
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case 
of risk, 
approach 
to adapt 
or 
mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
1
Social 
responsibility 
towards 
society
Opportunity
Opportunity:
The Company has been contributing 
a portion of its profits each year 
to support projects which fulfil a 
social obligation. Thus, returning to 
society has been ingrained in the 
Company’s philosophy.
-
Positive:
The Company recognises the 
importance of being socially 
responsible and playing a 
part in the development of 
under-privileged.
2
Privacy and 
Data Security
Opportunity
Opportunity:
The Company has a well-designed 
information security structure 
(software, expert manpower and 
operational practices) which enables 
the Company to reduce cyber 
threats and ensure privacy, data 
security for all our stakeholders’ 
privileged information thereby also 
facilitating business expansion.
-
Positive:
Easier business process 
automation, increased 
trust and credibility of 
stakeholders, improved data 
management and protected 
brand reputation.
Negative:
Breach of Privacy and Data 
Security
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs advocates nine Principles referred as P-1 to P–9 as under:-
P – 1
Businesses should conduct and govern the business with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent 
and accountable
P – 2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P – 3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of the employees including those in their value chains
P – 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
P – 5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P – 6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P – 7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
P – 8
Businesses should promote the inclusive growth and equitable development
P – 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to the consumers in a responsible manner
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
1
2*
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each 
Principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Y 
Y *
 Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b.	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Yes, the Policies have been approved by the Board
c.	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
The Policies are available on the website of the Company at 
www.edelweissfin.com.
2.
Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes, the Policies have been translated into procedures to the 
extent relevant.
3.
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Yes, the Policies extend to the value chain partners to the 
extent relevant and necessary.
4.
Name of the national and international codes/ 
certifications/labels/standards 
(e.g. 
 
 
 
Forest 
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
The Policies adopted by the Company are in conformity with the 
applicable statutes/ guidelines/ polices/ rules and regulations 
etc. The Information Security Management Systems (ISMS) & 
Privacy Information Management System of the Company are 
certified under ISO/IEC 27001 & ISO 27701 respectively.
5.
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
The Company has defined the goals/targets with defined 
timelines to the extent possible.
6.
Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
The key parameters in Policies are tracked and recorded for 
learning and development to enhance our Policies.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.
Statement by Director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
One of our top priorities is conducting business in an ethical and sustainable way. Discussions about key ESG issues 
are ongoing with all of our stakeholders, and we have determined that some of the most crucial ones are environmental 
footprint, efficient and transparent customer service, corporate governance, risk management, human capital 
development and community engagement.
The Company’s ESG journey is supervised by our highly qualified and diverse Board and ESG expert executives. We 
have implemented procedures such as a Comprehensive Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, a sound risk culture, 
digitized business operations, investments in developing fields of cyber security and information security, employee 
welfare policies, resource monitoring, setting up goals to reduce consumption of fuel, paper and electricity among 
other procedures.
8.
Details 
of 
the 
highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation 
and 
oversight 
of 
the 
BusinessResponsibility policy (ies).
The Board of Directors and the respective Committees
9.
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide 
details.
The Company has an ESG Forum to oversee the sustainability 
related issues. The Forum is Chaired by a Non-executive 
Director of the Company.
* Considering the nature of business of the Company, Principle - 2 may not be strictly applicable to the Company. 
However, the Company endeavour to comply with all the applicable rules and regulations w. r. t. its services. We attempt to 
be transparent, fair in our advice and responsive to customer requirements and feedback.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
185
186
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any 
other committee
Frequency (Annually/  Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
Yes, the Board has constituted various Committees which meet periodically 
and reviews the Policies from time to time as may be necessary and, 
provides their recommendations to the Board.
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and, 
rectification of any non-compliances
11.
Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working 
of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, provide name of the 
agency.
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
No, the Polices are reviewed by the Senior Management. There is no 
independent assessment/evaluation being carried on by any external 
agency, however, the Internal Audit Function of the Company, reviews the 
adherence to the Policies from time to time.
12.	 if answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business (Yes/No)
 Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement 
the policies on specified Principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources available 
for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with 
key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the Essential 
indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be 
voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and 
ethically responsible.
Principle 1:	 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics  / principles covered  under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors (BoD)
2
•	 Familiarisation Programme for the Independent Directors
Kindly refer the Familiarisation Programme section on the website 
of the Company.
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
4
•	 ESG covering evolving BRSR 
•	 Cybersecurity Awareness 
•	 Code of Conduct & Creating a 
Respectful Workplace
 100% 
Employees other than BoD and 
KMPs
5
•	 Cybersecurity Awareness 
•	 Code of Conduct & Creating a 
Respectful Workplace
•	 Fire and Life Safety & Information 
Security,
•	 Prohibition of Insider Trading
100%
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by 
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial 
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on 
the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount  
(in INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
187
188
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, the Company has adopted various policies in relation to ethics, bribery and corruption viz. Anti-Money Laundering 
Policy, Anti-Fraud Policy, Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy, Whistle Blower Policy etc. The Policies can be accessed at 
www.edelweissfin.com.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest:
	
None
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Account payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of account payables
104
85
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
Given the nature of business, 
concentration of purchases and sales is 
not applicable.
b.	
Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
Concentration of 
sales
a.	
Sales to dealer / distributers as % of total sales
b.	
Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales 
are made
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of 
Total sales to dealers / distributors
Share of RPTs in
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
N.A.
N.A.
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
N.A.
N.A.
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties / Total loans & advances)
100%
100%
d.	
Investments (Investments in related parties /
Total Investments made)
100%
100%
Leadership indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programs held
Topics / Principles covered under 
the training
%age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business 
done with such partners) under the 
awareness programs
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) if yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the Company’s Code of Conduct for the Directors and Senior Management Personnel provides guidelines for 
refraining to enter into any transaction or engaging in any practice, directly or indirectly, that would tend to influence the 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel to act in any manner other than in the best interests of the Company.
	
The Code of Conduct requires the Directors and Senior Management Personnel to make full disclosure relating to all 
material, financial and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest that may have a potential conflict of 
interest with the Company and seek the necessary approvals before pursuing any such transactions.
	
The Directors provide an annual affirmation that they have complied with the Code of Conduct requirements during the 
financial year and that there are no instances of conflict of interest during the year. Additionally, under the applicable 
provisions of the Act, every Director has to disclose the names of the Company(ies) / bodies corporate / firms etc. in 
which they have interest/concern including intimation of any change thereto. The disclosures as received are placed 
before the Board. The said disclosures helps the Company and the Board in evaluating the possibility of any present 
or potential conflict of interest. In case, if any Director has a potential conflict, that Director does not participate in 
discussions on those agenda items in which they are interested.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
189
190
Principle 2:	 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe 
Essential indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in  
environmental and social impacts
R&D
In view of the nature of activities carried on by the Company, the question is not applicable.
Capex
2.	
a)	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Since the Company is engaged in the financial services sector, hence, there is a very limited procurement 
requirement which relates to the office infrastructure, IT equipment and services. The Company follows the practice 
of sustainable resourcing, where feasible.
	
b)	
If yes, what percentage of the inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Considering the nature of our business, the opportunities for reusing or recycling products are limited. However, we 
have implemented specific practices to manage waste categories such as plastics (including packaging), e-waste, and 
hazardous waste. For plastics, we use 100% biodegradable plastic garbage bags and we have partnered with a vendor 
to compost/ recycle wet and dry waste in an eco-friendly manner. Our e-waste such as computers, servers, scanners, 
batteries and air conditioners are disposed through registered e-waste vendors. As our services do not involve the 
production or disposal of hazardous waste, we do not generate such waste.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Not Applicable
Leadership indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product/
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes/ 
No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
if yes, provide the 
web-link
Not Applicable
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of 
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
 Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to Total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Nil
Nil
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging) 
Not Applicable
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category:
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as  
% of Total products sold in respective category
Not Applicable
Principle 3:	 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/ A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C /A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
 
N (F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
9
9
100%
9
100%
-
-
9
100%
-
-
Female
6
6
100%
6
100%
6
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
15
15
100%
15
100%
6
40%
9
60%
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
191
192
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
	
	
Not Applicable
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format –
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well- being measures as a % of total revenue of 
the Company
0.02%
0.01%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous FY.
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
87%
Yes
88%
Yes
Gratuity
100%
N.A.
100%
N.A.
ESI
N.A.
Others (Please specify)
N.A.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, our offices are designed to cater to the needs of differently abled employees, workers and visitors.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company views diversity and inclusiveness as an integral part of its growth strategy. With this intent, the Company 
has framed an Equal Opportunity Policy and Human Rights Policy which can be accessed by the employees on the 
intranet.
	
The Company promotes a work culture that embraces diversity and inclusiveness, enabling all employees to bring their 
unique perspective, skills, and experiences to work and create unparalleled value for the stakeholders. The Policy is also 
uploaded on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Return to Work Rate
Retention Rate
Male
N.A.
Female
Total
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? if yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (if Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes,  the   Company   has   always   believed   in   open   and   transparent 
communication.   The   employees   are   encouraged   to   share   their   views 
with the business heads, HR and the senior management.
We follow an open-door policy, wherein any employee irrespective of hierarchy 
has access to the senior management.
Other than Permanent Employees
Not Applicable
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
association(s) or 
Union 
(B)
%  
(B /A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category  
(C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union  
(D)
%  
(D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees 
The Company does not have any employee association(s).
Male 
Female
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees
Male
 9
 9
100%
9
100%
48
42
88%
8
17%
Female
 6
 6
100%
6
100%
16
15
94%
5
31%
Total
15
15
100%
15
100%
64
57
89%
13
20%
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
 9
 9
100%
48
44
92%
Female
 6
 5
83%
16
13
81%
Total
15
14
93%
64
57
89%
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
193
194
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
In view of the activities carried on by the Company, there are no occupational health and safety risks.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
	
The Company has framed a policy on health and safety for the employees. Periodic communications and alerts 
are sent out to employees and awareness sessions are conducted on safety related aspects. Employees are given 
periodic training on fire safety, including evacuation drills.
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes, training programs on the safety of women employees at the workplace is mandatory for all employees.
	
	
During the year, there were no accidents of any employee of the Company whilst at work.
	
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, all employees of the Company are covered under the Company’s health insurance.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Total recordable work-related injuries	
Employees
Nil
Nil
No. of fatalities	
Employees
Nil
Nil
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health  
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
The Company emphasises on the importance of having and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for the employees 
and third-party employees who work in our offices. The Company assesses the health, safety and environmental 
performance. The employees are given training on fire safety and evacuation drills. Fire drills and audits are conducted in 
the office premises to ensure maintenance of safety standards. During the year, there were no accidents of any employee 
of the Company whilst on duty.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Health & Safety
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
Not Applicable
Leadership indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
	
Yes
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
	
The Company ensures compliance with the deduction of statutory dues from employees’ income, including taxes, 
provident fund contributions, professional tax and other applicable obligations. This adherence is regularly updated in 
accordance with relevant regulations. Similarly, our value chain partners (vendors) are contractually obligated to fulfil 
their compliance responsibilities as agreed with the Company.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers
No. of employees/workers that 
are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in 
suitable employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
195
196
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
No specific assessment in this regard has been carried out.
Working Conditions
6.	
Provide  details  of  any  corrective  actions  taken  or  underway  to  address  significant  risks  /  concerns  arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not Applicable
Principle 4:	 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The stakeholders are identified based on their impact on the business and the impact the business would have on them. 
The stakeholders inter alia include customers, employees, investors, Government and the Regulators, communities and 
the society at large.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group  
(Yes/No)
Channels of Communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly/ 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Shareholders 
and Investors
No
Quarterly results, Investor 
presentations, Annual Report,  
Annual General Meeting/ Investor/ 
analysts calls and meet, Media 
releases, Website.
Annually,  
quarterly and 
ongoing
Discussing the 
performance of the 
Company and the 
priorities.
Government 
and Regulators
No
Meetings with key regulatory 
bodies, Written communications, 
Presentations,	Industry associations
Periodic Need 
based
To provide 
recommendations / 
feedbacks on draft 
policies/ consultation 
papers.
Business 
Partners and 
Vendors
No
Channel partner meets, workshops, 
conferences and forums, One-to-
one meetings, Telephonic and email 
communication.
Ongoing and  
need basis
-
Employees
No
Team engagements, focus groups, 
internal communications.
Ongoing and  
need basis
To share updates of 
the Company, health 
and safety related 
information, learning 
and development, 
employee benefits and 
work related updates.
Communities
Yes
Directly and through implementing 
agencies
Ongoing and  
need basis
-
Leadership indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Board of Directors through its various Committees seeks feedback as well as oversees the implementation of the 
initiatives and performance.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). if so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, enhancing value to stakeholders is a continuous process. The customer and investor’s complaints/grievances are 
reviewed for a root cause analysis, which provides us an opportunity to further improve our services.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
The CSR activities of the Company are focused on the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised segments of 
society. The CSR activities are implemented through EdelGIve Foundation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 
Further details in this regard are provided in the Annual Report on CSR activities forming part of the Annual Report for 
FY 2023-24.
Principle 5:	 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total  
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
%  
(B / A)
Total  
(C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
%  
(D / C)
Employees
Permanent
15
15
100%
64
34
53%
Other than 
permanent
-
-
-
Total Employees
15
15
100%
64
34
53%
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
197
198
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category	
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total  
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.  
(B)
% 
(B / A)
 No.  
(C)
%  
(C / A)
 No.  
(E)
% 
(E / D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F / D)
Permanent
Male
9
-
-
9
100%
48
-
-
48
100%
Female
6
-
-
6
100%
16
-
-
16
100%
Other than permanent
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
For details, please refer the ‘Disclosure pursuant to the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, forming part of the Annual Report 
for FY 2023-24.
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of Total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of Total wages
21%
17.50%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, the Company has established a Disciplinary Committee which handles any human rights impacts or issues that 
could potentially surface in the workplace.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
The Company is steadfast in its commitment to respecting and safeguarding human rights. We firmly believe in upholding 
the social and economic dignity and freedom of all employees, regardless of factors such as nationality, gender, race, 
economic status or religion. This conviction is deeply embedded in our policies and demonstrated through our actions. 
The Company has established a range of platforms that serve as avenues for addressing human rights concerns like - 
Disciplinary Committee, POSH, Whistleblower Mechanism, Grievance Redressal Mechanism.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Other human rights related issues
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH upheld
Nil
Nil
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company ensures that the complainant, witnesses and the person(s) against whom the complaint has been made 
are not victimized/discriminated while dealing with the complaints of discrimination and harassment. This is also part of 
our disciplinary mechanism.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
No
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Child labour 
NIL
Forced/involuntary labour 
Sexual harassment 
Discrimination at workplace 
Wages
Others – please specify
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 10 above.
	
Not Applicable
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
199
200
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
None
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Human rights due diligence covers several critical elements, including a well-defined policy commitment that is 
institutionalised. We ensure that our recruitment policy explicitly prohibits the hiring of anyone below 18 years of age. 
Moreover, we have mitigation measures, including a grievance redressal mechanism that enables individuals to raise 
concerns related to human rights.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, our offices are designed to cater to the needs of differently-abled employees and visitors.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) 
that were assessed
Sexual Harassment 
NIL
Discrimination at workplace Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Not Applicable
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Giga Joules) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
416
444
Total fuel consumption (E)
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)
416
444
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
416
444
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / 
Revenue from operations)
0.01
0.01
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.00
0.00
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
-
-
	
*The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the 
year 2022 by World Bank for India which is 22.88
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency- No external agency has been appointed.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) if yes, disclose whether targets set under the 
PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if 
any.
	
Not Applicable
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
201
202
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
7
5
(ii)	
Groundwater
200
 198
(iii)	 Third party water
26
25
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	
Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
233
228
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
226
223
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water consumption / 
Revenue from operations)
0.01
0.01
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.00
0.00
Water intensity in terms of physical output
N.A.
N.A.
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
N.A.
N.A.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency- No external agency has been appointed.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(ii)	
To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(v)	
Others
	
-	
No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
412
334
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
412
334
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency - No independent assessment has been carried out.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
No
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please  
specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
SOx	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Particulate matter (PM)	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Others – please specify	
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency- No external agency has been appointed.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total scope 1 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,	
 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
N.A.
N.A.
Total scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,	
 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
N.A.
N.A.
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations)
N.A.
N.A.
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
N.A.
N.A.
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
N.A.
N.A.
Total scope 1 and scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
N.A.
N.A.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency- No external agency has been appointed.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
Not Applicable
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
203
204
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0.031
0.031
E-waste (B)
0.002
0.059
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.  
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector) 
-
-
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
0.033
0.09
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
0.00
0.00
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.00
0.00
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
N.A.
N.A.
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
N.A.
N.A.
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Recycled
0.11
0.13
(ii)	
Re-used
-
-
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
0.11
0.13
	
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Incineration
-
-
(ii)	
Landfilling
-
-
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency- No independent assessment has been carried out.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
We are committed to minimising waste and promoting recycling in our organisation. The types of waste we primarily 
focus on include food waste, paper, plastic, and e-waste. To reduce plastic waste, we have minimised procuring single 
use plastic and have implemented the use of glass bottles at our office. We use 100% biodegradable plastic garbage 
bags to collect and dispose of dry and wet waste.
	
To reduce paper consumption, we have implemented various measures to digitise processes and minimise the usage of 
paper across our offices. We have also minimised using paper-based office stationery.
	
Regarding e-waste management, we dispose of computers, servers, scanners, UPSs, batteries, air conditioners, and 
other such e-waste through registered vendors.
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of operations/
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
 EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain  
(Yes/ No)
Relevant Web 
link
Not Applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection 
Act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control boards 
or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
Not Applicable
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
205
206
Leadership indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information: 
	
I.	
Name of the area: None
	
II.	
Nature of operations: None
	
III.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
7
5
(ii)	
Groundwater
200
198
(iii)	 Third party water
26
25
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
N.A.
N.A.
(v)	
Others
N.A.
N.A.
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
233
228
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
226
223
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) (Mn)
0.01
0.01
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Into Surface water
	
- No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(ii)	
Into Groundwater
	
- No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(iii)	 Into Seawater
	
- No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
- No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
N.A.
N.A.
(v)	
Others
	
- No treatment
N.A.
N.A.
	
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
 446.38
18,754
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
 446.38
18,754
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - No independent assessment has been carried out.
2.	
Please provide details of Total scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into	CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)	
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
0.000
0.092
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover (mn)
0.000
0.000
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
0.000
0.000
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency - No independent assessment has been carried out.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities.
	
Not Applicable
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of 
the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, 
if any, may be provided along- 
with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
The Company has Corporate Business Continuity Policy which aims to formalise the business continuity program and 
provide guidance on developing, implementing, exercising, and maintaining group-specific business continuity plans 
for respective groups. The Policy’s primary objective is to ensure the recovery of critical and significant processes 
within pre-established timeframes, the restoration of processing sites, and ultimately, the return to a normal operating 
environment.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Not Applicable
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
Not Applicable
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
207
208
Principle 7:	 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential indicators
1.	
(a)	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
The Company is a member of one  Industry Association.
	
(b)	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the Total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to:
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and  
industry chambers/ associations  
(State/National)
 1.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) 
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
No corrective actions required since there were no such cases.
Leadership indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. 
No.
Public Policy 
advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
others – please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
NIL
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of social impact assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY (in 
INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.	
	
The Company has established the mechanism to receive and redress the grievances of the community which can be 
accessed at the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
Not Applicable in view of the 
nature of the activities carried on 
by the Company
Directly from within India
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns - Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage 
cost
Location
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
Nil
Nil
Semi- urban
Nil
Nil
Urban
Nil
Nil
Metropolitian
100%
100%
	
Leadership Indicators
	
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken 
Not applicable
	
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
S. 
No.
State
Aspirational district
Amount spent (in `)
During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Company contributed an amount of ` 125 million towards 
the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, including the amount spent in the designated aspirational 
districts identified by the Government bodies.
	
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
	
Since the Company is engaged in the financial services sector, hence, there is a very limited procurement 
requirement which relates to the office infrastructure, IT equipment and services. The Company source its 
requirements from the local and small vendors, where feasible.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
209
210
	
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
	
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved:
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
	
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries  
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
Please refer Annual Report on CSR 
forming part of the Annual Report for  
FY 2023-24
18,74,866
100%
Principle 9:	 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The clients of the Company provides the feedback/complaints through emails, letters, through Regulatory Authorities 
etc. On receipt, queries and the complaints are segregated and analysed and then responded to by the respective teams 
with the suitable response/resolution as per the TATs defined internally.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not Applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Data privacy 
NIL
Advertising 
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services 
Restrictive Trade 
Practices Unfair Trade 
Practices
Other
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
 Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) if available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, the Company has a policy and can be accessed by the employees at the intranet.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
None
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
None
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
None
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
None
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
211
212
To the Members of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial statements of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Holding Company”), its subsidiaries and trusts (the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and its trusts together 
referred to as “the Group”) comprising of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024 the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss, including other comprehensive income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow and the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a 
summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the Consolidated 
Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of reports of other auditors on Separate Financial Statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries 
and trusts, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as 
amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2024, their Consolidated Profit 
including Other Comprehensive Income, their Consolidated Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of 
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have 
fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures 
designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 
results of our audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them 
in their audit reports furnished to us by the management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, 
provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Leadership indicators
1. 
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
 
Not Applicable
2. 
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
 
Not Applicable
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
Not Applicable
4. 
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable). If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of 
the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No).
 
Not Applicable
 For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
213
214
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment of receivables from financing and other business
(as described in note 5.6, 12, 12.1, 13, 13.2 & 56.7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Group’s impairment provision for receivables from 
financing business is based on the expected credit loss 
approach laid down under Ind AS 109.
Ind AS 109 requires the Group to provide for impairment of its 
financial assets as at the reporting date using the expected 
credit loss (ECL) approach. ECL involves an estimation of 
probability - weighted loss on financial instruments over their 
life, considering reasonable and supportable information 
about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of 
future economic conditions which could impact the credit 
quality of the Group’s financial assets (loan portfolio).
In the process, a significant degree of judgement has been 
applied by the management for:
a)	
Staging of financial assets (i.e. classification in 
‘significant increase in credit risk’ (“SICR”) and ‘default’ 
categories);
b)	
Grouping of the loan portfolio under homogenous 
pools in order to determine probability of default on a 
collective basis;
c)	
Assigning internal rating grades to customers for which 
external rating is not available;
d)	
Calibrating external ratings-linked probability of default 
to align with past default rates;
e)	
Applying assumptions regarding the probability of 
various scenarios and discounting rates for different 
loan products;
f)	
Estimation of management overlay for macro- economic 
factors bearing a correlation with the credit quality of 
the loans.
In view of such high degree of management’s judgement 
involved in estimation of ECL, it is considered as a key audit 
matter.
The audit procedures, including those reported in the 
auditor’s report of respective subsidiary companies, 
comprised the following:
a)	
Read and assessed the Group’s accounting policy for 
impairment of financial assets and its compliance with 
Ind AS 109 and the governance framework approved 
by the Board of Directors pursuant to Reserve Bank of 
India guidelines issued on March 13, 2020.
b)	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
controls for staging of loans based on their past-due 
status. Tested samples of performing (stage 1) loans 
to assess whether any loss indicators were present 
requiring them to be classified under stage 2 or 3.
c)	
Performed procedures to test the inputs used in the 
ECL computation, on a sample basis.
d)	
Tested assumptions used by the management in 
determining the overlay for macro- economic factors.
e)	
Assessed the additional considerations applied by the 
management for staging of loans as SICR or default 
categories in view of Company’s policy on OTR.
f)	
Tested the arithmetical accuracy of computation of ECL 
provision performed by the Company in spreadsheets.
g)	
Read the report on ECL model reviewed by external 
consultant during the year.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
IT systems and controls
The reliability and security of IT systems play a key role in 
the financial reporting process of the Group. The Group’s 
key financial accounting and reporting processes are highly 
automated, whereby any gaps in the IT control environment 
could result in a material misstatement of the financial 
accounting and reporting records.
Therefore, the assessment of the general IT controls and 
the application controls specific to the accounting and 
preparation of financial information is considered to be a key 
audit matter.
The audit procedures assisted by our IT specialists, including 
those reported in the auditor’s report of respective subsidiary 
companies, comprised the following:
a)	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
Company’s IT access controls over the information 
systems that are important to financial reporting and 
various interfaces, configuration and other identified 
application controls.
b)	
Tested IT general controls (logical access, changes 
management and aspects of IT operational controls). 
This included testing requests for access to systems 
were reviewed and authorized.
c)	
Tested the periodic review of access rights. Also tested 
requests of changes to systems for approval and 
authorization.
d)	
In addition to the above, tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of certain automated controls that were 
considered as key internal controls.
e)	
We have relied on SOC-2 type II report provided by 
vendor for oracle fusion to ensure compliance with audit 
trail.
f)	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of 
compensating controls in case deficiencies were 
identified and, where necessary, extended the scope of 
our substantive audit procedures.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
215
216
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Valuation of Investments in Security Receipts (SR) for Edelweiss Assets Reconstruction Company Limited
(as described in note 5.11, 13 & 55 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The fair value of SRs is determined through discounted cash 
flow method which involves management judgement using 
level 3 inputs such as projection of future cash flows and 
expenses.
The management has involved credit rating agencies for 
valuation of SR.
Considering the fair valuation of investments is significant to 
overall consolidated financial statements and the degree of 
management’s judgment involved in the estimate, any error 
in the estimate could lead to material misstatement in the 
consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, it is considered as a key audit matter.
The audit procedures those reported in the auditor’s report 
of a subsidiary company, comprised the following:
a)	
Assessment of internal controls over measurement 
of fair value and evaluating the methodologies, 
inputs, judgments made and assumptions used by 
management in determining fair values.
b)	
Evaluated rationale of the models and accounting 
treatment applied. Compared observable inputs 
against independent sources and externally available 
market data for sample cases.
c)	
Performed testing on a sample basis of key inputs as 
mentioned above to validate the reasonableness of the 
input values.
d)	
Assessed disclosures included in the Financial 
Statements with respect to such fair valuation.
Consolidation of Trusts
(as described in note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Group sets up trusts to acquire stressed assets for the 
purpose of carrying on the activity of Securitisation and Asset 
Reconstruction. These Trusts issue SRs which represent the 
beneficial undivided right, title and interest in the assets of 
the respective trust to the beneficiaries. The Group acts as 
assets manager in respect of these trusts and consolidates 
and trusts which it controls.
As per Ind-AS 110 Consolidated Financial Statements. the 
Company needs to consolidate the entity when it controls 
it. Control is achieved when the Company is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power over the investee. To assess control various 
factors need to be considered based on relevant facts and 
circumstances.
Considering the significant management judgement and 
estimate involved in assessing control, we have considered 
this a key audit matter.
The audit procedures those reported in the auditor’s report 
of a subsidiary company, comprised the following:
a)	
We have understood the structure of all the trusts 
managed by the Company and reviewed the beneficial 
interest. the waterfall mechanism of distribution of 
returns and other relevant clauses of the trust deeds.
b)	
We have obtained and reviewed the workings made 
by the management to assess the variability of returns 
from the recovery in the trusts based on estimated 
recovery in the trusts.
c)	
We have read and understood the management’s policy 
on the assessment of the percentage of variability for 
the Company to be classified from agent to principal for 
the purpose of consolidation, in accordance with Ind 
AS110.
d)	
We have verified the consolidation of these trusts done 
by the Company.
e)	
We have assessed disclosures included in the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements with respect 
to these assets in accordance with Ind AS 107 and Ind 
AS 110.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Valuation of Purchase or originated credit impaired assets (POCI)
(as described in note 12.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The trusts that are consolidated, have assets on their books 
which are impaired and accordingly in accordance with Ind 
AS 109 classified as purchased or originated credit impaired 
assets (“POCI”). The Company has POCI (net of impairment) 
assets amounting to ` 36,293.95 millions as disclosed in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as at March 31, 2024.
These assets are measured using projected cash flows 
based on management estimates of recovery and then 
discounted at the credit adjusted effective interest rate.
Further, the management has made an assessment on each 
POCI asset to ascertain future recoverability estimates. In 
making this assessment, the management has used several 
estimates, assumptions and sources of information (both 
internal and external), including but not limited to quality 
of collateral available, external credit reports, economic 
forecasts for future expected performance of the underlying 
companies etc. The assumptions and estimates used by the 
management may vary and actual results may differ from the 
estimates and assumptions.
Considering the significant management estimate and 
judgement involved in assessing cash flows and the discount 
rate, we have considered this as a key audit matter.
The procedures conducted by the subsidiary’s auditors, 
as reported by them, focused on assessing the adequacy 
of the valuation of purchased or originated credit-impaired 
assets. This assessment involved undertaking the following 
procedures:
a)	
For POCI assets, understood methodology applied by 
the management to value these assets including the 
key inputs in that process which included future cash 
flow projections and the calculation of credit adjusted 
effective interest rate for discounting those cash flows 
and tested for samples these key inputs and estimates 
used.
b)	
Tested the operating effectiveness of the controls for 
collating the information for future recovery estimates 
and past collections records.
c)	
Verified on a sample basis the calculation of the credit 
adjusted effective interest rate used for the purpose of 
discounting these assets.
d)	
Verified the arithmetical accuracy of the valuation of the 
POCI assets using the expected cash flow and discount 
rate performed by the Company using spreadsheets.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Board report and Annual report, but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
our auditor’s report thereon. The Board report and Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this 
auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form 
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the Consolidated Financial Statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
217
218
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated 
statement of changes in equity of the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group 
are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
of the assets of their respective companies and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding 
Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group 
are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the 
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of their Companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group of which we are the independent auditors, to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the Financial Statements of such 
entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other 
auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matters
a)	
We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of:
	
•	
27 subsidiaries, whose financial statements include total assets of ` 455,102.16 million as at March 31, 2024 and 
total revenues of ` 71,219.36 million and net cash inflow of ` 62.95 million for the year ended on that date. These 
financial statement and other financial information have been audited by other auditors, which financial statements, 
other financial information and auditor’s reports have been furnished to us by the management.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries companies, and our report in terms of sub- sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far 
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries companies, is based solely on the report(s) of such other auditors.
b)	
The actuarial valuation of liabilities of Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company Limited (ETLIFE) for life policies in force 
and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at March 31, 2024 is the 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
219
220
responsibility of ETLIFE’s Appointed Actuary (“the Appointed Actuary”). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities for 
life policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at March 
31, 2024 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are 
in accordance with Ind AS 104 “Insurance Contracts”, Ind AS 109 “Financial Instruments”, the guidelines and norms 
issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (‘IRDAI’) and the Institute of Actuaries of India 
in concurrence with IRDAI. The auditors have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming 
their opinion on the valuation of liabilities for life policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been 
discontinued but liability exists in financial statement of the ETLIFE.
c)	
The actuarial valuation of liabilities Zuno General Insurance Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance 
Company Limited (ZGIL)) for Incurred but Not Reported and Incurred but Not Enough Reported claims of ZGIL as at 
March 31, 2024 is the responsibility of ZGIL’s Appointed Actuary. The actuarial valuation of these liabilities has been duly 
certified by the ZGIL’s Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance with 
Ind AS 104 “Insurance Contracts”, the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India 
in concurrence with IRDAI. The auditors have relied on the ZGIL’s Appointed Actuary’s Certificate for expressing their 
conclusion in this regard.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, 
is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other 
auditors and the Financial Statements certified by the Management.
The comparative financial information of the Company for year ended March 31, 2023 were audited by predecessor auditor 
who expressed an unmodified opinion on those consolidated financial statements dated May 26, 2023 Accordingly, we do 
not express any opinion, as the case may be, on the figures reported in the consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India 
in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information of the subsidiary companies, incorporated 
in India, as noted in the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on 
separate financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph 
we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements;
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of 
the other auditors.
	
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow and Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements;
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representation received from the directors of the Holding Company as on March 31, 
2024 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors 
who are appointed under Section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies, none of the directors of the Group’s 
companies, incorporated in India, is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
	
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2”;
	
(g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of 
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on the consideration of reports of other statutory auditors of the Subsidiaries 
incorporated in India, the remuneration paid by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries incorporated in India to their 
directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act.
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements as also the other financial information of the subsidiaries, as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:
	
	
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its Consolidated financial 
position of the Group in its Consolidation Financial Statements – Refer Note 51.1 (a) to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
	
ii.	
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts 
– Refer Note 81 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group;
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, incorporated in India during the year ended March 
31, 2024.
	
	
iv.	
a)	
The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief 
as disclosed in the note 66(A) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the respective Holding Company or any of 
such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b)	
The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and its which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
221
222
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
as disclosed in the note 66(B) to the Consolidate Financial Statements, no funds have been received by 
the respective Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries from any persons(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c)	
Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other 
auditors’ notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-
clause (a) and (b) contain any material mis-statement.
	
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries companies incorporated in India during the 
year in respect of the same declared for the previous year is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in note 73.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the respective 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test checks and that performed by the respective auditors of the 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under 
the Act, the Holding Company and subsidiaries have used an accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of our audit we did not 
come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
	
	
Trusts incorporated in India and included in the consolidated financial statements are not Companies under 
the Act and provision of Rule 11 (g) is not applicable to Trusts.
	
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 1, 2023, reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention is not applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVK9633
Place	: Mumbai 
Date	 : May 14, 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH UNDER THE HEADING ‘’REPORT ON 
OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN 
DATE ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EDELWEISS FINANCIAL 
SERVICES LIMITED
Based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other 
financial information of the subsidiary companies, incorporated in India, as noted in the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we state that:
3(xxi) There are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in their report on Companies (Auditors Report) 
Order, 2020 of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements except for following where the respective 
auditor have reported unfavorable or adverse remarks in their audit report to the principal auditor.
S. 
No.
Name
CIN
Holding / 
Subsidiary
Clause number of the 
Caro Report which is 
unfavorable or adverse
1.
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
U67100MH2007PLC174759
Subsidiary
iii (c) and iii (d)
2.
Nido Home Finance Limited (formerly 
Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited)
U65922MH2008PLC182906
Subsidiary
iii (c) and iii (d)
3.
Ecap Securities & Investments Limited
U67190TG2008PLC057122
Subsidiary
ix (d) and xvii
4.
Edelcap Securities Limited
U67120TG2008PLC057145
Subsidiary
xvii
5.
Ecap Equities Limited (formerly Edel Land 
Limited)
U74900MH2008PLC287466
Subsidiary
iii (c), iii (d) and xvii
6.
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited U67100TG2007PLC112499
Subsidiary
xvii
7.
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
U74140TG2008PLC120334
Subsidiary
iii (c), iii (d), and xvii
8.
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
U67120MH1997PLC285490
Subsidiary
iii (c) and iii(d)
9.
ECL Finance Limited
U65990MH2005PLC154854
Subsidiary
iii (c), iii(d) and xvii
10.
Edelweiss Securities and Investments Private 
Limited
U65990TG2009PTC113078
Subsidiary
iii (c), iii (d), ix (d) and xvii
11.
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services Limited
U45201TG2006PLC078157
Subsidiary
iii (c), iii (d), vii (a) and xvii
12.
Comtrade Commodities Services Limited
U66990GJ1995PLC025267
Subsidiary
xvii
13.
Edel Finance Company Limited
U65920MH1989PLC053909
Subsidiary
xvii
14.
Sekura India Management Limited
U74999MH2021PLC362906
Subsidiary
xvii
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVK9633
Place	: Mumbai 
Date	 : May 14, 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
223
224
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
“ANNEXURE 2” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EDELWEISS FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
To the Members of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) as of and for the year ended March 31, 2024, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group which are companies incorporated in India, are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by ICAI. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to these Consolidated 
Financial Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statement and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statement, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their 
reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
the Consolidated Financial Statement to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group which are companies incorporated in India, have, maintained in all material respects, adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters
Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to these 22 subsidiaries, which 
are companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries incorporated 
in India.
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting includes only the Company. The trust forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
are not Companies as defined as per the Act and accordingly reporting on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
internal control is not applicable to trusts.
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVK9633
Place	: Mumbai 
Date	 : May 14, 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
“Annexure 2” To the Independent Auditor’s Report Of Even Date On The Consolidated Financial Statements 
Of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
225
226
	CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
	
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
ASSETS
Financial assets
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
8
 23,732.18
 27,458.60
(b)
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
9
 9,575.76
 9,532.13
(c)
Derivative financial instruments
10
 1,192.41
 779.00
(d)
Trade Receivables
11
 3,575.37
 4,133.08
(e)
Loans
12
 148,040.32
 173,536.28
(f)
Investments
13
 184,914.75
 171,622.24
(g)
Other financial assets
14
 10,962.94
 9,187.09
Total financial assets
 381,993.73
 396,248.42
Non-financial assets
(a)
Reinsurance assets
 3,273.99
 3,013.36
(b)
Current tax assets (net)
 7,761.32
 8,227.34
(c)
Deferred tax assets (net)
15
 15,464.78
 12,115.65
(d)
Investment property
16
 1,550.67
 1,822.13
(e)
Property, Plant and Equipment
17
 9,154.93
 9,879.87
(f)
Capital work in progress
18
 36.55
 7.09
(g)
Intangible assets under development
19
 324.65
 240.60
(h)
Goodwill on consolidation
20
 236.60
 236.60
(i)
Other Intangible assets
17
 1,424.17
 1,285.06
(j)
Right to use (ROU) assets
17
 530.62
 448.13
(k)
Other non- financial assets
21
 7,443.70
 7,118.42
Total non-financial assets
 47,201.98
 44,394.25
TOTAL ASSETS
 429,195.71
 440,642.67
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Financial liabilities
(a)
Derivative financial instruments
10
 1,155.83
 775.72
(b)
Trade Payables
22
i.	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 38.21
 25.96
ii.	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 16,701.66
 14,096.20
(c)
Insurance claims payable
 373.82
 509.76
(d)
Debt securities
23
 143,980.51
 154,030.34
(e)
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
24
 47,408.57
 49,947.02
(f)
Deposits
25
 16.98
 16.25
(g)
Subordinated liabilities
26
 11,078.12
 13,366.87
(h)
Lease liabilities
51
 1,094.83
 554.08
(i)
Other financial liabilities
27
 52,195.96
 53,516.37
Total financial liabilities
 274,044.49
 286,838.57
Non-financial liabilities
(a)
Current tax liabilities (net)
 364.14
 249.21
(b)
Provisions
28
 619.25
 623.96
(c)
Policyholders' liabilities
 83,042.84
 66,135.11
(d)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
15
 2,050.94
 1,827.60
(e)
Other non-financial liabilities
29
 8,581.20
 6,505.91
Total non-financial liabilities
 94,658.37
 75,341.79
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 368,702.86
 362,180.36
EQUITY
(a)
Equity Share capital
30
 898.89
 898.38
(b)
Other equity
31
 46,724.72
 66,542.74
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
 47,623.61
 67,441.12
Equity attributable to Non-Controlling Interests
 12,869.24
 11,021.19
TOTAL EQUITY
 60,492.85
 78,462.31
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 429,195.71
 440,642.67
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 to 82
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
Interest income
32
 28,537.93
 29,458.64
Dividend Income
 309.67
 318.86
Fee and commission income
33
 12,269.70
 12,443.43
Net gain on fair value changes
34
 30,906.97
 23,038.52
Premium from insurance business (net)
 22,783.09
 19,278.13
Other operating revenue
35
 188.24
 272.78
Total revenue from operations
 94,995.60
 84,810.36
Other income
36
 1,020.15
 1,515.55
Total income
 96,015.75
 86,325.91
Expenses
Finance costs
37
27,865.03
 25,745.63
Impairment on financial instruments
38
148.55
 3,618.82
Change in valuation of credit impaired loans
7,328.20
8,852.26
Employee benefits expense
39
12,100.85
 10,651.74
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment on investment property
16 & 17
1,261.26
 1,381.60
Change in insurance policy liability - actuarial
16,647.10
 11,266.18
Policy benefits paid
9,652.70
 6,063.94
Other expenses
40
16,638.06
 16,216.43
Total expenses
91,641.75
 83,796.60
Profit before share in profit of associates and tax
4,374.00
 2,529.31
Share in profit of associates
 -
1,317.94
Profit before tax
4,374.00
 3,847.25
Tax expense:
41
	
Current tax
2,151.08
 1,640.48
	
Deferred tax
(3,057.55)
(1,848.80)
Profit for the year
5,280.47
 4,055.57
Other Comprehensive Income / (loss)
(A)	 (i)	 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
	
Re-measurements of the defined benefit liability
(18.15)
(12.57)
	
	
	
Fair value changes on equity Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income
(15.02)
 -
	
(ii)	 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
142.97
3.40
Subtotal (A)
109.80
(9.17)
(B)	(i)	 Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
	
Fair value changes on debt Instruments through Other Comprehensive Income
1,411.61
18.32
	
	
	
Exchange differences on translating the financial statements of foreign operations
(62.46)
162.56
	
(ii)	 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
 -
 -
Subtotal (B)
1,349.15
180.88
Share in profit of associate (C)
 -
14.06
Other comprehensive income (A+B+C)
1,458.95
185.77
Total comprehensive income
6,739.42
 4,241.34
Profit for the year attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
 4,207.00
 3,441.63
	
Non-controlling interests
1,073.47
613.94
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
1,097.43
197.73
	
Non-controlling interests
361.52
(11.96)
Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year attributable to:
	
Owners of the Company
5,304.43
 3,639.36
	
Non-controlling interests
1,434.99
601.98
Earnings per share (`) (Face value ` 1 each)
43
	
- Basic (`)
 4.68
 3.83
	
- Diluted (`)
 4.68
 3.83
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
1 to 82
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
227
228
	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
A
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit / (Loss) before tax
4,374.00
 3,847.25
Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment on investment property
1,261.26
1,381.60
Expense on employee stock option plans and stock appreciation rights
13.89
87.28
Derecognition of Goodwill
 -
 426.75
Impairment on financial instruments
148.55
3,618.82
Change in valuation of credit impaired loans
7,328.20
8,852.26
Interest on income tax refund
(234.52)
(191.49)
Dividend Income
(309.67)
(318.86)
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)1
4.42
3.30
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment property (net)1
 -
(801.67)
Fair value (gain) / loss on financial instruments
(30,906.97)
(23,038.52)
Provision for policyholders liability
16,647.10
11,266.18
Finance costs
11,344.91
8,141.03
Operating cash flow before working capital changes
9,671.17
13,273.93
Adjustments for:
Decrease / (increase) in trade receivables
310.80
(4,188.00)
Decrease / (increase) in Other financial/non financial assets
(2,361.70)
(384.40)
Decrease / (increase) in Derivative Financial Instruments
(33.30)
(2,246.80)
Decrease / (increase) in loans
18,185.40
19,740.70
Increase / (decrease) in trade payables
2,617.70
1,220.90
Increase / (decrease) in insurance claim payable
(136.00)
164.50
Increase / (decrease) in other financial liabilities
(227.40)
414.40
Increase / (decrease) in Provisions
(23.00)
116.00
Increase / (decrease) in provision for policyholders' liabilities
260.60
(421.40)
Increase / (decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
2,075.40
1,865.05
Cash generated from / (used in) operations
30,339.67
29,554.88
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
(1,403.90)
(648.40)
Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities - A
28,935.77
28,906.48
B
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles
(875.80)
(818.60)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 -
 46.20
(Purchase) / sale of investment property1
271.40
2,012.76
(Purchase) / sale of investments1
(4,477.38)
(6,780.45)
Dividend on investments
309.67
318.86
(Investment) / Maturity of Bank deposits
(43.70)
971.20
Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities - B
(4,815.81)
(4,250.03)
C
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from exercise of ESOP & SAR
2.76
1.65
Proceeds / (repayment) from Debt securities1
(10,049.83)
1,073.17
Proceeds / (repayment) from Borrowings (other than debt securities)1
(2,538.45)
(6,603.64)
Proceeds / (repayment) from Deposits1
0.73
0.65
Proceeds / (repayment) from Subordinated Liabilities1
(2,288.75)
(2,119.66)
	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (CONTINUED)
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Dividend paid
(1,403.59)
(1,376.06)
Lease payment
(41.59)
(38.49)
Effect of change in group interest
 -
(42.56)
Interest paid
(11,303.26)
(8,102.54)
Proceeds / (repayment) on ESOP / SAR charge / (reversal) 
(224.40)
124.00
Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities - C
(27,846.38)
(17,083.48)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
(3,726.42)
7,572.97
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year
27,458.60
19,885.63
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year (Refer note 5)
23,732.18
27,458.60
1 Net figures have been reported on account of volume of transactions.
Notes:
1.	
Cash receipts and payments for transaction in which the turnover is quick, the amounts are large, and the maturities are 
short are presented on net basis in accordance with Ind AS-7 Statement of Cash Flows.
2.	
Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Ind AS 7 prescribed under the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 under the Companies Act, 2013.
3.	
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities includes interest received ` 28,537.93 million (previous year 
` 29,458.64 million) and interest paid ` 16,520.12 million (previous year ` 17,604.60 million).
4.	
Refer note 50 for changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
5.	
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash in hand
 37.85
 34.86
Cheques in hand
 353.94
 385.74
Balances with banks:
	
- in Current accounts
 16,849.10
 20,891.69
	
- in fixed deposits with original maturity less than 3 months
 6,491.29
 6,146.31
Total
 23,732.18
 27,458.60
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 to 82
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
229
230
	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
A.
Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 898.38
 898.20
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to prior period errors
 -
 -
Restated balance at the beginning of the current year
 898.38
 898.20
Changes in equity share capital during the year on account of allotment of shares
0.51
 0.18
Balance at the end of the year
 898.89
 898.38
1.	
Edelweiss Employees’ Welfare Trust and Edelweiss Employees’ Incentive and Welfare Trust are extension of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited standalone financial statements, these trusts are 
holding 44,896,780 number of equity shares amounting to ` 44.90 million (previous year ` 44.90 million). These are treasury shares and deducted from total outstanding equity shares.
2.	
Refer note 30 for detailed quantitative information including investors holding more than 5% of equity share capital.
3.	
The above two Welfare Trust (s) hold an aggregate 44,896,780 equity shares of the Company for incentive and welfare benefits for group employees as per extant applicable SEBI regulations. 
Pursuant to the exercise of right available under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the Company has applied before the expiry date of 27 October 2019 for 
extension of the time limit for disposing of aforesaid equity shares. The said application is under consideration and approval for extension from SEBI is awaited as at date.
B.	
Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
 Total 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent
Non-
Controlling 
Interest
Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
Plan (ESOP) 
reserve/
Stock 
appreciation 
rights (SAR)
Special 
Reserve 
under 
section 
45-IC of the 
Reserve 
Bank of 
India Act, 
1934
Reserve 
under 
section 
29C of the 
National 
Housing 
Bank Act, 
1987
General 
reserve
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Impairment 
Reserve
Retained 
earnings
Exchange 
differences 
on 
translating 
the financial 
statements 
of a foreign 
operation
Revaluation 
Reserve 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Fair value 
changes 
on equity 
Instruments 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Fair value 
changes 
on debt 
Instruments 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 -
 8,026.45
 187.87
 29,557.82
 761.58
 7,048.56
 575.42
 717.15
 3,543.64
 2,079.49
 9,955.45
 (37.82)
 3,721.28
 (1,700.00)
 39.07
 64,475.96
 10,549.04
 75,025.00
Profit or loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,441.63
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,441.63
 613.94
 4,055.57
Changes in accounting policy or prior 
period errors
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 6.04
 162.55
 -
 -
 29.14
 197.73
 (11.96)
 185.77
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,447.67
 162.55
 -
 -
 29.14
 3,639.36
 601.98
 4,241.34
Dividends to equity shareholders
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,325.35)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,325.35)
 -
 (1,325.35)
Transfers to securities premium on 
exercise of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 -
 23.28
 (23.28)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Issue of equity instruments on ESOP 
& SAR
 (1.65)
 -
 -
 1.47
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (0.18)
 -
 (0.18)
Share application money received
 1.65
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1.65
 -
 1.65
ESOP charge
 -
 -
 -
 -
 32.21
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 32.21
 -
 32.21
SAR charge
 -
 -
 -
 -
 108.81
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 108.81
 -
 108.81
Reversal on account of lapses of ESOP 
& SAR
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (79.94)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (79.94)
 -
 (79.94)
ESOP & SAR charges transferred to 
reserves
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (100.66)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 100.66
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer Under 45-IC of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 415.42
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (415.42)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer Under 29C of the National 
Housing Bank Act, 1987
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 32.13
 -
 -
 -
 (32.13)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Impairment reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 262.77
 (262.77)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Debenture Redemption 
Reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (469.63)
 -
 469.63
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Revaluation Reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 96.09
 -
 (96.09)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Capital Redemption 
Reserve
 -
 -
 100.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (100.00)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Effect of changes in group's interest
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (305.57)
 (4.21)
 -
 -
 -
 (309.78)
 (129.83)
 (439.61)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 -
 8,026.45
 287.87
 29,582.57
 698.72
 7,463.98
 607.55
 717.15
 3,074.01
 2,342.26
 11,628.26
 120.52
 3,625.19
 (1,700.00)
 68.21
 66,542.74
 11,021.19
 77,563.93
B.	
Other equity (Continued)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
 Total 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent
Non-
Controlling 
Interest
Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
Plan (ESOP) 
reserve/
Stock 
appreciation 
rights (SAR)
Special 
Reserve 
under 
section 
45-IC of the 
Reserve 
Bank of 
India Act, 
1934
Reserve 
under 
section 
29C of the 
National 
Housing 
Bank Act, 
1987
General 
reserve
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Impairment 
Reserve
Retained 
earnings
Exchange 
differences 
on 
translating 
the financial 
statements 
of a foreign 
operation
Revaluation 
Reserve 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Fair value 
changes 
on equity 
Instruments 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Fair value 
changes 
on debt 
Instruments 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 -
 8,026.45
 287.87
 29,582.57
 698.72
 7,463.98
 607.55
 717.15
 3,074.01
 2,342.26
 11,628.26
 120.52
 3,625.19
 (1,700.00)
 68.21
 66,542.74
 11,021.19
 77,563.93
Profit or loss
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,207.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,207.00
 1,073.47
 5,280.47
Changes in accounting policy or prior 
period errors
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (16.17)
 (62.47)
 -
 125.41
 1,050.66
 1,097.43
 361.52
 1,458.95
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,190.83
 (62.47)
 -
 125.41
 1,050.66
 5,304.43
 1,434.99
 6,739.42
Dividends to equity shareholders
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,110.47)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,110.47)
 -
 (1,110.47)
Transfers to securities premium on 
exercise of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 -
 24.65
 (24.65)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Issue of equity instruments on ESOP 
& SAR
 (17.14)
 -
 -
 16.63
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (0.51)
 -
 (0.51)
Share application money received
 19.39
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 19.39
 -
 19.39
ESOP charge
 -
 -
 -
 -
 9.60
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 9.60
 -
 9.60
SAR charge
 -
 -
 -
 -
 36.42
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 36.42
 -
 36.42
Reversal on account of lapses of ESOP 
& SAR
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (121.16)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (121.16)
 -
 (121.16)
ESOP & SAR charges transferred to 
reserves
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (226.87)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (226.87)
 -
 (226.87)
Transfer Under 45-IC of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 482.62
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (482.62)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer Under 29C of the National 
Housing Bank Act, 1987
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 38.60
 -
 -
 -
 (38.60)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Impairment reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (125.41)
 125.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Debenture Redemption 
Reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (386.00)
 -
 386.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Revaluation Reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 257.02
 -
 (257.02)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer under Capital Redemption 
Reserve
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
On account of Demerger (Refer note 75)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (23,531.81)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (23,531.81)
 -
 (23,531.81)
Effect of changes in group's interest
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (170.85)
 (26.19)
 -
 -
 -
 (197.04)
 413.06
 216.02
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 2.25
 8,026.45
 287.87
 29,623.85
 372.06
 7,946.60
 646.15
 717.15
 2,688.01
 2,216.85
 (8,746.83)
 31.86
 3,368.17
 (1,574.59)
 1,118.87
 46,724.72
 12,869.24
 59,593.96
Refer note 31 for information on nature of reserves maintained at Group level
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.	
1 to 82
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
	CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED)
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
231
232
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
1.	 	
CORPORATE INFORMATION
	
	
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (the Holding Company), Public Limited company domiciled in India, and 
incorporated on 21st November 1995 under the provision of Companies Act, 1956. The shares of the Holding 
Company are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE), India. The Holding 
Company is principally engaged in providing investment banking services and holding company activities 
comprising of development, managerial and financial support to the business of Edelweiss group entities. The 
Holding Company has its registered office at Edelweiss House, Off C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Mumbai, India.
2.	 	
BASIS OF PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
The consolidated financial statements relate to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (‘the Holding Company’) 
and its subsidiaries, consolidating trusts (together ‘the Group’) and associates. The Group offers wide suite of 
financial services products to retail and institutional customers. Group is primarily engaged in (a) agency business, 
which includes advisory and other fee based services, (b) Capital business which includes lending business and 
investment activities, (c) Life insurance and General insurance business (d) Asset reconstruction business and (e) 
Treasury business includes income from trading activities.
	
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time). These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors of 
the Holding Company on 14 May 2024.
	
	
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for entities under 
liquidation/ dissolution1 and certain financial instruments such as financial asset measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVOCI) instruments, derivative financial instruments, fair value through Profit or Loss 
and other financial assets held for trading, certain property plant and equipment which have been measured at fair 
value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) and all values are rounded to the 
nearest million, except when otherwise indicated.
3.	 	
PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
The Group prepares and presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity in compliance with the Division III of the 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. An analysis regarding recovery or settlement within 12 months after the 
reporting date (current) and more than 12 months after the reporting date (noncurrent) .
4.	 	
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
	
	
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Holding Company and all its 
subsidiaries as at 31 March 2024 including any controlled structured entities, being the entities that it controls. 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Generally, there is a 
presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption and when the Group 
has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
1 Refer note 57
4.	 	
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONTINUED)
	
	
•	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee
	
	
•	
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
	
	
•	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
	
	
•	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings of the other 
voting rights holders
	
	
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary. In the event of any change 
in one or more of the three elements of control, the Group reassess nature of control and stops consolidation if 
it concludes that the Group has lost the control over the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a 
subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the 
date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
	
	
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the 
consolidated financial statements for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments 
are made to that Group member’s financial statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements to 
ensure conformity with the Group’s accounting policies. No subsidiaries, associates and consolidated structure 
entities have followed different accounting policies than those followed by the Group for the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements.
	
	
Consolidation procedure:
	
	
a.	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its 
subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date.
	
	
b.	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s portion of 
equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations policy explains how to account for any related goodwill, refer 
note no 5.25
	
	
c.	
Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between entities of the Group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are recognised in 
assets, are eliminated in full). Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise from the elimination of 
profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions.
	
	
Profit or loss and each component of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the 
parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a 
deficit balance.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
233
234
4.	 	
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONTINUED)
	
	
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. 
With respect to put options granted by the Group to the holders of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, where 
the Group does not have a present ownership interest in the shares subject to put, till the put remains unexercised, 
non- controlling continues to be recognised including allocation of profit or loss, other comprehensive income 
and other changes in equity of the subsidiary. However, at each reporting date, the non-controlling interest is 
derecognised as if it were acquired at that date and a financial liability is recognised and measured at its fair value. 
The difference between these two amounts is recognised as an equity transaction and attributed to owners of the 
parent.
	
	
Given the level of judgement required regarding consolidation of structured entities, these considerations are 
described further in the significant accounting judgements .
	
	
The financial statements of all subsidiaries incorporated outside India are converted on the following basis: (a) 
Income and expenses are converted at the average rate of exchange applicable for the period/year and (b) All 
assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate as on the Balance Sheet date. The exchange difference 
arising out of period/year end translation is debited or credited as “Exchange differences on translating the financial 
statements of a foreign operation” forming part of Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated as a separate 
component of other equity.
	
	
Investment in associates:
	
	
An associate is an entity over which the Group has the significant influence/power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decision of the investee, but it’s not control or joint control over those policies.
	
	
The Group’s investments in its associate is accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the 
investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to 
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. The Statement of 
Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly 
in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of 
Changes in Equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate 
are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	
	
This note provides the material accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
5.1	 	
Recognition of Interest, Dividend income and Donation income 
	
	
Interest Income
	
	
Interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR) method for all financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost and debt instrument measured at FVOCI. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.1	 	
Recognition of Interest, Dividend income and Donation income (Continued)
	
	
Interest Income (Continued)
	
	
The EIR is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition, fees and costs attributable to 
acquisition of a financial instrument Hence, it recognises the effect of potentially different interest rates charged at various 
stages, and other characteristics of the product life cycle (including prepayments, penalty interest and charges).
	
	
If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial asset are revised for reasons other than credit risk, the 
adjustment is booked as modification gain/loss to the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet with an 
increase or reduction in interest income.
	
	
When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired and is, therefore, regarded as ‘Stage 3’, the Group calculates 
interest income by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost net of impairment loss of the financial 
asset. If the financial assets cures and is no longer credit-impaired, the Group reverts to calculating interest income 
on a gross basis.
	
	
For purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, the Group calculates interest income by 
calculating the credit- adjusted EIR and applying that rate to the amortised cost of the asset. The credit-adjusted 
EIR is the interest rate that, at original recognition, discounts the estimated future cash flows (including credit 
losses) to the amortised cost of the POCI assets.
	
	
Interest on financial assets subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) is recognised at the 
contractual rate of interest.
	
	
Dividend Income
	
	
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payment of the dividend is 
established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the entity, and the 
amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
	
	
Donation/grants received
	
	
General donations are recognised as income in the year of receipt in the statement of profit and loss. Amount 
received with a specific direction from donors towards a particular project for more than a financial year is recognized 
as income, only to the extent of cost incurred in that financial year and balance is recorded as liability. Amounts 
received with a specific direction from donors that such amounts shall from a part of Corpus of the Foundation are 
credited as Corpus Fund and disclosed as a liability in the Balance Sheet.
5.2	 	
Financial Instruments
5.2.1	
Date of recognition
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities, with the exception of debt securities and borrowings are initially recognised 
on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. This 
includes regular way trades: purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time 
frame generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace. The Group recognises borrowings when 
funds are available for utilisation to the Group.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
235
236
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.2	 	
Financial Instruments (Continued)
5.2.2	
Initial measurement of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Trade receivables are measured at 
transaction price. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
5.2.3	
Day 1 profit or loss
	
	
When the transaction price of the financial instrument differs from the fair value at origination and the fair value 
is based on a valuation technique using only inputs observable in market transactions, the Group recognises the 
difference between the transaction price and fair value in net gain on fair value changes. In those cases where fair 
value is based on models for which some of the inputs are not observable, the difference between the transaction 
price and the fair value is deferred and is only recognised in profit or loss when the inputs become observable, or 
when the instrument is derecognised.
5.3  
Classification of financial instruments
5.3.1	
Financial assets:
	
	
The Group classifies all its financial assets based on the business model for managing the assets and the asset’s 
contractual Terms. Financial Assets are measured at either:
	
	
•	
Amortised cost; or
	
	
•	
Fair value through other comprehensive income [FVOCI]; or
	
	
•	
Fair value through profit or loss [FVTPL]
	
	
The Group measures debt financial assets that meet the following conditions at amortised cost:
	
	
•	
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows; and
	
	
•	
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
Debt financial instruments that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (except for debt instruments that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition):
	
	
•	
the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual 
cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.3  
Classification of financial instruments (Continued)
5.3.1	
Financial assets: (Continued)
	
	
•	
the contractual terms of the financialasset give rise on specified dates to cashflows thataresolely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
All other financial assets are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at FVTPL.
5.3.1.1	
Amortised cost and Effective interest method
	
	
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial recognition 
minus the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any 
difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount. On the other hand, the net gross carrying amount 
of a financial asset is the amortised cost of a financial asset after adjusting for any loss allowance.
5.3.1.2	
Financial assets held for trading
	
	
The Group classifies financial assets as held for trading when they have been purchased or issued primarily for 
short- term profit making through trading activities or form part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are 
managed together, for which there is evidence of pattern of short-term profit taking. Held-for- trading assets are 
recorded and measured in the balance sheet at fair value. Such Financial assets are designated at FVTPL.
5.3.1.3	
Financial asset measured at FVOCI
	
	
Unrealised gains or losses on debt instruments measured at FVOCI are recognised in other comprehensive income, 
and on derecognition of such instrument accumulated gains or losses are recycled to profit and loss statement. 
Interest income on such instrument is recognised in profit and loss statements using EIR method.
5.3.1.4	
Investment in equity instruments
	
	
The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value through profit or loss, unless the management 
has elected to irrevocably classify some of its strategic equity investments to be measured at FVOCI. Such 
classification is determined on an instrument- by-instrument basis.
5.3.2	
Financial liabilities
	
	
All financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost except loan commitments, financial guarantees, and derivative 
financial liabilities.
5.3.2.1	
Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
After initial measurement, debt issued and other borrowed funds are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on issue funds, and costs that are an 
integral part of the instrument.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
237
238
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.3  
Classification of financial instruments (Continued)
5.3.2	
Financial liabilities (Continued)
5.3.2.1	
Debt securities and other borrowed funds (Continued)
	
	
The Group issues certain non-convertible debentures, the return of which is linked to performance of specified 
indices over the period of the debenture. Such debentures have a component of an embedded derivative which is 
separated from the instrument on initial recognition and fair valued at reporting date. The resultant ‘net unrealised 
loss or gain’ on the fair valuation of these embedded derivatives is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
The debt component of such debentures is measured at amortised cost using yield to maturity basis.
5.3.2.2	
Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities in this category are those that are not held for trading and have been either 
designated by management upon initial recognition or are mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. An 
individual instrument is designated at FVTPL upon initial recognition only when one of the following criterias are met.
 
 
• 
The designation eliminates, or significantly reduces, the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from 
measuring the assets or liabilities or recognising gains or losses on them on a different basis; or
	
	
• 
The liabilities are part of a group of financial liabilities, which are managed and their performance evaluated on 
a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy; or
	
	
• 
The liabilities containing one or more embedded derivatives, unless they do not significantly modify the cash 
flows that would otherwise be required by the contract, or it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar 
instrument is first considered that separation of the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited.
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at FVTPL are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value and 
any changes in fair value are recorded in profit and loss. Interest earned or incurred on instruments designated at 
FVTPL is accrued in interest income or finance cost, as the case may be, using the EIR, taking into account any 
discount/ premium and qualifying transaction costs being an integral part of instrument. Interest earned on assets 
mandatorily required to be measured at FVTPL is recorded using contractual interest rate.
5.3.2.3	
Financial guarantee:
	
	
Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse to holder for 
loss that it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when it is due in accordance with the terms of 
a debt instrument.
	
	
Financial guarantee issued or commitments to provide a loan at below market interest rate are initially measured at 
fair value and the initial fair value is amortised over the life of the guarantee or the commitment. Subsequently they 
are measured at higher of this amortised amount and the amount of loss allowance.
5.3.2.4	
Loan commitment
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments are commitments under which, the Group is required to provide a loan with pre-
specified terms to the customer during the duration of commitment.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.3  
Classification of financial instruments (Continued)
5.3.3	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
	
	
Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with 
the substance of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
	
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all 
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by a group entity are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.
	
	
Repurchase of the Group’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is 
recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments.
	
	
Derivatives
	
	
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange rate risks, including foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps.
	
	
A derivative is a financial instrument or other contract with all three of the following characteristics:
	
	
•	
Its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity 
price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided 
that, in the case of a non- financial variable, it is not specific to a party to the contract (i.e., the ‘underlying’).
	
	
•	
It requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that is smaller than would be required for other 
types of contracts expected to have a similar response to changes in market factors.
	
	
•	
It is settled at a future date.
	
	
The Group issues non-convertible debentures, the return of which is linked to performance of specified indices 
over the period of the debenture. Group enters into derivative contracts to effectively mitigate the risk on such 
exposure by either minimising the loss or earn a minimum committed income (say for example purchased call and 
put options) with a wide range of strike prices. This risk mitigation plan has been approved by the risk committee.
	
	
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value and the resulting gain 
or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
	
	
Embedded derivatives
	
	
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid instrument that also includes a non-derivative host contract 
with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a standalone 
derivative An embedded derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the 
contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, provided 
that, in the case of a non-financial variable, it is not specific to a party to the contract.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
239
240
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.3  
Classification of financial instruments (Continued)
5.3.3	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments (Continued)
	
	
Embedded derivatives (Continued)
	
	
Derivatives embedded in all other host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair 
value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host 
contracts are not held for trading or designated at fair value though profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are 
measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss, unless designated as effective hedging 
instruments.
5.4  
Reclassification of financial assets and financial liabilities
	
	
The Group does not reclassify its financial assets subsequent to their initial recognition, apart from the exceptional 
circumstances in which the Group acquires, disposes of, or terminates a business line. Financial liabilities are never 
reclassified.
5.5  
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
5.5.1	
Derecognition of financial assets due to substantial modification of terms and conditions
	
	
The Group derecognises a financial asset, such as a loan to a customer, when the terms and conditions have 
been renegotiated to the extent that, it substantially becomes a new financial assets. In these case to the extent 
that impairment loss has not already been recorded difference is recognised as derecognition gain or loss in the 
statement of profit and loss. The newly recognised financial asset are treated as Stage 1 for ECL measurement 
purposes, unless the new financial asset is classified as Purchased Or Originated Credit Impaired (POCI) assets.
	
	
While assessing whether or not to derecognise a financial asset, the Group considers the following factors:
	
	
•	
Change in currency of the loan
	
	
•	
Introduction of an equity feature
	
	
•	
Change in counterparty
	
	
If the modification does not result in cash flows that are substantially different, the modification does not result in 
derecognition. Group calculates modified carrying value by discounting modified cash flow at the original EIR and 
records a modification gain or loss, to the extent that an impairment loss has not already been recorded.
5.5.2	
Derecognition of financial assets (other than due to substantial modification)
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) 
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. The Group also 
derecognises the financial asset if it has transferred the financial asset and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.5  
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued)
5.5.2	
Derecognition of financial assets (other than due to substantial modification)
	
	
The Group has transferred the financial asset if, and only if, either:
	
	
•	
The Group has transferred its contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset; or
	
	
•	
It retains the rights to the cash flows, but has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass–through’ arrangement.
	
	
Pass -through arrangements are transactions whereby the Group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash 
flows of a financial asset (the ‘original asset’), but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one 
or more entities (the ‘eventual recipients’), when all of the following conditions are met:
	
	
•	
The Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it has collected equivalent 
amounts from the original asset, excluding short-term advances with the right to full recovery of the amount 
lent plus accrued interest at market rates
	
	
•	
The Group cannot sell or pledge the original asset other than as security to the eventual recipients
	
	
The Group has to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay. In 
addition, the Group is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except for investments in cash or cash equivalents 
including interest earned, during the period between the collection date and the date of required remittance to the 
eventual recipients.
	
	
A transfer qualifies for derecognition only if either:
	
	
•	
The Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or
	
	
•	
The Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset
	
	
The Group considers control to be transferred if and only if, the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset in 
its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposing additional 
restrictions on the transfer.
5.5.3	
Derecognition of financial liabilities
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
	
	
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or 
the terms of an existing financial liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as 
a derecognition of the original financial liability and a new financial liability is recognised. The difference between the 
carrying value of the original financial liability and the consideration paid, including modified contractual cash flow 
recognised as new financial liability, would be recognised in profit or loss.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
241
242
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.6  
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
The Group records allowance for expected credit losses for all financial assets, other than financial assets held at 
FVTPL, together with loan commitment and financial guarantee contracts. Equity instruments are not subjected to 
impairment allowance.
	
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and 
lease receivables. The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from 
its initial recognition. The Group uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of 
its receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of 
the receivables. However, if receivables contain a significant financing component, the Group measures the loss 
allowance by applying general approach.
	
	
For all other financial assets, where ECL to be recognised, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk (SICR) since initial recognition. If, on the other hand, the credit risk has not 
increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for such instrument at an 
amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses (12m ECL). The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be 
recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition 
instead of an evidence of a financial asset being credit-impaired at the reporting date or an actual default occurring.
	
	
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected 
life. In contrast, 12m ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events that 
are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
	
	
The measurement of ECL is a function of the probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD) (i.e. the magnitude 
of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure at default (EAD). The assessment of the PD and LGD is based 
on historical data adjusted for forward-looking information. EAD, for financial assets, is represented by the assets’ 
gross carrying amount at the reporting date; for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts, the EAD 
includes the amount drawn down as at the reporting date, together with any additional amounts expected to be 
drawn down in the future by default date determined based on historical trend, the Group’s understanding of the 
specific future financing needs of the borrowers, and other relevant forward-looking information.
	
	
For financial assets, ECL is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group 
in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. The Group recognises an impairment loss or reversal of impairment loss in the profit and loss 
statement with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account.
	
	
If a financial instrument includes both a loan (i.e. financial asset) and an undrawn commitment (i.e. loan commitment) 
component and the Group cannot separately identify the ECL on the loan commitment component from those on 
the financial asset component, the ECL on the loan commitment is recognised together with the loss allowance for 
the financial asset. To the extent that the combined ECL exceed the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, 
excess amount is recognised as a provision. For other loan commitments and all financial guarantee contracts, the 
loss allowance is recognised as provision.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.7	 	
Collateral valuation
	
	
To mitigate its credit risks on financial assets, the Group seeks to use collateral, where possible. The collateral 
comes in various forms, such as cash, securities, letters of credit/guarantees, real estate, receivables, inventories, 
other non- financial assets and credit enhancements such as netting agreements. Depending on its form, Collateral 
can have a significant financial effect in mitigating the Group’s credit risk and the fair value of collateral affects the 
calculation of ECLs. Fair value of Collateral is generally assessed, at the inception and re- assessed on a periodical 
basis. Collateral with frequent changes in underlying value and requiring counterparty to maintain stipulated margin/
security cover, is valued daily.
	
	
To the extent possible, the Group uses active market data for valuing financial assets held as collateral. Other 
financial assets which do not have readily determinable market values are valued using valuation models.
5.8	 	
Repossessed Collateral
	
	
The Group’s policy is to determine whether a repossessed asset can be best used for its internal operations or 
should be sold. Repossessed assets determined to be useful for the internal operations are transferred to their 
relevant asset category at the lower of their repossessed value or the carrying value of the original secured asset. 
Other assets are transferred to ‘Assets held for sale’ at their fair value (if financial assets) and fair value less cost to 
sell for non-financial assets at the repossession date in, line with the Group’s policy.
	
	
In its normal course of business, the Group does not physically repossess properties or other assets in its retail 
portfolio, but engages external agents to recover funds, generally at auction, to settle outstanding debt. Any surplus 
funds are returned to the customers/obligors.
5.9	 	
Write off
	
	
Financial assets are written off either partially or in their entirety only when the Group has no reasonable expectation 
of recovery. Any subsequent recoveries are credited to impairment on financial instrument on statement of profit 
and loss.
5.10 
Forborne and modified loan
	
	
Considering borrower’s financial difficulties the Group may sometimes make some concessions or modifications 
to the original terms of loans. The Group considers a loan forborne when such concessions or modifications are 
provided as a result of the borrower’s present or expected financial difficulties and the Group would not have 
agreed to them if the borrower had been in good financial health. Forbearance may involve extending the payment 
arrangements and the agreement of new loan conditions. Once the terms are renegotiated, impairment is measured 
using the original EIR on modified cash flows. Where such concessions are granted Group continue to monitor 
forborne loans for an observable period for regular payment of renegotiated cash flows. Group evaluates each case 
for derecognition and classification of loan in Stage 2 or Stage 3. If these procedures identify a loss in relation to a 
loan, it is disclosed and managed as an impaired Stage 3 forborne asset, until it is collected or written off.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
243
244
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.11	
Determination of fair value
	
	
The Group measures its qualifying financial instruments, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair value is the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
	
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data 
are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs. In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments are classified based 
on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as summarised below:
	
	
•	
Level 1 financial instruments −Those where the inputs used in the valuation are unadjusted quoted prices from 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group has access at the measurement date. The Group 
considers markets as active only if there are sufficient trading activities with regards to the volume and liquidity 
of the identical assets or liabilities and when there are binding and exercisable price quotes available on the 
balance sheet date.
	
	
•	
Level 2 financial instruments−Those where the inputs that are used for valuation are significant and are derived 
from directly or indirectly observable market data available over the entire period of the instrument’s life.
	
	
•	
Level 3 financial instruments −Those that include one or more unobservable input that is significant to the 
measurement as whole. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) 
at the end of each reporting period. The Group periodically reviews its valuation techniques including the 
adopted methodologies and model calibrations.
	
	
Therefore, the Group applies various techniques to estimate the credit risk associated with its financial instruments 
measured at fair value, which include a portfolio-based approach that estimates the expected net exposure 
per counterparty over the full lifetime of the individual assets, in order to reflect the credit risk of the individual 
counterparties for non-collateralised financial instruments.
	
	
The Group evaluates the levelling at each reporting period on an instrument-by-instrument basis and reclassifies 
instruments when necessary based on the facts at the end of the reporting period.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.12	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
	
Revenue is measured at transaction price i.e. the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled 
in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to the customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf 
of third parties. The Group consider the terms of the contract and its customary business practices to determine 
the transaction price. Where the consideration promised is variable, the Group excludes the estimates of variable 
consideration that are constrained. The Group applies the five-step approach for the recognition of revenue:
	
	
I.	
Identification of contract
	
	
II.	
Identification of the separate performance obligation in the contract
	
	
III.	
Determination of transaction price
	
	
IV.	
Allocation of transaction price to separate performance obligation and
	
	
V.	
Recognition of revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied The Group recognises revenue 
(net of applicable Goods and Service Tax (GST)) from the following sources:
	
	
	
a.	
Fee income including investment banking, advisory fees and syndication fees, is accounted in accordance 
with agreement entered into with respective investment managers / advisors.
	
	
	
b.	
Clearing fee income arises, when the performance obligation related to trade is executed and a valid 
contract is generated for the trade. Fee income is accounted for, at a point in time or over a period of time 
in accordance with the terms and contracts entered into between the Group and the counterparty.
	
	
	
c.	
Brokerage income including client subscription fees is recognised as per contracted rates at the point in 
time when transaction’s performance obligation is satisfied on behalf of the customers on the trade date.
	
	
	
d.	
Investment management fees are recognised net of GST over the tenure in accordance with the Investment 
Management Agreement with Investment Manager.
	
	
	
e.	
Management fee from trusts declared by it for acquisition of financial assets and the same is accounted 
for over the tenure as per terms of the relevant trust deeds and offer document issued by the Trust. 
Further any upside share in excess realisation over acquisition price of financial asset is recognised in 
accordance with terms of the relevant trust deed/offer document. Redemption incentive and recovery 
incentive is accounted over the period on cash basis, i.e. as and when received by the Group as per the 
terms of the relevant trust deeds and offer document issued by the Trust.
	
	
	
f.	
Portfolio management fees are recognised over the tenure in accordance with portfolio management 
agreement entered with respective clients.
	
	
	
g.	
Interest on delayed payments and rental income are recognised as revenue on certainty of realisation.
	
	
	
h.	
Agency commission/procurement income is recorded in pursuant to terms and conditions mentioned in 
scope of work or agreement.
	
	
	
i.	
Real estate advisory fee is recognised as per the terms and conditions mentioned in the agreement.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
245
246
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.12	
Revenue from contracts with customers (Continued)
	
	
	
j.	
Revenue from fund management services (excluding mutual fund business) is recognised over the tenure 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the investment management agreement between the 
Group and the Fund for which the Group acts as a fund manager.
	
	
	
k.	
Revenue from rendering of trustee services is recognised in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the Compensation Agreement between the trustee company and the fund.
	
	
	
l.	
Sales of Commodities is accounted as per the terms of agreement with parties.
	
	
	
m.	
The Group recognises incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer as an asset if it expects 
to recover those costs. This asset is amortised to profit or loss on a systematic basis consistent with the 
transfer to the customer of the goods or services to which the asset relates.
	
	
	
n.	
Lease rentals are recognised as income in Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term. Costs related to operating and maintenance of investment property is recognised as expense.
	
	
	
o.	
Insurance and other claims are recognised as revenue on certainty of realisation.
	
	
	
p.	
Profit or loss on sale of investments is recognised on trade date basis.
5.13	
Leases
	
	
Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group makes an assessment of lease at the time of inception of a contract and if the contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration, same is recognised as Lease 
liability. The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-
use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the initial recognition, the Group measures lease liabilities at present value of all lease payments discounted, 
using the Group’s incremental cost of borrowing, to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments (including in substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments 
that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees.
	
	
Subsequently, the lease liability is
	
	
-	
increased to reflect the accretion of interest; and
	
	
-	
reduced for the lease payments made and
	
	
-	
remeasured to reflect any change in the lease term, change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future 
payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments), or change in 
option to purchase the underlying asset.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.13	
Leases (Continued)
	
	
Measurement of Right of use assets
	
	
The Group recognises ‘Right-of-Use’ assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying 
asset is available for use). The cost of ‘Right-of-Use’ assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial 
direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives 
received.
	
	
Subsequently ‘Right-of-Use’ assets are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation; and impairment 
losses; and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities.Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-
line basis over the lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets whichever is short.
	
	
Short term lease
	
	
The Group has elected not to recognise ‘Right of Use ‘asset and lease liabilities for short term leases of 12 months 
or less. The Group recognises lease payment associated with these leases as expense on a straight- line basis over 
lease term.
	
	
Group as lessor
	
	
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an 
asset is classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease 
terms. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount 
of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are 
recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
	
	
Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership transfer from 
the Group to the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the Group’s 
net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant 
periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in respect of the lease.
5.14	
Earnings per share
	
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders of 
the Holding Company for the year by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
	
	
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue 
equity shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the 
net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders for the year by weighted average number of equity shares 
considered for deriving basic earnings per share and weighted average number of equity shares that could have 
been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
247
248
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.15	
Foreign currency transactions
	
	
The Consolidated Financial information are presented in Indian Rupees which is also functional currency of the 
Parent. For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements 
of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in currencies other than Indian Rupees (i.e. 
foreign currencies) are recognized at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end 
of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing 
at that date. Non- monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Foreign exchange Translation Reserve (FCTR) thus 
created is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
	
	
In respect of monetary assets and liabilities, in ordinary course of business, are translated at exchange rate prevailing 
at the dates of the transactions and subsequently remeasured at rates prevailing at end of each reporting period. 
Exchange gain/(loss) arising thereof is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
5.16 
Retirement and other employee benefit 
	
	
Provident fund and national pension scheme
	
	
The Group contributes to a recognised provident fund and national pension scheme which is a defined contribution 
scheme. The contributions are accounted for as expense, when an employee renders the related service in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Gratuity
	
	
The Group’s gratuity scheme is a defined benefit plan. An independent actuarial valuation is carried out to determines 
the present value of the obligation under such benefit plan using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Benefits in 
respect of gratuity are funded with an Insurance company approved by Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority (IRDA). Any deficits in plan assets managed by Insurer as compared to present valuation of obligation, 
determined by actuary, are recognised as a liability.
	
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur.
	
	
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
Compensated Absences
	
	
The eligible employees of the Group are permitted to carry forward certain number of their annual leave entitlement 
to subsequent years, subject to a ceiling. The Group recognises the charge in the statement of profit and loss and 
corresponding liability on such non- vesting accumulated leave entitlement based on a valuation by an independent 
actuary. The cost of providing annual leave benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.16 
Retirement and other employee benefit (Continued)
	
	
Compensated Absences (Continued)
	
	
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of:
	
	
•	
The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and
	
	
•	
The date that the Group recognises related restructuring costs
	
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The Group 
recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss:
	
	
•	
Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailments and non-
routine settlements; and
	
	
•	
Net interest expense or income
5.17	
Share-based payment arrangements
	
	
Equity-settled share- based payments to employees are granted by the ultimate Holding Company. These are 
measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. These includes Stock Appreciation 
Rights (SARs) which grants employees right to receive the difference between the SAR price and the market price 
of equity shares of the ultimate Holding Company on the date of vesting. Settlement of the difference can be made, 
either in cash or by issuance of equity shares of the ultimate Holding Company, is at the discretion of the ultimate 
Holding Company. These are classified as equity settled share-based transaction.
	
	
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase 
in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Group estimates the number of equity instruments expected to 
vest. The impact of the revision over the original estimates, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative 
expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the ’ESOP reserve’. In cases where the 
share options granted vest in tranches over the vesting period, the Group treats each tranche as a separate grant, 
because of different vesting period and difference in, the fair value of each tranche.
5.18	
Property, plant and equipment and right – of – use assets
	
	
Property plant and equipment (PPE) is stated at cost excluding the costs of day–to–day servicing, less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment in value. PPE is recognised when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the item is expected to flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. Changes in the expected useful life are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Subsequent costs incurred on an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount thereof 
when those costs meet the recognition criteria. Repairs and maintenance are recognised in profit or loss as cost.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
249
250
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.18	
Property, plant and equipment and right – of – use assets (Continued)
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an 
item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated impairment loss, if any.
	
	
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets (other than freehold land and properties under 
construction) less their residual values over their useful lives. Depreciation is provided on a written down value basis 
from the date the asset is ready for its intended use or put to use whichever is earlier. In respect of assets sold, 
depreciation is provided upto the date of disposal.
	
	
As per the requirement of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, the Group has evaluated the useful lives of the 
respective property, plant and equipment which are as per the provisions of Part C of the Schedule II for calculating 
the depreciation. The estimated useful lives of the property, plant and equipment are as follows:
	
	
Estimated useful lives of the assets are as follows:
Nature of assets
Estimated useful life
Building (other than Factory Building)
60 years
Plant and Equipments
15 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
8 years
Vessel (Boat)
13 years
Office Equipment
5 years
Computers - Servers and networks
6 years
Computers - End user devices, such as desktops, laptops, etc.
3 years
Solar power plant
15 years
	
	
Land and buildings are subsequently shown at fair value based on periodic valuations by external independent 
valuers, less subsequent depreciation for buildings. Valuations will be carried out on a regular basis, unless the 
management consider it appropriate to have an earlier revaluation, such that the carrying amount of property does 
not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair values at the end of the reporting period. Any 
accumulated depreciation at the date of revaluation is eliminated from the gross carrying amount of the asset, and 
the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset.
	
	
Subsequent measurement of land and building under revaluation model
	
	
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land and buildings are credited to other comprehensive 
income and shown as a revaluation reserve in shareholders’ equity. An exception is a gain on revaluation that 
reverses a revaluation decrease (impairment) on the same asset previously recognised as an expense. Decreases 
that offset previous increases of the same asset are charged in other comprehensive income and debited against 
the revaluation reserve directly in equity; all other decreases are charged to profit or loss. Each year the difference 
between depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of the asset charged to profit or loss and depreciation 
based on the asset’s original cost is transferred from the revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.18	
Property, plant and equipment and right – of – use assets (Continued)
	
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. The carrying amount of those components which have been 
separately recognised as assets is derecognised at the time of replacement thereof. Any gain or loss arising on the 
disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each 
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate
5.19	
Intangible assets
	
	
The Group’s intangible assets mainly include the value of computer software and management rights. An intangible 
asset is recognised only when its cost can be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected future economic 
benefits that are attributable to it will flow to the Group.
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination are recognised at their fair value as at the date of acquisition. Subsequently, intangible assets 
are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets 
with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life.
	
	
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or 
disposal. Gains and losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets are recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
when the asset is derecognised.
5.20 
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that an asset may have be impaired 
based on internal/ external factors. If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the 
asset. If such recoverable amount of the asset or the recoverable amount of cash generating unit which the asset 
belongs to is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. The reduction 
is treated as an impairment loss and is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. If at the balance sheet 
date there is an indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no longer exists, the recoverable amount is 
reassessed and the asset is reflected at the recoverable amount subject to a maximum of the depreciable historical 
cost.
5.21	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less, that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to 
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
251
252
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.22	
Provisions and other contingent liabilities
	
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre- tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the 
liability.
	
	
A present obligation that arises from past events, where it is either not probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made, is disclosed as a contingent liability. 
Contingent liabilities are also disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising from past events, the existence 
of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly within the control of the Group. Claims against the Group, where the possibility of any outflow of resources 
in settlement is remote, are not disclosed as contingent liabilities.
	
	
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income 
that may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not 
a contingent asset and is recognised.
5.23	
Income tax
	
	
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax.
5.23.1	
Current tax
	
	
The tax payable for the reporting period is computed on taxable profit for the year. The Group’s current tax is 
calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting 
period. Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or 
paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted 
or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable 
income.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns 
with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and considers whether 
it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. The group shall reflect the effect 
of uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment by using either most likely method or expected value method, 
depending on which method predicts better resolution of the treatment.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.23	
Income tax (Continued)
5.23.2	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is recognised using Balance Sheet approach on temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are also recognised with respect to carry forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits can be utilized, except;
	
	
•	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
	
•	
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised
	
	
It is probable that taxable profit will be available against which a deductible temporary difference, unused tax loss 
or unused tax credit can be utilised when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences which are expected to 
reverse in the period of reversal of deductible temporary difference or in periods in which a tax loss can be carried 
forward or back. When this is not the case, deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent it is probable that:
	
	
•	
the entity will have sufficient taxable profit in the same period as reversal of deductible temporary difference or 
periods in which a tax loss can be carried forward or back; or
	
	
•	
tax planning opportunities are available that will create taxable profit in appropriate periods.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the 
liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax 
consequences that would follow from the manner in which the subsidiaries expects, at the end of the reporting 
period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
253
254
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.23	
Income tax (Continued)
5.23.2	
Deferred tax (Continued)
	
	
The Group offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to 
set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities 
which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the 
liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are 
expected to be settled or recovered.
	
	
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
	
	
Minimum alternate tax (MAT)
	
	
MAT paid in a year is charged to the statement of profit and loss as current tax. The Group recognises unused MAT 
credit as a deferred tax asset only to the extent that it is probable that the Group will be able to utilise during the 
specified period, i.e., the period for which MAT credit is allowed to be carried forward. In the year in which the Group 
recognises deferred tax asset (MAT credit) as an asset, the said asset is created by way of credit to the statement 
of profit and loss. The Group reviews the MAT asset at each reporting date and writes down the asset to the extent 
that it is not probable that the Group will be able to utilise it during the specified period.
5.24	
Investment properties
	
	
Properties, including those under construction, held to earn rentals and/or capital appreciation are classified as 
investment property and are measured and reported at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
loss, if any.
	
	
Depreciation is recognised using written down method so as to write off the cost of the investment property less 
their residual values over their useful lives specified in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 or in the case of 
assets where the useful life was determined by technical evaluation, over the useful life so determined. Depreciation 
method is reviewed at each financial year end to reflect the expected pattern of consumption of the future benefits 
embodied in the investment property. The estimated useful life and residual values are also reviewed at each financial 
year end and the effect of any change in the estimates of useful life/residual value is accounted on prospective 
basis.
	
	
An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition 
of property is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the same period.
5.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
5.25	
Business Combination
	
	
The acquisition method of accounting is used for business combinations by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed are recognised at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess 
of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any 
previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. After initial recognition, 
goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators exists. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other 
assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
	
	
Business combination under common control
	
	
Common control business combinations includes transactions, such as transfer of subsidiaries or businesses, 
between entities within a group. Group has accounted all such transactions based on pooling of interest method, 
as follows:-
	
	
•	
The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying amounts.
	
	
•	
No adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities.
	
	
•	
The financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods are restated as if the business 
combination had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements, irrespective 
of the actual date of the combination.
	
	
The identity of the reserves shall be preserved and shall appear in the financial statements of the transferee in the 
same form in which they appeared in the financial statements of the transferor. The difference, if any, between the 
amount recorded as share capital issued plus any additional consideration in the form of cash or other assets and 
the amount of share capital of the transferor shall be transferred to capital reserve.
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)):
	
	
a.	
Product classification 
	
	
	
Insurance contract
	
	
	
Insurance contracts are those contracts when ETLIFE has accepted significant insurance risk from the 
policyholders by agreeing to compensate the policyholders if a specified uncertain future event (the insured 
event) adversely affects the policyholders.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
255
256
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)): (Continued)
	
	
a.	
Product classification (Continued)
	
	
	
Insurance contract (Continued)
	
	
	
As a general guideline, ETLIFE determines whether it has significant insurance risk, by comparing benefits 
paid with benefits payable if the insured event did not occur. Such contract remains an insurance contract for 
the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights 
and obligations are extinguished or expire. Contracts can be classified as insurance contracts after inception 
if insurance risk becomes significant.
	
	
	
Investment contract
	
	
	
Investment contracts are those contracts which are not insurance contract. Investment contracts are those 
contracts that transfer financial risk with no significant insurance risk. Investment contracts can, however, be 
reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant. Some insurance and 
investment contracts contain a discretionary participation feature (DPF), which is a contractual right to receive 
additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
	
	
	
Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as with DPF, Linked Business and Others. Insurance 
contracts and investment contracts with DPF are measured and accounted under existing accounting practices 
at the date of transition to Ind AS which is in accordance with Ind AS 104.
	
	
b.	
Revenue recognition
	
	
	
•	
Premium Income
	
	
	
	
Premium income on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF are recognised as income 
when due from policyholders. For regular premium contracts, receivables are recognised at the date when 
payments are due.
	
	
	
	
In respect of linked business, premium income is recognised when the associated units are allotted. Top 
up premiums paid by unit-linked policyholders are considered as single premium and recognised as 
income when the associated units are created.
	
	
	
	
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but 
not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums. Premium on 
lapsed policies is recognised as income on receipt basis on reinstatement or revival of these policies.
	
	
	
	
Investments contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, 
surrenders or other contract services. The fees may be fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being 
managed and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholder’s balance.
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)): (Continued)
	
	
b.	
Revenue recognition (Continued)
	
	
	
•	
Premium Income (Continued)
	
	
	
	
For investment contract without DPF, deposit accounting in accordance with Ind AS 104 and Ind AS 109 
is followed. Consequently only to the extent of charges and fees collected from such investment contract 
is accounted as income in statement of profit and loss. unless they relate to services to be provided in 
future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognized as and when the services are provided.
	
	
	
•	
Reinsurance premium ceded
	
	
	
	
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted at the time of recognition of premium income in accordance 
with the treaty or in principle arrangement/agreement with the reinsurers.
	
	
	
•	
Income from Unit Linked Policies
	
	
	
	
Income from unit-linked policies, which include fund management charges, policy administration charges, 
mortality charges and other charges, wherever applicable, are recovered from the unit-linked funds in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies issued and are recognised as and when due.
	
	
	
•	
Fee management charges of investment contract
	
	
	
	
Investments contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, 
surrenders or other contract services. The fees may be fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being 
managed and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholder’s balance. The fees are 
recognised as revenue in the period in which they are collected unless they relate to services to be 
provided in future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as and when the services are 
provided.
	
	
	
•	
Interest income on policy loans is recognised using effective interest rate method
	
	
c.	
Acquisition costs
	
	
	
Acquisition cost which are primarily relatable to the acquisition of insurance and investment contracts with 
DPF are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
	
	
	
For investment contracts with or without DPF, acquisition costs that are directly attributable to securing an 
investment contract are deferred and amortised over the period in which the service is provided.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
257
258
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)): (Continued)
	
	
c.	
Acquisition costs (Continued)
	
	
	
Benefits paid:
	
	
	
Benefits paid consists of the policy benefit and claim settlement costs, if any.
	
	
	
•	
Non-linked business
	
	
	
	
Death, rider, withdrawals and surrender claims are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Maturity, survival 
benefit and annuities are accounted when due.
	
	
	
•	
Linked-business
	
	
	
	
Death and rider are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Maturity claims and survival benefit are 
accounted for on due basis when the associated units are cancelled. Surrenders and withdrawals are 
accounted for on receipt of intimation. Amount payable on lapsed/ discontinued policies are accounted 
for on expiry of lock in period of these policies. Surrenders, withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at 
net of charges recoverable.
	
	
	
•	
Reinsurance
	
	
	
	
Reinsurance claims receivable are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
	
	
d.	
Reinsurance ceded
	
	
	
ETLIFE cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business, with retention limits varying by line of business. 
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from reinsurance companies for ceded insurance. Amounts 
recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, 
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with 
the relevant reinsurance contract.
	
	
	
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date, or more frequently, when an indication 
of impairment arises during the reporting period. Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a 
result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the company may not 
receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable 
impact on the amounts that the company will receive from the reinsurer. The impairment loss is recorded in the 
statement of Profit or loss.
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)): (Continued)
	
	
e.	
Liability adequacy test
	
	
	
ETLIFE assesses at the end of each reporting period whether its recognised insurance liabilities are adequate, 
using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If that assessment shows that the 
carrying amount of its insurance liabilities is inadequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the 
entire deficiency shall be recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
	
	
f.	
Policyholder Liability
	
	
	
Insurance contract and investment contract with DPF.
	
	
	
Under the Ind AS 104 requirement, insurance, and investment contract with DPF claims / liabilities are measured 
using the accounting policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing accounting practices.
	
	
	
Hence, the policyholder liabilities are calculated in accordance with the accepted actuarial practice, 
requirements of Insurance Act, 1938 and amendments thereafter, applicable regulations notified by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), and Actuarial Practice Standards issued by 
the Institute of Actuaries of India.
	
	
g.	
Investment contracts without DPF
	
	
	
Liability in respect of investment contracts is recognised in accordance with Ind AS, taking into account 
accepted actuarial practices. Deposits (premium amount) collected are not accounted for through the 
statement of profit or loss but are accounted for directly through the balance sheet as an addition to the 
investment contract liability. Amounts paid (benefit amounts) are recorded as reductions of the investment 
contract liability.
	
	
h.	
Unclaimed amount of policyholders
	
	
	
•	
Assets held for unclaimed amount of policyholders is created and maintained in accordance with the 
requirement of IRDAI Regulations and Investment Regulations, 2016 as amended from time to time.
	
	
	
•	
Unclaimed amount of policyholders’ assets considered under other financial assets is invested in money 
market instruments and / or fixed deposits of scheduled banks which are valued at amortized cost.
	
	
	
•	
Income on unclaimed amount of policyholders is credited to respective unclaimed account and is 
accounted for on an accrual basis.
	
	
	
•	
Amount payable on account of income earned on assets held for unclaimed amount of policyholders is 
accounted for on an accrual basis and is disclosed net of fund management charges.
	
	
	
•	
Unclaimed amount of policyholders’ liability considered is determined on the basis of NAV of the units 
outstanding as at the valuation date
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
259
260
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.1	 	
Significant accounting policies of insurance business (Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited (“ETLIFE”)): (Continued)
	
	
h.	
Unclaimed amount of policyholders (Continued)
	
	
	
•	
Amounts remaining unclaimed for a period of 10 years together with all respective accretions to the fund 
as per the above-mentioned regulations are deposited into the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF).
6.2  
Significant accounting policies of General insurance business (Zuno General Insurance Limited 
“ZGIL” (formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited “EGICL”))
	
	
Revenue recognition in general insurance business
	
	
•	
Premium Income
	
	
	
Premium (net of goods and service tax), including reinstatement premium on direct business and reinsurance 
accepted, other than for Long term motor insurance policies for new cars and new two wheelers (‘Long-term 
motor insurance policies’) issued on and after September 1, 2018, having term of more than one year, is 
recognized as income at the commencement of risk over the contract period or the period of risk, whichever 
is appropriate, on a gross basis and for installment cases, it is recognized on installment due dates.
	
	
	
Own Damage coverage premium in Long-term motor insurance policies is recognized in accordance with 
the movement IDV (Insured declared value) on a yearly basis over the policy period and Third Party coverage 
premium is recognized equally on a yearly basis over the policy period at the commencement of risk on 1/n 
basis where ‘n’ denotes the term of the policy period in years.
	
	
	
Reinstatement premium is recorded as and when such premiums are recovered. Any subsequent revisions to 
premium are recognized in the year in which they occur over the remaining period of risk or contract period, as 
applicable. Adjustments to premium income arising on cancellation of policies are recognized in the period in 
which they are cancelled.
	
	
•	
Reinsurance Ceded
	
	
	
Insurance premium on ceding of the risk other than Long-term motor insurance policies is recognized in the 
period in which the risk commences in accordance with reinsurance arrangements with the reinsurers. In case 
of Long-term motor insurance policies reinsurance premium is recognized on the insurance premium allocated 
for the year in accordance with reinsurance arrangements with the reinsurers. Any subsequent revisions to, 
refunds or cancellations of premiums are recognized in the year in which they occur.
	
	
	
Premium on excess of loss reinsurance cover is accounted as per the terms of the reinsurance arrangements. 
Adjustment to reinsurance premium arising on cancellation of policies is recognized in the period in which they 
are cancelled.
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.2  
Significant accounting policies of General insurance business (Zuno General Insurance Limited 
“ZGIL” (formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited “EGICL”)) (Continued)
	
	
Revenue recognition in general insurance business (Continued)
	
	
•	
Commission income from reinsurance ceded
	
	
	
Commission from reinsurance ceded is recognised as income on ceding of reinsurance premium in the period 
of ceding of risk. Profit commission under reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is recognised as income 
in the year of final determination of profits as confirmed by reinsurers and combined with commission on 
reinsurance ceded.
	
	
•	
Reserve for Unexpired Risk
	
	
	
Reserve for unexpired risk represent that part of net written premium which is attributable to and allocated 
to the succeeding accounting periods. Reserve for unexpired risk is calculated on net written premium on 
all unexpired policies at the balance sheet date based on 1/365th method for all segments, other than Health 
insurance policies with Health 241 Add ON cover. In Marine Hull business it is subject to a minimum of 100%.
	
	
	
In Switch product, the unexpired risk for Accidental damage cover is calculated on basis its usages i.e. used 
premium is accounted as earned premium and unused portion is accounted as unexpired risk reserve and for 
Fire & theft cover the unexpired risk is calculated on net written premium based on 1/365th method.
	
	
	
In Health insurance policies with Health 241 Add ON cover; the unexpired risk is calculated on net written 
premium on all unexpired policies at the balance sheet date based on:
	
	
	
a.	
1/730 basis where there is no claim reported in the 1st year of policy
	
	
	
b.	
1/365 basis where the claim is reported in the 1st year of policy
	
	
•	
Claims Incurred
	
	
	
Claims incurred comprise of claims paid (net of salvage and other recoveries), change in estimated liability for 
outstanding claims made following a loss occurrence reported and estimated liability for claims Incurred But Not 
Reported (IBNR) and claims Incurred But Not Enough Reported (IBNER). Further, claims incurred also include 
specific claim settlement costs comprising survey fees, legal expenses and other directly attributable costs. 
Claims (net of amounts receivable from reinsurers/coinsurers) are recognised on the date of intimation based on 
internal management estimates or on estimates from surveyors/insured in the respective revenue account(s).
	
	
	
Estimated liability for outstanding claims at balance sheet date is recorded net of claims recoverable from / 
payable to co-insurers / reinsurers, salvage to the extent there is certainty of realisation and other recoveries. 
Estimated liability for outstanding claims is determined by the management on the basis of ultimate amounts 
likely to be paid on each claim, established by the management in light of past experience and progressively 
modified for changes as appropriate, on availability of further information and in cases where claim payment 
period exceeds four years based on actuarial valuation. These estimates include claim settlement costs likely 
to be incurred to settle outstanding claims.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
261
262
6.	 	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS (CONTINUED)
6.2  
Significant accounting policies of General insurance business (Zuno General Insurance Limited 
“ZGIL” (formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited “EGICL”)) (Continued)
	
	
Revenue recognition in general insurance business (Continued)
	
	
•	
Claims Incurred (Continued)
	
	
	
IBNR reserves are provisions for claims that may have been incurred during the accounting period but have 
not been reported or claimed. The IBNR provision also includes provision, for claims that have been incurred 
but are not enough reported (IBNER). The provision for IBNR and IBNER is based on actuarial estimate duly 
certified by the Appointed Actuary of ZGIL. The actuarial estimate is derived in accordance with relevant 
IRDAI regulations and Guidance Note GN 21 issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India. The Appointed 
Actuary has certified that the methodology and assumptions used to estimate the liability are appropriate and 
in accordance with guidelines and norms issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the 
IRDAI regulations.
	
	
•	
Premium deficiency
	
	
	
Premium deficiency (‘PDR’) is recognised at segmental revenue account level, when the sum of expected 
net claim costs, related expenses and maintenance costs (related to claims handling) exceed the reserve for 
unexpired risks. The premium deficiency is calculated and duly certified by the Appointed Actuary.
7.	 	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY
	
	
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the management is required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other 
sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are 
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
	
	
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period 
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
7.1.		
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies
	
	
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the management has made 
in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
7.	 	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
7.1.		
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies (Continued)
	
	
a.	
Business model assessment
	
	
	
Classification and measurement of financial assets depends on the results of business model test. The Group 
determines the business model at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managed together to 
achieve a particular business objective. This assessment includes judgement reflecting all relevant evidence 
including how the performance of the assets is evaluated and their performance is measured, the risks that 
affect the performance of the assets and how these are managed and how the managers of the assets are 
compensated. The Group monitors financial assets measured at amortised cost that are derecognised prior to 
their maturity to understand the quantum, the reason for their disposal and whether the reasons are consistent 
with the objective of the business for which the asset was held. Group continuously monitors whether the 
business model for which the remaining financial assets are held continues to be appropriate and if it is 
not appropriate whether there has been a change in business model and so a prospective change to the 
classification of those assets is required.
	
	
b.	
Significant increase in credit risk
	
	
	
ECL is measured as allowance equal to 12-month ECL for stage 1 assets, or lifetime ECL for stage 2 or stage 
3 assets. An asset moves to stage 2 when its credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition. 
In assessing whether the credit risk of an asset has significantly increased the Group takes into account 
qualitative and quantitative reasonable and supportable forward-looking information.
	
	
c.	
Consolidation of structured entities
	
	
	
A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant 
factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only 
and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. In the context of the Group, 
structured entities comprise securitisation trusts in asset reconstruction business, mutual fund schemes and 
alternative investment funds / schemes thereof. The Group consolidates the structured entities that it controls. 
When making this judgement, the Group also considers voting and similar rights available to itself and other 
parties, who may limit the Group’s ability to control, including rights to appoint, reassign or remove members 
of the structured entity’s key management personnel who have the ability to direct the relevant activities, the 
exposure to variability of returns and whether the Group has the ability to use its power to affect the amount of 
the Group’s returns i.e. the variability of returns in relation to the total returns of the investee entity.
	
	
d.	
Determining lease term for lease contracts with renewal and termination option
	
	
	
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods 
covered by an option to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by 
an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
263
264
7.	 	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
7.1.		
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies (Continued)
	
	
d.	
Determining lease term for lease contracts with renewal and termination option (Continued)
	
	
	
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. The Group applies 
judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain, whether or not, to exercise the option to renew or 
terminate the lease. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise 
either the renewal or termination. After the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there 
is a significant event or change in circumstances that is within its control that affects its ability to exercise or 
not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements or 
significant customisation of the leased asset).
7.2	 	
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
	
	
The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available all the time consolidated financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may 
change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Group. Such changes 
are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. Following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and 
other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that may have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
	
	
a.	
Fair value of financial instruments
	
	
	
The fair value of financial instruments is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date 
under current market conditions (i.e., an exit price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or 
estimated using another valuation technique. When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
recorded in the balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using a variety 
of valuation techniques that include the use of valuation models. The inputs to these models are taken from 
observable markets wherever possible, but where this is not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair 
values.
	
	
	
For Investments made into Security receipts (SRs), Group uses discounted cash flow model, given that the SRs 
are less liquid instruments. Expected cash flow levels including timing of cash flows are estimated by using 
quantitative and qualitative measures regarding the characteristics of the underlying assets including default 
rates, nature and value of collaterals, manner of resolution and other economic drivers. For any valuation which 
are based on models, Judgements and estimates are applied, which include considerations of liquidity, credit 
risk (both own and counterparty), funding value adjustments, correlation and volatility.
7.	 	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
7.2	 	
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Continued)
	
	
b.	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all categories of financial assets requires judgement, in 
particular, the estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows and collateral values when determining 
impairment losses and the assessment of a significant increase in credit risk. These estimates are driven by a 
number of factors, changes in which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
	
	
The Group’s ECL calculations are outputs of models with a number of underlying assumptions regarding 
the choice of variable inputs and their interdependencies. Elements of the ECL models that are considered 
accounting judgements and estimates include:
 
 
 
a.	
PD calculation includes historical data, assumptions and expectations of future conditions.
	
	
	
b.	
The Group’s criteria for assessing if there has been a significant increase in credit risk and so allowances 
for financial assets should be measured on a life-time expected credit loss and the qualitative assessment.
	
	
	
c.	
The segmentation of financial assets when their ECL is assessed on a collective basis.
	
	
	
d.	
Development of ECL models, including the various formulas and the choice of inputs.
	
	
	
e.	
Determination of associations between macroeconomic scenarios and, economic inputs, such as 
unemployment levels and collateral values, and the effect on PDs, EAD and LGD
	
	
	
f.	
Selection of forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios and their probability weightings, to derive the 
economic inputs into the ECL models
	
	
	
It is Group’s policy to regularly review its models in the context of actual loss experience and adjust when 
necessary.
	
	
c.	
Effective interest rate method
	
	
	
The Group’s EIR methodology, as explained in Note 5.1, recognises interest income / expense using a rate of 
return that represents the best estimate of a constant rate of return over the expected behavioural life of loans 
given / taken and recognises the effect of characteristics of the product life cycle.
	
	
	
This estimation, by nature, requires an element of judgement regarding the expected behaviour and life-cycle 
of the instruments, as well expected changes fee income/expense that are integral parts of the instrument.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
266
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
265
7.	 	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
7.2	 	
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Continued)
	
	
d.	
Accounting for deferred taxes
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to 
determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level 
of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
	
	
	
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets on carried forward tax losses with respect to certain subsidiaries 
where the Group believes that the said deferred tax assets shall be recoverable based on the estimated future 
taxable income which in turn is based on approved business plans and budgets. The losses are allowed to 
be carried forward to the years in which the Group expects that there will be sufficient taxable profits to offset 
these losses.
	
	
e.	
Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
	
	
	
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (‘IBR’) to measure lease liabilities. Incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the 
Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, the funds necessary to 
obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
	
	
f.	
Asset liability management
	
	
	
Management has made an assessment of its ability to continue and is satisfied that it has the resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future.
8.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash in hand
 37.85
 34.86
Cheques in hand
 353.94
 385.74
Balances with banks: (refer note 1 below)
	
- in Current accounts
 16,849.10
 20,891.69
	
- in fixed deposits with original maturity less than 3 months
 6,491.29
 6,146.31
Total
 23,732.18
 27,458.60
Note 1:
Pledged bank balance/fixed deposits aggregating to ` 1,792.95 million ( previous year ` 5,053.82 million) against 
debt securities issued.
9.
BANK BALANCE OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Fixed deposits with original maturity more than 3 months at amortised 
cost (refer Note 1 below)
 9,565.99
 9,522.32
(held as margin money or security against borrowings, debt securities 
and guarantees)
Unpaid dividend accounts
 9.77
 9.81
Total
 9,575.76
 9,532.13
Note 1:
•	
Pledged fixed deposit aggregating to ` 3,012.54 million (previous year ` 2,326.63 million) with bank for securing 
credit facilities, obtaining bank guarantees, securitisation contracts and meeting margin requirement for trading 
in cross currency swaps and forward margin.
•	
Pledged fixed deposit aggregating to ` 95.18 million (previous year ` 66.09 million) with VAT,CST and excise 
authorities.
•	
Pledged fixed deposit aggregating to ` 13.35 million (previous year `16.29 million) with agriculture produce 
market committee for obtaining Mandi license.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
267
268
10.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
As at 31 March 2024
 Notional 
amount  
(Units)
Fair value of 
asset 
(` in millions)
 Notional 
amount  
(Units)
Fair value of 
liability 
(` in millions)
(i)
Currency derivatives
Currency Futures
 1,839,314
 174.44
 -
 -
Options purchased
 100,000,000
 53.05
 -
 -
Options sold
 -
 -
 93,500,000
 42.98
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(1,839,314)
(174.44)
(93,500,000)
(42.98)
Subtotal (i)
 53.05
 -
(ii)
Interest rate derivatives
Forwards and Interest Rate Swaps
37,036,154,838
875.53
10,978,188,000
26.82
Futures
 -
 -
25,058,000
4.71
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(16,720,621,049)
(679.92)
(3,203,246,000)
(9.56)
Subtotal (ii)
 195.61
 21.97
(iii)
Equity linked derivatives
Stock Futures
 12,579,286
139.06
 6,269,122
34.29
Options purchased
 9,326,378
327.85
 -
 -
Options sold (written)
 -
 -
 9,326,753
231.16
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(12,579,286)
(139.06)
(6,269,122)
(34.29)
Subtotal (iii)
 327.85
 231.16
(iv)
Index linked derivatives
Index Futures
 176,590
15.93
 78,895
3.54
Options purchased
 9,091,005
316.26
 111,540
5.02
Options sold (written)
 -
 -
 747,970
248.89
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(176,590)
(15.93)
(99,490)
(7.66)
Subtotal (iv)
 316.26
 249.79
(v)
Embedded derivatives
In market linked debentures
 -
299.64
 -
652.91
Subtotal (v)
 299.64
 652.91
(vi)
Commodity derivatives
Commodity Futures
 27,000
 2.32
 -
 -
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(27,000)
(2.32)
 -
 -
Subtotal (vi)
 -
 -
Total
 1,192.41
 1,155.83
10.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
As at 31 March 2023
 Notional 
amount  
(Units)
Fair value of 
asset 
(` in millions)
 Notional 
amount  
(Units)
Fair value of 
liability 
(` in millions)
(i)
Currency derivatives
Currency Futures
 250,000
 0.03
7,382,069
 485.42
Options purchased
 111,401,000
 56.48
 -
 -
Options sold
 -
 -
139,327,000
 49.88
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(250,000)
(0.03)
(125,457,069)
(533.45)
Sub total (i)
 56.48
 1.85
(ii)
Interest rate derivatives
Forwards and Interest Rate Swaps
31,425,263,200
 140.62
7,500,000,000
 23.96
Futures
 -
 -
16,220,000
 1.42
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
 -
 -
(16,220,000)
(1.42)
Subtotal (ii)
 140.62
 23.96
(iii)
Equity linked derivatives
Stock Futures
 7,511,845
 82.37
5,444,117
 54.55
Options purchased
 2,376,300
 1.53
 3,209,700
 16.77
Options sold (written)
 -
 -
225,000
 1.88
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(7,511,845)
(82.37)
(5,444,117)
(54.55)
Subtotal (iii)
 1.53
 18.65
(iv)
Index linked derivatives
Index Futures
 70,849
 46.27
21,700
6.74
Options purchased
 62,447,310
 105.23
73,700
 5.35
Options sold (written)
 -
 -
55,158,385
 293.75
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
(70,849)
(46.27)
(53,548,000)
(18.37)
Subtotal (iv)
 105.23
 287.47
(v)
Embedded derivatives
In market linked debentures
 -
 475.14
794,600,000
 443.79
Subtotal (v)
 475.14
 443.79
(vi)
Commodity derivatives
Commodity Futures
 -
 -
21,100
 0.27
Less: amounts offset (refer note 10.1)
 -
 -
(21,100)
(0.27)
Subtotal (vi)
 -
 -
Total
 779.00
 775.72
Notes
1
Notional amounts in the above tables refer to number of underlying equity shares in case of stock futures and 
options, number of underlying index units in case of index-linked derivatives, number of underlying currency 
units in case of currency derivatives, number of underlying government securities / bonds in case of interest rate 
futures, amount of notional currency in case of interest rate swaps.
2
Group has designed a risk based strategy to cover exposure on issued Benchmarked Linked Debentures, by 
entering into a derivative contracts either to minimise the loss or to earn a minimum committed income by 
entering into a combination of derivative contracts (say for example purchased call and put options) with a 
wide range of strike prices. Above strategy has been approved by the risk committee of respective subsidiary 
Companies in the Group and ensures that risk is fully or partially covered, which supports to reduce the risk 
exposure.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
269
270
10.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
10.1
Offsetting:
The tables below summarise the financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements, as well as 
financial collateral received to mitigate credit exposures for these financial assets, and whether offset is achieved in the balance sheet:
Financial assets subject to offsetting, netting arrangements
As at 31 March 2024:
Financial assets subject to 
offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the 
balance sheet
Netting potential not recognised in 
balance sheet
Assets not 
subject 
to netting 
arrangements
Total  
assets
Maximum 
Exposure to 
Risk
Gross 
asset 
before 
offset
Amount 
offset*
Net asset 
recognised 
in balance 
sheet
Financial 
liabilities
Collateral 
received
Assets after 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Assets 
recognised in 
the balance 
sheet
Recognised 
in the 
balance 
sheet
After 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Derivative financial assets
 2,204.08
 1,011.67
 1,192.41
 21.98
 57.00
 1,227.43
 -
 1,192.41
 1,227.43
Margin placed with broker
 788.64
(46.03)
 834.67
 -
 -
 834.67
 -
 834.67
 834.67
Financial liabilities subject to 
offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the 
balance sheet
Netting potential not recognised in 
balance sheet
Liabilities 
not subject 
to netting 
arrangements
Total 
liabilities
Maximum 
Exposure to 
Risk
Gross 
liability 
before 
offset
Amount 
offset*
 Net liability 
recognised 
in balance 
sheet
Financial 
assets
Collateral 
paid
Liabilities after 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Liabilities 
recognised on 
the balance 
sheet
Recognised 
in the 
balance 
sheet
After 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Derivative financial liabilities
 1,250.32
 94.49
 1,155.83
 21.98
 -
 1,133.85
 -
 1,155.83
 1,133.85
10.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
10.1
Offsetting: (Continued)
As at 31 March 2023:
Financial assets subject to 
offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the 
balance sheet
Netting potential not recognised in 
balance sheet
Assets not 
subject 
to netting 
arrangements
Total assets
Maximum 
Exposure to 
Risk
Gross 
asset 
before 
offset
Amount 
offset*
Net asset 
recognised 
in balance 
sheet
Financial 
liabilities
Collateral 
received
Assets after 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Assets 
recognised in 
the balance 
sheet
Recognised 
in the 
balance 
sheet
After 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Derivative financial assets
 907.67
 128.67
 779.00
 23.96
 59.40
 814.44
 -
 779.00
 814.44
Margin placed with broker
 135.43
 -
 135.43
 -
 -
 135.43
 -
 135.43
 135.43
Financial liabilities subject to 
offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the 
balance sheet
Netting potential not recognised in 
balance sheet
Liabilities 
not subject 
to netting 
arrangements
Total 
liabilities
Maximum 
Exposure to 
Risk
Gross 
liability 
before 
offset
Amount 
offset*
 Net liability 
recognised 
in balance 
sheet
Financial 
assets
Collateral 
paid
Liabilities after 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Liabilities 
recognised on 
the balance 
sheet
Recognised 
in the 
balance 
sheet
After 
consideration 
of netting 
potential
Derivative financial liabilities
 1,383.78
 608.06
 775.72
 23.96
 -
 751.76
 -
 775.72
 751.76
*As at the reporting date the amount of cash margin received that has been offset against gross derivative assets ` 1,011.67 million (previous year 
` 128.67 million). As at the reporting date the amount of cash margin paid that has been offset against gross derivative liability ` 94.49 million (previous 
year ` 608.06 million).
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
271
272
11.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Receivables considered good - unsecured
3,794.87
2,276.88
Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk
154.04
381.86
Receivables - credit impaired
1,142.22
2,629.59
Gross receivables
5,091.13
5,288.33
Allowance for expected credit losses - Provision for impairment - 
unsecured
 (667.43)
 (129.40)
Allowance for expected credit losses - Receivables which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 (71.49)
 (45.78)
Allowance for expected credit losses - Provision for impairment - 
credit impaired
 (776.84)
 (980.07)
Total allowance for expected credit losses
 (1,515.76)
 (1,155.25)
Total receivables net of provision
3,575.37
4,133.08
11.1
Trade receivables ageing schedule
As at 31 March 2024
Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of receipt
Total
Particulars
Less than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 3,754.13
 37.72
 2.40
 0.44
 0.18
 3,794.87
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 32.63
 111.94
 2.32
 7.15
 -
 154.04
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 53.20
 113.10
 104.02
 112.79
 759.11
 1,142.22
(iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables–considered good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross receivables (A)
 3,839.96
 262.76
 108.74
 120.38
 759.29
 5,091.13
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 (660.53)
 (3.88)
 (2.40)
 (0.44)
 (0.18)
 (667.43)
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 (18.66)
 (43.36)
 (2.32)
 (7.15)
 -
 (71.49)
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 (27.44)
 (55.73)
 (27.99)
 (33.89)
 (631.79)
 (776.84)
(iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables–considered good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total ECL Provision on receivables (B)
 (706.63)
 (102.97)
 (32.71)
 (41.48)
 (631.97)  (1,515.76)
Total receivables net of provision = (A)-(B)
 3,133.33
 159.79
 76.03
 78.90
 127.32
 3,575.37
11.
TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
11.1
Trade receivables ageing schedule (Continued)
As at 31 March 2023
 Outstanding for following periods from  
due date of receipt
Total
Particulars
Less than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 2,273.48
 2.95
 0.27
 0.18
 -
 2,276.88
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 99.42
 275.73
 6.52
 0.19
 -
 381.86
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 39.08
 159.46
 402.20
 319.13
 1,709.72
 2,629.59
(iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables–considered good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross receivables (A)
 2,411.98
 438.14
 408.99
 319.50
 1,709.72
 5,288.33
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 (126.88)
 (2.07)
 (0.27)
 (0.18)
 -
 (129.40)
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 (10.70)
 (28.37)
 (6.52)
 (0.19)
 -
 (45.78)
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 (12.33)
 (26.15)
 (77.15)
 (63.68)
 (800.76)
 (980.07)
(iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables–considered good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total ECL Provision on receivables (B)
 (149.91)
 (56.59)
 (83.94)
 (64.05)
 (800.76)  (1,155.25)
Total receivables net of provision = (A)-(B)
 2,262.07
 381.55
 325.05
 255.45
 908.96
 4,133.08
The unbilled amout is ` 15.00 million (previous year ` Nil million)
Trade Receivables are generally on term of 0 to 90 days
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with any other person. 
Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director 
or a member.
11.2
Reconciliation of impairment allowance on trade receivables:
Particulars
Amount
Impairment allowance measured as per simplified approach
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2022
1,828.42
Add/ (less): asset originated or acquired or recovered (net)
(673.17)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2023
1,155.25
Add/ (less): asset originated or acquired or recovered (net)
360.51
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2024
1,515.76
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
274
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
273
12.
LOANS
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
at 
amortised 
cost
at 
FVTPL
at 
FVOCI
Total
at 
amortised 
cost
at 
FVTPL
at 
FVOCI
Total
Term Loans
Corporate and Retail 
Credit
 111,203.78
 2,641.83
 31,935.23  145,780.84
 203,783.10
 2,645.09
 -  206,428.19
Distressed Credit
 14,283.19
 -
 22,010.76
 36,293.95
 17,966.05
 -
 -
 17,966.05
Other Credit
 522.44
 -
 -
 522.44
 373.84
 -
 -
 373.84
Total Gross (A)
 126,009.41
 2,641.83
 53,945.99
 182,597.23
 222,122.99
 2,645.09
 -  224,768.08
Less: Impairment loss 
allowance
 25,068.50
 -
 9,488.41
 34,556.91
 51,231.80
 -
- 
 51,231.80
Total (Net) (A)
 100,940.91
 2,641.83
 44,457.58  148,040.32
 170,891.19
 2,645.09
 -  173,536.28
Secured by tangible 
assets (Property 
including land, 
building, project 
receivables and others)
 114,002.40
 2,641.83
 53,018.25  169,662.48
 198,929.98
 2,645.09
 -  201,575.07
Secured by 
Inventories, fixed 
deposits, other 
marketable securities 
and others
 1,284.79
 -
 870.25
 2,155.04
 6,565.91
 -
 -
 6,565.91
Unsecured
 10,722.22
 -
 57.49
 10,779.71
 16,627.10
 -
 -
 16,627.10
Total Gross (B)
 126,009.41
 2,641.83
 53,945.99  182,597.23
 222,122.99
 2,645.09
 -  224,768.08
Less: Impairment loss 
allowance
 25,068.50
 -
 9,488.41
 34,556.91
 51,231.80
 -
 -
 51,231.80
Total (Net) (B)
 100,940.91
 2,641.83
 44,457.58  148,040.32
 170,891.19
 2,645.09
 -  173,536.28
Loans in India
Public sector
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Others
 126,009.41
 2,641.83
 53,945.99  182,597.23
 222,122.99
 2,645.09
 -  224,768.08
Total Gross (C)
 126,009.41
 2,641.83
 53,945.99  182,597.23
 222,122.99
 2,645.09
 -  224,768.08
Less: Impairment loss 
allowance
 25,068.50
 -
 9,488.41
 34,556.91
 51,231.80
 -
 -
 51,231.80
Total (Net) (C) (I)
 100,940.91
 2,641.83
 44,457.58  148,040.32
 170,891.19
 2,645.09
 -  173,536.28
Loans outside India
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Less: Impairment loss 
allowance
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total (Net) (C) (II)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total (C) (I) and (C) (II)
 100,940.91
 2,641.83
 44,457.58  148,040.32
 170,891.19
 2,645.09
 -  173,536.28
Note: Loans including Installment and Interest outstanding due from the directors amounts to ` Nil million (previous year ` Nil 
million).
12.
LOANS (CONTINUED)
12.1
Credit Quality
The table below shows the credit quality and the maximum exposure to credit risk based on the Group’s internal grading and year-end stage classification. The amounts 
presented are gross of impairment allowances. Details of the Group’s internal grading system and policies on whether ECL allowances are calculated on an individual 
or collective basis are set out in Note 56.7.
Loans at amortised cost & FVOCI
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III1
POCI
Total
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III1
POCI
Total
Performing
High grade
 42,771.90
 -
 -
 -
 42,771.90
 47,843.81
 -
 -
 -
 47,843.81
Standard grade
 -
 4,849.17
 -
 -
 4,849.17
 -
 24,765.98
 -
 -
 24,765.98
Non-performing
Impaired
 -
 -
 96,040.38
 36,293.95
132,334.33
 -
 -
131,547.15
 17,966.05
149,513.20
Total
 42,771.90
 4,849.17
 96,040.38
 36,293.95
179,955.40
 47,843.81
 24,765.98
131,547.15
 17,966.05
222,122.99
Gross carrying amount and corresponding ECL reconciliation – Loans
Particulars
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
POCI
Total
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
POCI
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL2
Carrying 
amount 
(Net of 
Allowance 
for ECL)
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Balance at 31 March 2022
 59,440.91
 586.54
 43,162.84
 3,797.47
123,685.28
 36,877.85
 12,587.17
238,876.20
 41,261.86
Effect of acquisitions made during 
the year
Transfers:
Transfers to 12 Month ECL (Stage 1)
 1,272.03
 107.74
 (828.06)
 (47.53)
 (443.97)
 (60.21)
 -
 -
 -
Transfers to lifetime ECL (Stage 2)
 (5,649.88)
 (86.43)
 6,142.63
 157.87
 (492.75)
 (71.44)
 -
 -
 -
Transfers to lifetime ECL- Credit 
impaired (Stage 3)
 (638.02)
 (7.78)
 (3,272.95)
 (1,092.35)
 3,910.97
 1,100.13
 -
 -
 -
Net re-measurement of ECL arising 
from transfer of stage
 -
 (80.59)
 -
 990.52
 -
 1,580.24
 -
 -
 2,490.17
Net new and further lending/
(repayments) (including write-off) and 
sale to ARC / AIF
 (6,581.23)
 107.98
 (20,438.48)
 (1,615.55)
 4,887.62
 8,987.34
 5,378.88
 (16,753.21)
 7,479.77
Balance at 31 March 2023
 47,843.81
 627.46
 24,765.98
 2,190.43
 131,547.15
 48,413.91
 17,966.05
 222,122.99
 51,231.80
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
276
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
275
12.
LOANS (CONTINUED)
12.1
Credit Quality (Continued)
Gross carrying amount and corresponding ECL reconciliation – Loans (Continued)
Particulars
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
POCI
Total
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
POCI
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL2
Carrying 
amount 
(Net of 
Allowance 
for ECL)
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Balance at 31 March 2023
 47,843.81
 627.46
 24,765.98
 2,190.43
 131,547.15
 48,413.91
 17,966.05
 222,122.99
 51,231.80
Effect of acquisitions made during 
the year
Transfers:
Transfers to 12 Month ECL (Stage 1)
 1,657.63
 132.01
 (1,609.07)
 (123.15)
 (48.56)
 (8.86)
 -
 -
 -
Transfers to lifetime ECL (Stage 2)
 (1,714.90)
 (96.59)
 1,759.36
 105.32
 (44.46)
 (8.73)
 -
 -
 -
Transfers to lifetime ECL- Credit 
impaired (Stage 3)
 (1,091.90)
 (32.52)
 (6,712.52)
 (278.71)
 7,804.42
 311.23
 -
 -
 -
Net re-measurement of ECL arising 
from transfer of stage
 -
 (126.16)
 -
 (31.87)
 -
 5,787.91
 -
 -
 5,629.88
Net new and further lending/
(repayments) (including write-off) and 
sale to ARC / AIF
 (3,922.74)
 (229.74)
 (13,354.58)
 (1,344.56)
 (43,218.17)
 (20,730.47)
 18,327.90
 (42,167.59)
 (22,304.77)
Balance at 31 March 2024
 42,771.90
 274.46
 4,849.17
 517.46
 96,040.38
 33,764.99
 36,293.95
 179,955.40
 34,556.91
	
1 This also includes stage III assets in EARC on distressed assets book, interest accrued on non-performing assets and stage III assets held by Group entities other 
than NBFCs on trade and general purpose advances.
	
2 Allowance under this category also includes provision on assets as mentioned in note 1 above.
13.
INVESTMENTS
As at 31 March 2024
 Amortised 
cost
 FVOCI*
 FVTPL
 Designated 
at FVTPL
 Total
Security Receipts
 -
 10,783.80
 15,255.45
 -
 26,039.25
Government Securities
 -
 23,895.11
 31,206.66
 12,998.98
 68,100.75
Equity Shares
 -
 -
 42,606.82
 -
 42,606.82
Debt securities
 10,393.47
 4,957.30
 3,738.63
 5,459.25
 24,548.65
AIF Fund
 -
 -
 11,860.86
 -
 11,860.86
Mutual Fund
 -
 -
 7,492.05
 -
 7,492.05
Preference Shares
 -
 -
 970.16
 -
 970.16
Others
 719.13
 -
 1,741.23
 1,452.50
 3,912.86
Total
 11,112.60
 39,636.21
 114,871.86
 19,910.73
 185,531.40
Investments in India
 11,112.60
 39,636.21
 109,054.94
 19,910.73
 179,714.48
Investments outside India
 -
 -
 5,816.92
 -
 5,816.92
Total
 11,112.60
 39,636.21
 114,871.86
 19,910.73
 185,531.40
Less - Impairment Loss allowance
 163.54
 -
 453.11
 -
 616.65
Total
 10,949.06
 39,636.21
 114,418.75
 19,910.73
 184,914.75
* Includes FVOCI equity amounting to ` 10,783.8 million which will not reclass to profit and loss account.
As at 31 March 2023
Amortised 
cost
FVOCI
FVTPL
Designated 
at FVTPL
Total
Security Receipts
 -
 -
 21,089.05
 -
 21,089.05
Government Securities
 -
 18,751.02
 27,169.11
 11,078.42
 56,998.55
Equity Shares
 -
 -
 50,577.53
 -
 50,577.53
Debt securities
 175.91
 5,976.24
 8,614.66
 3,349.90
 18,116.71
AIF Fund
 -
 -
 16,437.39
 -
 16,437.39
Mutual Fund
 -
 -
 3,643.44
 -
 3,643.44
Preference Shares
 -
 -
 1,105.68
 -
 1,105.68
Others
 1,995.78
 -
 1,570.76
 710.98
 4,277.52
Total
 2,171.69
 24,727.26
 130,207.62
 15,139.30
 172,245.87
Investments in India
 2,171.69
 24,727.26
 126,372.48
 15,139.30
 168,410.73
Investments outside India
 -
 -
 3,835.14
 -
 3,835.14
Total
 2,171.69
 24,727.26
 130,207.62
 15,139.30
 172,245.87
Less - Impairment Loss allowance
 3.46
 -
 620.17
 -
 623.63
Total
 2,168.23
 24,727.26
 129,587.45
 15,139.30
 171,622.24
Note: Investments pledged with bank, exchange, brokers and against debts securities issued is amounting to 
` 41,365.92 million (previous year ` 30,997.08 million)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
277
278
13.
INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
13.1
Investments measured at FVOCI
Credit quality of assets
The table below shows the gross carrying amount of the Group’s investments measured at FVOCI by credit risk, 
based on the Group’s internal credit rating system and year-end stage classification. The amount presented are 
gross of impairment allowances. Details of the Group’s internal grading system and policies on whether Expected 
Credit Loss (ECL allowances) are calculated on an individual or collective basis are set out in Note 56.7
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 2)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
Total
High grade
 36,781.68
 -
 -
 36,781.68
Standard grade
 2,854.53
 -
 -
 2,854.53
Individually impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 39,636.21
 -
 -
 39,636.21
As at 31 March 2023
Particulars
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 2)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
Total
High grade
 20,794.09
 -
 -
 20,794.09
Standard grade
 3,933.17
 -
 -
 3,933.17
Individually impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 24,727.26
 -
 -
 24,727.26
Reconciliation of gross carrying amount and corresponding ECL for investments measured at FVOCI
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount 
(Stage 1)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount 
(Stage 3)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 3)
Gross carrying amount - opening balance
 24,727.26
 -
 -
 -
New assets originated or purchased
 43,926.94
 -
 -
 -
Assets derecognised or matured (excluding write 
offs) (including gains / losses thereon) net
(31,175.52)
 -
 -
 -
Interest income during the year
 2,157.53
 -
 -
 -
Foreign Exchange
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 1
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 2
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 3
 -
 -
 -
 -
Impact of year end ECL of exposures transferred 
between stages during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross carrying amount - closing balance
 39,636.21
 -
 -
 -
13.
INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
13.1
Investments measured at FVOCI (Continued)
Reconciliation of gross carrying amount and corresponding ECL for investments measured at FVOCI (Continued)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount 
(Stage 1)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount 
(Stage 3)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 3)
Gross carrying amount - opening balance
 20,563.92
 -
 -
 -
New assets originated or purchased
 15,775.49
 -
 -
 -
Assets derecognised or matured (excluding write 
offs) (including gains / losses thereon) net
(13,985.57)
 -
 -
 -
Interest income during the year
 2,373.42
 -
 -
 -
Foreign Exchange
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 1
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 2
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 3
 -
 -
 -
 -
Impact of year end ECL of exposures transferred 
between stages during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross carrying amount - closing balance
 24,727.26
 -
 -
 -
13.2
Investments measured at amortised cost
The table below shows the gross carrying amount of the Group’s investments measured at amortised cost by credit 
risk, based on the Group’s internal credit rating system and year-end stage classification. The amount presented 
are gross of impairment allowances. Details of the Group’s internal grading system and policies on whether ECL 
allowances are calculated on an individual or collective basis are set out in Note 56.7
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 2)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
Total
High grade
 11,112.60
 -
 -
 11,112.60
Standard grade
 -
 -
 -
 -
Individually impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 11,112.60
 -
 -
 11,112.60
As at 31 March 2023
Particulars
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 2)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
Total
High grade
 2,149.02
 -
 -
 2,149.02
Standard grade
 -
 -
 -
 -
Individually impaired
 -
 -
 22.67
 22.67
Total
 2,149.02
 -
 22.67
 2,171.69
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
279
280
13.
INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
13.2
Investments measured at amortised cost (Continued)
Reconciliation of gross carrying amount for investments measured at amortised cost
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 3)
Gross carrying amount - opening balance
 2,149.02
 -
 22.67
 3.46
New assets originated or purchased
 449,997.99
 163.54
 -
 -
Assets derecognised or matured (excluding write 
offs) (including gains / losses thereon)
 (441,098.39)
 -
 (22.67)
 (3.46)
Changes to contractual cash flows due to 
modifications not resulting in derecognition
 63.98
 -
 -
 -
Amounts written off
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 1
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 2
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 3
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross carrying amount - closing balance
 11,112.60
 163.54
 -
 -
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 1)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 1)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
(Stage 3)
12 months 
ECL 
allowance 
(Stage 3)
Gross carrying amount - opening balance
 1,863.66
 -
 -
 -
New assets originated or purchased
 399,240.29
 -
 -
 -
Assets derecognised or matured (excluding write 
offs) (including gains / losses thereon)
 (399,023.86)
 -
 -
 -
Changes to contractual cash flows due to 
modifications not resulting in derecognition
 91.60
 -
 -
 -
Amounts written off
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 1
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 2
 -
 -
 -
 -
Transfer to Stage 3
 (22.67)
 -
 22.67
 3.46
Gross carrying amount - closing balance
 2,149.02
 -
 22.67
 3.46
14.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Receivable from Trust
 1,128.20
 2,780.92
Receivable from exchange / clearing house (net)
 179.70
 285.33
Deposits placed with/ for exchange/ depositories
 236.59
 168.99
Margin placed with broker
 5,720.17
 2,601.13
Rental deposits
 146.59
 130.95
Deposits- others
 40.33
 439.52
Reinsurance receivables
 2,850.08
 1,061.37
Unclaimed amount of policyholders
 10.66
 62.80
Others
 650.62
 1,656.08
Total
 10,962.94
 9,187.09
15.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred tax assets (net)
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provision for expected credit losses
 1,459.09
 1,925.77
Unused tax losses / credits
 16,734.38
 10,407.66
Employee benefits obligations
 92.19
 67.72
Fair valuation of Financial Assets
 (1,562.75)
 1,019.16
Fair valuation of Derivatives
 (18.62)
 (31.91)
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets
 (921.46)
 (939.70)
Adjustment of effective interest rate on Borrowings
 (315.58)
 (333.05)
ESOP Perquisite
 4.01
 -
Others
 (6.48)
 -
Total
 15,464.78
 12,115.65
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provision for expected credit losses
 286.23
 106.37
Unused tax losses / credits
 (292.77)
 -
Employee benefits obligations
 (19.05)
 (19.44)
ESOP Perquisite
 -
 (4.01)
Fair valuation of Financial Assets
 40.55
 410.00
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets
 1,119.27
 1,227.57
Adjustment of effective interest rate on Borrowings
 8.83
 0.45
Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii)
 112.50
 106.66
Others
 795.38
 -
Total
 2,050.94
 1,827.60
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
281
282
16.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and impairment
Net Block
As at 
01 April 
2023
Additions 
during 
the 
year
Deductions/ 
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
01 April 
2023
Impairment 
charge / 
(reversals) 
for the year
Charge 
for 
the year
Deductions/ 
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2024
Investment Property
Land
 191.42
 -
 -
191.42
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 191.42
Real Estate
2,117.80
 508.99
 769.62
1,857.17
 487.09
 2.76
 12.27
 4.20
 497.92
1,359.25
Total
2,309.22
 508.99
769.62
 2,048.59
 487.09
 2.76
 12.27
 4.20
 497.92
 1,550.67
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and impairment
Net Block
As at 
01 April 
2022
Additions 
during 
the 
year
Deductions/ 
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2023
As at 
01 April 
2022
Impairment 
charge / 
(reversals) 
for the year
Charge 
for 
the year
Deductions/ 
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2023
As at 
31 March 
2023
Investment Property
Land
1,408.62
 -
 1,217.20
191.42
 18.27
 -
 -
 18.27
 -
 191.42
Real Estate
2,266.44
 294.38
 443.02
2,117.80
 622.53
 (136.50)
 1.06
 -
 487.09
 1,630.71
Total
3,675.06
 294.38
 1,660.22
 2,309.22
 640.80
 (136.50)
 1.06
 18.27
 487.09
 1,822.13
Fair value of investment property
Property
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2023
Land
 1,215.99
 1,213.88
Real estate property
 2,835.98
 2,610.88
Total
 4,051.97
 3,824.76
These above fair valuation are based on valuations performed by an duly independent valuer.
17.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLES
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and amortisation
Net Block
As at 
01 April 
2023
Additions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
01 April 
2023
Charge for 
the year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year**
As at 
31 March 
2024
As at 
31 March 
2024
 a)
Property, Plant and Equipments
Land*
 236.79
 -
 -
 236.79
 -
 -
 -
 -
 236.79
Flat and Building*
 11,318.81
 201.71
 292.53
 11,227.99
 2,069.45
 501.66
 (151.57)
 2,722.68
 8,505.31
Leasehold Premises
 59.29
 15.15
 2.90
 71.54
 38.80
 11.85
 2.92
 47.73
 23.81
Plant and Equipment
 304.99
 63.64
 71.34
 297.29
 242.64
 35.89
 63.16
 215.37
 81.92
Furniture and Fixtures
 313.71
 2.40
 4.24
 311.87
 179.12
 33.75
 3.44
 209.43
 102.44
Vehicles
 14.65
 -
 1.98
 12.67
 9.20
 2.00
 2.67
 8.53
 4.14
Office equipment
 208.03
 16.03
 5.43
 218.63
 178.91
 14.42
 10.84
 182.49
 36.14
Vessel (Boat)
 4.84
 -
 -
 4.84
 0.66
 0.35
 -
 1.01
 3.83
Computers
 409.04
 143.52
 64.11
 488.45
 290.21
 97.83
 45.31
 342.73
 145.72
Solar Power Equipment
 62.03
 -
 1.95
 60.08
 43.32
 3.38
 1.45
 45.25
 14.83
 Total (A)
 12,932.18
 442.45
 444.48
 12,930.15
 3,052.31
 701.13
 (21.78)
 3,775.22
 9,154.93
 b)
Intangibles
Software
 2,516.37
 469.16
 719.32
 2,266.21
 1,880.36
 330.05
 719.32
 1,491.09
 775.12
Trademark/ Design and Copyright/
Asset Management Rights
 709.05
 -
 -
 709.05
 60.00
 -
 -
 60.00
 649.05
 Total (B)
 3,225.42
 469.16
 719.32
 2,975.26
 1,940.36
 330.05
 719.32
 1,551.09
 1,424.17
 c)
Right to use (ROU) assets
 1,534.13
 710.32
 498.74
 1,745.71
 1,086.00
 215.05
 85.96
 1,215.09
 530.62
 Total (C)
 1,534.13
 710.32
 498.74
 1,745.71
 1,086.00
 215.05
 85.96
 1,215.09
 530.62
 Total (A+B+C)
 17,691.73
 1,621.93
 1,662.54
 17,651.12
 6,078.67
 1,246.23
 783.50
 6,541.40
 11,109.72
 ** During the year ended 31 March 2024, Flat and building is reclassed from Property, Plant and Equipments to Investment property.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
284
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
283
17.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLES (CONTINUED)
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and amortisation
Net Block
As at 
01 April 
2022
Additions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2023
As at 
01 April 
2022
Charge for 
the year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2023
As at 
31 March 
2023
 a)
Property, Plant and Equipments
Land*
 236.79
 -
 -
 236.79
 -
 -
 -
 -
 236.79
Flat and Building*
 11,312.42
 6.39
 -
 11,318.81
 1,305.27
 764.18
 -
 2,069.45
 9,249.36
Leasehold Premises
 62.66
 9.09
 12.46
 59.29
 40.58
 11.43
 13.21
 38.80
 20.49
Plant and Equipment
 303.27
 28.31
 26.59
 304.99
 180.71
 86.05
 24.12
 242.64
 62.35
Furniture and Fixtures
 279.90
 40.06
 6.25
 313.71
 151.03
 33.72
 5.63
 179.12
 134.59
Vehicles
 11.87
 6.00
 3.22
 14.65
 7.27
 3.11
 1.18
 9.20
 5.45
Office equipment
 235.71
 13.83
 41.51
 208.03
 202.33
 15.61
 39.03
 178.91
 29.12
Vessel (Boat)
 4.84
 -
 -
 4.84
 1.27
 0.45
 1.06
 0.66
 4.18
Computers
 442.13
 104.77
 137.86
 409.04
 413.79
 3.73
 127.31
 290.21
 118.83
Solar Power Equipment
 62.03
 -
 -
 62.03
 39.18
 4.14
 -
 43.32
 18.71
 Total (A)
 12,951.62
 208.45
 227.89
 12,932.18
 2,341.43
 922.42
 211.54
 3,052.31
 9,879.87
 b)
Intangibles
Software
 2,048.73
 478.17
 10.53
 2,516.37
 1,503.61
 383.32
 6.57
 1,880.36
 636.01
Trademark/ Design and Copyright/
Asset Management Rights
 709.05
 -
 -
 709.05
 50.00
 10.00
 -
 60.00
 649.05
 Total (B)
 2,757.78
 478.17
 10.53
 3,225.42
 1,553.61
 393.32
 6.57
 1,940.36
 1,285.06
 c)
Right to use (ROU) assets
 1,349.56
 218.06
 33.49
 1,534.13
 887.98
 201.30
 3.28
 1,086.00
 448.13
 Total (C)
 1,349.56
 218.06
 33.49
 1,534.13
 887.98
 201.30
 3.28
 1,086.00
 448.13
 Total (A+B+C)
 17,058.96
 904.68
 271.91
 17,691.73
 4,783.02
 1,517.04
 221.39
 6,078.67
 11,613.06
*pledged against debt securities and borrowings.
Notes
1	
The Group management approved revaluation of owned flats and buildings classified under property, plant and equipment after assessing the valuation made by 
duly appointed independent valuer. These valuations are determined basis open market values of similar property and its intrinsic value.
2	
The Group has provided one time accelerated depreciation of ` 220 million on land and building during the previous year ended 31 March 2023.
18. CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (CWIP)
Description of Assets
CWIP
As at 
01 April 2023
 Additions
 Capitalisation
As at 
31 March 2024
CWIP
 7.09
 114.81
 85.35
 36.55
Total
 7.09
 114.81
 85.35
 36.55
Description of Assets
CWIP
As at 
01 April 2022
 Additions
 Capitalisation
As at 
31 March 2023
CWIP
0.57
 7.09
0.57
 7.09
Total
0.57
 7.09
0.57
 7.09
(a)
CWIP ageing schedule
As at 31 March 2024
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 36.55
 -
 -
 -
 36.55
Projects temporarily 
suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 36.55
 -
 -
 -
 36.55
As at 31 March 2023
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress
 7.09
 -
 -
 -
 7.09
Projects temporarily 
suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 7.09
 -
 -
 -
 7.09
(b)
There are no capital-work-in progress, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its 
original plan.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
285
286
19.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
Description of Assets
Intangible assets under development
As at 
01 April 2023
 Additions
 Capitalisation
As at 
31 March 2024
Intangible assets under development
 240.60
 516.60
432.55
 324.65
Total
 240.60
 516.60
 432.55
 324.65
Description of Assets
Intangible assets under development
As at 
01 April 2022
 Additions
 Capitalisation
As at 
31 March 2023
Intangible assets under development
 195.70
 143.74
98.84
 240.60
Total
 195.70
 143.74
98.84
 240.60
(a)
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule
As at 31 March 2024
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 241.19
 82.60
 0.86
 -
 324.65
Projects temporarily 
suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 241.19
 82.60
 0.86
 -
 324.65
As at 31 March 2023
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
 229.30
 11.30
 -
 -
 240.60
Projects temporarily 
suspended
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 229.30
 11.30
 -
 -
 240.60
(b)
There are no intangible assets under development, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan.
20.
GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
236.60
663.35
Add:- Goodwill arising on acquisitions
-
-
Less:- Goodwill derecognised / impaired
 -
 (426.75)
Balance at the end of year
236.60
236.60
The recoverable amount of subsidiaries/associates is based on its value in use. The value in use is estimated using 
discounted cash flows. Cash flows is estimated by capitalising the future maintainable cash flows by an appropriate 
capitalisation rate and then discounted using pre-tax discount rate. Operating margins and growth rates for the five 
year cash flow projections have been estimated based on past experience and after considering the financial budgets/
forecasts provided by the management. The values assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s 
assessment of future trends in the relevant industry and have been based on historical data from both external and 
internal sources.
The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying 
amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
21. OTHER NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Input tax credit
 2,337.14
 2,568.88
Prepaid expenses
 4,303.01
 4,049.25
Vendor Advances
 221.47
 288.75
Advances to employees
 9.25
 11.34
Deposits
 18.71
 18.86
Other assets
 554.12
 181.34
Total
 7,443.70
 7,118.42
22.
TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
(MSME)
 38.21
 25.96
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 16,701.66
 14,096.20
Total
 16,739.87
 14,122.16
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
287
288
22
TRADE PAYABLES (CONTINUED)
22.1
Trade payables ageing schedule
 As at 31 March 2024
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Particulars
 Unbilled
 Not Due
 Less 
than 
1 year
 1-2 
years
 2-3 
years
 More 
than 
3 years
 Total
(i)	
Total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 14.32
 -
 23.89
 -
 -
 -
 38.21
(ii)	
Total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small 
enterprises
 3,182.57
 1,348.43  12,124.41
 23.21
 5.05
 17.99  16,701.66
(iii)	 Disputed dues of micro 
enterprises and small 
enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iv)	 Disputed dues of creditors 
other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Total
 3,196.89
 1,348.43  12,148.30
 23.21
 5.05
 17.99  16,739.87
 As at 31 March 2023
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Particulars
 Unbilled
 Not Due
 Less 
than 1 
year
 1-2 
years
 2-3 
years
 More 
than 3 
years
 Total
(i)	
Total outstanding dues of 
micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 0.72
 -
 25.24
 -
 -
 -
 25.96
(ii)	
Total outstanding dues of 
creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small 
enterprises
 3,275.17
 -  10,769.41
 15.61
 2.34
 33.67  14,096.20
(iii)	 Disputed dues of micro 
enterprises and small 
enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iv)	 Disputed dues of creditors 
other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 Total
 3,275.89
 -  10,794.65
 15.61
 2.34
 33.67  14,122.16
22.2
Trade Payables includes ` 38.21 million (previous Year ` 25.96 million) payable to “Suppliers” registered under 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006. Interest paid by the Group during the year to 
“Suppliers” registered under this Act is ` 0.33 million (previous year: ` 0.15 million). The aforementioned is based on 
the responses received by the Group to its inquiries with suppliers with regard to applicability under the said Act.
23.
DEBT SECURITIES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Non-Convertible Debentures (at amortised cost)
 124,577.01
 130,046.73
Compulsory Convertible Debentures (at amortised cost)  
(refer Note 1 below)
 2,601.51
 7,350.18
Non-Convertible Debentures (designated at fair value through profit or 
loss)
 5,006.41
 6,282.80
Commercial paper (at amortised cost)
 11,795.58
 10,350.63
Total (refer Note 2 below)
 143,980.51
 154,030.34
(i)	
Debt securities in India
 143,980.51
 154,030.34
(ii)	
Debt securities outside India
 -
 -
Total
 143,980.51
 154,030.34
Note:
1.	
During the year, one of the subsidiary Company obtained a fair valuation report for the Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures (CCD) issued to Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ). Based on the conversion price 
and various conditions stipulated in the Shareholders' Agreement with CDPQ, as well as the minimum conversion 
price according to the relevant FEMA guidelines, management reviewed the fair valuation of the CCD as of 31 
March 2024. Consequently, a fair value gain of ` 4,891.57 million on the CCD was recorded in the consolidated 
financial statement of the Group. Currently, CDPQ is in discussions to sell these CCDs. As part of this process, 
the subsidiary Company and CDPQ have mutually agreed to extend the CCD conversion tenor. The new tenor 
will extend from 07 May 2024, to either 25 May 2024 (if the Closing event does not occur before 25 May 2024), 
or to 15 July 2024 (if the Closing event occurs before 25 May 2024), as applicable.
2.	
Out of the above, ` 20,536.08 million as at 31 March 2024 (Previous Year ` 19,832.92 million) are unsecured. 
For secured debt, the Group has provided collateral in the nature of Pari Passu charge of immovable property, 
receivable from financing business, securities held for trading, investments, property (excluding intangible assets) 
and other assets.
Debt Securities - as at 31 March 2024
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
8.00 - 8.99%
 2,047.80
 1,682.87
 1,649.83
 5,380.50
9.00 - 9.99%
 18,650.98
 18,001.49
 16,166.08
 52,818.55
10.00 - 10.99%
 1,011.00
 2,386.53
 12,434.07
 15,831.60
12.00 - 12.99%
 -
 -
 7.71
 7.71
14.00 - 14.99%
 5,503.75
 -
 -
 5,503.75
17.00 - 17.99%
 22.35
 2,572.32
 -
 2,594.67
18.00 - 18.99%
 -
 -
 2,206.02
 2,206.02
20.00 - 20.99%
 500.13
 2,060.10
 -
 2,560.23
Zero Coupon Debentures
 240.77
 -
 -
 240.77
Various (benchmark linked)
 6,059.23
 30,358.47
 12,638.71
 49,056.41
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 5,178.79
Total*
 34,036.01
 57,061.78
 45,102.42
 141,379.00
* Compulsory Convertible Debentures amounting to ` 2,601.51 million not considered for maturity pattern.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
289
290
23.
DEBT SECURITIES (CONTINUED)
Debt Securities - as at 31 March 2023
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
8.00 - 8.99%
 1,607.97
 771.12
 1,649.14
 4,028.23
9.00 - 9.99%
 26,382.99
 12,744.90
 23,861.82
 62,989.71
10.00 - 10.99%
 1,784.34
 4,264.66
 10,305.79
 16,354.79
11.00 - 11.99%
 11,250.00
 -
 -
 11,250.00
19.00 - 19.99%
 210.00
 2,370.00
 -
 2,580.00
Zero Coupon Debentures
 112.26
 243.52
 -
 355.78
Various (benchmark linked)
 11,462.39
 14,646.00
 14,403.64
 40,512.03
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 8,609.62
Total*
 52,809.95
 35,040.20
 50,220.39
 146,680.16
* Compulsory Convertible Debentures amounting to ` 7,350.18 million not considered for maturity pattern.
	
24.
BORROWINGS (OTHER THAN DEBT SECURITIES) AT AMORTISED COST
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Secured
Term loans
(Secured against investments, charge on receivables of financing 
business, cash and cash equivalents and other assets)
from banks
 15,139.57
 20,196.92
from other parties
 4,879.45
 2,209.00
Bank overdraft/Cash credit lines
 2,589.46
 1,799.38
(Secured by pledge of fixed deposits, property, trade receivables and 
charge on receivables of financing business)
Tri party REPO - TREPS facilitates borrowing and lending of funds, 
in Tri party REPO arrangement (Secured by pledge of Government 
Securities)
 19,799.71
 18,958.39
Working capital demand loan (secured by charge on receivables from 
financing business, cash and cash equivalents and property, plant 
and equipments)
 5,000.00
 6,700.00
Unsecured
Loans repayable on demand - from other parties
 0.38
 83.33
 47,408.57
 49,947.02
Borrowings in India
 47,408.57
 49,947.02
Borrowings outside India
 -
 -
Total
 47,408.57
 49,947.02
24.
BORROWINGS (OTHER THAN DEBT SECURITIES) AT AMORTISED COST (CONTINUED)
Following is the repayment terms of term loans:
Term loans from Banks - Secured as at 31 March 2024
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
9.00 - 9.99%
 847.25
 219.88
 2,186.61
 3,253.74
10.00 - 10.99%
 2,676.45
 2,705.00
 4,044.30
 9,425.75
11.00 - 11.99%
 1,642.25
 1,006.25
 -
 2,648.50
Accrued Interest and EIR
(188.42)
Total
 5,165.95
 3,931.13
 6,230.91
 15,139.57
Term loans from Banks - Secured as at 31 March 2023
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
7.00 - 7.99%
 451.01
 -
 -
 451.01
8.00 - 8.99%
 554.10
 547.25
 187.50
 1,288.85
9.00 - 9.99%
 4,433.94
 4,089.48
 1,383.03
 9,906.45
10.00 - 10.99%
 5,267.54
 1,252.80
 75.00
 6,595.34
11.00 - 11.99%
 803.16
 557.02
 -
 1,360.18
12.00 - 12.99%
 -
 699.99
 -
 699.99
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
(104.90)
Total
 11,509.75
 7,146.54
 1,645.53
 20,196.92
Term loans from Others - Secured as at 31 March 2024
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
4.00 - 4.99%
 -
 157.32
 -
 157.32
5.00 - 5.99%
 -
 -
 136.80
 136.80
6.00 - 6.99%
 -
 3.85
 -
 3.85
8.00 - 8.99%
 509.58
 135.00
 -
 644.58
9.00 - 9.99%
 -
 -
 798.56
 798.56
10.00 - 10.99%
 185.00
 -
 -
 185.00
12.00 - 12.99%
 3,000.00
 -
 -
 3,000.00
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
(46.66)
Total
 3,694.58
 296.17
 935.36
 4,879.45
Term loans from Others - Secured as at 31 March 2023
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
4.00 - 4.99%
 159.04
 157.32
 -
 316.36
6.00 - 6.99%
 5.80
 3.85
 -
 9.65
8.00 - 8.99%
 132.78
 255.35
 202.91
 591.04
9.00 - 9.99%
 -
 125.00
 -
 125.00
10.00 - 10.99%
 250.00
 100.00
 -
 350.00
11.00 - 11.99%
 750.00
 75.00
 -
 825.00
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
(8.05)
Total
 1,297.62
 716.52
 202.91
 2,209.00
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
291
292
25.
DEPOSITS (AT AMORTISED COST)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Inter Corporate Deposits
 16.98
 16.25
Total
 16.98
 16.25
Inter Corporate Deposits in India
 16.98
 16.25
Inter Corporate Deposits outside India
 -
 -
Total
 16.98
 16.25
26.
SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES (AT AMORTISED COST)
Unsecured
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Non-convertible subordinated debt
 10,098.15
 12,303.56
Perpetual debt
 979.97
 1,042.89
Preference share capital
 -
 20.42
Total
 11,078.12
 13,366.87
Subordinated liabilities in India
 11,078.12
 13,366.87
Subordinated liabilities outside India
 -
 -
Total
 11,078.12
 13,366.87
Terms and condition related to subordinate liabilities:
Subordinated Liabilities – 31 March 2024
Maturities
 <1 years
 1-3 years
 > 3 years
 Total
Rate of Interest
9.00 - 9.99%
 -
 167.21
 3,129.74
 3,296.95
10.00 - 10.99%
 -
 2,700.00
 557.56
 3,257.56
11.00 - 11.99%
 -
 3,638.00
 -
 3,638.00
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 885.61
Total
 -
 6,505.21
 3,687.30
 11,078.12
Subordinated Liabilities – 31 March 2023
Maturities
 <1 years
 1-3 years
 > 3 years
 Total
Rate of Interest
9.00 - 9.99%
 -
 -
 2,760.00
 2,760.00
10.00 - 10.99%
 -
 200.00
 3,279.00
 3,479.00
11.00 - 11.99%
 -
 3,646.63
 -
 3,646.63
14.00 - 14.99%
 -
 -
 20.42
 20.42
Various (benchmark linked)
 1,430.40
 50.00
 550.00
 2,030.40
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 1,430.42
Total
 1,430.40
 3,896.63
 6,609.42
 13,366.87
27.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (AT AMORTISED COST UNLESS OTHERWISE 
SPECIFIED)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Payable to exchange / clearing house (net)
 974.28
 22.34
Book overdraft
 3.97
 4.64
Accrued salaries and benefits
 3,352.15
 3,133.98
Provision for short sale at fair value
 246.59
 -
Reinsurance payable
 3,950.78
 1,779.68
Rental deposits
 230.52
 305.59
Retention money payable
 13.16
 12.37
Unclaimed dividends
 9.77
 9.81
Security receipts held by outsiders
 14,855.16
 6,977.38
Derivative liability
 2,257.37
 2,585.26
Payable on account of securitisation and assignment
 9,015.97
 10,648.92
Financial liability associated to financial assets that are not 
derecognised
 12,196.15
 23,042.00
Other liabilities
 5,090.09
 4,994.40
Total
 52,195.96
 53,516.37
28.
PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provision for employee benefits and related costs
Gratuity
 228.92
 202.40
Compensated absences
 114.94
 105.77
Others
 275.39
 315.79
Total
 619.25
 623.96
29.
OTHER NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Income received in advance
 4,960.85
 3,584.60
Statutory dues
 1,958.76
 947.24
Advances from customers
 0.74
 0.92
Proposal deposit from insurance business
 343.95
 240.06
Others
 1,316.90
 1,733.09
Total
 8,581.20
 6,505.91
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
293
294
30.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Authorised :
Equity Shares of ` 1 each
 1,230,000,000
 1,230.00
 1,230,000,000
 1,230.00
Preference shares of ` 5 each
 4,000,000
 20.00
 4,000,000
 20.00
 1,234,000,000
 1,250.00
 1,234,000,000
 1,250.00
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up:
Equity Shares of ` 1 each
 943,785,026
 943.79
 943,275,276
 943.28
Less: Shares held by Edelweiss Employees 
Incentives and Welfare Trust (Refer note 1)
 (7,301,510)
 (7.30)
 (7,301,510)
 (7.30)
Less: Shares held by Edelweiss Employees 
Welfare Trust (Refer note 1)
 (37,595,270)
 (37.60)
 (37,595,270)
 (37.60)
 898,888,246
 898.89
 898,378,496
 898.38
A.
Reconciliation of number of shares
(Before deducting treasury shares)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 943,275,276
 943.28
 943,097,965
 943.10
Shares issued during the year:
-	 Under Employee Stock Options Plans (ESOPs)
 509,750
 0.51
 177,311
 0.18
Outstanding at the end of the year
 943,785,026
 943.79
 943,275,276
 943.28
Note :
1.	
Edelweiss Employees' Welfare Trust and Edelweiss Employees' Incentive and Welfare Trust are extension of 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited standalone financial statements and have been accordingly carried forward 
in consolidated financial statements. These trusts are holding 44,896,780 number of equity shares amounting to 
` 44.90 million (previous year ` 44.90 million). These are deducted from total outstanding equity shares.
2.	
The above two Employee Welfare Trust(s) hold an aggregate 44,896,780 equity shares of the Company for 
incentive and welfare benefits for group employees as per extant applicable SEBI regulations. Pursuant to the 
exercise of right available under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the 
Company has applied before the expiry date of 27 October 2019 for extension of the time limit for disposing 
of aforesaid equity shares. The said application is under consideration and approval for extension from SEBI is 
awaited as at date.
B.
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
The Holding Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to one vote per share.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets 
of the Holding Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity 
shares held by the shareholders.
30.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
C.
Details of shares held by promoters in the Company
 As at 31 March 2024
 Promoter name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of 
shares at 
the end of 
the year
 %of total 
shares
 % Change 
during the 
year
Rashesh Chandrakant Shah
 145,601,730
 -
 145,601,730
15.43%
(0.01)%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 58,126,560
 1,450,000
 59,576,560
6.31%
0.15%
Vidya Rashesh Shah
 31,031,200
 35,000
 31,066,200
3.29%
0.00%
Aparna T Chandrashekar
 12,210,000
 -
 12,210,000
1.29%
0.00%
Kaavya Venkat Arakoni
 11,790,000
 -
 11,790,000
1.25%
0.00%
Neel Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000
 -
 2,000,000
0.21%
0.00%
Sneha Sripad Desai
 1,025,000
 -
 1,025,000
0.11%
0.00%
Shilpa Urvish Mody
 950,000
 -
 950,000
0.10%
0.00%
Arakoni Venkatachalam Ramaswamy
 50,000
 -
 50,000
0.01%
0.00%
Mabella Trustee Services Private 
Limited (on behalf of M/s. Shah 
Family Discretionary Trust)
 38,750,000
 -
 38,750,000
4.11%
0.00%
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
 3,200,000
 -
 3,200,000
0.34%
0.00%
Sejal Premal Parekh
 950,000
 -
 950,000
0.10%
0.00%
Avanti Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000
 -
 2,000,000
0.21%
0.00%
Total
 307,684,490
 1,485,000
 309,169,490
32.76%
0.14%
 As at 31 March 2023
 Promoter name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
 %of total 
shares
 % Change 
during the 
year
Rashesh Chandrakant Shah
 145,601,730
 -
 145,601,730
15.44%
0.00%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 58,126,560
 -
 58,126,560
6.16%
0.00%
Vidya Rashesh Shah
 31,031,200
 -
 31,031,200
3.29%
0.00%
Aparna T Chandrashekar
 12,210,000
 -
 12,210,000
1.29%
0.00%
Kaavya Venkat Arakoni
 11,790,000
 -
 11,790,000
1.25%
0.00%
Neel Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000
 -
 2,000,000
0.21%
0.00%
Sneha Sripad Desai
 1,025,000
 -
 1,025,000
0.11%
0.00%
Shilpa Urvish Mody
 950,000
 -
 950,000
0.10%
0.00%
Arakoni Venkatachalam Ramaswamy
 50,000
 -
 50,000
0.01%
0.00%
Mabella Trustee Services Private 
Limited (on behalf of M/s. Shah 
Family Discretionary Trust)
 38,750,000
 -
 38,750,000
4.11%
0.00%
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
 3,200,000
 -
 3,200,000
0.34%
0.00%
Sejal Premal Parekh
 950,000
 -
 950,000
0.10%
0.00%
Avanti Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000
 2,000,000
0.21%
0.00%
Total
 307,684,490
 -
 307,684,490
32.62%
0.00%
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
295
296
30.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
D.
Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
 No of shares
% holding
 No of shares
% holding
Rashesh Shah
 145,601,730
15.43%
 145,601,730
15.44%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 59,576,560
6.31%
 58,126,560
6.16%
 205,178,290
21.74%
 203,728,290
21.60%
31.
OTHER EQUITY
 Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Share application money pending allotment
 2.25
 -
Capital reserve
 8,026.45
 8,026.45
Capital redemption reserve
 287.87
 287.87
Securities premium reserve
 29,623.85
 29,582.57
ESOP/SAR reserve
 372.06
 698.72
Special reserve under section 45-IC of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934
 7,946.60
 7,463.98
Reserve under section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
 646.15
 607.55
General reserve
 717.15
 717.15
Debenture redemption reserve
 2,688.01
 3,074.01
Impairment reserve
 2,216.85
 2,342.26
Retained earnings
(8,746.83)
 11,628.26
Foreign exchange translation reserve
 31.86
 120.52
Revaluation reserve through other comprehensive income
 3,368.17
 3,625.19
Equity instruments through other comprehensive income
(1,574.59)
(1,700.00)
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
 1,118.87
 68.21
Total
 46,724.72
 66,542.74
Nature and Purpose
31.1
Capital reserve
Capital reserve represents the gains of capital nature which is not freely available for distribution.
31.2
Capital redemption reserve
The Group has recognised capital redemption reserve on buy back of equity share capital.
31.3
Securities premium reserve
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for 
limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
31.
OTHER EQUITY (CONTINUED)
Nature and Purpose (Continued)
31.4
ESOP/SAR reserve
ESOP and SAR options outstanding represents the amount transferred to reserves pursuant to the "ESOP 2011" and 
"SAR 2019" schemes.
31.5
Statutory reserve u/s 45-IC of The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
Every non-banking financial company shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty per 
cent of its net profit every year as disclosed in the profit and loss account and before any dividend is declared.
31.6
Statutory reserve u/s 29C of The National Housing Bank Act, 1987
In terms of Section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 every housing finance institution which is a company 
is required to create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty percent of its net profit every year 
as disclosed in the profit and loss account before any dividend is declared. Housing Finance Companies (HFCs), are 
permitted to withdraw from the said reserve fund, the excess amount credited (in excess of the statutory minimum 
of 20%) in the previous years for any business purposes subject to suitable disclosure in the balance sheet and in 
the case of HFCs which have transferred only the statutory minimum in the previous years to selectively permit them 
to withdraw from the reserve fund only for the purpose of provisioning for non-performing assets subject to the 
conditions that there is no debit balance in the profit and loss account and that the reason for such withdrawal are 
stated explicitly in the balance sheet.
31.7
 General reserve
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a 
specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that if 
a dividend distribution in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Holding Company for that year, 
then the total dividend distribution is less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction 
of Companies Act 2013, the requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general 
reserve has been withdrawn. However, the amount previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only 
in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
31.8
 Debenture redemption reserve
The Companies Act 2013 requires companies that issue debentures to create a debenture redemption reserve from 
annual profits until such debentures are redeemed. The Group, except for entities exempted from the requirement, is 
required to transfer a specified percentage (as provided in the Companies Act, 2013) of the outstanding redeemable 
debentures to debenture redemption reserve. The amounts credited to the debenture redemption reserve may not be 
utilised except to redeem debentures. On redemption of debentures, the amount may be transferred from debenture 
redemption reserve to retained earnings.
31.9
Impairment reserve
RBI notification on Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards, dated 13 March 2020 requires NBFC/ARC 
subsidiaries within Group are to recognised impairment reserves where impairment allowance under Ind AS 109 is 
lower than the provisioning required under IRACP (including standard asset provisioning)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
297
298
31.
OTHER EQUITY (CONTINUED)
Nature and Purpose (Continued)
31.10  Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises of the Group's undistributed earnings after taxes.
31.11  Foreign exchange translation reserve
The exchange differences arising out of year end translation of Group entities having functional currency other than 
Indian Rupees is debited or credited to this reserve.
31.12 Revaluation Reserve through other comprehensive income
For a class of Fixed asset (i.e. flats and building) Group has adopted revaluation model of accounting over cost model. 
The Revaluation Reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising from the revaluation of these assets as 
at the end of the reporting period.
31.13  FVOCI equity investments
The Group has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other 
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI equity investments within equity. The 
Group reclassified this reserve to retained earnings on derecognition of concerned equity securities.
31.14  FVOCI debt investments
The Group recognises changes in the fair value of debt instruments held with business objective of collection and/
or sell, in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI debt investments within 
equity. The Group reclassifies amounts from this reserve to the statement of profit and loss when the debt instrument 
is sold/repaid.
31.15 Share application money pending allotment
Share application money pending allotment means the amount received on the application on which allotment is not 
yet made (pending allotment).
32.
INTEREST INCOME
For the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars
Amortised 
cost
FVTPL
FVOCI
Total
Interest on loans
 20,663.11
 -
 129.54
 20,792.65
Interest income from investments
 789.04
 3,282.09
 2,427.13
 6,498.26
Interest on deposits with banks
 1,107.57
 -
 -
 1,107.57
Other interest income
 119.06
 20.39
 -
 139.45
Total
 22,678.78
 3,302.48
 2,556.67
 28,537.93
For the year ended 31 March 2023
Particulars
Amortised 
cost
FVTPL
FVOCI
Total
Interest on loans
 23,727.38
 221.32
 -
 23,948.70
Interest income from investments
 282.82
 2,081.26
 1,875.10
 4,239.18
Interest on deposits with banks
 853.08
 -
 -
 853.08
Other interest income
 417.68
 -
 -
 417.68
Total
 25,280.96
 2,302.58
 1,875.10
 29,458.64
33.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Income from broking
 16.27
 16.04
Advisory and other fees
 12,253.43
 12,427.39
Total
 12,269.70
 12,443.43
Below is the disaggregation of the revenue from contracts with customers and its reconciliation to amounts 
reported in statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Service transferred at a point in time
 1,430.63
 2,034.18
Service transferred over time
 10,839.07
 10,409.25
Total revenue from contract with customers
 12,269.70
 12,443.43
Geographical Markets
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
India
 11,382.78
 11,648.42
Outside India
 886.92
 795.01
Total revenue from contract with customers
 12,269.70
 12,443.43
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
299
300
34.
NET GAIN ON FAIR VALUE CHANGES
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Net gain /(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
On trading portfolio
Investment at FVTPL
 19,563.61
 12,326.66
Derivatives at FVTPL
 3,260.90
 4,954.99
Others
Other financial instruments
 8,082.46
 5,756.87
Total Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
 30,906.97
 23,038.52
Fair Value changes:
Realised gain/(loss)
 8,309.22
 7,744.04
Unrealised gain/(loss)
 22,597.75
 15,294.48
Total
 30,906.97
 23,038.52
35.
OTHER OPERATING REVENUE
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Income from training centre
 53.50
 61.56
Rental income
 134.74
 211.22
Total
 188.24
 272.78
36.
OTHER INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Donation income
 365.89
 393.97
Interest on income tax refund
 234.52
 191.49
Miscellaneous income1
 419.74
 930.09
Total
 1,020.15
 1,515.55
1 Includes profit of ` 760 million on account of sale of investment property during the previous year ended 31 March 2023.
37.
FINANCE COST (AT AMORTISED COST UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Interest on deposits
 6.67
 89.12
Interest on borrowings (other than debt securities)
 5,671.99
 5,377.94
Interest on debt securities
 16,729.29
 16,835.84
Interest on debt securities (at fair value through profit or loss)
 1,119.10
 1,089.69
Interest on subordinated liabilities
 1,316.27
 1,328.47
Other interest expense
 3,021.71
 1,024.57
Total
 27,865.03
 25,745.63
38.
IMPAIRMENT ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 For the year ended 
31 March 2023
On loans
 229.73
 3,327.59
On investments
 (18.22)
 333.97
On trade receivables
 (62.96)
 (42.74)
Total
 148.55
 3,618.82
39.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Salaries and wages
 11,274.75
 9,892.36
Contribution to provident and other funds
 505.94
 506.58
Expense on employee stock option scheme/stock appreciation rights
 13.89
 87.28
Staff welfare expenses
 306.27
 165.52
Total
 12,100.85
 10,651.74
40.
OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Advertisement and business promotion
 1,634.23
 2,086.06
Auditors' remuneration
 108.13
 109.98
Commission and brokerage
 4,288.12
 2,844.94
Communication
 220.16
 192.39
Computer software and other expenses
 1,036.71
 1,103.84
Commission to non-executive directors
 62.61
 15.50
Contribution towards donations and corporate social responsibility
 539.48
 610.88
Dematerialisation charges and stock exchange expenses
 324.49
 293.83
Directors' sitting fees
 39.89
 26.65
Insurance
 35.38
 28.24
Legal and professional fees
 3,399.16
 5,128.79
Membership and subscription
 203.25
 267.58
Mutual fund expenses
 258.16
 95.18
Office expenses
 441.74
 372.12
Printing and stationery
 59.42
 52.90
Rates and taxes
 1,256.79
 924.91
Rent and electricity charges
 218.41
 207.68
Repairs and maintenance - others
 121.19
 142.01
Security transaction tax
 231.91
 191.35
Seminar and conference expenses
 254.05
 192.00
Stamp duty
 242.88
 133.99
Travelling and conveyance
 454.75
 375.53
Warehousing charges
 2.23
 4.64
Selling and distribution expenses
 595.31
 421.98
Miscellaneous expenses
 605.18
 390.16
Loss on sale/ write-off of property, plant and equipments (net)
 4.43
 3.30
Total
 16,638.06
 16,216.43
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
302
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
301
41.
INCOME TAX
The components of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss for the years ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 
2023 are:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Current tax
 2,260.86
 1,617.24
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years
(109.78)
 23.24
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
(3,057.55)
(1,848.80)
Total tax expense
(906.47)
(208.32)
Total current tax
 2,151.08
 1,640.48
Total deferred tax
(3,057.55)
(1,848.80)
41.1
Reconciliation of the total tax expense
The tax expense shown in the statement of profit and loss differs from the tax expense that would apply if all profits 
had been charged at India corporate tax rate. A reconciliation between the tax expense and the accounting profit 
multiplied by India's domestic tax rate for the years ended is, as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Profit / (Loss) before tax
 4,374.00
 2,529.31
Tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Income tax expense calculated based on above tax rate
 1,100.85
 636.58
Adjustment in respect of income tax of prior years
(109.78)
23.24
Effect of income not subject to tax
(2,194.58)
(1,819.33)
Effect of non-deductible expenses
7.64
(300.98)
Impact of certain items being taxed at different rates
(1,420.77)
(87.45)
Impact of tax rate changes
0.07
4.05
Write-down / reversal of write down of deferred tax assets on unused 
tax credits and unused tax losses (net)
(7.06)
215.58
Effect of non-recognition of deferred tax asset on current-year losses
1,523.29
1,786.37
Different tax rates of subsidiaries
109.09
(362.78)
Others
84.78
(303.60)
Tax expense recognised in profit and loss
(906.47)
(208.32)
42.
COMPONENTS OF DEFERRED TAX
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the Balance sheet and changes recorded in the income tax expense:
As at 31 March 2024
Opening 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Recognised 
directly in 
equity
Others
Total 
Movement
Closing 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Provision for expected credit losses
 1,819.40
 (646.54)
 -
 -
 -
 (646.54)
 1,172.86
Unused tax losses / credits
 10,407.66
 6,619.49
 -
 -
 -
 6,619.49
 17,027.15
Employee benefits obligations
 87.16
 21.76
 2.32
 -
 -
 24.08
 111.24
ESOP Perquisite
 4.01
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4.01
Fair valuation of Financial Assets
 609.16
 (2,353.11)
 140.65
 -
 -
 (2,212.46)
 (1,603.30)
Fair valuation of Derivatives
 (31.91)
 13.29
 -
 -
 -
 13.29
(18.62)
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible 
assets
 (2,167.27)
 126.54
 -
 -
 -
 126.54
(2,040.73)
Adjustment of effective interest rate on 
Borrowings
 (333.50)
 9.09
 -
 -
 -
 9.09
(324.41)
Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii)
 (106.66)
 (5.84)
 -
 -
 -
 (5.84)
(112.50)
Others
 -
 (727.13)
 -
 -
 (74.73)
 (801.86)
(801.86)
Total
 10,288.05
 3,057.55
 142.97
 -
 (74.73)
 3,125.79
 13,413.84
As at 31 March 2023
Opening 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Recognised 
directly in 
equity
Others
Total 
Movement
Closing 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Provision for expected credit losses
 2,215.50
 (396.10)
 -
 -
 -
 (396.10)
1,819.40
Unused tax losses / credits
 8,848.33
 1,559.33
 -
 -
 -
 1,559.33
10,407.66
Employee benefits obligations
 77.61
 6.15
 3.40
 -
 -
 9.55
87.16
ESOP Perquisite
 4.01
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
4.01
Fair valuation of Financial Assets
 50.40
 602.11
 -
 -
 (43.35)
 558.76
609.16
Fair valuation of Derivatives
 (22.50)
 (9.41)
 -
 -
 -
 (9.41)
(31.91)
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible 
assets
 (2,305.65)
 138.38
 -
 -
 -
 138.38
(2,167.27)
Adjustment of effective interest rate on 
Borrowings
 (287.48)
 (46.02)
 -
 -
 -
 (46.02)
(333.50)
Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii)
 (101.02)
 (5.64)
 -
 -
 -
 (5.64)
(106.66)
Total
 8,479.20
 1,848.80
 3.40
 -
(43.35)
 1,808.85
 10,288.05
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
303
304
42.
COMPONENTS OF DEFERRED TAX (CONTINUED)
42.1
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits on which deferred tax asset is not recognised in 
balance sheet
As at 31 March 2024
Financial 
Year to 
which the 
loss related 
to
Deductible temporary 
differences
Unused tax losses
Unused tax credits
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial year
Unabsorbed 
depreciation
Unabsorbed long 
term capital losses
Unabsorbed short 
term capital losses
Unabsorbed 
business losses
Total
MAT Credit
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
 FY 2023-24
 188.96
 Not applicable
 204.50
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,928.42
 FY 2031-32
 5,132.92
 61.39
 No expiry
 FY 2023-24
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 12.35
 No expiry
 12.35
 -
 -
 FY 2022-23
 2,383.68
 Not applicable
 212.43
 No expiry
 -
 -
 131.51
 FY 2030-31
 5,637.42
 FY 2030-31
 5,981.36
 136.31
 No expiry
 FY 2021-22
 416.26
 Not applicable
 208.32
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,883.56
 FY 2029-30
 5,091.88
 57.49
 No expiry
 FY 2021-22
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 7.17
 FY 2026-27
 7.17
 -
 -
 FY 2020-21
 9,609.25
 Not applicable
 49.22
 No expiry
 3,425.06
 FY 2028-29
 526.02
 FY 2028-29
 5,828.57
 FY 2028-29
 9,828.87
 23.59
 No expiry
 FY 2019-20
 1,773.80
 Not applicable
 39.91
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 5,098.41
 FY 2027-28
 5,138.32
 18.90
 No expiry
 FY 2018-19
 55.32
 Not applicable
 46.89
 No expiry
 47.24
 FY 2026-27
 -
 -
 3,215.51
 FY 2026-27
 3,309.64
 -
 -
 FY 2018-19
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 551.74
 FY 2023-24
 551.74
 -
 -
 FY 2017-18
 84.56
 Not applicable
 18.00
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,664.03
 FY 2025-26
 2,682.03
 -
 -
 FY 2017-18
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 364.80
 No expiry
 364.80
 -
 -
 FY 2016-17
 -
 -
 4.93
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,598.18
 FY 2024-25
 2,603.11
 -
 -
 FY 2014-15
 -
 -
 0.09
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 0.09
 -
 -
 FY 2013-14
 -
 -
 0.74
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 0.74
 -
 -
Total
14,511.83
 785.03
 3,472.30
 657.53
35,790.16
40,705.02
 297.68
42.
COMPONENTS OF DEFERRED TAX (CONTINUED)
42.1
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits on which deferred tax asset is not recognised in 
balance sheet (Continued)
As at 31 March 2023
Financial 
Year to 
which the 
loss related 
to
Deductible temporary 
differences
Unused tax losses
Unused tax credits
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial year
Unabsorbed 
depreciation
Unabsorbed long term 
capital losses
Unabsorbed short 
term capital losses
Unabsorbed business 
losses
Total
MAT Credit
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry  
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry  
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry  
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
 FY 2022-23
 2,683.68
 Not applicable
 111.48
 No expiry
 -
 -
 131.51
 FY 2030-31
 6,138.43
 FY 2030-31
 6,381.42
 136.31
 No expiry
 FY 2022-23
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 15.52
 FY 2027-28
 15.52
 -
 -
 FY 2021-22
 416.26
 Not applicable
 276.62
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 4,952.63
 FY 2029-30
 5,229.25
 57.49
 No expiry
 FY 2021-22
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 34.41
 FY 2026-27
 34.41
 -
 -
 FY 2020-21
 9,914.55
 Not applicable
 161.93
 No expiry
 3,425.06
 FY 2028-29
 526.02
 FY 2028-29
 5,860.68
 FY 2028-29
 9,973.69
 23.59
 No expiry
 FY 2020-21
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 22.45
 FY 2025-26
 22.45
 -
 -
 FY 2019-20
 1,773.80
 Not applicable
 214.54
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 5,098.41
 FY 2027-28
 5,312.95
 18.90
 No expiry
 FY 2019-20
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 13.76
 FY 2024-25
 13.76
 -
 -
 FY 2018-19
 55.32
 Not applicable
 164.97
 No expiry
 47.24
 FY 2026-27
 -
 -
 3,508.91
 FY 2026-27
 3,721.12
 -
 -
 FY 2018-19
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 10.37
 FY 2023-24
 10.37
 -
 -
 FY 2018-19
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 428.92
 No expiry
 428.92
 -
 -
 FY 2017-18
 84.56
 Not applicable
 16.07
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,707.20
 FY 2025-26
 2,723.27
 -
 -
 FY 2017-18
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 656.58
 No expiry
 656.58
 -
 -
 FY 2016-17
 -
 -
 9.90
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,574.26
 FY 2024-25
 2,584.16
 -
 -
 FY 2016-17
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 449.71
 FY 2021-22
 449.71
 -
 -
 FY 2015-16
 -
 -
 0.12
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,686.27
 FY 2023-24
 1,686.39
 -
 -
 FY 2014-15
 -
 -
 6.74
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 FY 2022-23
 6.74
 -
 -
 FY 2013-14
 -
 -
 0.74
 No expiry
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 0.74
 -
 -
Total
14,928.17
 963.11
 3,472.30
 657.53
34,158.51
39,251.45
 236.29
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
305
306
43.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
In accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 33 – "Earnings Per Share" prescribed by Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2015, the computation of earnings per share is set out below:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Profit /(loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent
 4,207.00
 3,441.63
Number of equity shares for calculating basic EPS
 898,888,246
 898,378,496
Weighted average number of shares outstanding at the end of the 
year for basic EPS
 898,871,130
 898,207,466
Number of dilutive potential equity shares
 2,088,781
 115,119
Weighted average number of shares outstanding at the end of the 
year for diluted EPS
 900,959,911
 898,322,585
Earnings per share (EPS) (Face value ` 1 each)
Basic earnings share (in `)
 4.68
 3.83
Dilutive earning per share (in `)
 4.68
 3.83
44.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group has made its consolidated segment reporting to meaningfully represent its business lines Agency 
business, Capital business, Asset reconstruction business, Insurance & Treasury business. Agency business includes 
advisory and other fee based businesses; Capital business represents lending business and investment activities; 
Asset reconstruction business represents purchase and resolution of distress assets; Insurance business represents 
life insurance business and general insurance business. Treasury business represents income from trading activities.
The management is the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM).
The operating segments are the segments for which separate financial information is available and for which operating 
profit / loss amounts are evaluated regularly by the CODM.
Since the business operations of the Group are primarily concentrated in India, the Group is considered to operate 
only in the domestic segment.
31 March 2024
Particulars
Agency
Capital 
based
Insurance 
business
Asset 
reconstruction 
business
Treasury
Unallocated
Total
Segment Revenue
 8,369.05
 15,717.05
 35,520.40
 24,123.06
 11,523.98
 762.21
 96,015.75
Inter Segment Revenue
 (371.22)
 2,187.76
 -
 -
 (1,635.53)
 (181.01)
 -
Revenue from External 
Customers
 7,997.83
 17,904.81
 35,520.40
 24,123.06
 9,888.45
 581.20
 96,015.75
Segment Expenditure
 6,643.64
 18,829.30
 38,314.52
 19,347.10
 7,644.98
 862.21
 91,641.75
Segment results (Profit/
(loss) before tax)
 1,354.19
 (924.49)
 (2,794.12)
 4,775.96
 2,243.47
 (281.01)
 4,374.00
Tax expense
 (906.47)
Net profit / (loss) for the year
 5,280.47
Segment assets
16,044.83  160,647.38  108,630.26
 68,817.38
 49,230.95
 25,824.91 429,195.71
Segment liabilities
 7,460.03  175,957.98
 98,955.26
 37,606.11
 46,231.52
 2,491.96 368,702.86
44.
SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
31 March 2023
Particulars
Agency
Capital 
based
Insurance 
business
Asset 
reconstruction 
business
Treasury
Unallocated
Total
Segment Revenue1
10,030.14
 31,833.63
 23,876.59
 14,631.06
 6,414.74
 857.69
 87,643.85
Inter Segment Revenue
 (314.10)
 1,171.26
 -
 -
 (658.90)
 (198.26)
 -
Revenue from External 
Customers
 9,716.04
 33,004.89
 23,876.59
 14,631.06
 5,755.84
 659.43
 87,643.85
Segment Expenditure
 6,308.61
 35,292.67
 27,122.38
 9,726.64
 4,388.18
 958.12
 83,796.60
Segment results (Profit/
(loss) before tax)
 3,407.43
 (2,287.78)
 (3,245.79)
 4,904.42
 1,367.66
 (298.69)
 3,847.25
Tax expense
 (208.32)
Net profit / (loss) for the year
 4,055.57
Segment assets
14,512.18  223,247.75
 85,062.28
 66,878.71
 28,324.76
 22,616.99 440,642.67
Segment liabilities
 6,953.14  215,738.00
 76,545.17
 39,224.53
 21,347.02
 2,372.50 362,180.36
1.	
Segment revenue includes share in profit/(loss) in associates.
2.	
Non-cash expenditure aggregated to ` 2,801.25 million for the year ended 31 March 2024 (previous Year ` 10,338.41 million)
45.
TRANSFER OF FINANCIALS ASSET
The following tables provide a summary of financial assets that have been transferred in such a way that part or all of 
the transferred financial assets do not qualify for derecognition, together with the associated liabilities.
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Securitisations
Carrying amount of transferred assets measured at amortised cost 
(Held as collateral )
 15,828.02
 15,278.21
Carrying amount of associated liabilities
(Debt securities - measured at amortised cost)
 15,389.61
 14,194.38
Fair value of assets
 15,801.58
 14,790.02
Fair value of associated liabilities
 14,709.77
 13,308.22
Net position at fair value
 1,091.81
 1,481.80
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
307
308
46.
UNCONSOLIDATED STRUCTURED ENTITIES
The Group has exposure to certain unconsolidated structured entities being securitisation trusts, alternative investment 
funds and similar funds. The Group is involved in setting up of these structured entities and generally, acts as the 
investment manager. However, the Group can be removed by certain specified majority of the investors. Further, 
the Group does not have significant exposure to variability of returns and its remuneration is commensurate to the 
services provided. Therefore, these structured entities are not consolidated by the Group.
The following tables show the carrying amount of the Group’s recorded interest in its consolidated balance sheet as 
well as the maximum exposure to risk (as defined in below) due to these exposures in the unconsolidated structured 
entities:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Securitisation 
trusts
Alternative 
Investment Funds
Total
Maximum 
exposure1
Loans
 338.67
 -
 338.67
 338.67
Trade Receivables
 458.72
 585.97
 1,044.69
 1,044.69
Investments
 15,258.48
 14,512.63
 29,771.11
 29,771.11
Total Assets
 16,055.87
 15,098.60
 31,154.47
 31,154.47
Off-balance sheet 
exposure
 131.88
 3,986.60
 4,118.48
 4,118.48
Size of the structured 
entity1
 222,865.09
 363,267.73
 586,132.82
 -
Income from the 
structured entity
 5,526.09
 3,056.96
 8,583.05
 -
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Securitisation 
trusts
Alternative 
Investment Funds
Total
Maximum 
exposure1
Loans
 459.75
 -
 459.75
 459.75
Trade Receivables
 2,272.57
 403.36
 2,675.93
 2,675.93
Investments
 23,805.88
 3,619.76
 27,425.64
 27,425.64
Total Assets
 26,538.20
 4,023.12
 30,561.32
 30,561.32
Off-balance sheet 
exposure
 131.88
 10,133.37
 10,265.25
 10,265.25
Size of the structured 
entity1
 316,671.81
 333,047.32
 649,719.13
 -
Income from the 
structured entity
 3,425.71
 2,594.00
 6,019.71
 -
1 In the above table, the size of the structured entity refers to the corpus in case of securitisation trusts and to the 
assets under management in case of alternative investment funds. For loans, trade receivables and investments in 
structured entities, the carrying value reflects the Group's maximum exposure to loss.
47.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN OTHER ENTITIES:
1.	
Details of non wholly owned subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests.
Name of subsidiary
Place of 
incorporation and 
principal place of 
business
Proportion of 
ownership interests 
held by non-
controlling interests
Profit/(loss) allocated to  
non-controlling interests
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited
India
40.18%
 1,427.17
 1,279.30
Edelweiss Tokio life insurance 
Company Limited
India
24.92%
(390.24)
(589.32)
Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group's subsidiaries that have material non-
controlling interests is set out below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts before 
intra-group eliminations.
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Financial assets
 51,863.29
 58,716.35
Non-financial assets
 1,720.78
 752.68
Financial liabilities
 20,186.95
 29,674.63
Non-financial liabilities
 1,898.58
 1,853.12
Equity attributable to owners of the company
 18,842.43
 16,714.49
Non-controlling interest
 12,656.11
 11,226.79
Particulars
For the year ended 
 31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
 10,685.08
 10,006.99
Total income
 10,685.08
 10,006.99
Total expenses
 5,909.11
 5,716.46
Profit / (loss) before tax
 4,775.97
 4,290.53
Tax expense
 1,224.02
 1,106.60
Profit / (loss) for the year
 3,551.95
 3,183.93
Total comprehensive income / (loss)
 3,551.14
 3,181.73
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the Company
 2,124.78
 1,904.63
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable non-controlling interests
 1,427.17
 1,279.30
Cash flows (used) / generated from operating activities
 3,387.43
 5,273.32
Cash flows (used) / generated from investing activities
 7,082.72
 5,152.25
Cash flows (used) / generated from financial activities
(13,291.96)
(8,231.74)
Net cash inflow/(outflow)
(2,821.81)
 2,193.83
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
309
310
47.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN OTHER ENTITIES: (CONTINUED)
Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-
controlling interests is set out below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts before 
intra-group eliminations. (Continued)
Edelweiss Tokio life insurance Company Limited
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Financial assets
 87,516.53
 71,956.42
Non-financial assets
 5,643.37
 4,187.66
Financial liabilities
 4,193.71
 4,229.74
Non-financial liabilities
 81,779.69
 65,133.48
Equity attributable to owners of the company
 5,395.62
 5,091.07
Non-controlling interest
 1,790.88
 1,689.79
Particulars
For the year ended 
 31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
 29,467.51
 19,992.04
Total income
 29,476.48
 19,999.93
Total expenses
 31,042.44
 21,990.82
Profit / (loss) before tax
(1,565.96)
(1,990.89)
Tax expense
 -
 -
Profit / (loss) for the year
(1,565.96)
(1,990.89)
Total comprehensive income / (loss)
(112.30)
(1,922.79)
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the Company
(1,175.72)
(1,401.57)
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable non-controlling interests
(390.24)
(589.32)
Cash flows (used) / generated from operating activities
 2,917.94
 5,673.17
Cash flows (used) / generated from investing activities
(2,076.22)
(7,850.16)
Cash flows (used) / generated from financial activities
 396.40
 2,402.19
Net cash inflow/(outflow)
 1,238.12
 225.20
2.	
Details of associate*
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (Formerly known as 
Edelweiss Securities Limited - (Consolidated upto 30 March 
2023))
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Financial assets
 -
 124,257.73
Non-financial assets
 -
 5,310.19
Financial liabilities
 -
 105,781.16
Non-financial liabilities
 -
 1,229.04
Total equity
 -
 22,557.72
Share of commitments and contingent liabilities
 -
 5,891.51
47.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN OTHER ENTITIES: (CONTINUED)
Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-
controlling interests is set out below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts before 
intra-group eliminations. (Continued)
2.	
Details of associate* (Continued)
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
30 March 2023
Revenue from operations
 -
22,023.89
Total income
 -
22,154.00
Total expenses
 -
18,141.12
Profit / (loss) before tax
 -
4,012.88
Other exceptional items
 -
9.40
Profit / (loss) before tax and after exceptional items
 -
4,022.28
Tax expense
 -
1,000.96
Profit / (loss) for the year
 -
3,021.32
Total comprehensive income / (loss)
 -
3,053.44
Share in profit / (loss) of associates
 -
1,317.94
Share in profit / (loss) of associates in other comprehensive income
 -
14.06
Cash flows (used) / generated from operating activities
 -
(17,483.30)
Cash flows (used) / generated from investing activities
 -
(1,792.46)
Cash flows (used) / generated from financial activities
 -
18,844.73
Change in foreign exchange translation reserve
 -
47.81
Net cash inflow/ (outflow)
 -
(383.22)
*Refer Note 75
48.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN
A)
Defined contribution plan (Provident fund and National Pension Scheme):
Amount of ` 420.78 million (previous year: ` 389.00 million) is recognised as expenses and included in “Employee 
benefits expense” in the statement of profit and loss.
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity):
The following tables summarise the components of the net benefit expenses recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss and the funded and unfunded status and amount recognised in the balance sheet for the gratuity 
benefit plan.
Statement of profit and loss
Expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Current service cost
 81.50
 87.89
Interest on defined benefit obligation
(1.91)
 7.63
Past service cost
 -
(1.69)
Exchange rate adjustment
 79.61
 0.18
Total included in 'Employee benefits expense'
 159.20
 94.01
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
311
312
48.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity): (Continued)
Movement in Other Comprehensive Income:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Balance at start of year (Loss)/ Gain
Re-measurements on define benefit obligation (DBO)
(98.46)
(87.22)
a. Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in financial assumptions
 2.99
 33.79
b. Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from experience over the past year
(19.43)
(25.68)
Return on plan assets excluding amount included in net interest 
on the net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 28.56
(4.41)
Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the 
asset ceiling excluding amount included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability/ (asset)
(36.47)
(14.94)
Balance at end of year (Loss)/ Gain
(122.81)
(98.46)
Balance sheet
Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation (DBO):
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year
 528.46
 538.84
Interest cost
 35.35
28.85
Current service cost
 81.49
87.89
Benefits paid
(88.56)
(88.83)
Past service cost
 -
(1.69)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
 16.45
(37.20)
Transfer (out)/in
(21.77)
0.42
Exchange Rate Adjustment
 0.02
0.18
Present value of DBO at the end of the year
 551.44
 528.46
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 509.29
 453.11
Contributions by Employer
 77.90
 128.66
Benefits paid
(88.56)
(88.83)
Interest income
 44.56
 26.13
Return on plan asset excluding amount included in net interest 
on the net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 28.56
(9.78)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 571.75
 509.29
48.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity) (Continued):
Net asset / (liability) recognised in the balance sheet:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Present value of DBO
(551.44)
(528.46)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 571.75
 509.29
Net Liability
 20.31
 (19.17)
Less: Effect of limiting net assets to asset ceiling
(143.04)
(102.98)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet
 (122.73)
 (122.15)
Experience adjustments:
Particulars
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
On plan liabilities: loss / (gain)
19.43
25.68
35.86
6.74
 (34.66)
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Discount rate
7.00%
7.10%
Salary escalation
7.00%
7.00%
Employees attrition rate
16.00%
16.00%
Mortality Rate
IALM 2012-14 
(Ultimate)
IALM 2012-14 
(Ultimate)
Percentage Break-down of Total Plan Assets
2023-24
2022-23
Investment Funds with Insurance Company and Cash
99%
99%
Cash and cash equivalents
1%
1%
Total
100%
100%
Sensitivity Analysis for 31 March 2024:
Assumptions
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
1.00% 
increase
1.00% 
decrease
1.00% 
increase
1.00% 
decrease
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (21.71)
 23.32
 23.05
 (21.86)
Sensitivity Analysis for 31 March 2023:
Assumptions
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
1.00% 
increase
1.00% 
decrease
1.00% 
increase
1.00% 
decrease
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (21.18)
 22.71
 22.46
 (21.36)
Maturity profile
The weighted average duration of the obligation is 4 years (31 March 2023 : 4 years) as at the date of valuation. 
This represents the weighted average of the expected remaining lifetime of all plan participants.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
313
314
49.
MATURITY ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be 
recovered or settled. With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Group uses the same basis of expected 
repayment behaviour as used for estimating the effective interest rate. Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon 
amortisations.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
ASSETS
Financial assets
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
 23,732.18
 -
 23,732.18
 27,458.60
 -
 27,458.60
(b)
Bank balances other than 
cash and cash equivalents
 7,582.24
 1,993.52
 9,575.76
 6,165.20
 3,366.93
 9,532.13
(c)
Derivative financial 
instruments
 1,192.41
 -
 1,192.41
 779.00
 -
 779.00
(d)
Trade Receivables
 3,222.34
 353.03
 3,575.37
 3,637.40
 495.68
 4,133.08
(e)
Loans
 7,489.91  140,550.41  148,040.32
 54,795.57  118,740.71  173,536.28
(f)
Investments
 55,275.56  129,639.19  184,914.75
 65,536.68  106,085.56  171,622.24
(g)
Other financial assets
 9,332.94
 1,630.00
 10,962.94
 7,840.83
 1,346.26
 9,187.09
Total financial assets (A)
 107,827.58  274,166.15  381,993.73  166,213.28  230,035.14  396,248.42
Non-financial assets
(a)
Reinsurance assets
 0.01
 3,273.98
 3,273.99
 -
 3,013.36
 3,013.36
(b)
Current tax assets (net)
 432.51
 7,328.81
 7,761.32
 188.32
 8,039.02
 8,227.34
(c)
Deferred tax assets (net)
 -
 15,464.78
 15,464.78
 -
 12,115.65
 12,115.65
(d)
Investment property
 -
 1,550.67
 1,550.67
 -
 1,822.13
 1,822.13
(e)
Property, Plant and 
Equipment
 8.47
 9,146.46
 9,154.93
 2.81
 9,877.06
 9,879.87
(f)
Capital work in progress
 36.55
 -
 36.55
 1.63
 5.46
 7.09
(g)
Intangible assets under 
development
 92.41
 232.24
 324.65
 43.20
 197.40
 240.60
(h)
Goodwill
 -
 236.60
 236.60
 -
 236.60
 236.60
(i)
Other Intangible assets
 60.92
 1,363.25
 1,424.17
 10.46
 1,274.60
 1,285.06
(j)
Right to Use (ROU) assets
 12.47
 518.15
 530.62
 -
 448.13
 448.13
(k)
Other non- financial assets
 2,681.60
 4,762.10
 7,443.70
 1,913.29
 5,205.13
 7,118.42
Total non-financial assets (B)
 3,324.94
 43,877.04
 47,201.98
 2,159.71
 42,234.54
 44,394.25
TOTAL ASSETS (C = A+B)
 111,152.52  318,043.19  429,195.71  168,372.99  272,269.68  440,642.67
49.
MATURITY ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 
12 months
After 
12 months
Total
Within 
12 months
After 
12 months
Total
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(a)
Derivative financial 
instruments
 1,155.83
 -
 1,155.83
 775.72
 -
 775.72
(b)
Trade Payables
 15,704.40
 1,035.47
 16,739.87
 13,820.78
 301.38
 14,122.16
(c)
Insurance claims payable
 373.82
 -
 373.82
 509.76
 -
 509.76
(d)
Debt securities
 34,036.15  109,944.36  143,980.51
 55,559.95
 98,470.39  154,030.34
(e)
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
 36,249.70
 11,158.87
 47,408.57
 40,265.14
 9,681.88
 49,947.02
(f)
Deposits
 16.98
 -
 16.98
 16.25
 -
 16.25
(g)
Subordinated Liabilities
 738.22
 10,339.90
 11,078.12
 1,430.40
 11,936.47
 13,366.87
(h)
Lease liabilities
 507.20
 587.63
 1,094.83
 -
 554.08
 554.08
(i)
Other financial liabilities
 10,452.14
 41,743.82
 52,195.96
 9,475.44
 44,040.93
 53,516.37
Total financial liabilities (D)
 99,234.44  174,810.05
274,044.49  121,853.44  164,985.13  286,838.57
Non-financial liabilities
(a)
Current tax liabilities (net)
 316.35
 47.79
 364.14
 223.18
 26.03
 249.21
(b)
Provisions
 226.47
 392.78
 619.25
 279.56
 344.40
 623.96
(c)
Provision for policyholders' 
liabilities
 -
 83,042.84
 83,042.84
 -
 66,135.11
 66,135.11
(d)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 -
 2,050.94
 2,050.94
 -
 1,827.60
 1,827.60
(e)
Other non-financial liabilities
 8,374.32
 206.88
 8,581.20
 6,350.23
 155.68
 6,505.91
Total non-financial liabilities (E)
 8,917.14
 85,741.23
 94,658.37
 6,852.97
 68,488.82
 75,341.79
TOTAL LIABILITIES (F = D+E)
 108,151.58  260,551.28  368,702.86  128,706.41  233,473.95  362,180.36
NET TOTAL ASSETS / 
(LIABILITIES) (C-F)
3,000.94
 57,491.91
60,492.85
 39,666.58
 38,795.73
78,462.31
50.
CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Particulars
As at 
01 April 2023
Cash flows
Others**
As at 
31 March 2024
Borrowings*
 217,914.56
(14,917.89)
 582.35
 203,579.02
Total liabilities from financing activities
 217,914.56
(14,917.89)
 582.35
 203,579.02
Particulars
As at 
01 April 2022
Cash flows
Others**
As at 
31 March 2023
Borrowings*
 227,675.84
(7,687.97)
(2,073.31)
 217,914.56
Total liabilities from financing activities
 227,675.84
(7,687.97)
(2,073.31)
 217,914.56
* Comprises of Debt securities, Deposits, Subordinated Liabilities, other borrowings and lease liabilities.
** Refers to interest expense for the year incurred by entities other than non-banking financial companies in the group.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
315
316
51.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, COMMITMENTS AND LEASING ARRANGEMENTS:
51.1
Contingent liabilities and commitments
a)
Contingent liabilities
•
Taxation matters in respect of which appeal is pending ` 1,590.49 million (previous year: ` 1,108.10 million).
•
Litigation pending against Group amounts to ` 183.22 million (previous year: ` 347.63 million).
(i)
The Group has received demand notices from tax authorities on account of disallowance of expenditure for 
earning exempt income under Section 14A of Income Tax Act 1961 read with Rule 8D of the Income Tax Rules, 
1962. The Group has filed appeal/s and is defending its position. Based on the favourable outcome in Appellate 
proceedings in the past and as advised by the tax advisors, Group is reasonably certain about sustaining its 
position in the pending cases, hence the possibility of outflow of resources embodying economic benefits on 
this ground is remote.
(ii)
Pursuant to the Income Tax Authorities ("the ITA") investigation, after 31 March 2024, the Company and a 
subsidiary in the Group have received assessment orders cum demand notices from ITA for AY 2022-23. Based 
on the legal opinion obtained by the Group, management believes that the demand is not sustainable. The Group 
has filed an appeal against the said assessment orders. Thus, no adjustment has been made or is required in the 
Consolidated Financial Statement of the Group.
(iii)
The Group's pending litigations mainly comprise of claims against the Group pertaining to proceedings pending 
with Income Tax, Excise, Custom, Sales/VAT tax/GST and other authorities. The Group has reviewed all 
its pending litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are required and 
disclosed as contingent liabilities where applicable, in the financial statements. The Group believes that the 
outcome of these proceedings will not have a materially adverse effect on the Group financial position and 
results of operations.
Corporate/other guarantee not acknowledged as debt:
Corporate/other guarantee given by the Company on behalf of its associate companies and to third party which 
is outstanding as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 is given below:
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Guarantee to trustees and others for non convertible debentures 
and other borrowings
 -
 138.27
Guarantee for meeting margin requirements
 -
 4,000.00
Total
 -
 4,138.27
b)
Commitments
•
Undrawn committed credit lines subject to meeting of conditions, ` 2,509.83 million as at balance sheet 
date (previous year: ` 2,611.20 million).
•
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for ` 92.43 
million (previous year: ` 96.25 million).
•
Uncalled liabilities on investments ` 4,004.49 million (previous year: ` 11,196.11 million).
51
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, COMMITMENTS AND LEASING ARRANGEMENTS: 
(CONTINUED)
51.2 LEASES
1)
This note provides information for leases where the group is a lessee. Group has not given any property on lease
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the 
movements
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
 Opening balance as at
 554.08
 566.01
 Addition / disposal during year
755.27
174.63
 Accretion of interest
74.59
70.40
 Lease payment for the year
(289.11)
(256.96)
 Closing balance as at
 1,094.83
 554.08
2)
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amounts relating to leases
Particulars
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Depreciation on ROU of assets
215.05
201.30
Reversal of lease pre-closure
(6.56)
(7.79)
Interest cost
74.60
70.39
Expenses related to short term lease
52.53
125.42
The maturity analysis of lease liability is disclosed in other financial liabilities in note 49.
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”:
(A)
Individuals owning, directly or indirectly, an interest in the voting power of the reporting enterprise that 
gives them control or significant influence over the enterprise
Mr. Rashesh Shah
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Ms. Vidya Shah
Ms. Aparna T.C.
(B)
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Rashesh Shah - Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy - Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Mr. Himanshu Kaji - Executive Director (upto 26 September 2023)
Mr. Rujan Panjwani - Executive Director (upto 2 September 2022)
Ms. Ananya Suneja – Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Tarun Khurana - Company Secretary
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
317
318
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(C)
Relatives of individuals exercising significant influence and relatives of KMP, with whom transactions have 
taken place
Ms. Kaavya Venkat
Ms. Shilpa Mody
Ms. Sejal Premal Parekh
Mr. A V Ramaswamy
Ms. Sneha Sripad Desai
Mr. Neel Shah
Ms. Avanti Shah
Ms. Shabnam Panjwani (upto 2 September 2022)
(D)
Enterprises over which Promoter / KMPs / Relatives exercise significant influence, with whom transactions 
have taken place
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
Shah Family Discretionary Trust
(E)
Associates with whom transactions have taken place (upto 30th March 2023) (Refer note 75):
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities Limited)
Subsidiaries of Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities Limited)
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Finance & Investments Limited)
Nuvama Wealth and Investment Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Broking Limited)
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited)
Nuvama Investment Advisors (Hongkong) Private Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities (Hong Kong) 
Private Limited)
Nuvama Investment Advisors Private Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Investment Advisors Private Limited)
Nuvama Financial Services Inc. (Edelweiss Financial Services Inc.)
Nuvama Financial Services (UK) Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Financial Services (UK) Limited)
Nuvama Capital Services (IFSC) Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities (IFSC) Limited)
Nuvama Asset Management Limited (formerly known as ESL Securities Limited)
Pickright Technologies Private Limited (w.e.f 13 March, 2023)
(F)
Independent Directors
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra (upto 26 September 2023)
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. P. N. Venkatachalam (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. Ashok Kini
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Mr. Shiva Kumar (w.e.f 04 August 2022)
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties:
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 1
Short term loans given to
Ms. Aparna T. C.
 -
 21.40
Mabella Investment Advisor LLP
 -
 12.81
Kenai Advisors LLP
 -
 314.16
 2
Short term loans given repaid by Ms. Aparna T. C.
 -
 244.47
Mabella Investment Advisor LLP
 -
 238.09
Kenai Advisors LLP
 -
 358.66
 3
Dividend paid on Equity Shares
Mr. Rashesh Shah
 218.40
 211.12
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 89.00
 84.28
Ms. Vidya Shah
 46.59
 45.00
Shah Family Discretionary Trust
 58.13
 56.19
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
 4.80
 4.64
Ms. Aparna T. C.
 18.32
 17.70
Ms. Kaavya Venkat
 17.69
 17.10
Mr. Rujan Panjwani
 -
 14.34
Mr. Himanshu Kaji
 0.74
 4.31
Ms. Sneha Sripad Desai
 1.54
 1.49
Ms. Shilpa Mody
 1.43
 1.38
Ms. Sejal Premal Parekh
 1.43
 1.38
Ms. Shabnam Panjwani
 -
 0.19
Mr. A V Ramaswamy
 0.08
 0.07
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 1.99
Ms. Avanti Shah
 3.00
 2.90
Mr. P. N. Venkatachalam
 -
 0.07
Mr. Neel Shah
 3.00
 2.90
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 0.09
 0.09
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 0.05
 4
Interest income on loan from
Ms. Aparna T. C.
 -
 12.31
Mabella Investment Advisor LLP
 -
 5.80
Kenai Advisors LLP
 -
 5.93
 5
Remuneration to
Mr. Rashesh Shah
 110.03
 80.01
Mr. Rujan Panjwani
 -
 38.24
Mr. Himanshu Kaji
 23.85
 32.50
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 67.15
 64.42
Ms. Vidya Shah
 36.53
 -
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 13.05
 11.11
Ms. Ananya Suneja
 30.98
 25.11
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
319
320
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 6
Sitting fees paid to
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra
 2.03
 1.95
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 0.60
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 0.44
Mr. P N Venkatachalam
 -
 1.04
Mr. Dr. Ashima Goyal
 0.83
 0.48
Mr. Ashok Kini
 2.28
 1.21
Mr. Shiva Kumar
 4.03
 2.06
 7
Commission paid to
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 2.00
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 2.00
Mr. P N Venkatachalam
 -
 3.00
Dr. Ashima Goyal
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Ashok Kini
 2.50
 2.00
Ms. Vidya Shah
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Shiva Kumar
 3.89
 -
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 40.00
 -
Ms. Ananya Suneja
 1.00
 -
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 0.30
 -
 8
Loan given to KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 5.00
 -
 9
Loan repaid by KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 5.00
 -
 10
Interest income received from 
loan given to KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 0.27
 -
 11
Share Application money 
received from KMP
Ms. Ananya Suneja
 0.41
 -
 12
Donations given by
Mr. Rashesh Shah
 58.00
 -
Ms. Vidya Shah
 15.50
 -
 13
Branding fees received from
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 40.11
 14
Commission and brokerage paid 
to
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 13.07
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 767.52
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 15
Other service charges paid to
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 130.45
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 0.00
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 99.90
 16
Shared Premises Cost paid to
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 0.11
 17
Commission and brokerage 
received from
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 16.04
 18
Insurance Premium Income
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 74.49
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 4.68
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 13.18
Nuvama Capital Services (IFSC) 
Limited
 -
 0.23
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 17.19
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 3.42
Nuvama Financial Services Inc.
 -
 0.03
 19
Business support service 
charges from
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 3.52
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 0.14
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.71
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 244.73
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 0.03
 20
Investments in Debt securities
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 475.52
 21
Purchase of Securities
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 456.47
 22
Redemption of investment
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 338.90
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 1,713.63
 23
Corporate Guarantee support 
fee income
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 1.41
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 0.85
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
321
322
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 24
Rental income from
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 1.44
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 173.78
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.17
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 12.57
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 0.01
 25
Cost reimbursement received 
from
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 8.45
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 14.14
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.37
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 4.84
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 0.04
Nuvama Investment Advisors Private 
Limited
 -
 8.93
 26
Cost reimbursement paid to
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
412.87
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
173.27
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 209.93
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.09
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 13.12
 27
Equity segment payin
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 138.26
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 31,100.54
 28
Equity segment payout
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 32,515.43
 29
ESOP/SAR charges received 
from
Nuvama Investment Advisors Private 
Limited
 -
 1.65
 30
ESOP/SAR charges paid to
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 1.24
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 5.81
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 1.50
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 17.87
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 1.57
Nuvama Financial Services Inc.
 -
 0.08
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 31
Fee & commission expenses 
paid to
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 241.79
Nuvama Financial Services Inc.
 -
 90.54
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 34.50
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 26.51
Nuvama Investment Advisors 
(Hongkong) Private Limited
 -
 25.36
Nuvama Financial Services (UK) 
Limited
 -
 18.67
Nuvama Investment Advisors Private 
Limited
 -
 71.35
 32
Financial charges paid to
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 897.05
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 53.52
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 47.35
 33
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipments
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 0.00
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 0.01
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.00
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 1.04
 34
Sale of property, plant and 
equipments
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 0.04
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 0.00
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.00
 35
Donation received from
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 27.88
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 6.72
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 2.50
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 6.91
 36
Interest income on loan from
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 11.36
 37
Interest income on margin 
placed with
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 10.72
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
323
324
52.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE” (CONTINUED):
Transactions with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2024
For the year 
ended 
31 March 2023
 38
Interest expense on debt & 
securities
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 0.53
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 2.71
 39
Loans and advances given that 
are repaid
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 1,000.00
 40
Loans and advances given 
during the year
Nuvama Wealth and Investment 
Limited
 -
 1,000.00
 41
Margin placed with
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 69,910.64
 42
Margin repaid by
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 70,136.58
 43
Margin repaid to
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 257.93
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 0.15
 44
 Sale of securities to
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 483.91
0.00 million indicates amount less than ` 0.01 million
Notes:
Information relating to remuneration paid to key managerial person mentioned above excludes provision made for 
gratuity and provision made for bonus which are provided for group of employees on an overall basis. These are 
included on cash basis.
53.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group manages the capital structure by a balanced mix of debt and equity. The Group's capital management 
strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The Group 
maintains sound capitalisation both from an economic and regulatory perspective. The Group continuously monitors 
and adjusts overall capital demand and supply in an effort to achieve an appropriate balance of the economic 
and regulatory considerations at all times and from all perspectives. These perspectives include specific capital 
requirements from rating agencies.
Capital structure includes infusion in the form of equity and structured debt from strategic business partners in certain 
of Group's subsidiaries to fund expansion and assist in achieving expected growth in the competitive market.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial years ended 31 March 2024 and 
31 March 2023.
This framework is adjusted based on underlying the macro-economic factors affecting business environment, financial 
market conditions and interest rates environment. Group monitors capital using debt-equity ratio, which is total debt 
divided by total equity.
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Total Debt
 202,484.18
 217,360.48
Equity
 60,492.85
 78,462.31
Net Debt to Equity
     3.35
 2.77
Total debt = Debt securities + Borrowings (other than debt securities) + Deposits + Subordinated Liabilities
54.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited ("EFSL" hereafter), has recognised share based payment expenses for the years 
ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 based on fair value as on the grant date calculated as per option pricing 
model. The grants represent equity-settled options under the Employee Stock Option Plans and Stock Appreciation 
Rights Plans (hereafter referred to as, "ESOP 2011" and "SAR 2019" or "ESOPs" "SARs" ).
The EFSL has granted ESOPs under the two plans viz., ESOP 2011 & SAR 2019 to its employees on an equity-
settled basis as tabulated below. The ESOPs/SARs provide a right to its holders (i.e., Edelweiss group employees) 
to purchase one EFSL share for each option at a pre-determined strike price on the expiry of the vesting period. The 
ESOP/SAR hence represents an European call option that provides a right but not an obligation to the employees of 
the Edelweiss group to exercise the option by paying the strike price at any time on completion of the vesting period, 
subject to an outer boundary on the exercise period.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
325
326
54.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
EFSL has granted stock options to employees of the Edelweiss group on an equity-settled basis as tabulated below.
Particulars
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Dates of grant
Varying
Varying
Option Type
Equity settled
Equity settled
No. of outstanding options at 31 March 2024
4,859,570
2,254,725
No. of outstanding options at 31 March 2023
8,057,420
4,592,500
No. of Equity shares represented by an option
1 share for 1 option
1 share for 1 option
Fair Value per option
Varies as per the 
grant date
Varies as per the 
grant date
Exercise Price
Varies as per the 
grant date
Varies as per the 
grant date
Vesting Period
2-6 years
1-4 years
Vesting Conditions
Service
Service
The vesting of options is subject to the employee's continued employment with the Edelweiss group. The 
ESOPs and SARs shall vest as follows:
Particulars
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Duration from grant date
% options vesting
% options vesting
12 months from the grant date
 -
25.00%
24 months from the grant date
33.33%
25.00%
36 months from the grant date
 -
25.00%
48 months from the grant date
33.33%
25.00%
60 months from the grant date
 -
 -
72 months from the grant date
33.34%
 -
Total
100.00%
100.00%
Plan description
Plan Name
Grant Date
Vesting Conditions
Term of Options
Payout
ESOP Plan 2011
Various
As specified in 
tables above
1-4 years
Equity settled
SAR Plan 2019
Various
As specified in 
tables above
2-6 years
Equity settled
54.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
Movement of number of Options for 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Number of options
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019 ESOP 2011
Total
SAR 2019 ESOP 2011
Total
Outstanding at the start of the year
 8,057,420
 4,592,500  12,649,920  10,914,200
 7,182,488  18,096,688
Granted during the year*
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Exercised during the year
 (99,000)
 (556,500)
 (655,500)
(1,034,220)
(25,000)  (1,059,220)
Lapsed/ cancelled during the year
 (3,098,850)  (1,781,275)  (4,880,125)
(1,822,560)
(2,564,988)  (4,387,548)
Outstanding at the end of the year*
 4,859,570
 2,254,725
 7,114,295
 8,057,420
 4,592,500  12,649,920
Exercisable at the end of the year
 -
 1,946,725
 1,946,725
 -
 3,263,050
 3,263,050
*Includes, SAR 2019 345,050, ESOP 2011 Nil approved but not granted.
Weighted Average Exercise Price for 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Weighted Average Exercise Price (`)
31 March 2024*
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Outstanding at the start of the year
 136.20
 166.84
 123.38
 172.77
Granted during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Exercised during the year
 52.36
 34.79
61.00
60.75
Lapsed/ cancelled during the year
 88.24
 182.01
104.55
184.47
Outstanding at the end of the year
 50.74
 69.58
136.20
166.84
Exercisable at the end of the year
 NA
 76.25
NA
187.44
Weighted Average Share price at the exercise date
 78.30
 58.59
58.85
58.98
* During the year, there is reduction in strike price on account of demerger (refer note 75).
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
327
328
54.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
Outstanding Options as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Number of options outstanding
 4,859,570
 2,254,725
 8,057,420
 4,592,500
Weighted average strike price (`)
 50.74
 69.58
 136.20
 166.84
Weighted average remaining lifetime of options (in years)
 1.35
 0.07
 1.65
 0.16
Number of employees covered under the scheme
 111
 143
 122
 166
Options granted during the year 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Number of options granted
 -
 -
 -
 -
Weighted average strike price (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted average remaining lifetime of options (in years)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Number of employees covered under the scheme
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted Average Fair value per option (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted Average Intrinsic value per option (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Assumptions for Fair Value for the year 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Weighted average share price (in `)
 112.17
 157.75
 136.33
 169.52
Weighted average strike price (in `)
 50.74
 69.58
 136.20
 166.84
Weighted average remaining 
lifetime of options (in years)
 1.35
 0.07
 1.65
 0.16
Expected volatility (% p.a.)
56% p.a. - 72% p.a.
 41% p.a. - 72% p.a.
56% p.a. - 72% p.a.
41% p.a. - 72% p.a.
Risk-free discount rate (% p.a.)
5.1% p.a. - 6.9% p.a. 4.8% p.a. - 7.8% p.a.
5.1% p.a. - 6.9% p.a.
4.3% p.a. - 7.8% p.a.
Expected dividend yield (% p.a.)
0.7% p.a. - 2.4% p.a. 0.4% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
0.7% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
0.4% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
54.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
Other Disclosure
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Total
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Total
Charges during the year due 
to share based payments *
 10.28
 3.61
 13.89
 71.17
 16.11
 87.28
Liability due for share based 
payments
 191.24
 180.82
 372.06
 343.65
 355.07
 698.72
Intrinsic value of the liability 
above
 1.93
 10.40
 12.33
 4.83
 20.36
 25.19
* includes all group companies including associates
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
55.1
Valuation Principles :
Fair value is the price that would be received against sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions 
(i.e., an exit price), regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique. In 
order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation 
techniques explained in Note 55.4
55.2
Valuation governance :
The Group's fair value methodology and the governance over its models includes a number of controls and other 
procedures to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure its quality and adequacy. All new product initiatives 
(including their valuation methodologies) are subject to approvals by various functions of the Group including the risk 
and finance functions.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, 
independent price determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, Company sources alternative market 
information, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The responsibility of ongoing measurement resides with the business and product line divisions. However Finance 
department is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and ensuring fair values are in compliance 
with accounting standards
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
329
330
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.3
Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy. 
Exchange traded and OTC derivatives are at gross amount i.e. before offsetting margin money. The impact of offsetting 
is explained in note 10.1.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative financial instruments (assets)
Exchange-traded derivatives
 802.55
 -
 -
 802.55
OTC derivatives
 -
 1,101.89
 -
 1,101.89
Embedded derivatives in market-linked debentures issued
 -
 -
 299.64
 299.64
Total derivative financial instruments (assets)
 802.55
 1,101.89
 299.64
 2,204.08
Investments
Government securities
 28,349.08
 39,751.67
 -
 68,100.75
Debt securities
 15.70
 14,010.54
 128.94
 14,155.18
Mutual fund units
 7,492.05
 -
 -
 7,492.05
Security receipts
 -
 -
 26,039.25
 26,039.25
AIF Fund
 -
 797.60
 11,063.26
 11,860.86
Equity instruments*
 21,857.24
 20,067.94
 577.37
 42,502.55
Preference Shares
 -
 -
 968.90
 968.90
Others
 957.09
 1,889.06
 -
 2,846.15
Total investments measured at fair value
 58,671.16
 76,516.81
 38,777.72
 173,965.69
Loans and other financial assets measured at fair value
 -
 -
 47,099.41
 47,099.41
Property, Plant and equipment
 -
 -
 11,894.49
 11,894.49
Total financial assets measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 59,473.71
 77,618.70
 98,071.26
 235,163.67
*Equity instruments includes investment in Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (NWML), a former associate of the 
Company which is subject to lock-in till September 2024 in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India 
regulations. This investment is reported under Level 2 in fair value disclosure in accordance with Ind AS 113 - Fair 
Value measurement as at 31 March 2024.
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.3
Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy (Continued)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative financial instruments (assets)
Exchange-traded derivatives
 176.42
 38.18
 -
 214.60
OTC derivatives
 -
 217.93
 -
 217.93
Embedded derivatives in market-linked debentures issued
 -
 -
 475.14
 475.14
Total derivative financial instruments (assets)
 176.42
 256.11
 475.14
 907.67
Investments
Government securities
 25,757.12
 31,241.43
 -
 56,998.55
Debt securities
 128.32
 13,169.40
 4,643.08
 17,940.80
Mutual fund units
 3,643.44
 -
 -
 3,643.44
Security receipts
 -
 -
 21,089.05
 21,089.05
AIF Fund
 -
 743.52
 15,520.25
 16,263.77
Equity instruments
 14,207.13
 1,196.73
 35,083.81
 50,487.67
Preference Shares
 -
 -
 1,105.68
 1,105.68
Others
 1,043.84
 881.21
 -
 1,925.05
Total investments measured at fair value
 44,779.85
 47,232.29
 77,441.87
 169,454.01
Loans and other financial assets measured at fair value
 -
 -
 2,645.09
 2,645.09
Property Plant and equipment
-
-
 11,780.83
 11,780.83
Total financial assets measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 44,956.27
 47,488.40
 92,342.93
 184,787.60
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
331
332
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.3
Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy (Continued)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative financial instruments (liabilities):
Exchange-traded derivatives
 522.00
 4.40
 -
 526.40
OTC derivatives
 -
 71.01
 -
 71.01
Embedded derivative liabilities in market-linked debentures
 -
 -
 652.91
 652.91
Non convertible debentures issued
 -
 -
 5,006.41
 5,006.41
Short sales
 246.59
 -
 -
 246.59
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 768.59
 75.41
 5,659.32
 6,503.32
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative financial instruments (liabilities):
Exchange-traded derivatives
 315.11
 67.45
 -
 382.56
OTC derivatives
 -
 557.43
 -
 557.43
Embedded derivative liabilities in market-linked debentures
 -
 -
 443.79
 443.79
Non convertible debentures issued
 -
 -
 6,282.80
 6,282.80
Short sales
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 315.11
 624.88
 6,726.59
 7,666.58
55.4
Fair valuation techniques :
Government debt securities
Government debt securities are generally highly liquid and traded in active markets; fair value of these securities 
is determined under Level 1 classification. For insurance business, security level prices published by CRISIL are 
considered for valuation and is determined under Level 2 classification.
Debt securities
Fair value of these debt securities is derived based on the indicative quotes of price and yields prevailing in the 
market as at the reporting date. Wherever debt securities are traded actively, Group has used price quoted at Stock 
Exchanges; in other cases Group has used CRISIL Corporate Bond Valuation model for measuring fair value.
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.4
Fair valuation techniques : (Continued)
Security receipts
There is no active market for Security Receipts; Group determines fair value of these securities using discounted cash 
flow models. Under this method expected cash flows are estimated by using quantitative and qualitative measures 
regarding the characteristics of the underlying assets including prepayment rates, default rates and other economic 
drivers. Since valuation of Securities receipts involves significant unobservable valuation inputs, fair value is classified 
at Level 3.
Equity instruments
Fair valuation of equity instruments, which are listed and actively traded on recognised stock exchanges with readily 
available active prices on a regular basis, are classified at Level 1. Equity instruments in non-listed entities are initially 
measured at transaction price and re-measured at each reporting date at valuation determined by external valuer at 
instrument level. Fair value of unlisted equity securities are classified at Level 3.
Units of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) and Mutual Fund
Units held in AIFs are measured based on fund net asset value (NAV), taking into account redemption and/or other 
restrictions. Such instruments are classified at Level 3.
Open-ended funds that are redeemable at any time, and reports daily Net Asset Value (NAV) and for which sufficient 
subscriptions and redemptions occur at NAV, are measured at NAV and classified as level 1.
Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss
Loans are segregated, as far as possible, into portfolios of similar characteristics. Fair values are based on observable 
market transactions, when available. When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation models 
incorporating range of input assumptions. Group determines fair value of loans with help of internal valuation team 
and independent valuer on case-to-case basis. Valuation is based on discounted cash flow, comparable transaction 
market price, market research and marked trend as considered appropriate.
Derivatives
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, primarily banks with investment 
grade credit ratings. Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest 
rate swaps, exchange traded futures and options contracts. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include 
quoted price for exchange traded derivatives and Black Scholes models (for option valuation).
OTC derivatives
Under Interest rate swap contract, the Company agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate 
of interest amount calculated on agreed notional principal. Such contracts enable the Company to mitigate the risk 
of changing interest rate. The fair value of interest rate swap is determined by discounting the future cash flows using 
the curves at the end of year and the credit risk inherent in the contract. Company classify the Interest rate swaps at 
level 2 valuation.
Exchange traded derivatives
Exchange traded derivatives includes index/stock options, index/stock futures, company uses exchange traded 
prices to value these derivative and classify valuation of these instrument at level 1
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
333
334
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.4
Fair valuation techniques : (Continued)
Embedded derivatives
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid instrument that also includes a non-derivative host contract with 
the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a stand-alone derivative.
Group determines valuation using valuation models taking Inputs from observable market (Indices) data wherever 
possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers. Group classify valuation of these embedded 
derivative at level 3.
55.5
Transfer between Level 1 and level 2
During the year there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2. Similarly, there were no transfers from or transfer 
to level 3.
55.6
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
The following table sets out the fair values and fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortised 
cost. The information given with respect to financial instruments for which the fair value differs from the carrying 
amount. Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade and other payables as on 31 March 
2024 approximate the fair value because of their short-term nature. Difference between carrying amounts and fair 
values of bank deposits, other financials assets and other financial liabilities is not significant in each of the years 
presented.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Total 
Carrying 
Amount
Total fair 
value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets:
Loans
 100,940.91
 107,804.37
 -
 -
 107,804.37
Financial liabilities
Debt securities
 138,974.10
 140,697.06
 36,592.77
 89,997.03
 14,107.26
Borrowing (other than debt securities)
 47,408.57
 47,409.05
 1,605.88
 8,927.90
 36,875.27
Subordinated liabilities
 11,078.12
 11,320.94
 -
 11,320.94
 -
Off-balance sheet items
Loan commitments
 3,127.53
 2,071.79
 -
 -
 2,071.79
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.6
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost (Continued)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Total 
Carrying 
Amount
Total fair 
value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets:
Loans
 170,891.19
 174,548.09
 -
 -
 174,548.09
Financial liabilities
Debt securities
 147,747.54
 150,265.12
 38,893.11
 94,937.69
 16,434.32
Borrowing (other than debt securities)
 49,947.02
 49,774.63
 1,822.63
 10,595.35
 37,356.65
Subordinated liabilities
 13,366.87
 13,106.63
 -
 13,086.21
 20.42
Off-balance sheet items
Loan commitments
 6,233.79
 4,903.32
 -
 -
 4,903.32
55.7
Valuation methodologies of financial instruments measured at Amortised Cost:
The Group has used below methodologies and assumptions to estimate fair values of the financial instruments, 
measured at Amortised cost, only for the purpose of disclosure. These methodologies and assumptions may differ 
from the methodology and assumptions explained in Notes 55.4
Financial assets at amortised cost
The fair values of these financial assets is determined by discounting contractual cash flows at actual/estimated 
yields, by current yields incorporating the counterparties’ credit risk.
Issued Debt
The fair value of issued debt is estimated using discounted cash flow model.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
335
336
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.8
Movement in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
The following tables show a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities which are recorded at fair value.
Particulars
Financial assets
Financial liabilities
Security 
Receipts
Equity & 
Preference
Debt 
Securities
AIFs
Loans 
classified 
at fair 
value
Derivative 
financial 
assets
Others
Derivative 
financial 
liabilities
Non-
convertible 
debentures 
issued
As at 31 March 2023
 21,089.05
 36,189.49
 4,643.08
 15,520.25
 2,645.09
 475.14
 -
 443.79
 6,282.80
Net new purchases and sales 
including issuance
 8,184.86
(222.18)
(4,402.80)
(7,061.10)
 481.64
 232.26
 -
 98.36
 -
Settlements
 15.75
(4,136.47)
 -
 -
 -
(10.50)
 -
(214.23)
(961.97)
Gain / Loss
(3,250.41)
(84.55)
(111.34)
2,604.11
(444.40)
(397.26)
 -
324.99
(314.42)
Transferred (from)/to Level 3 
and amortised cost
 -
(30,200.02)
 -
 -
 44,417.08
 -
 -
 -
 -
As at 31 March 2024
26,039.25
1,546.27
128.94
11,063.26
47,099.41
299.64
 -
652.91
5,006.41
Unrealised Gain / Loss
(5,618.09)
(64.85)
(111.34)
532.29
(444.40)
(397.26)
 -
324.99
1,020.24
As at 31 March 2022
33,406.65
4,217.61
3,023.81
8,629.24
3,361.82
20.80
63.87
1,556.41
7,887.95
Net new purchases and sales 
including issuance
(1,425.52)
5,507.53
1,625.32
5,354.13
(1,138.33)
434.03
 -
168.79
 -
Settlements
(10,151.30)
 -
 -
(335.48)
 -
(0.03)
(63.87)
(897.22)
(1,253.63)
Gain / Loss
(740.78)
26,464.35
(6.05)
1,872.36
421.60
20.34
 -
(384.19)
(351.52)
As at 31 March 2023
 21,089.05
 36,189.49
 4,643.08
 15,520.25
 2,645.09
 475.14
 -
 443.79
 6,282.80
Unrealised Gain / Loss
(2,921.08)
26,433.68
1,054.37
2,994.22
24.57
20.34
 -
(129.47)
2,143.38
*includes financial assets derecognised
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.9
Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 and sensitivity of fair value measurement to change in 
unobservable market data.
As at 31 March 2024
Type of 
Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of estimates for 
unobservable input
Increase in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Investments in 
security receipts
Net asset value 
method
NAV per security 
receipt
` 48,025.60 million
5%
 857.87
5%
 (857.87)
Discounted 
projected cash 
flow
Cash Flow
` 96,290.34 million
5%
 112.17
5%
 (150.52)
Discount rates
12% to 14.8%
50 basis point
 (11.09)
50 basis point
 11.03
Investments in 
units of AIF
Net Asset 
approach
Fair value of 
underlying 
investments
` 542.01 million
5%
 27.10
5%
 (27.10)
` 136.92 million
5%
 2.13
5%
 (2.13)
NAV per unit ` 378.36 - ` 24,443.02
5%
 13.13
5%
 (13.13)
NAV per unit ` 8,366- ` 100,305
5%
 122.67
5%
 (122.67)
NAV per unit ` 9,542- ` 193,480
5%
 348.42
5%
 (348.42)
` 14 per Unit
5%
 0.20
5%
 (0.20)
Investments 
in unquoted 
equity shares 
and preference 
shares 
categorised at 
Level 3
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Fair value per 
share
` 124,864 per share
5%
 15.75
5%
 (15.75)
` 0 to ` 278 per share
5%
 27.35
5%
 (27.35)
` 0 to ` 124.64 per share
5%
 3.51
5%
 (3.51)
 ` 100 to ` 214,140 per share
5%
 15.76
5%
 (15.76)
 ` 384 to ` 387 per share
5%
 0.02
5%
 (0.02)
 ` 59,07 per share
5%
 7.39
5%
 (7.39)
 ` 1 to ` 10 per share
5%
 0.02
5%
 (0.02)
Fair value per Unit
` 2,974 per unit
5%
 9.16
5%
 (9.16)
5%
 7.91
5%
 (7.91)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
337
338
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.9
Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 and sensitivity of fair value measurement to change in 
unobservable market data. (Continued)
As at 31 March 2024 (Continued)
Type of 
Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of estimates for 
unobservable input
Increase in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Loans classified 
as Fair Value
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Discounting rate
15% - 20%
1%
A one 
percentage 
point change 
in the 
discounting 
rate used in 
fair valuation 
of Level 3 
assets docs 
not have a 
significant 
impact in its 
value
1%
A one 
percentage 
point change 
in the 
discounting 
rate used in 
fair valuation 
of Level 3 
assets docs 
not have a 
significant 
impact in its 
value
Debt investments 
classified at 
FVTPL
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Fair value per 
instrument
 ` 0 to ` 6,957 per NCD
5%
 2.00
5%
 (2.00)
` 100 to ` 214,140 per NCD
5%
 4.45
5%
 (4.45)
Embedded 
derivatives in 
market-linked 
debentures 
issued (Assets/ 
liability) (net)
Fair value of index
Index levels
-
5%
 (17.66)
5%
 17.66
Fair value using 
Black Scholes 
model or Monte 
Carlo approach 
based on the 
embedded 
derivative
Nifty level
-
5%
 -
5%
 -
Debt Securities 
(Liability)
Discounted 
projected cash 
flow
Cash Flow
-
 -
 2.56
 -
 (2.56)
Discount rates
12%
0.50%
 -
0.50%
 -
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.9
Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 and sensitivity of fair value measurement to change in unobservable market data 
(continued)
As at 31 March 2023
Type of 
Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of estimates for 
unobservable input
Increase in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Investments in 
security receipts
Net asset value 
method
NAV per security 
receipt
` 696 to ` 1500 per security receipt
5%
 808.44
5%
 (808.44)
Discounted 
projected cash 
flow
Cash Flow
` 349,615.97 million
5%
 638.02
5%
 (1,487.80)
Discount rates
12% to 39.74%
50 basis point
 (695.70)
50 basis point
 (741.51)
Investments in 
units of AIF
Net Asset 
approach
Fair value of 
underlying 
investments
` 11,028.46 million
5%
 551.42
5%
 (551.42)
NAV per unit ` 10.4 - ` 195704.00
5%
 11.15
5%
 (11.15)
NAV per unit ` 508.52 - ` 107,284.00
5%
 68.60
5%
 (68.60)
` 26 to ` 28 per Unit
5%
 6.56
5%
 (6.56)
451.13
(454.04)
Investments 
in unquoted 
equity shares 
and preference 
shares 
categorised at 
Level 3
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Fair value per 
share
` 157,330 per share
5%
 0.79
5%
 (0.79)
` 42.85 per share
5%
 9.03
5%
 (9.03)
` 188 to ` 157,330 per share
5%
 25.76
5%
 (25.76)
` 1 to ` 161 per share
5%
 0.00
5%
 (0.00)
` 1 to ` 157,330 per share
5%
 29.52
5%
 (29.52)
` 100 to ` 215,000 per share
5%
 20.39
5%
 (20.39)
` 1817 to ` 2,239 per share
5%
 324.45
5%
 (324.45)
` 3,121 per unit
5%
 9.61
5%
 (9.61)
` 2,238 per unit
5%
 1,381.75
5%
 (1,381.75)
` 1,080 per share
5%
 0.05
5%
 (0.05)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
340
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
339
55.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
55.9
Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 and sensitivity of fair value measurement to change in unobservable market data 
(continued)
As at 31 March 2023 (Continued)
Type of 
Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of estimates for 
unobservable input
Increase in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Loans classified 
as FVTPL
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Discounting rate
15% - 20%
1%
 A one 
percentage 
point change in 
the discounting 
rate used in 
fair valuation of 
Level 3 assets 
docs not have 
a significant 
impact in its 
value
1%
 A one 
percentage 
point change in 
the discounting 
rate used in 
fair valuation of 
Level 3 assets 
docs not have 
a significant 
impact in its 
value
Debt investments 
classified at 
FVTPL
Discounted cash 
flow
Expected future 
cash flows
` 376,333 to ` 10,000,000 per NCD
5%
 224.82
5%
 (224.82)
Comparable 
transaction and 
P/E
Fair value per 
instrument
` 6,667 to ` 10,000 per NCD
5%
 2.75
5%
 (2.75)
Fair value of index
Price per 
debenture
` 100 to ` 215,000 per debenture
5%
 4.56
5%
 (4.56)
Embedded 
derivatives in 
market-linked 
debentures 
issued (Assets/ 
liability) (net)
Fair value of index
Index levels
 -
5%
8.66
5%
 (8.66)
Fair value using 
Black Scholes 
model or Monte 
Carlo approach 
based on the 
embedded 
derivative
Nifty level
` 79,212.00 million
5%
 -
5%
 -
Debt Securities 
(Liability)
Discounted 
projected cash 
flow
Cash Flow
` 96,571 million
 -
 -
 -
 -
Discount rates
12%
0.50%
 -
0.50%
 -
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT
56.1	
Introduction and risk profile
	
The Edelweiss Group (“The Group”) provides a broad range of financial products and services to a substantial and 
diversified client base that includes corporations, institutions and individuals. The Group’s products and services span 
multiple asset classes and consumer segments across domestic and global geographies. The Group’s key lines of 
business can broadly be classified as below:
	
•	
Capital
	
•	
Agency
	
•	
Insurance (Life and General)
	
•	
Asset reconstruction
	
•	
Treasury
	
The Group’s diversified businesses profile acts as an inherent risk management mechanism at an overall level. However, 
the prevailing market environment and ongoing operations expose the Group to various risks like credit risk, market 
risk, liquidity risk, compliance risk, and technology risk amongst others. As the Group operates various regulated 
businesses, it is exposed to regulatory and reputation risks also.
56.2	
Risk management strategy:
	
The strategy at an execution level is supported by -
	
1.	
Three-tiered risk management structure to manage and oversee risks
	
2.	
Board and Executive Level Committees to review and approve risk exposures
	
3.	
Risk Management framework to ensure each risk the Group is exposed to is given due importance and managed 
through a well-defined framework and guidelines
	
4.	
Standard Operating Procedures and Product approval framework to ensure risks are mitigated at operational 
level
	
5.	
Adequate segregation of duties to ensure multi-layered checks and balances
	
6.	
Exception reporting framework to ensure process and policy deviations are adequately addressed
56.3	
Risk management structure
	
To support the risk strategy and ensure effective risk management, the Group has a “Three-tiered risk management 
structure” to ensure that there are enough defences are available to control all types of risk issues. The risk structure 
is enumerated below:
	
1.	
Three lines of defense - for accountability, oversight, and assurance
	
	
•	
Respective Businesses - the first line of defence; they own and manage risks and are responsible for 
implementation of the risk management framework
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
341
342
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.3	
Risk management structure (Continued)
	
	
•	
Business Risk teams - the second line of defence; they are responsible for overseeing risk events and 
defining the risk management framework
	
	
•	
Internal audit - the third line of defence; they provide independent assurance of risk management framework 
implementation
	
2.	
Board and Executive level Committees - for overseeing the risk management. The current Risk Management 
Committees are
	
	
•	
Board Risk Committee
	
	
•	
Investment and Credit Committees
	
	
The Board Risk Committee is the overseeing body for Risk Management. The Committee meets at regular 
intervals to review the risk profile of the Company.
	
	
The Investment and Credit Committee serve as the nodal bodies for all credit related decisions. Respective 
businesses have formulated its own Investment and Credit Committees depending upon the scale of the exposure.
	
	
Risk management framework
	
	
The businesses in the Group have a Risk Framework, which describes the risk management approach and 
provides clear accountability for managing risk considered appropriate for the Business. The framework is subject 
to continuous evaluation based on existing internal as well external environment.
	
	
The current risk framework covers :
	
	
•	
Business Risk
	
	
•	
Credit Risk
	
	
•	
Market Risk
	
	
•	
Liquidity Risk
	
	
•	
Regulatory Risk
	
	
•	
Reputation Risk
	
	
•	
Technology Risk
	
	
•	
Operational and Process Risk
	
	
•	
Fraud Risk
	
	
•	
People Risk
	
	
•	
Physical Infrastructure Risk
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.3	
Risk management structure (Continued)
	
The Businesses in the Group use different types of tools and techniques for mitigating risk, depending upon the type 
of risk and quantum. For example:
	
•	
Financial risks are mitigated through counterparty and client assessment before any exposure is taken, and 
defined product/program level risk limits to ensure exposure does not exceed risk appetite. The Committee 
based approval mechanism is adopted to ensure that high exposures are approved with adequate representation 
and that there is no bias in approvals.
	
•	
Non-financial risks viz technology, operational, fraud, etc. are mitigated through process documentation 
defining clear ownership for each activity, having adequate system/process level controls like maker-checker, 
reconciliation, testing and reviews.
	
•	
Enterprise level risks viz. reputation, compliance, regulatory, etc. are controlled through policies and framework, 
educating employees through training and risk socialisation sessions.
56.4	
Risk management framework of General Insurance (Zuno General Insurance Limited “ZGIL”)
	
Governance framework
	
The core of the ZGIL risk philosophy lies in the identification, measurement, monitoring and management of risk. 
ZGIL believe risk management is a continuous, vital process that is an inalienable part of ZGIL DNA. The Governance 
structure can thus be seen from three focal points:
	
1.	
The Business Users would form the First Line of defence. First Line of defence would ensure that risk and control 
environment is established into their day to day activities.
	
	
This line of defence would also:
	
	
A.	
Implement proactive and reactive risk management tools in their processes
	
	
B.	
Review their processes for adequacy of effectiveness of controls
	
	
C.	
Report on the level of the risks and effectiveness of controls to the second line of defence on periodic basis
	
	
D.	
Respond to Regulatory/ Operational/ Business changes quickly and keep the second line of defence 
informed on the developments.
	
2.	
Risk Management, and Compliance team forms part of the Second Line of Defence. The second line of defence 
is oversight function and would provide direction and guidance to the first line of defence for implementation 
of ZGIL’s Board driven policies. Second line of defence would also monitor implementation efficiency of these 
policies and provide overall oversight to the business processes and risks.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
343
344
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.4	
Risk management framework of General Insurance (Zuno General Insurance Limited “ZGIL”) (Continued)
	
Governance framework (Continued)
	
3.	
Independent consultants/assurance providers like internal auditors, external auditors, statutory auditors, regulatory 
auditors etc. forms third line of defence and provides independent assurance. consultants/assurance providers 
will have direct access to the Board of ZGIL. The Statutory and Regulatory auditors would have independence as 
per Statutory and Regulatory assurance framework of the country.
	
The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) vide its circular number IRDA/F&A/GDL/CG/100/05/2016 
dated 18 May 2016 has issued Guidelines on Corporate Governance for the Insurance Sector. Basis the circular, the 
following committees form part of the overall risk governance framework:
	
•	
Risk Management Committee
	
•	
Audit Committee
	
•	
Investment Committee
	
•	
Policyholder protection Committee
	
The Risk Management Committee is responsible for periodic review of the risk management process to ensure that the 
process initiatives are aligned to the desired objectives. ZGIL has Chief Risk Officer who is responsible for the implementation 
and monitoring of the framework. Further, the key policies adopted under the Risk Framework are as under:
	
•	
Underwriting Policy
	
•	
Investment Policy
	
•	
Asset Liability Management Policy
	
•	
Reinsurance Program
	
•	
Information Security Policy
	
•	
Outsourcing Policy
	
•	
Anti Fraud Policy
	
•	
Financial authority Matrix
	
Regulatory framework
	
Regulators are primarily interested in protecting the rights of policyholders and monitor them closely to ensure that 
the ZGIL is satisfactorily managing affairs for their benefit. At the same time, regulators are also interested in ensuring 
that ZGIL maintains an appropriate solvency position to meet unforeseeable liabilities arising from economic shocks 
or natural disasters. The operations of ZGIL are subject to regulatory requirement within the jurisdiction it operates.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.4	
Risk management framework of General Insurance (Zuno General Insurance Limited “ZGIL”) (Continued)
	
Asset liability management (ALM) framework
	
The ALM policy adopted by ZGIL helps in:
	
•	
Understanding all risks requiring the coordination of assets and liabilities
	
•	
Quantify interest rate risks and equity risks
	
•	
Quantify the extent of mismatch between the assets and liabilities and thereby prescribe appropriate measures 
to bridge the gap
	
Asset Valuation:
	
Asset valuation and bucketing of assets basis the duration will be as per the IRDAI regulations and applicable standards. 
Assets will be allocated to different lines in the proportion of the net technical reserves for that line of business.
	
Liability profiling:
	
The technical reserves consist of:
	
1.	
Unearned Premium Reserves (UPR)
	
2.	
Premium Deficiency Reserve (PDR)
	
3.	
Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) reserves
	
4.	
Outstanding claims reserves
	
UPR and PDR can be apportioned basis the policy term outstanding. Outstanding claims reserves and IBNR will 
be apportioned basis the expected reserve utilisation. Where data is available the reserving techniques like Chain 
Ladder method can provide significant inputs on the development profile for the claims. Where data is not available, 
industry benchmarks or assumptions related to the claims profile will be made to arrive at the suitable run off pattern 
for the liabilities. The emerging claims experience will be periodically reviewed by the actuarial department to take into 
account any changes in the same.
	
Insurance risk
	
The principal risk, ZGIL faces under insurance contracts, is that the actual claims payments or the timing thereof 
differ from expectations. This is influenced by the frequency of claims, severity of claims, actual benefits paid and 
subsequent development of long-term claims. Therefore, the objective of ZGIL is to ensure that sufficient reserves are 
available to cover these liabilities.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
345
346
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.4	
Risk management framework of General Insurance (Zuno General Insurance Limited “ZGIL”) (Continued)
	
Insurance risk (Continued)
	
ZGIL has developed a risk strategy to manage the risks appropriately. ZGIL’s risk management strategy is to establish 
measures and controls which will assist in prevention, detection and management of risks for strong risk management 
system. Such risk management system will identify risk at macro as well as micro level on ongoing basis.
	
The risk identification, assessment and evaluation activity is followed by defining appropriate action items for ensuring 
effective management of the risks. ZGIL mitigates the risks by careful section of the underwriting strategy, reinsure a 
part of the risk with various reinsurers, diversification of all insurance contracts and acquiring business from all parts 
of the Country.
	
The main Insurance Risks that ZGIL is exposed to are as follows:
	
I.	
Product Pricing Risk: The loss ratios are assumed at the time of pricing the product. There is a risk of not 
pricing the products adequately due to model error/ data selection or biases / lack of relevant data or inadequate 
underwriting assumptions leading to losses greater than anticipated.
	
II.	
Fraud Risk - Excessive, invalid, duplicate or fraudulent claims
	
III.	
Reinsurance Risk - ZGIL enters into reinsurance agreements in order to mitigate insurance Risk. However, this 
leads to default Risk from the reinsurer at the time of claim payment or also concentration risk if all the Risk is 
insured to one reinsurer.
	
IV.	 Investment Risk - Risk of loss arising from actual returns being different than expected. Credit risk due to investee 
enterprise defaulting on its debt payments.
	
V.	
Expense Risk - Risk of loss arising from expense experience being different than expected
	
VI.	 Concentration Risk - ZGIL faces concentration Risk by selling business to specific geography or by writing only 
single line business etc.
	
Control Measures:
	
ZGIL has set up Risk Management framework to continuously monitor ZGIL’s experience with regard to parameters 
like loss ratios and investment returns. The underwriting team, with actuarial guidance, has set in place processes and 
procedures to review proposal.
	
ZGIL has entered into a separate agreement with reinsurers to cover the catastrophic risks to hedge against catastrophic 
events leading to higher than expected claim payouts.
	
ZGIL has been taking efforts so as to mitigate concentration risk through diversification. However, ZGIL may still be 
exposed to channel concentration risk. The ZGIL business is spread across various key states in India to minimise any 
geographical concentration, accordingly, it also insulates ZGIL from impact of catastrophic risk.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”)
	
a.	
Governance framework
	
	
The primary objective of the ETLIFE’s risk and financial management framework is to protect the ETLIFE’s 
shareholders as well as policyholders from events that hinder the sustainable achievement of financial performance 
objectives, including failing to exploit opportunities.
	
	
ETLIFE has an effective Risk Management Framework in place which provides for risk identification, risk 
assessment and evaluation, monitoring, tracking and feedback mechanism framework to identify, evaluate 
business risks and opportunities.
	
	
ETLIFE has a risk balancing approach and follows the process of risk evaluation, monitoring and control. ETLIFE 
has structured and uniform method of risk monitoring and control through the Risk and Control Self- Assessment 
(RCSA) Framework.
	
	
ETLIFE continuously reviews its risk exposures and takes measures to limit it to acceptable levels. The Board of 
Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of ETLIFE’s risk management framework. 
This is supplemented with the clear organizational structure and documented delegated authorities and 
responsibilities from the board of directors to various executive management committees.
	
b.	
Capital management objectives, policies and approach
	
	
The primary source of capital used by ETLIFE is Equity. ETLIFE’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so 
as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The 
capital requirements are routinely forecast on a periodic basis and assessed against both the forecast available 
capital and the expected internal rate of return, including risk and sensitivity analysis. The process is ultimately 
subject to approval by the Board.
	
	
ETLIFE has established the following capital management objectives, policies and approach to managing the 
risks that affect its capital position:
	
	
•	
To comply with the insurance capital requirements that the IRDAI require. In this respect, the IRDAI has 
prescribed minimum solvency ratio of 150% (refer note on Capital Management for solvency ratio);
	
	
•	
To maintain the required level of stability of ETLIFE, thereby providing a degree of security to policyholders
	
	
•	
To allocate capital efficiently and support the development of business by ensuring that returns on capital 
employed meet the requirements of its capital providers and shareholders.
	
	
•	
To retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets
	
	
•	
To align the profile of assets and liabilities, taking account of risks inherent in the business
	
	
•	
To maintain financial strength to support new business growth and to satisfy the requirements of the 
policyholders, regulators and stakeholders
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
347
348
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”) (Continued)
	
b.	
Capital management objectives, policies and approach (Continued)
	
	
•	
To maintain strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business objectives and 
maximise shareholders value
	
	
In reporting, financial strength, capital and solvency are measured using the rules prescribed by the Insurance 
Regulatory Authority of India (IRDAI). These regulatory capital tests are based upon required levels of solvency, 
capital and a series of prudent assumptions in respect of the type of business written. ETLIFE’s Capital 
Management Policy for its business is to hold sufficient capital to cover the statutory requirements based on the 
IRDAI directives and maintain a health solvency ratio.
	
c.	
Regulatory framework
	
	
Regulators are primarily interested in protecting the rights of policyholders and monitor them closely to ensure 
that the ETLIFE is satisfactorily managing affairs for the benefits of policyholders. At the same time, regulators 
are also interested in ensuring that ETLIFE maintains an appropriate solvency position to meet unforeseeable 
liabilities arising from economic shocks or natural disasters. The operations of ETLIFE are subject to regulatory 
requirement within the jurisdiction it operates.
	
d.	
Asset liability management (ALM) framework
	
	
Financial risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to 
general and specific market movements. The main risk that ETLIFE faces, due to the nature of its investments and 
liabilities, is interest rate risk. ETLIFE manages these positions within an ALM framework that has been developed 
to achieve long-term investment returns in excess of its obligations under insurance and investment contracts. 
The principal technique of ETLIFE’s ALM is to match assets to the liabilities arising from insurance and investment 
contracts by reference to the type of benefits payable to contract holders. For each distinct category of liabilities, 
a separate portfolio of assets is maintained.
	
ETLIFE’s ALM is:
	
•	
Integrated with the management of the financial risks associated with ETLIFE’s other financial assets and liabilities 
not directly associated with insurance and investment liabilities.
	
•	
As an integral part of the insurance risk management policy, to ensure in each period sufficient cash flow is 
available to meet liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts.
	
ETLIFE undertakes Asset Liability Management to reduce interest rate risk. The Company uses expected future 
cashflows from already written policies and investments to assess the interest rate risk. 
	
The ETLIFE enters into interest rate derivative contracts, solely to hedge the residual interest rate risk. 
	
The Derivatives are financial instruments which attempt to mimic the economic performance of an underlying asset, 
security or portfolio. Interest rate derivatives include forward rate agreement, interest rate futures and Interest rate 
swaps.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”) (Continued)
	
d.	
Asset liability management (ALM) framework (Continued)
	
ETLIFE’s ALM is: (Continued)
	
ETLIFE uses Interest Rate Derivatives (Forward Rate agreements and Interest rate futures) to minimise the exposure 
to fluctuations in interest rates on plan assets and liabilities. ETLIFE has a Board approved Derivative policy covering 
strategic objectives, limits, regulatory and operational framework. It underscores risks inherent in a derivative contract 
along with a system for measurement and accounting in order to have effective monitoring and control.
	
Hedge effectiveness is determined based on the principles laid down in the Guidance note on Derivatives issued by 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and relevant applicable Ind-AS. ETLIFE uses regression analysis to 
determine Hedge effectiveness. If the hedge is ineffective, then the movement in the Fair Value is charged to the Profit 
and Loss Account. However, if the hedge is effective, further the effective and ineffective portion of the movement 
in the Fair Value of the Underlying and the derivative instrument is determined by the currency Offset method. The 
effective portion is transferred to ‘Fair Value change’ account in Balance Sheet and Ineffective portion is transferred to 
Profit and Loss account.
	
a.	
Insurance risk
	
	
ETLIFE’s lines of business are Participating Life (Individual), Non-Participating Life (Individual and Company) 
and Unit Linked Life (Individual and Company). ETLIFE has presence in Non-Participating Health (Individual), 
Non-participating Non-linked Variable Insurance (Company), Participating Pension (Individual), Unit Linked 
Pension (Individual) and Non-Participating Annuity (Individual) business as well. By nature of the business, ETLIFE 
underwrites risks and provides financial protection. In doing so, ETLIFE is exposed to various risks.
	
	
The principal risk, ETLIFE faces under insurance contracts, is that the actual claims and benefit payments or the 
timing thereof differ from expectations. This is influenced by the frequency of claims, severity of claims, actual 
benefits paid and subsequent development of long–term claims. Therefore, the objective of ETLIFE is to ensure 
that sufficient reserves are available to cover these liabilities.
	
	
ETLIFE has developed a risk strategy to manage the risks appropriately. ETLIFE’s risk management strategy is to 
establish measures and controls which will assist in prevention, detection and management of risks for strong risk 
management system. Such risk management system will identify risk at macro as well as micro level on ongoing 
basis.
	
	
The risk identification, assessment and evaluation activity is followed by defining appropriate action items for 
ensuring effective management of the risks. An action item for all the high risks is defined with clear owners and 
timelines. ETLIFE mitigates the risks by careful section of the underwriting strategy, reinsure a part of the risk with 
various reinsurers, diversification of all insurance contracts and acquiring business from all parts of the Country.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
349
350
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”) (Continued)
	
b.	
Life Insurance Contracts and Investment Contracts with and without Discretionary Participation Features:
	
	
Ind AS 104 ‘Insurance Contracts’ requires ETLIFE to separate the Financial Instruments (investment contracts) 
from insurance contracts under specified conditions.
	
	
Insurance contracts are those contracts where ETLIFE has accepted significant insurance risk from the 
policyholders by agreeing to compensate the policyholders if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) 
adversely affects the policyholders. Insurance and investment contracts are further classified as being either with 
or without DPF. DPF is a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional benefits 
that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits.
	
	
As a general guideline by IRDAI, ETLIFE classifies contract under insurance contract and investment contracts 
with DPF, if the benefit payable on death is higher by at least 5% of the premium at any time during the life of the 
contract for other than unit linked products.
	
	
All other contracts are classified under Investment Contracts.
	
	
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder 
of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights and obligations 
are extinguished or expire.
	
	
Investment contracts, however, can be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk 
becomes significant.
	
c.	
The main Insurance Risks that ETLIFE is exposed to are as follows:
	
	
i.	
Persistency Risk - Risk of loss arising due to policyholder experiences (lapses and surrenders) being different 
than expected
	
	
ii.	
Mortality Risk - Risk of loss arising due to policyholder mortality experience being different than expected
	
	
iii.	
Investment Risk - Risk of loss arising from actual returns being different than expected
	
	
iv.	
Expense Risk - Risk of loss arising from expense experience being different than expected
	
	
v.	
Reinsurance Risk – ETLIFE enters into reinsurance agreements in order to mitigate insurance Risk. However, 
this leads to default Risk from the reinsurer at the time of claim payment or also concentration risk if all the 
Risk is insured to one reinsurer.
	
	
vi.	
Concentration Risk - ETLIFE faces concentration Risk by selling business to specific geography or by writing 
only single line business etc.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”) (Continued)
	
c.	
The main Insurance Risks that ETLIFE is exposed to are as follows: (Continued)
	
Control Measures:
	
ETLIFE has set up Risk Management framework to continuously monitor the ETLIFE’s experience with regard to 
parameters like policy lapses, premium persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns. The underwriting 
team, with actuarial guidance, has set in place processes and procedures to review proposal. Further, the possible 
financial effect of adverse mortality and morbidity experience has been reduced by entering into re-insurance 
agreements with multiple re-insurers. ETLIFE has entered into a separate agreement with reinsurers to cover the 
catastrophic risks under Individual and Group business to hedge against catastrophic events leading to higher than 
expected claim payouts.
	
ETLIFE has been taking efforts so as to mitigate concentration risk through diversification however ETLIFE may still 
be exposed to channel concentration risk as company is in 13th year of operation and all the channels are not yet fully 
developed. ETLIFE has been acquiring business from all the parts of India and thus has little geographical concentration. 
It also insulates ETLIFE from impact of catastrophic risk. ETLIFE has a Board approved Risk Management Policy 
covering underwriting, claims and reserving for policy liabilities. ETLIFE has a detailed claims processing manual in 
place. The large claims are referred to ETLIFE’s Claims Committee.
	
Operational risks:
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from system failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls 
fail to perform, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications or can lead to 
financial loss. The ETLIFE, cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but by initiating a rigorous control framework 
and by monitoring and responding to potential risks, the ETLIFE is able to manage the risks. Controls include effective 
segregation of duties, access controls, authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment 
processes, including the use of internal audit. Business risks such as changes in environment, technology and the 
industry are monitored through the ETLIFE’s strategic planning and budgeting process. Operational risk: A risk arising 
from this category is resultant of inadequate or failed internal processes and controls, poor corporate governance or 
from external events such as sudden disasters crippling the operations of the ETLIFE.
	
Operational risks within the Company are categorized into 6 (six) types namely:
	
•	
Fraud
	
•	
Execution, delivery and process management
	
•	
Business disruption and system failures
	
•	
Clients, products and business practices
	
•	
Damage to physical assets
	
•	
Employment practices and workplace safety
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
351
352
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
	
Operational risks: (Continued)
56.5	
Risk management framework of Life Insurance business (“ETLIFE”) (Continued)
	
Risk control and mitigation plan forms important part of the risk management processes within the ETLIFE. The 
ETLIFE’s management ensures oversight on the risks by reviewing data, processes and by performing model checks 
at regular frequencies. The Operational risk impact within the ETLIFE is rated basis frequency and severity matrix. 
Frequency and severity matrix is further utilized for evaluation of the risk which in turn helps in prioritization. The risk 
management team conducts an independent root cause analysis of operational risk incidents. Root cause analysis is 
followed by actual and potential risk exposure assessment. The root cause analysis helps to identify inadequacies in 
the control measures for known risks or identify new risks which need to be addressed. The resultant learning is then 
used to improve processes systematically.
56.6	
Excessive risk concentration
	
The relevant businesses in the Group have diversified business model which acts as an inherent mechanism to avoid 
excessive concentrations of risk.
	
Single and Group level borrower limits for wholesale lending and program level limits for retail lending have been 
defined to avoid excess credit concentration. The relevant businesses in the Group monitor these limits as part of 
its regular monitoring activity. Additionally, the risk team of respective businesses in the Group keep track of Group, 
Industry, Collateral, Geography level exposure concentrations. These concentrations are periodically reviewed by 
the business entities in the Group and discussed in their Credit/Risk Committee, so as to avoid further exposures or 
reduce exposures to sector/industry/ group/geography.
56.7	
Credit risk
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss the Group may face due to current/potential inability or unwillingness of a 
customer or counterparty to meet financial /contractual obligations. Credit risk also covers the possibility of losses 
associated with diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties. Group carries out proper due diligence 
before underwriting creditworthy counterparties and obtains sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of 
mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. In case the loans are to be restructured, similar credit assessment 
process is followed by the Business in the Group.
	
The Business in the Group manages its credit risk through a multi-layered approach as given below:
	
1)	
Review by the respective Board Risk Committee;
	
2)	
The Investment Committees (IC) for approving all credit related decisions, beyond certain levels delegated to 
Credit Committees. Further, individual loan specific limits as well as concentration limits are also approved by the 
IC and reviewed on a periodic basis;
	
3)	
Respective Business risk team is responsible for industry and portfolio level monitoring and stress testing;
	
4)	
Business risk also does day to day client level monitoring; and
	
5)	
Independent verification of all client accounts, adherence to policies and frameworks are carried out by internal 
audit team.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7	
Credit risk (Continued)
	
The counterparty, client assessment is done before any exposure is taken. Assessment covers all the aspects of risk 
like Borrower profile, financials, and adequacy of collateral, promoter strength, repayment capability and cash flow 
generation. Discussions are held with independent risk and compliance teams both at Business in the Group before 
the credit proposals are put forward to the Committees for approval. The Business in the Group have committee-based 
approval process mechanism to ensure high exposures are approved with adequate representation from Compliance, 
Credit, Legal and other relevant teams and there is no biasness.
	
The relevant Business in the Group has separate credit origination and appraisal processes for wholesale, distressed 
and retail segments. For wholesale and distressed segment, the relevant Business in the Group adopt underwriting 
standards for different client segment based on risk parameter and availability of security. The relevant Business in the 
Group for Retail segment, adopt underwriting standards both at product and portfolio level.
	
The Credit monitoring is very important part of managing credit risk. Accordingly, the Business in the Group have 
independent monitoring of credit exposures and associated risks.
	
The asset quality review is also performed on regular basis by the Risk Committees of the relevant Business in 
the Group. The credit portfolio quality report is presented to the Board Risk Committee on a quarterly basis by the 
concerned Business in the Group.
	
The Business in the Group applies the expected credit loss model for recognising impairment loss. For the purpose 
of measuring lifetime expected credit loss (‘ECL’) the relevant Business in the Group has used practical expedient as 
permitted under Ind AS 109. This expected credit loss allowance is computed based on a provision matrix which takes 
into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for forward-looking information.
	
The expected credit loss is a product of exposure at default, probability of default and loss given default. The Business 
in the Group have devised an internal model to evaluate the probability of default and loss given default based on 
the parameters set out in Ind AS 109. Loans are classified into various stages for different type of business. For non-
distress credit business they are classified into Stage 1 – Standard Assets with zero to thirty days past due (DPD), 
Stage 2 – Significant Credit Deterioration or overdue between 31 to 90 days and Stage 3 – Default Assets with overdue 
for more than 90 days. Further, ECL also takes into account forward looking factors like GDP growth, interest rates etc. 
along with historical trends.
	
The relevant Business in the Group determine that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since 
initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. 
However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used.
	
Credit loss is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract 
and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls),discounted at the original EIR (or credit-
adjusted EIR for purchased or originated credit impaired financial assets). Expected Credit Loss computation is not 
driven by any single methodology, however methodology and approach used must reflect the following:
	
•	
An unbiased and probability weighted amount that evaluates a range of possible outcomes;
	
•	
Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost and effort at the reporting date 
about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions;
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
353
354
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7	
Credit risk (Continued)
	
•	
The time value of money.
	
While the time value of money element is currently being factored into ECL measurement while discounting cash 
flows by the Effective Interest Rate (EIR), the objective of developing a macroeconomic model using exogenous 
macroeconomic variables (MEVs) is to address the first two requirements. This is achieved by using the model output 
to adjust the PD risk component in order to make it forward looking and probability-weighted.
	
The relevant Business in the Group have internal grading that is based on days past due (dpd) as specified below:
Internal rating grade
Internal grading description
Stages
Performing
High grade
0 dpd and 1 to 30 dpd
Stage I
Standard grade
31 to 90 dpd
Stage II
Non-performing
Individually impaired
90+ dpd
Stage III
	
Significant increase in credit risk (SICR)
	
In all cases when the borrower becomes 90 days past due, Business in the Group considers a financial instrument as 
default category and classify such financial instrument as Stage 3 (credit-impaired) for ECL calculations.
	
Classification of assets form stage 1 to stage 2 is carried out based on SICR criterion. The Financial Instrument 
(Customer accounts) which are more than 30 days past due have been identified as accounts where significant 
increase in credit risk has been observed. These Financial Instrument (Customer accounts) have been classified as 
Stage 2 assets. As a part of a qualitative assessment of whether a customer is in default, the Business in the Group 
also considers a variety of instances that may indicate unlikeliness to pay. When such events occur, the Business 
in the Group carefully considers whether the event should result in treating the customer as defaulted and therefore 
assessed as Stage 3 for ECL calculations or whether Stage 2 is appropriate.
	
The respective Business in the Group management evaluates the credit situation continuously and the current credit 
assessment of borrowers is based on the following factors including many factors such as;
	
1.	
Whether there is actual or expected significant change in the credit situation which entails significant increase in 
credit risk.
	
2.	
Whether there is existing or forecasted adverse changes in borrower’s business, financial or economic conditions 
that are expected to cause a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations.
	
3.	
Whether there are any significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the borrower.
	
4.	
Whether there are expected changes in the loan documentation, including an expected breach of contract that 
might lead to covenant waivers or amendments, interest payment holidays, interest rate step-ups, requiring 
additional collateral or guarantees, or other changes to the contractual framework of the loan.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7	
Credit risk (Continued)
	
Significant increase in credit risk (SICR) (Continued)
	
Reasonable and supportable information that is forward-looking and that is available without undue cost or effort 
is used by management to assess changes in credit risk. However, considering that the current economic situation 
is continuously evolving, the management shall apply on regular basis any favourable or detrimental change to the 
borrower profiles and accordingly factor in macro/micro variables that shall represent the evolved inherent credit risk.
	
Probability of Default
	
Probability of Default (PD) is an estimate of likelihood of default over a given time horizon. PD estimation process 
is done based on historical internal data available with the relevant Business in the Group. While arriving at PD, the 
relevant Business in the Group also ensures that the factors that affects the macro-economic trends are considered to 
a reasonable extent, wherever necessary. The Business in the Group calculates 12 months PD by taking in account the 
past historical trends of loan portfolio and its credit performance. In case of assets where there is significant increase 
in credit risk/credit impaired assets, lifetime PD has been applied.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD)
	
The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, 
the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and the time value of money. The Loss 
Given Default (LGD) has been computed with workout methodology. Workout LGD is widely considered to be the most 
flexible, transparent and logical approach to build an LGD model. Along with actual recoveries, value of the underlying 
collateral has been factored in to estimate future recoveries in LGD computation. Workout LGD computation involves 
the actual recoveries as well as future recoveries (as a part of the workout process) on a particular facility, as a 
percentage of balance outstanding at the time of Default/Restructuring. The assessment of workout LGD was then 
performed. Principal outstanding at NPA was assessed, which went into the denominator of the LGD calculation. LGD 
computation has been done for each segment and sub-segment separately.
	
Exposure at Default (EAD)
	
The amount which the borrower will owe to the portfolio at the time of default is defined as Exposure at Default 
(EAD). While the drawn credit line reflects the explicit exposure for the Business in the Group , there might be variable 
exposure that may increase the EAD. These exposures are of the nature where the Business in the Group provides 
future commitments, in addition to the current credit. Therefore, the exposure will contain both on and off balance 
sheet values. The value of exposure is given by the following formula:
	
EAD = Drawn Credit Line + Credit Conversion Factor * Undrawn Credit Line
	
Where,
	
Drawn Credit Line = Current outstanding amount
	
Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) = Expected future drawdown as a proportion of undrawn amount Undrawn Credit Line 
= Difference between the total amount which the Business in the Group has committed and the drawn credit line While 
the drawn exposure and limits for the customer are available, the modelling of CCF is required for computing the EAD.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
355
356
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7	
Credit risk (Continued)
	
Purchased or originated credit impaired (POCI)
	
Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit losses are 
considered to be POCI. This population includes the recognition of a new financial instrument following a renegotiation 
where concessions have been granted for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, 
that otherwise would not have been considered.
	
Forward looking adjustments
	
A measure of ECL is an unbiased probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes and using reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the 
reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
	
To fulfil the above requirement Business in the Group have incorporated forward looking information into its measurement 
of ECL. The objective of developing a macroeconomic model using exogenous macroeconomic variables (MEVs) is to 
address the requirements of unbiased, probability weighted outcomes while taking into account current conditions as 
well as future economic conditions. This will be achieved by using the model output to adjust the PD risk component 
in order to make it forward looking and probability-weighted. 
	
Exogenous macroeconomic parameters were used as independent (X) variables to predict the dependent (Y) variable. 
Keeping in mind Ind AS requirements around obtaining reliable and supportable information, without incurring undue 
cost or effort- based on advice of risk committee members and economic experts and consideration of a variety of 
external actual and forecast information, the Business in the Group formulates base case view of the future direction of 
relevant economic variable as well as a representative range of other possible forecast scenario. This process involves 
developing two or more additional economic scenarios and considering the relative probabilities of each outcome.
	
Data sourcing
	
The Group is expected to obtain reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. 
Keeping in mind the above requirement macroeconomic information was aggregated from Economic Intelligence Unit 
(EIU), Bloomberg, World Bank, RBI database. The EIU data has a database of around 150 macroeconomic variables as 
well as their forecasted values. Beyond 2022 macro-economic variables are forecasted by mean reverting the values 
to their long-term average. External information includes economic data and forecasts published by governmental 
bodies and monetary authorities in the country, supranational organisations such as the OECD and the IMF, and 
selected private sector and academic forecasters.
56.	RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7	
Credit risk (Continued)
	
Probability weighted scenario creations
	
To incorporate macroeconomic impact into probability-weighted, each scenario has an associated probability. In order 
to ensure consistency across macroeconomic models, these probabilities were calculated at an overall level for both 
Retail and Non-Retail portfolios, keeping in mind that though the impact of a scenario across different portfolios may 
differ based on endogenous factors, the probability of a scenario unfolding is purely exogenous, and hence should not 
vary.
	
The Business in the Group has identified and documented key drivers of credit risk and credit losses for each portfolio 
of financial instruments and using an analysis of historical data, has estimated relationship between macro-economic 
variables and credit risk and credit losses.
	
Predicted relationship between the key indicators and default and loss rates on various portfolios of financial assess 
have been developed based on analysing historical data over the past 5 years.
56.7.1	Overview of modified and forborne loans
	
There are no modified stage 2 and stage 3 assets treated as forborne during the year, with the related modification loss 
suffered by the Group.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
358
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
357
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7
Credit risk (Continued)
56.7.2 Analysis of risk concentration
The following table shows the risk concentration by industry for the components of the balance sheet. Additional disclosures for credit quality and the 
maximum exposure for credit risk per categories based on the Group’s internal grading system and year-end stage classification are further disclosed 
in Note 12.1.
Industry analysis - Risk concentration for 31 March 2024
Components
Financial 
services
Government
Manufacturing
Retail and 
wholesale
Oil & gas
Services
Others
Total
Cash and bank balances
 33,307.94
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 33,307.94
Derivative financial instruments
 1,192.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,192.41
Trade receivables
 2,154.01
 -
 66.77
 1,327.02
 -
 0.18
 27.39
 3,575.37
Loans
 1,480.18
 -
 6,494.69
 138,837.18
 -
 993.44
 234.83  148,040.32
Investments
 54,280.76
 71,399.14
 25,451.32
 27,968.44
 104.16
 1,585.29
 4,125.64  184,914.75
Other financial assets
 10,846.72
 -
 3.90
 57.85
 -
 -
 54.47
 10,962.94
Total
 103,262.02
 71,399.14
 32,016.68
 168,190.49
 104.16
 2,578.91
 4,442.33  381,993.73
Other Commitments
 493.84
 -
 -
 2,172.00
 -
 -
 -
 2,665.84
Industry analysis - Risk concentration for 31 March 2023
Components
Financial 
services
Government
Manufacturing
Retail and 
wholesale
Oil & gas
Services
Others
Total
Cash and bank balances
 36,990.73
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 36,990.73
Derivative financial instruments
 779.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 779.00
Trade receivables
 922.51
 -
 812.11
 2,051.44
 -
 25.97
 321.05
 4,133.08
Loans
 2,974.65
 -
 8,198.42
 137,675.91
 -
 10,600.88
 14,086.42  173,536.28
Investments
 61,254.30
 59,848.02
 22,410.05
 19,944.22
 81.41
 888.99
 7,195.25  171,622.24
Other financial assets
 8,639.66
 -
 3.19
 503.49
 -
 0.09
 40.66
 9,187.09
Total
 111,560.85
 59,848.02
 31,423.77
 160,175.06
 81.41
 11,515.93
 21,643.38  396,248.42
Other Commitments
 384.95
 -
 -
 1,515.98
 -
 -
 -
 1,900.93
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7
Credit risk (Continued)
56.7.3 Collateral and other credit enhancements
The tables on the following pages show the maximum exposure to credit risk by class of financial asset.
Particulars
Maximum exposure  
to credit risk
Principal type of collateral
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
Financial assets
Loans:
Retail Loans and Wholesale loans
 86,135.28
 152,551.30 Equity shares and Mutual fund units, Bonds, 
Property; book receivables, Land, real estate 
property securities, and Tangible assets , 
Inventories, fixed deposits & other marketable 
securities, Surrender Value of the Policy
Distressed assets
 14,283.19
 17,966.05 Tangible assets
Other credits
 522.44
 373.84
Trade receivables
 3,575.37
 4,133.08 Equity 
shares, 
fixed 
deposits 
and 
bank 
guarantees, Securities etc.
Debt instruments and other 
investments at amortised cost
 10,949.06
 2,168.23  Government security and Book debts (including 
Highly liquid Central/State Government securities 
& high rated Corporate Bonds)
Total financial assets at amortised 
cost
 115,465.34
 177,192.50
Derivative financial instruments
 1,192.41
 779.00 Margin money
Financial assets at FVTPL
 117,060.58
 132,232.54 Tangible assets, Warrants
Financial instrument designated at 
fair value through profit or loss
 19,910.73
 15,139.30 Tangible assets and Highly liquid Central/State 
Government securities, high rated Corporate 
Bonds and liquid Mutual fund units
Total financial instruments at fair 
value through profit or loss
 138,163.72
 148,150.84
Debt instruments/Equity instruments 
at fair value through OCI
 39,636.21
 24,727.26 Government security and Book debts
Financial assets at FVOCI
 44,457.58
 - Tangible assets and Highly liquid Central/State 
Government securities, high rated Corporate 
Bonds and liquid Mutual fund units
Total financial instruments at fair 
value through OCI
 84,093.79
 24,727.26
Other commitments (max exposure)
 2,395.71
 2,294.57 Property, book receivables, Tangible Assets, 
Equity Shares, Mutual Fund units, Land, Office 
Space, Flats, Bungalow, Penthouse, Row house 
and Commodities.
Total (net)
 340,118.56
 352,365.17
Above also includes unsecured financial assets.
The Group has not entered in to any credit derivative to mitigate above credit risk.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
359
360
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.7
Credit risk (Continued)
56.7.4 Fair value of collateral held for stage 3 assets
The below tables provide an analysis of the current fair values of collateral held and credit enhancements for stage 
3 assets. Dependent on the level of collateral, some Stage 3 exposures may not have individual ECLs when the 
expected value of the collateral is greater than the LGD, even in if the future value of collateral is forecast using 
multiple economic scenarios.
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk 
(carrying 
amount before 
ECL)
Associated 
ECL
Carrying 
amount
Fair value of 
collateral
Financial assets
Loans
 96,040.38
 33,764.99
 62,275.39
 76,105.26
Debt instruments
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total financial assets at amortised cost
 96,040.38
 33,764.99
 62,275.39
 76,105.26
Loan commitments
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 96,040.38
 33,764.99
 62,275.39
 76,105.26
As at 31 March 2023
Particulars
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk 
(carrying 
amount before 
ECL)
Associated 
ECL
Carrying 
amount
Fair value of 
collateral
Financial assets
Loans
 131,547.15
 48,413.91
 83,133.24
 93,923.64
Debt instruments
 22.94
 3.46
 19.48
 19.48
Total financial assets at amortised cost
 131,570.09
 48,417.37
 83,152.72
 93,943.12
Loan commitments
128.11
0.54
 127.57
 4.00
Total
 131,698.20
 48,417.91
 83,280.29
 93,947.12
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.8	
Liquidity risk and funding management
	
Liquidity risk emanates from the mismatches existing on the balance sheet due to differences in maturity and repayment 
profile of assets and liabilities. These mismatches could either be forced in nature due to market conditions or created 
with an interest rate view. Such risk can lead to a possibility of unavailability of funds to meet upcoming obligations 
arising from liability maturities. To mitigate liquidity risk
	
-	
Group maintains Liquidity Cushion equivalent to 12-15% of the borrowings in the form of Fixed Deposits, Mutual 
Funds, Cash, G-Sec, etc. These assets carry minimal credit risk and can be liquidated in a very short period of 
time.
	
-	
Secondly, group has undrawn lines of credit from banks which are drawable on notice which further augment the 
available sources of funds.
	
-	
To reduce concentration of funding risk, Group relies on diversified sources including Banks, Retail investors in 
capital markets, Mutual Funds, ECB, Sub Debt etc.
	
Group has a Liquidity Contingency Policy in place and various liquidity parameters are defined and tracked regularly. 
Liquidity Management Team is provided with update on expected liquidity shortfalls considering normal as well as 
Stress scenario. A detailed set of activities have been defined to be executed during stress scenario.
	
Group has a Liquidity Contingency Policy in place to ensure various liquidity parameters are defined and tracked 
regularly. Liquidity Management Team is provided with update on expected liquidity shortfalls in Normal as well as 
Stress scenario. A detailed set of activities have been defined to be executed during stress scenario
56.8.1	Analysis of financial liabilities, financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments by remaining contractual 
maturities
	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities, 
financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments as at 31 March.
	
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows i.e. the tables include both interest and 
principal cashflows. The contractual maturity with respect to financial liabilities is based on the earliest date on which 
the Group may be asked to pay. To the extent that interest flows are at floating rate, the undiscounted amount is 
derived using interest rates in force at the balance sheet date. Further, with regards to amounts payable in currencies 
other than Indian Rupees, the amounts are determined based on the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date. 
The analysis with respect to financial assets is based on expected maturities. All derivatives which are entered into 
for trading purposes are shown in the earliest time band. With respect to other derivatives, the remaining contractual 
maturity information has been given based on undiscounted cash flows.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
361
362
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.8	
Liquidity risk and funding management (Continued)
56.8.1	Analysis of financial liabilities, financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments by remaining contractual 
maturities (Continued)
As at 31 March 2024
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 6 
months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Trade payables
 11,399.31
 1,583.34
 2,533.26
 1,166.42
 41.36
 16,723.69
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 23,386.59
 5,184.33
 9,630.96
 7,461.61
 3,387.32
 49,050.81
Debt securities
 19,496.87
 6,415.89
 19,712.17
 70,222.94
 44,485.62
160,333.49
Subordinated financial liabilities
 620.97
 39.76
 658.62
 8,742.20
 4,105.81
 14,167.36
Deposits
 -
 16.98
 -
 -
 -
 16.98
Other financial liabilities
 16,769.82
 2,555.14
 8,000.52
 8,183.93
 20,384.85
 55,894.26
Total undiscounted non-derivative 
financial liabilities
 71,673.56
 15,795.44
 40,535.53
 95,777.10
 72,404.96
296,186.59
Non-derivative financial assets
 Upto 3 
months
 Between 
3 to 6 
months
 Between 
6 months 
to 1 year
 Between 
1 year to 3 
years
More than 
3 years
 Total
Cash and cash equivalent and other 
bank balances
 24,466.45
 556.59
 5,850.58
 1,917.00
 552.65
 33,343.27
Trade receivables
 2,452.06
 563.82
 159.60
 436.79
 -
 3,612.27
Loans
 18,485.47
 9,436.65
 25,902.30
 63,106.35
 76,245.72
193,176.49
Investments
 42,611.63
 11,210.30
 28,494.21
 20,735.39 169,008.83
272,060.36
Other financial assets
 8,300.83
 743.24
 126.19
 309.14
 1,437.46
 10,916.86
Total undiscounted non-derivative 
financial assets
 96,316.44
 22,510.60
 60,532.88
 86,504.67 247,244.66
513,109.25
Derivatives
Upto 3 
months
Between 
3 to 
6 months
Between 6 
months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Net settled derivatives entered into for 
trading purposes
 335.38
 (50.97)
 -
 -
 82.51
366.92
Other net settled derivatives
 33.48
 (408.61)
 13.97
 30.82
 -
(330.34)
Total
 368.86
 (459.58)
 13.97
 30.82
 82.51
36.58
Commitments
Upto 3 
months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months 
to 1
Between 
1 year to 3 
years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undrawn loan and other commitments
 2,077.10
 593.91
 257.62
 279.90
 0.49
 3,209.02
The Group has undrawn lines of credit available aggregating ` 1,066.25 million as at 31 March 2024 to meet any 
possible liquidity shortfall.
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.8
Liquidity risk and funding management (Continued)
56.8.1 Analysis of financial liabilities, financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments by remaining 
contractual maturities (Continued)
As at 31 March 2023
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months 
to 1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Trade payables
 9,368.29
 639.30
 2,616.06
 1,476.13
 22.38
14,122.16
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 27,239.88
 4,839.62
 9,458.34
 5,346.79
 5,901.26
52,785.89
Debt securities
 34,588.34
 7,238.29
 21,011.82
 61,678.85
 54,675.28
179,192.58
Subordinated financial liabilities
 1,692.30
 1,203.40
 652.81
 6,182.29
 7,862.59
17,593.39
Deposits
 16.25
 -
 -
 -
 -
16.25
Other financial liabilities
 9,221.73
 3,419.37
 3,780.85
 6,893.59
 31,452.51
54,768.05
Total undiscounted non-derivative 
financial liabilities
 82,126.79
 17,339.98
 37,519.88
 81,577.65
 99,914.02
318,478.32
Non-derivative financial assets
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months 
to 1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Cash and cash equivalent and other 
bank balances
 29,215.86
 609.12
 3,077.87
 4,085.96
 367.98
37,356.79
Trade receivables
 2,252.58
 699.68
 850.92
 1,282.73
 -
5,085.91
Loans
 22,088.66
 14,791.74
 19,257.16
 55,538.66 103,223.80
214,900.02
Investments
 40,635.79
 10,315.87
 18,893.09
 66,394.73 115,781.48
252,020.96
Other financial assets
 7,407.55
 211.21
 106.92
 406.04
 1,055.37
9,187.09
Total undiscounted non-derivative 
financial assets
101,600.44
 26,627.62
 42,185.96 127,708.12 220,428.63
518,550.77
Derivatives
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months 
to 1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Net settled derivatives entered into for 
trading purposes
 (260.57)
 -
 -
 -
 -
(260.57)
Other net settled derivatives
 32.49
 0.59
 (21.38)
 63.58
 188.57
263.85
Total
 (228.08)
 0.59
 (21.38)
 63.58
 188.57
 3.28
Commitments
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months 
to 1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undrawn loan and other commitments
 5,577.02
 8,208.66
 541.03
 1,779.66
 0.38
 16,106.75
The Group has undrawn lines of credit available aggregating ` 1,924.34 million as at 31 March 2023 to meet any 
possible liquidity shortfall.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
363
364
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
57.9	
Market Risk:
	
Market risk is the risk which can affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments due to 
adverse movements in market prices of instrument due to interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and 
credit spreads. The objective of the Group’s market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters. The Group treats its exposure to market risks on trading and non-trading portfolios 
separately.
	
Exposure to market risk
	
Interest rate risk - Interest rate risk is managed principally through monitoring interest rate gaps and by having pre-
approved limits for repricing bands.
	
Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO) monitors interest rate gap statement and the mix of floating/fixed rate assets and 
liabilities and ensure these gaps are managed below defined limits. Balance Sheet Management Unit is in-charge for 
day to day management of interest rate risk.
	
Foreign exchange risk – Group’s foreign exposure is limited to monetary assets/liabilities held by Group entities 
outside India and profits/loss generated by these entities. The Treasury Unit aggregates the foreign exchange exposure 
emerging out of these outflows/inflows and the same is hedged to mitigate foreign exchange risk. Positions are 
regularly monitored by the Treasury Unit and rebalanced based on the inflow and outflow of funds.
	
Equity price risk - The Treasury and Balance Sheet Management Units effectively evaluates various risks involved in 
underlying assets in trading and non-trading books respectively
	
Interest rate risk
	
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values 
of financial instruments. The Group’s policy is to monitor positions on a daily basis and hedging strategies are used to 
ensure positions are maintained within the established limits.
	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to possible change in interest rates (all other variables being constant) 
on the Group’s statement of profit and loss and equity. The sensitivity to profit before tax is the effect of the assumed 
changes in interest rates on the profit before tax for the year, based on the floating rate financial assets and financial 
liabilities held at reporting date. Sensitivity analysis has been prepared assuming the amount of the floating-rate 
financial liability and financial assets outstanding at the end of the year was outstanding for the whole year. The 
sensitivity of equity is calculated by revaluing the fixed rate FVOCI, including the effect at reporting date for the effects 
of the assumed changes in interest rates.
56.	 RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
57.9	
Market Risk: (Continued)
	
Interest rate risk (Continued)
Currency of item
31 March 2024
Increase 
in basis 
points
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in basis 
points
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
INR
 25.00
(611.79)
(779.84)
 25.00
 611.79
 779.84
INR
 5.00
(92.20)
 -
 5.00
 92.20
 -
Currency of item
31 March 2023
Increase 
in basis 
points
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in basis 
points
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
INR
 25.00
(518.49)
(629.26)
 25.00
 518.50
 629.26
INR
 5.00
(80.96)
 -
 5.00
 80.96
 -
Currency risk:
Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk arise primarily on account of foreign currency borrowings.
The table below indicates the currencies to which the Group had significant exposure at the end of the year.
Currency
31 March 2024
Increase in 
exchange 
rate (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in 
exchange 
rate (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
US dollar
 5.00
 174.86
 0.10
 5.00
 (174.86)
 (0.10)
Others
 5.00
 0.12
 -
 5.00
 (0.12)
 -
Currency
31 March 2023
Increase in 
exchange 
rate (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in 
exchange 
rate (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
US dollar
 5.00
 3.38
 -
 5.00
 (3.38)
 -
Others
 5.00
 2.21
 -
 5.00
 (2.21)
 -
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
365
366
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.9
Market Risk (Continued):
Equity Price risk:
Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of individual investment in equity share prices.
Impact on
31 March 2024
Increase 
in equity 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in equity 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Derivatives
 5.00
 464.34
 -
 5.00
(464.34)
 -
Others
 5.00
 1,742.81
 1.82
 5.00
(1,742.81)
(1.82)
Impact on
31 March 2023
Increase 
in equity 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in equity 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Derivatives
 5.00
 204.20
 -
 5.00
(204.20)
 -
Others
 5.00
 1,774.35
 1.71
 5.00
(1,774.35)
(1.71)
Index price risk:
Index price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of equity indices.
Impact on
31 March 2024
Increase in 
index price 
(%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in index 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Derivatives
 5.00
 273.53
 -
 5.00
 (273.53)
 -
Others
 5.00
 33.99
 -
 5.00
 (33.99)
 -
Impact on
31 March 2023
Increase in 
index price 
(%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in index 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Derivatives
 5.00
 88.39
 -
 5.00
 (88.39)
 -
Others
 5.00
 33.88
 -
 5.00
 (33.88)
 -
56.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
56.9
Market Risk (Continued):
Other price risk:
Other price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of market prices other than equity and index prices.
Impact on
31 March 2024
Increase in 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in price 
(%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Security receipts of ARC trusts
 5.00
 32.78
 -
 5.00
 (32.78)
 -
Units of AIFs and Trusts
 5.00
 174.65
 21.97
 5.00
 (174.65)
 (21.97)
Others
 5.00
 802.22
 65.94
 5.00
 (802.22)
 (191.10)
Impact on
31 March 2023
Increase in 
price (%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Decrease 
in price 
(%)
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
Effect on 
Equity
Security receipts of ARC trusts
 5.00
 30.01
 -
 5.00
 (30.01)
 -
Units of AIFs and Trusts
 5.00
 127.60
 19.11
 5.00
 (127.60)
 (19.11)
Others
 5.00
 805.03
 50.17
 5.00
 (805.03)
 (50.17)
57.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
 Note
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2024
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2023
Subsidiaries
1
ECL Finance Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
2
Edelcap Securities Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
3
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
4
ECap Securities and Investments Limited 
(formerly known as ECap Equities Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
5
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
6
Nido Home Finance Limited (formerly known 
as Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
7
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
8
ECap Equities Limited (formerly known as 
Edel Land Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
9
Edel Investments Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
10
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
11
Comtrade Commodities Services Limited 
(formerly known as Edelweiss Comtrade 
Limited)
 a
India
100.00%
100.00%
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
367
368
57.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
 Note
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2024
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2023
12
Edel Finance Company Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
13
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
14
Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors LLP
India
100.00%
100.00%
15
Edelweiss Resolution Advisors LLP (upto 1st 
July 2022)
 b
India
 -
 -
16
Zuno General Insurance Limited (formerly 
known as Edelweiss General Insurance 
Company Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
17
Edelweiss Securities and Investments 
Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
18
EC International Limited
 c
Mauritius
100.00%
100.00%
19
Nuvama Investment Advisors LLC (formerly 
known as EAAA LLC)
 d
Mauritius
 -
100.00%
20
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte. 
Limited
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
21
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
22
Edelgive Foundation
India
100.00%
100.00%
23
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 e
India
100.00%
99.05%
24
Edelweiss Private Equity Tech Fund
India
95.60%
95.60%
25
Edelweiss Value and Growth Fund
India
96.05%
96.05%
26
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
India
59.82%
59.82%
27
EW Special Opportunities Advisors LLC 
(upto 23rd June, 2022)
 f
Mauritius
 -
 -
28
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
India
75.08%
75.08%
29
Allium Finance Private Limited
India
88.28%
88.28%
30
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
31
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited (formerly 
known as Edelweiss Capital Services 
Limited)
India
51.00%
51.00%
32
India Credit Investments Fund - II
 g
India
 -
100.00%
33
Edelweiss Real Assets Managers Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
34
Sekura India Management Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
35
India Credit Investments Fund - III
 h
India
 -
100.00%
36
India Credit Investments Fund - 5
 i
India
 -
 -
57.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Group stake in trusts
Sr. 
No. Trust Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2024
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2023
1
EARC SAF - 1 Trust
India
-
100.00%
2
EARC SAF - 2 Trust
India
100.00%
100.00%
3
EARC SAF - 3 Trust
India
-
46.00%
4
EARC Trust - SC 6
India
100.00%
100.00%
5
EARC Trust - SC 7 (upto 31 December 2023)
India
 -
100.00%
6
EARC Trust - SC 9
India
100.00%
100.00%
7
EARC Trust - SC 102
India
100.00%
100.00%
8
EARC Trust - SC 109 (upto 31 December 2023)
India
 -
50.00%
9
EARC Trust - SC 112
India
100.00%
100.00%
10
EARC Trust - SC 130
India
100.00%
100.00%
11
EARC Trust - SC 223
India
-
100.00%
12
EARC Trust - SC 229
India
100.00%
100.00%
13
EARC Trust - SC 238
India
100.00%
100.00%
14
EARC Trust - SC 245
India
37.00%
37.00%
15
EARC Trust - SC 251
India
100.00%
100.00%
16
EARC Trust - SC 262
India
-
37.00%
17
EARC Trust - SC 263
India
100.00%
100.00%
18
EARC Trust - SC 266
India
100.00%
100.00%
19
EARC Trust - SC 293
India
-
100.00%
20
EARC Trust - SC 297
India
-
37.00%
21
EARC Trust - SC 298
India
75.16%
75.05%
22
EARC Trust - SC 306
India
50.00%
50.00%
23
EARC Trust - SC 308
India
100.00%
100.00%
24
EARC Trust - SC 314
India
100.00%
100.00%
25
EARC Trust - SC 318
India
-
100.00%
26
EARC Trust - SC 321
India
-
100.00%
27
EARC Trust - SC 325
India
100.00%
100.00%
28
EARC Trust - SC 329
India
100.00%
100.00%
29
EARC Trust - SC 331
India
100.00%
100.00%
30
EARC Trust - SC 332
India
100.00%
100.00%
31
EARC Trust - SC 334
India
100.00%
100.00%
32
EARC Trust - SC 342
India
-
100.00%
33
EARC Trust - SC 344
India
100.00%
100.00%
34
EARC Trust - SC 347
India
100.00%
100.00%
35
EARC Trust - SC 348
India
100.00%
100.00%
36
EARC Trust - SC 349
India
-
100.00%
37
EARC Trust - SC 351
India
100.00%
100.00%
38
EARC Trust - SC 352
India
100.00%
100.00%
39
EARC Trust - SC 357
India
100.00%
100.00%
40
EARC Trust - SC 360
India
100.00%
100.00%
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
369
370
57.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Group stake in trusts (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Trust Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2024
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2023
41
EARC Trust - SC 361
India
100.00%
100.00%
42
EARC Trust - SC 363
India
100.00%
100.00%
43
EARC Trust - SC 370
India
100.00%
100.00%
44
EARC Trust - SC 372
India
100.00%
100.00%
45
EARC Trust - SC 373
India
100.00%
100.00%
46
EARC Trust - SC 374
India
100.00%
100.00%
47
EARC Trust - SC 375
India
100.00%
100.00%
48
EARC Trust - SC 376
India
100.00%
100.00%
49
EARC Trust - SC 377
India
100.00%
100.00%
50
EARC Trust - SC 378
India
100.00%
100.00%
51
EARC Trust - SC 380
India
100.00%
100.00%
52
EARC Trust - SC 381
India
100.00%
100.00%
53
EARC Trust - SC 383
India
100.00%
100.00%
54
EARC Trust - SC 384
India
83.62%
62.50%
55
EARC Trust - SC 385
India
100.00%
100.00%
56
EARC Trust - SC 386
India
100.00%
100.00%
57
EARC Trust - SC 387
India
100.00%
100.00%
58
EARC Trust - SC 388
India
100.00%
100.00%
59
EARC Trust - SC 391
India
100.00%
100.00%
60
EARC Trust - SC 392
India
100.00%
100.00%
61
EARC Trust - SC 393
India
100.00%
100.00%
62
EARC Trust - SC 394
India
100.00%
100.00%
63
EARC Trust - SC 395
India
100.00%
100.00%
64
EARC Trust - SC 396
India
100.00%
100.00%
65
EARC Trust - SC 399
India
-
100.00%
66
EARC Trust - SC 401
India
100.00%
100.00%
67
EARC Trust - SC 402
India
100.00%
100.00%
68
EARC Trust - SC 405
India
100.00%
100.00%
69
EARC Trust - SC 406
India
100.00%
100.00%
70
EARC Trust - SC 410
India
100.00%
100.00%
71
EARC Trust - SC 412
India
100.00%
100.00%
72
EARC Trust - SC 415
India
100.00%
100.00%
73
EARC Trust - SC 427
India
46.17%
46.17%
74
EARC Trust - SC 428
India
100.00%
100.00%
75
EARC Trust - SC 429
India
100.00%
100.00%
76
EARC Trust - SC 430
India
100.00%
100.00%
77
EARC Trust - SC 227
India
100.00%
100.00%
78
EARC Trust - SC 228
India
100.00%
100.00%
79
EARC Trust - SC 397
India
100.00%
100.00%
80
EARC Trust - SC 413
India
100.00%
100.00%
57.
COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Group stake in trusts (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Trust Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2024
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest as at 
31 March 2023
81
EARC Trust - SC 416
India
100.00%
100.00%
82
EARC Trust - SC 417
India
100.00%
100.00%
83
EARC Trust - SC 418
India
100.00%
100.00%
84
EARC Trust - SC 421
India
100.00%
100.00%
85
EARC Trust - SC 422
India
100.00%
100.00%
86
EARC Trust - SC 423
India
100.00%
100.00%
87
EARC Trust - SC 424
India
100.00%
100.00%
88
EARC Trust - SC 425
India
100.00%
100.00%
89
EARC Trust - SC 431
India
100.00%
100.00%
90
EARC Trust - SC 434
India
100.00%
100.00%
91
EARC Trust - SC 436
India
100.00%
100.00%
92
EARC Trust - SC 440 (upto 31 December 2023)
India
 -
100.00%
93
EARC Trust - SC 441 (upto 31 December 2023)
India
 -
100.00%
94
EARC Trust - SC 444
India
100.00%
100.00%
95
EARC Trust - SC 447
India
100.00%
100.00%
96
EARC Trust - SC 448
India
100.00%
100.00%
97
EARC Trust - SC 449
India
100.00%
100.00%
98
EARC Trust - SC 451
India
100.00%
100.00%
99
EARC Trust - SC 459
India
100.00%
100.00%
100 EARC Trust - SC 477
India
100.00%
100.00%
101 EARC Trust - SC 481
India
100.00%
100.00%
102 EARC Trust - SC 482
India
100.00%
100.00%
103 EARC Trust - SC 442
India
100.00%
100.00%
104 EARC Trust - SC 483
India
100.00%
100.00%
105 EARC Trust - SC 484
India
100.00%
100.00%
106 EARC Trust - SC 443
India
100.00%
100.00%
107 EARC Trust - SC 452
India
78.12%
75.33%
108 EARC Trust - SC 462
India
100.00%
100.00%
109 EARC Trust - SC 461
India
100.00%
100.00%
110 EARC Trust - SC 453
India
75.39%
 -
111 EARC Trust - SC 433
India
100.00%
 -
112 EARC Trust - SC 445
India
100.00%
 -
113 EARC Trust - SC 486
India
74.94%
 -
114 EARC Trust - SC 492
India
100.00%
 -
115 EARC Trust - SC 489
India
100.00%
 -
116 EARC Trust - SC 488
India
38.77%
 -
117 EARC Trust - SC 464
India
100.00%
 -
118 EARC Trust - SC 493
India
100.00%
 -
119 EARC Trust - SC 455
India
100.00%
 -
120 EARC Trust - SC 470
India
100.00%
 -
121 EARC Trust - SC 456
India
100.00%
 -
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
372
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
371
57.	 COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
	
Notes:
	
a	
Comtrade Commodities Services Limited (Formerly known as Edelweiss Comtrade Limited), a subsidiary of the 
Group has ceased its operation and does not have any business activity planned for future. Accordingly the 
financial statements for the year have been prepared on a non-going concern basis.
	
b	
With effect from 1st July 2022, Edelweiss Resolution Advisors LLP, one of the subsidiary of the Group is dissolved 
and ceased to become the subsidiary of the Group and has been consolidated upto the said date.
	
c	
The Board of Directors of EC International Limited (ECIL) have approved the plan of liquidation vide resolution 
dated 19 December 2023, subject to necessary regulatory approvals. As a result, the ECIL has changed its basis 
of accounting from the going concern basis to liquidation basis.
	
d	
With effect from 05 September 2023, Nuvama Investment Advisors LLC (formerly known as EAAA LLC) is sold 
and ceased to become the subsidiary of the Group and has not been consolidated from the said date.
	
e	
With effect from 31 May 2023, Edelweiss Securities and Investment Private Limited, subsidiary of the Group has 
increased its controlling stake in Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited, one of its subsidiary from 99.05% 
to 100.00% and same has be consolidated accordingly.
	
f	
With effect from 23 June 2022, EW Special Opportunities Advisors LLC, one of the subsidiary of the Group is 
dissolved and ceased to become the subsidiary of the Group and has been consolidated upto the said date.
	
g	
With effect from 31 October 2023, India Credit Investment Fund - II, one of the subsidiary of the Company is 
dissolved and ceased to become the subsidiary of the Company and has been consolidated upto the said date.
	
h	
With effect from 31 March 2024, India Credit Investment Fund - III, one of the subsidiary of the Company is 
dissolved and ceased to become the subsidiary of the Company and has been consolidated upto the said date.
	
i	
With effect from 09 August 2023, the subsidiaries of the Group has acquired 100% stake in India Credit Investment 
Fund - 5 (ICIF 5). Subsequently, with effect from 31 March 2024 ICIF 5 is dissolved and ceased to become the 
subsidiary of the Group and has been consolidated upto the said date.
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
Parent
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
90.31%
 54,628.44
131.66%
 6,952.13
(0.29)%
(4.27)
103.09%
 6,947.86
Subsidiaries
Indian
1
ECL Finance Limited
45.78%
27,691.09
25.60%
1,352.02
(29.08)%
(424.30)
13.77%
927.71
2
Edelcap Securities Limited
6.77%
4,095.95
5.29%
279.43
(0.04)%
(0.60)
4.14%
278.83
3
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
3.95%
2,386.73
7.12%
376.18
0.17%
2.53
5.62%
378.71
4
ECap Securities and Investments 
Limited (formerly known as ECap 
Equities Limited)
(2.21)%
(1,333.97)
(15.21)%
(803.38)
(0.01)%
(0.08)
(11.92)%
(803.46)
5
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company 
Limited
0.01%
6.80
0.02%
1.17
0.00%
 0.01
0.02%
1.18
6
Nido Home Finance Limited (formerly 
known as Edelweiss Housing Finance 
Limited)
13.47%
8,147.92
3.66%
193.10
(0.04)%
(0.60)
2.86%
192.50
7
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
(10.92)%
(6,606.44)
(45.60)%
(2,407.87)
0.03%
0.38
(35.72)%
(2,407.49)
8
ECap Equities Limited (formerly known 
as Edel Land Limited)
15.53%
9,394.84
26.51%
1,399.89
(0.02)%
(0.24)
20.77%
1,399.66
9
Edel Investments Limited
5.88%
3,556.76
0.94%
49.58
0.00%
0.05
0.74%
49.63
10
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
11.57%
6,998.83
(19.44)%
(1,026.36)
(0.82)%
(12.01)
(15.41)%
(1,038.37)
11
Comtrade Commodities Services 
Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss 
Comtrade Limited)
0.01%
8.23
(0.17)%
(8.85)
0.00%
0.04
(0.13)%
(8.81)
12
Edel Finance Company Limited
43.03%
26,028.88
14.99%
791.47
0.16%
2.31
11.78%
793.79
13
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
9.11%
5,510.74
2.73%
144.11
(0.04)%
(0.63)
2.13%
143.48
14
Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors 
LLP
0.01%
7.91
(0.00)%
(0.08)
0.00%
0.00
(0.00)%
(0.08)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
373
374
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
15
Zuno General Insurance Limited 
(formerly known as Edelweiss General 
Insurance Company Limited)
4.11%
2,488.24
(23.26)%
(1,228.19)
2.33%
33.96
(17.72)%
(1,194.23)
16
Edelweiss Securities and Investment 
Private Limited
4.79%
2,896.57
(7.06)%
(373.06)
(0.00)%
(0.01)
(5.54)%
(373.07)
17
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors 
Limited
9.55%
5,775.05
21.06%
1,112.15
0.03%
0.44
16.51%
1,112.59
18
Edelgive Foundation
0.24%
148.17
(0.10)%
(5.33)
(0.00)%
(0.03)
(0.08)%
(5.36)
19
Edelweiss Private Equity Tech Fund
0.85%
516.26
(0.36)%
(19.13)
 -
 -
(0.28)%
(19.13)
20
Edelweiss Value and Growth Fund
1.12%
678.37
(2.17)%
(114.78)
 -
 -
(1.70)%
(114.78)
21
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited
52.07%
31,498.54
67.27%
3,551.95
(0.06)%
(0.81)
52.69%
3,551.13
22
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance 
Company Limited
11.88%
7,186.43
(29.66)%
(1,565.93)
99.64%
1,453.65
(1.67)%
(112.28)
23
Allium Finance Private Limited
2.37%
1,433.81
2.38%
125.47
 -
 -
1.86%
125.47
24
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited 
(Formerly know as Edelweiss Capital 
Services Limited)
1.06%
640.64
1.26%
66.39
(0.05)%
(0.76)
0.97%
65.63
25
India Credit Investment Fund – II
 -
 -
(1.80)%
(94.97)
 -
 -
(1.41)%
(94.97)
26
Edelweiss Real Assets Managers 
Limited
0.22%
134.65
0.43%
22.73
(0.00)%
(0.01)
0.34%
22.72
27
Sekura India Management Limited
0.03%
17.34
(0.39)%
(20.65)
(0.09)%
(1.35)
(0.33)%
(22.00)
28
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
7.51%
4,544.59
(7.81)%
(412.33)
(0.00)%
(0.06)
(6.12)%
(412.39)
29
India Credit Investment Fund – III
 -
 -
(6.85)%
(361.52)
 -
 -
(5.36)%
(361.52)
30
India Credit Investment Fund – 5
 -
 -
(15.00)%
(791.96)
 -
 -
(11.75)%
(791.96)
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
Foreign
31
EC International Limited
0.01%
4.57
2.99%
157.77
(0.06)%
(0.90)
2.33%
156.87
32
Nuvama Investment Advisors LLC 
(formerly known as EAAA LLC)
 -
 -
0.06%
3.08
(0.00)%
(0.01)
0.05%
3.07
33
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors 
Pte. Limited
5.97%
3,609.38
12.07%
637.36
(1.02)%
(14.82)
9.24%
622.54
34
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
3.01%
1,819.13
(2.04)%
(107.63)
(3.20)%
(46.66)
(2.29)%
(154.29)
Controlled Trusts
1
EARC SAF 2 Trust
0.00%
0.37
0.03%
1.34
 -
 -
0.02%
1.34
2
EARC Trust SC 6
(0.00)%
(0.11)
(0.00)%
(0.12)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.12)
3
EARC Trust SC 9
0.06%
33.71
0.04%
2.12
 -
 -
0.03%
2.12
4
EARC Trust SC 7
 -
 -
0.01%
0.39
 -
 -
0.01%
0.39
5
EARC Trust SC 109
 -
 -
(0.10)%
(5.06)
 -
 -
(0.08)%
(5.06)
6
EARC Trust SC 102
0.00%
0.19
(0.01)%
(0.61)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.61)
7
EARC Trust SC 112
(0.00)%
(1.90)
0.01%
0.64
 -
 -
0.01%
0.64
8
EARC Trust SC 130
(0.00)%
(0.06)
(0.00)%
(0.04)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.04)
9
EARC Trust SC 227
0.00%
0.05
(0.00)%
(0.01)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.01)
10
EARC Trust SC 228
0.00%
0.48
0.01%
0.30
 -
 -
0.00%
0.30
11
EARC Trust SC 229
(0.01)%
(7.79)
0.03%
1.37
 -
 -
0.02%
1.37
12
EARC Trust SC 238
0.00%
0.00
0.00%
0.13
 -
 -
0.00%
0.13
13
EARC Trust SC 245
0.00%
0.40
(0.01)%
(0.29)
 -
 -
0.00%
(0.29)
14
EARC Trust SC 251
0.00%
2.16
(0.58)%
(30.42)
 -
 -
(0.45)%
(30.42)
15
EARC Trust SC 263
(0.00)%
(0.25)
0.01%
0.27
 -
 -
0.00%
0.27
16
EARC Trust SC 266
0.00%
0.02
0.00%
0.06
 -
 -
0.00%
0.06
17
EARC Trust SC 298
0.03%
18.03
0.07%
3.54
 -
 -
0.05%
3.54
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
375
376
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
18
EARC Trust SC 306
0.00%
0.12
0.00%
0.07
 -
 -
0.00%
0.07
19
EARC Trust SC 308
(0.00)%
(0.07)
0.01%
0.37
 -
 -
0.01%
0.37
20
EARC Trust SC 314
0.00%
(0.25)
0.03%
1.75
 -
 -
0.03%
1.75
21
EARC Trust SC 325
0.00%
1.78
(0.00)%
(0.02)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.02)
22
EARC Trust SC 329
(0.04)%
(24.32)
0.01%
0.40
 -
 -
0.01%
0.40
23
EARC Trust SC 331
(0.03)%
(21.01)
0.15%
8.04
 -
 -
0.12%
8.04
24
EARC Trust SC 332
0.00%
0.35
(0.00)%
(0.15)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.15)
25
EARC Trust SC 334
0.00%
0.50
(0.00)%
(0.08)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.08)
26
EARC Trust SC 344
0.00%
0.35
0.01%
0.37
 -
 -
0.01%
0.37
27
EARC Trust SC 347
0.00%
0.39
(0.00)%
(0.26)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.26)
28
EARC Trust SC 348
0.00%
0.02
(0.03)%
(1.39)
 -
 -
(0.02)%
(1.39)
29
EARC Trust SC 351
0.00%
0.79
0.21%
11.10
 -
 -
0.16%
11.10
30
EARC Trust SC 352
0.00%
0.28
0.00%
0.00
 -
 -
0.00%
0.00
31
EARC Trust SC 357
0.00%
0.17
(0.00)%
(0.07)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.07)
32
EARC Trust SC 360
0.00%
0.89
0.01%
0.30
 -
 -
0.00%
0.30
33
EARC Trust SC 361
(0.00)%
(2.14)
0.07%
3.55
 -
 -
0.05%
3.55
34
EARC Trust SC 363
0.00%
0.11
(0.00)%
(0.12)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.12)
35
EARC Trust SC 370
0.00%
0.17
(0.05)%
(2.65)
 -
 -
(0.04)%
(2.65)
36
EARC Trust SC 372
(0.00)%
(0.30)
(0.01)%
(0.49)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.49)
37
EARC Trust SC 373
0.00%
0.03
0.00%
0.04
 -
 -
0.00%
0.04
38
EARC Trust SC 374
0.00%
0.00
(0.00)%
(0.09)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.09)
39
EARC Trust SC 375
0.00%
0.55
0.00%
0.15
 -
 -
0.00%
0.15
40
EARC Trust SC 376
0.00%
1.79
(0.01)%
(0.56)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.56)
41
EARC Trust SC 377
0.00%
0.03
0.00%
0.00
 -
 -
0.00%
0.00
42
EARC Trust SC 378
(0.00)%
(0.02)
(0.00)%
(0.16)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.16)
43
EARC Trust SC 380
0.00%
0.05
(0.00)%
(0.08)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.08)
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
44
EARC Trust SC 381
(0.01)%
(4.27)
(0.08)%
(4.48)
 -
 -
(0.07)%
(4.48)
45
EARC Trust SC 383
(0.00)%
(0.28)
(0.00)%
(0.25)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.25)
46
EARC Trust SC 384
0.04%
26.12
0.09%
4.87
 -
 -
0.07%
4.87
47
EARC Trust SC 385
(0.00)%
(1.37)
(0.22)%
(11.77)
 -
 -
(0.17)%
(11.77)
48
EARC Trust SC 386
0.01%
6.50
0.10%
5.03
 -
 -
0.07%
5.03
49
EARC Trust SC 387
0.00%
1.38
0.23%
12.26
 -
 -
0.18%
12.26
50
EARC Trust SC 388
0.00%
0.93
0.05%
2.53
 -
 -
0.04%
2.53
51
EARC Trust SC 391
0.00%
2.72
0.02%
1.00
 -
 -
0.01%
1.00
52
EARC Trust SC 392
0.00%
2.86
0.02%
0.82
 -
 -
0.01%
0.82
53
EARC Trust SC 393
(0.00)%
(0.03)
(0.01)%
(0.35)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.35)
54
EARC Trust SC 394
0.02%
10.24
0.00%
0.17
 -
 -
0.00%
0.17
55
EARC Trust SC 395
(0.00)%
(0.11)
0.00%
0.11
 -
 -
0.00%
0.11
56
EARC Trust SC 396
0.00%
0.57
0.00%
0.01
 -
 -
0.00%
0.01
57
EARC Trust SC 397
0.00%
1.37
(0.00)%
(0.22)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.22)
58
EARC Trust SC 401
0.00%
1.48
(0.02)%
(1.14)
 -
 -
(0.02)%
(1.14)
59
EARC Trust SC 402
0.00%
1.51
0.02%
0.80
 -
 -
0.01%
0.80
60
EARC Trust SC 405
(0.00)%
(0.06)
0.00%
0.06
 -
 -
0.00%
0.06
61
EARC Trust SC 406
0.00%
2.86
0.03%
1.81
 -
 -
0.03%
1.81
62
EARC Trust SC 410
0.00%
0.55
(0.00)%
(0.04)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.04)
63
EARC Trust SC 412
0.00%
0.02
0.00%
0.15
 -
 -
0.00%
0.15
64
EARC Trust SC 413
(0.01)%
(3.76)
(0.63)%
(33.43)
 -
 -
(0.50)%
(33.43)
65
EARC Trust SC 415
0.00%
0.26
0.00%
0.04
 -
 -
0.00%
0.04
66
EARC Trust SC 416
0.00%
0.88
0.05%
2.71
 -
 -
0.04%
2.71
67
EARC Trust SC 417
0.00%
0.24
(0.25)%
(13.17)
 -
 -
(0.20)%
(13.17)
68
EARC Trust SC 418
(0.02)%
(11.24)
(0.20)%
(10.42)
 -
 -
(0.15)%
(10.42)
69
EARC Trust SC 421
0.00%
0.05
0.00%
0.03
 -
 -
0.00%
0.03
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
377
378
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
70
EARC Trust SC 422
0.00%
0.26
(0.01)%
(0.34)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.34)
71
EARC Trust SC 423
(0.00)%
(0.07)
(0.00)%
(0.04)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.04)
72
EARC Trust SC 424
0.01%
5.39
0.10%
5.34
 -
 -
0.08%
5.34
73
EARC Trust SC 425
(0.00)%
(0.02)
(0.00)%
(0.06)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.06)
74
EARC Trust SC 427
(0.00)%
(0.04)
0.01%
0.57
 -
 -
0.01%
0.57
75
EARC Trust SC 428
0.00%
0.42
(0.00)%
(0.12)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.12)
76
EARC Trust SC 429
0.00%
0.64
0.01%
0.53
 -
 -
0.01%
0.53
77
EARC Trust SC 430
0.00%
0.07
0.00%
0.02
 -
 -
0.00%
0.02
78
EARC Trust SC 431
0.00%
0.42
0.00%
0.06
 -
 -
0.00%
0.06
79
EARC Trust SC 433
(0.00)%
(0.26)
(0.00)%
(0.26)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.26)
80
EARC Trust SC 434
0.01%
4.93
0.08%
4.24
 -
 -
0.06%
4.24
81
EARC Trust SC 436
0.00%
0.04
0.00%
0.05
 -
 -
0.00%
0.05
82
EARC Trust SC 440
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.08)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.08)
83
EARC Trust SC 441
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.16)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.16)
84
EARC Trust SC 442
(0.00)%
(0.48)
(0.00)%
(0.26)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.26)
85
EARC Trust SC 443
(0.00)%
(0.02)
(0.00)%
(0.05)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.05)
86
EARC Trust SC 444
0.00%
2.37
0.01%
0.42
 -
 -
0.01%
0.42
87
EARC Trust SC 445
(0.09)%
(57.17)
(1.08)%
(57.17)
 -
 -
(0.85)%
(57.17)
88
EARC Trust SC 447
(0.06)%
(35.75)
(0.53)%
(27.95)
 -
 -
(0.41)%
(27.95)
89
EARC Trust SC 448
0.00%
0.40
0.00%
0.13
 -
 -
0.00%
0.13
90
EARC Trust SC 449
0.00%
0.19
0.00%
0.03
 -
 -
0.00%
0.03
91
EARC Trust SC 451
(0.03)%
(20.48)
(0.20)%
(10.63)
 -
 -
(0.16)%
(10.63)
92
EARC Trust SC 452
0.01%
7.74
0.15%
8.09
 -
 -
0.12%
8.09
93
EARC Trust SC 453
0.08%
50.73
0.96%
50.73
 -
 -
0.75%
50.73
94
EARC Trust SC 455
(0.14)%
(81.76)
(1.55)%
(81.78)
 -
 -
(1.21)%
(81.78)
95
EARC Trust SC 456
(0.00)%
(0.08)
(0.00)%
(0.08)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.08)
58.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF 
ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY (CONTINUED)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e. Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
 Share in  
Profit or Loss
 Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
 Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
 As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
 As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in 
Millions)
96
EARC Trust SC 459
0.00%
(1.72)
(0.04)%
(2.00)
 -
 -
(0.03)%
(2.00)
97
EARC Trust SC 461
0.03%
17.34
0.20%
10.37
 -
 -
0.15%
10.37
98
EARC Trust SC 462
(0.04)%
(21.76)
0.53%
27.86
 -
 -
0.41%
27.86
99
EARC Trust SC 464
(0.04)%
(24.41)
(0.46)%
(24.41)
 -
 -
(0.36)%
(24.41)
100
EARC Trust SC 470
0.00%
(1.44)
(0.03)%
(1.44)
 -
 -
(0.02)%
(1.44)
101
EARC Trust SC 477
0.00%
0.53
0.00%
0.20
 -
 -
0.00%
0.20
102
EARC Trust SC 481
0.00%
0.18
0.01%
0.45
 -
 -
0.01%
0.45
103
EARC Trust SC 482
0.00%
0.96
0.02%
1.29
 -
 -
0.02%
1.29
104
EARC Trust SC 483
0.00%
1.13
0.03%
1.33
 -
 -
0.02%
1.33
105
EARC Trust SC 484
0.00%
0.17
0.00%
0.21
 -
 -
0.00%
0.21
106
EARC Trust SC 486
0.17%
102.52
1.94%
102.52
 -
 -
1.52%
102.52
107
EARC Trust SC 488
0.00%
2.43
0.05%
2.43
 -
 -
0.04%
2.43
108
EARC Trust SC 489
0.00%
0.93
0.02%
0.93
 -
 -
0.01%
0.93
109
EARC Trust SC 492
(0.00)%
(0.13)
(0.00)%
(0.13)
 -
 -
(0.00)%
(0.13)
110
EARC Trust SC 493
(0.00)%
(0.53)
(0.01)%
(0.53)
 -
 -
(0.01)%
(0.53)
Non-Controlling Interests
21.27%
12,869.24
20.33%
1,073.47
24.78%
361.52
21.29%
1,434.99
Adjustments arising out of 
consolidation
(258.31)% (156,289.49)
(68.77)%
(3,628.03)
7.68%
112.21
(52.18)%
(3,515.82)
Total
 100.00%
 60,492.85
 100.00%
 5,280.47
 100.00%
1,458.95
 100.00%
6,739.42
0.00 indicates amount less than ` 0.01 million
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
379
380
59.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE 
COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI))
a.
Life insurance and Investment Contract Liability
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total 
gross 
liabilities
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total 
gross 
liabilities
Insurance Contract Liability
Life
 18,498.75
 19,819.64
 40,115.21
 78,433.60
 13,594.11
 16,384.15
 32,349.80
 62,328.06
Health
 -
 -
 75.34
 75.34
 -
 -
 70.46
 70.46
Annuity
 -
 -
 757.05
 757.05
 -
 -
 693.80
 693.80
Pension
 1,279.05
 315.81
 -
 1,594.86
 1,182.54
 282.09
 -
 1,464.63
Total
 19,777.80
 20,135.45
 40,947.60
 80,860.85
 14,776.65
 16,666.24
 33,114.06
 64,556.95
Investment Contract Liability
Life
 -
 1,052.72
 111.71
 1,164.43
 -
 997.08
 114.53
 1,111.61
Health
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Annuity
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Pension
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 -
 1,052.72
 111.71
 1,164.43
 -
 997.08
 114.53
 1,111.61
b.
Movement of life insurance contract liabilities
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
Gross Liability at the beginning of the year
 14,776.65
 16,666.24
 33,114.06
 64,556.95
 11,200.70
 16,409.82
 26,492.09
 54,102.61
Add/(Less)
Premium
 5,864.69
 3,641.06
 9,752.85
 19,258.60
 5,044.15
 3,140.66
 8,578.74
 16,763.55
Unwinding of the discount / Interest credited
 2,128.33
 5,159.53
 2,524.89
 9,812.75
 673.06
 262.40
 2,011.77
 2,947.23
Changes in valuation for expected future 
benefits
(2,445.35)
(516.21)
(3,933.99)
(6,895.55)
(1,840.73)
(493.71)
(2,977.72)
(5,312.16)
Insurance liabilities released
(612.85)
(4,750.88)
(398.50)
(5,762.23)
(172.28)
(2,605.58)
(780.69)
(3,558.55)
Undistributed Participating Policyholders 
surplus (UPPS)
 74.08
 -
 -
 74.08
 95.34
 -
 -
 95.34
Change in other Liabilities
(7.75)
(64.29)
(111.71)
(183.75)
(223.59)
(47.35)
(210.13)
(481.07)
Gross Liability at the end of the year
 19,777.80
 20,135.45
 40,947.60
 80,860.85
 14,776.65
 16,666.24
 33,114.06
 64,556.95
59.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE 
COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
c.
Investment contract liabilities without DPF are stated at fair value
The investment contracts measured at fair value are mainly unit linked in structure and the fair value of the liability is equal to the unit reserve plus 
additional non-unit reserves, if required, on a fair value basis. These contracts are classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy when the unit reserve 
is calculated as the publicly quoted unit price multiplied by the number of units in issue and any non-unit reserve is insignificant. Where the unit price 
is not publicly-available these contracts are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy provided the additional non-unit reserve is an insignificant 
input to the valuation. Where the non-unit reserve is a significant input in the valuation, the contracts are classified at Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. 
The Company takes credit risk into account in assessing the fair value of the liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities without DPF are further analysed as follows
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
At the beginning of the year
 997.08
 114.53
 1,111.61
 884.09
 458.63
 1,342.72
Additions
Premium
 59.61
 2.70
 62.31
 138.33
 2.83
 141.16
Interest and Bonus credited to policyholders
 164.96
 7.82
 172.78
 46.94
 17.68
 64.62
Others
 0.06
 0.10
 0.16
 0.03
 (0.52)
 (0.49)
Deductions
Withdrawals / Claims
(152.59)
(13.35)
(165.94)
(57.50)
(363.47)
 (420.97)
Fee Income and Other Expenses
(16.40)
(0.09)
(16.49)
(14.81)
(0.62)
 (15.43)
At the end of the year
 1,052.72
 111.71
 1,164.43
 997.08
 114.53
 1,111.61
Change in insurance contract liabilities
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
With DPF
Linked 
Business
Others
Total
a)	
Policy Liabilities (Gross)
5,001.15
3,469.21
7,833.53
 16,303.89
 3,575.94
 256.42
 6,621.97
 10,454.33
b)	
Amount ceded in reinsurance
 -
(0.01)
(260.29)
(260.30)
 -
(0.14)
419.22
419.08
c)	
Amount accepted in reinsurance
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Net change in insurance contract liabilities
 5,001.15
 3,469.20
 7,573.24
 16,043.59
 3,575.94
 256.28
 7,041.19
 10,873.41
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
381
382
59.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS 
TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
c.
Investment contract liabilities without DPF are stated at fair value (Continued)
Change in Reinsurance assets
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Opening Reinsurance Assets
 3,013.36
 3,432.77
Premium
 380.60
 360.89
Unwinding of the Discount/Interest Credited
 206.53
 236.27
Change in Valuation for expected future benefits
(605.96)
(695.07)
Insurance Liabilities released
279.46
(321.50)
Closing Reinsurance Assets
 3,273.99
 3,013.36
At 31 March 2024, the ETLI conducted an impairment review of the reinsurance assets and there is no impairment 
loss for the year.
During the year, the ETLI entered into reinsurance arrangements that resulted in profit of ` 8.08 million for the financial 
year 2023-24 (PY ` 72.58 million). This profit has been reflected in the statement of profit or loss.
At 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no impaired reinsurance assets.
d.	
Key Assumptions
	
Liabilities for life insurance policies are determined by the Appointed Actuary in accordance with the IRDAI regulations 
and relevant actuarial practice standards & guidance notes issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India. For Unit Linked 
(UL) business, separate unit and non-unit reserve is maintained. The unit reserve is the current value of the assets 
underlying the unit funds and the non-unit reserve is kept to meet the liabilities due to the cost of insurance, expenses, 
commissions etc. in excess of future charges. For discontinued policies under UL products the fund is transferred to 
a separate discontinuance fund as per IRDAI regulations and the same has been kept as reserves. Further, for the 
discontinuance polices, the non-unit reserves are also kept.
	
The reserves/ liabilities under non-linked business is calculated using a prospective gross premium method of 
valuation. The reserves are established having regard to the assumptions as to future experience, including the interest 
rate that will be earned on premiums not yet received and future bonus rates for participating business. Assumptions 
as to the future bonus rates are set to be consistent with the interest rate assumptions. For participating policies, the 
valuation interest rate used is 6.00% (no change from last year). For non-par policies, the valuation interest rate ranges 
between 5.58% - 7.07% ( PY 5.58% - 7.07%) for the first 5 years and 4.00% - 6.28% ( PY 4.00% - 6.28%) thereafter 
(for annuity, 2% assumed for year greater than 50 years).
	
The lapse assumptions are based on various factors namely the actual experience, credibility of the experience, 
pricing assumptions, trend from actual experience and consistency from past year’s assumptions. For lapsed policies, 
revival reserves are maintained (till the policies are within the revival year) assuming a probability of revival at 10% for 
non-par policies and 15% for par policies will be revived.
59.	 KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS 
TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
d.	
Key Assumptions (Continued)
	
Mortality assumptions are set with reference to the published IALM (2012-2014) Ultimate Mortality Table. The 
mortality assumptions are based on various factors namely the actual experience, credibility of the experience, pricing 
assumptions, trend from actual experience and consistency from past year’s assumptions. For annuity product, mortality 
rates are set with reference to the IIAM 12-15 - Indian Individual Annuitant Mortality Table (2012-15). Assumptions for 
morbidity and incidence of accidental death are based on terms available from reinsurers and the standard morbidity 
rate table CIBT 93 (Critical Illness Base Table for year 93).
	
Assumptions for future expenses are considered as per the file & use assumptions (which are derived from long term 
business plan of the Company) or similar existing product assumptions and these expenses escalated each year 
by 5.00% p.a. (previous year 5.00%) to allow for inflation. An additional reserve has been included to allow for the 
contingency of closure to new business and to cover maintenance expense overrun.
	
Commission has been allowed for at the rates specified in the products file and use.
	
Further it has been ensured that for each policy the reserve is sufficient to pay the surrender value.
	
For participating products, terminal bonuses are provisioned such that the reserves are at least equal to asset share 
at product level.
	
The provisions have been made for incurred but not reported death claims (IBNR), free look reserve, unearned premium 
reserve of the extra premium collected etc.
	
Free look assumption has been set based on the actual cancellation experience observed by the company for all lines 
of business, trend of the experience in the last few years and consistency of the rate in comparison to the past year. 
The assumption of free look rate is set at 4% this year (no change from last year).
	
For riders, both unearned premium and gross premium reserves are calculated and the higher of these two is held as 
reserve. For OYRGTL plan (One Year Renewable Group Term Life), the Unearned Premium Reserve is calculated as 
premium for the unexpired duration. In addition, the premium deficiency reserve and IBNR is also kept for OYRGTL.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
383
384
59.	 KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS 
TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
d.	
Key Assumptions (Continued)
Portfolio assumptions impacting net 
liabilities
Range
FY 31 March 2024
FY 31 March 2023
Mortality rates (as a % of Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality (2006-08))**
Max
227% (Without MAD)*
230% (Without MAD)*
Min
30% (Without MAD)
28% (Without MAD)
Discount/ interest rates***
Max
8% (Without MAD)
8% (Without MAD)
Min
7.25% (Without MAD)
7.25% (Without MAD)
Expense****
Max
10,775 (INFL @5%) 
(without MAD)
21 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD) for micro Insurance 
plan
10262 (INFL @5%) (without 
MAD)
20 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD) for micro Insurance 
plan
Min
319 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD)
13 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD) for micro Insurance 
plan
304 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD)
13 (INFL @ 5%) (without 
MAD) for micro Insurance 
plan
MAD*
Mortality: Mortality: 15%;
Mortality: Mortality: 10%; 
additional 5% MAD to cater 
COVID-19 pandemic risk
Interest: 72.5 - 575 bps
Interest: 78 - 575 bps
Expenses: 10%
Expenses: 10%
* Margin for Adverse Deviation (MAD) is over and above the base rate mentioned above.
** Mortality rates (excluding annuity products) are expressed as % of Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) and 
for annuity it is expressed as % of IIAM 12-15 - Indian Individual Annuitant Mortality Table (2012-15). Further in 
Annuity plans, Mortality improvement of 1% per annum till attained age of 64 and 0.5% per annum thereafter has 
been assumed from the current rates.
*** Under Unit linked, for unit growth rate (i.e. Investment return) weighted average growth rate of various unit funds 
is used.
**** The value of future expenses has been derived to allow for all the future maintenance expenses as applicable 
namely fixed per policy, renewal premium (0%-2%)/ commission (0%-25%) related, fund (0%-0.25%) related etc. 
The limits for fixed per policy expenses are as mentioned above in the table.
59.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS 
TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
e.
Sensitivity Analysis
The following analysis is performed for reasonably possible movements in key assumptions with all other assumptions 
held constant, showing the impact on gross liabilities.
The correlation of assumptions will have a significant effect in determining the ultimate claims liabilities, but to 
demonstrate the impact due to changes in assumptions, assumptions had to be changed on an individual basis. 
It should be noted that movements in these assumptions are non–linear. The method used for deriving sensitivity 
information and significant assumptions made did not change from the previous year. The sensitivities are same as 
shared with Regulators during annual reporting.
For Year Ended 31 March 2024
Sensitivity Parameters
Gross Liability
Insurance Contracts
Investment Contracts
With DPF
Linked
Others
Linked
Others
Mortality increased by 10%
 19,864.86
 20,137.48
 42,291.19
 1,052.74
 111.73
Mortality decreased by 10%
 19,767.65
 20,134.02
 39,596.20
 1,052.71
 111.69
Lapses increased by 10%
 19,770.80
 20,135.18
 40,519.04
 1,052.72
 111.71
Lapses decreased by 10%
 19,909.75
 20,135.75
 41,401.57
 1,052.73
 111.71
Expenses increased by 10%
 19,845.72
 20,135.94
 41,112.24
 1,052.73
 111.71
Expenses decreased by 10%
 19,767.44
 20,135.06
 40,782.21
 1,052.71
 111.70
Interest Rate increased by 100 bps
 18,137.48
 20,134.76
 33,705.86
 1,052.71
 111.70
Interest Rate decreased by 100 bps
 21,798.21
 20,136.47
 50,842.84
 1,052.73
 111.71
Inflation Rate increased by 100 bps
 19,840.79
 20,135.96
 41,111.44
 1,052.72
 111.71
Inflation Rate decreased by 100 bps
 19,771.52
 20,135.19
 40,799.71
 1,052.72
 111.70
For Year Ended 31 March 2023
Sensitivity Parameters
Gross Liability
Insurance Contracts
Investment Contracts
With DPF
Linked
Others
Linked
Others
Mortality increased by 10%
 14,785.10
 16,669.22
 34,428.91
 997.08
 114.54
Mortality decreased by 10%
 14,773.24
 16,664.32
 31,797.65
 997.08
 114.52
Lapses increased by 10%
 14,775.69
 16,665.84
 32,693.93
 997.08
 114.53
Lapses decreased by 10%
 14,781.76
 16,666.70
 33,560.48
 997.08
 114.53
Expenses increased by 10%
 14,782.15
 16,667.01
 33,273.18
 997.08
 114.54
Expenses decreased by 10%
 14,773.15
 16,665.66
 32,954.29
 997.07
 114.53
Interest Rate increased by 100 bps
 13,503.10
 16,606.55
 26,725.63
 969.31
 114.53
Interest Rate decreased by 100 bps
 16,339.21
 16,729.64
 41,593.24
 1,027.16
 114.53
Inflation Rate increased by 100 bps
 14,778.60
 16,667.03
 33,259.50
 997.08
 114.53
Inflation Rate decreased by 100 bps
 14,774.84
 16,665.90
 32,983.52
 997.08
 114.53
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
385
386
59.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS (EDELWEISS 
TOKIO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (ETLI)) (CONTINUED)
Gross premiums on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Life Insurance
 19,259.37
 16,764.25
Total Gross Premiums
 19,259.37
 16,764.25
Premiums ceded to reinsurers on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Life Insurance
(380.60)
(360.89)
Total premiums ceded to reinsurers
(380.60)
(360.89)
Net benefits and claims
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
a.	
Gross benefits and claims paid
	
Life insurance contracts
7,236.28
 4,325.78
	
Investment contracts with DPF
 -
 -
	
Total gross benefits and claims paid
 7,236.28
 4,325.78
b.	
Claims ceded to reinsurers
	
Life insurance contracts
(320.47)
(393.30)
	
Investment contracts with DPF
 -
 -
	
Total claims ceded to reinsurers
(320.47)
(393.30)
	
Net benefits and claims
 6,915.81
 3,932.48
60.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS (ZUNO 
GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (ZGIL) (FORMERLY KNOWN AS EDELWEISS 
GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED))
Contract Liability for General Insurance business
Premium earned
Gross Premium on insurance contracts
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross written Premium
 8,509.70
 5,517.39
Change in reserve for unexpired risks
 (2,356.27)
 (872.11)
Gross Earned Premium (a)
 6,153.43
 4,645.28
Premium ceded to reinsurers on insurance contracts
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Premium on reinsurance ceded
 3,263.24
 1,818.77
Change in reserve for unexpired risks
 (1,152.06)
 (243.40)
Premium ceded to reinsurers (b)
 2,111.18
 1,575.37
Total Premium Earned (net) (a - b)
 4,042.25
 3,069.91
Change in actuarial liability
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross Claim Paid
 3,073.47
 2,458.25
Claims Ceded to reinsurer on Gross Claims Paid
 (613.08)
 (461.46)
Net Claims Paid
 2,460.39
 1,996.79
Change in Gross Claims Outstanding
 826.09
 259.28
Change in Cededing to reinsurer on Gross Claims Outstanding
 (549.59)
 (124.62)
Net Claims Outstanding
 2,736.89
 2,131.45
Change in Gross IBNR
 1,009.27
 714.87
Change in Cededing to reinsurer on Gross IBNR
 (405.45)
 (322.43)
Net IBNR
 603.82
 392.44
Change in Gross Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 -
Change in Cededing to reinsurer on Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 -
Net Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 -
Change in actuarial liability
 603.82
 392.44
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
387
388
60.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS (ZUNO 
GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (ZGIL) (FORMERLY KNOWN AS EDELWEISS 
GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED)) (CONTINUED)
Reinsurance asset
Particular
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Reinsurance on Insurance Contract
 3,930.66
 1,766.25
Gross Insurance contract liabilities
 9,926.31
 5,736.10
Reinsurance asset relating to Insurance contracts
 (4,137.79)
 (2,030.69)
Net Insurance contract liabilities
 5,788.52
 3,705.41
Gross Insurance contract liabilities
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross Claims Outstanding
 1,527.72
 701.63
Gross IBNR
 3,383.83
 2,374.56
Gross Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 1.42
Gross Reserve for unexpired risks
 5,014.77
 2,658.49
Gross Insurance contract liabilities
 9,926.32
 5,736.10
Reinsurance asset relating to Insurance contracts
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Reinsurance of Claims Outstanding
 760.38
 210.79
Reinsurance of IBNR
 1,201.85
 796.40
Reinsurance of Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 -
Reinsurance of Reserve for unexpired risks
 2,175.55
 1,023.49
Reinsurance of Insurance contract liabilities
 4,137.78
 2,030.68
Net Insurance contract liabilities
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Net Claims Outstanding
 767.33
 490.83
Net IBNR
 2,181.98
 1,578.16
Net Premium deficiency Reserve
 -
 1.42
Net Reserve for unexpired risks
 2,839.22
 1,635.00
Net Insurance contract liabilities
 5,788.53
 3,705.41
Reconciliation of Claims Outstanding
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross Claims Outstanding at the beginning of year
 701.63
 442.34
Gross Change in claims reserve
 826.09
 259.28
Gross Claims Outstanding at the end of year
 1,527.72
 701.62
Reinsurance of Claims Outstanding at the beginning of year
 210.79
 86.17
Reinsurance of Change in claims reserve
 549.59
 124.62
Reinsurance of Claims Outstanding at the end of year
 760.38
 210.79
Net Claims Outstanding at the beginning of year
 490.83
 356.18
Net Change in claims reserve
 276.50
 134.66
Net Claims Outstanding at the end of year
 767.33
490.84
60.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS (ZUNO 
GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (ZGIL) (FORMERLY KNOWN AS EDELWEISS 
GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED)) (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of Incurred but not reported (IBNR)
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross IBNR Outstanding at the beginning of year
 2,374.56
 1,659.69
Gross Change in IBNR reserve
 1,009.27
 714.87
Gross IBNR Outstanding at the end of year
 3,383.83
 2,374.56
Reinsurance of IBNR Outstanding at the beginning of year
 796.40
 473.97
Reinsurance of Change in IBNR reserve
 405.45
 322.43
Reinsurance of IBNR Outstanding at the end of year
 1,201.85
 796.40
Net IBNR Outstanding at the beginning of year
 1,578.16
 1,185.71
Net Change in IBNR reserve
 603.82
 392.45
Net IBNR Outstanding at the end of year
 2,181.98
 1,578.16
Reconciliation of Premium deficiency Reserve
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the beginning of year
 1.42
 1.42
Gross Change in Premium deficiency reserve
 (1.42)
 -
Gross Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the end of year
 -
 1.42
Reinsurance of Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the 
beginning of year
 -
-
Reinsurance of Change in Premium deficiency reserve
 -
-
Reinsurance of Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the end of year
 -
-
Net Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the beginning of year
 1.42
 1.42
Net Change in Premium deficiency reserve
 (1.42)
 -
Net Premium deficiency Reserve Outstanding at the end of year
 -
 1.42
Reserve for unexpired risks
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Gross Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the beginning of year
 2,658.50
 1,786.39
Gross Change in Reserve for unexpired risks reserve
 2,356.27
 872.11
Gross Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the end of year
 5,014.77
 2,658.50
Reinsurance of Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the beginning 
of year
 1,023.49
 780.09
Reinsurance of Change in Reserve for unexpired risks reserve
 1,152.06
 243.40
Reinsurance of Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the end 
of year
 2,175.55
1,023.49
Net Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the beginning of year
 1,635.01
 1,006.30
Net Change in Reserve for unexpired risks reserve
 1,204.21
 628.71
Net Reserve for unexpired risks Outstanding at the end of year
 2,839.22
 1,635.01
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
389
390
60.
KEY DISCLOSURES RELATED TO GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS (ZUNO 
GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (ZGIL) (FORMERLY KNOWN AS EDELWEISS 
GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED)) (CONTINUED)
Geographical concentration:
The ZGIL has its operation only in India.
Sensitivity Analysis to key assumptions
The following analysis is performed for reasonably possible movements in ‘Ultimate Loss ratio’ with all other 
assumptions held constant, showing the impact on gross and \net liabilities, profit before tax and equity.
The correlation of assumptions will have a significant effect in determining the ultimate claims liabilities, but to 
demonstrate the impact due to changes in assumptions, assumptions had to be changed on an individual basis. It 
should be noted that movements in these assumptions are linear. The method used for deriving sensitivity information 
and significant assumptions made did not change from the previous year.
2023-24
Change in 
Assumption
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Gross Liability
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Net Liability
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Profit Before 
Tax
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Equity
Ultimate Loss Ratio
10.00%
 879.86
 1,155.62
 1,155.62
 -
Ultimate Loss Ratio
(10.00)%
(879.86)
(1,155.62)
(1,155.62)
 -
2022-23
Change in 
Assumption
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Gross Liability
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Net Liability
Increase / 
(Decrease) on 
Profit Before 
Tax
Increase / 
(Decrease) 
on 
Equity
Ultimate Loss Ratio
10.00%
 575.90
 620.85
 620.85
 -
Ultimate Loss Ratio
(10.00)%
(575.90)
(620.85)
(620.85)
 -
OTHER ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION
61.	 DETAILS OF BENAMI PROPERTY HELD
	
The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group 
for holding any Benami property.
62.	 SECURITY OF CURRENT ASSETS AGAINST BORROWINGS
	
The Group has borrowings from banks or financial institutions against security of current assets. Quarterly return and 
statements filed by the Group with lender banks or financial institutions are in agreement with the books of account of 
the Group, wherever applicable.
OTHER ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
63.	 WILFUL DEFAULTER
	
The Group is not declared as wilful defaulter by any bank or financial Institution or other lender.
64.
TRANSACTIONS WITH STRUCK OFF COMPANIES
Name of the struck-off Company
Nature of transactions with 
struck-off Company
Relationship 
with the 
struck-off 
Company
Balance 
Outstanding 
as on 31 
March 2024
Balance 
Outstanding 
as on 31 
March 2023
Glossy Creations Private Limited
Receivables
-
 -
 0.59
Shams Cable Network
Office Exps
-
 -
 -
City Elevators Private Limited
Receivable
-
 -
 0.15
Emicon India Private Limited
Receivable
-
 -
 0.09
Spectrum Washing Private Limited
Receivable
-
 -
 0.13
Viva Concrete Technologies Private 
Limited
Receivable
-
 -
 0.54
Aditi Financial Services
Payable
-
 0.03
 -
Suraj Petroleum
Receivable
-
 2.94
 -
Shri Sham Fisheries
Receivable
-
 0.39
 -
Medifit Health & Fitness Private 
Limited
Receivables
-
 -
 0.44
M S Clothing
Receivables
-
 0.24
 -
S M Enterprises
Receivables
-
 0.05
 -
Godavari Traders
Receivables
-
 0.11
 -
Ayuh Meditech Solutions Pvt Ltd
Receivables
-
 0.07
 -
Sri Sai Simhadri Tyres
Receivables
-
 0.10
 -
Arihant Capital Markets Ltd.
Payables
-
 -
 0.00
SPA Capital Services Ltd
Payables
-
 -
 0.07
Marvel Limited
Commission Income
 -
 -
 -
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
Commission Income
 -
 -
 -
Four Seasons Hotel
Professional Fees
 -
 -
 -
Indian Overseas Bank
Commission & Brokerage Exps
 -
 -
 0.00
Anahat Organisation Development 
Consultancy Pvt Ltd
Professional Fees
 -
 -
 -
Maruti Infrastructure Limited
Retention Money Payable
-
 -
 3.66
M R D ENTERPRISES
Repairs & Maintenance
-
 -
 -
Nucsoft Limited
Other Expense
-
 -
 -
Kamal Enterprises
Miscellaneous Expense
-
 -
 -
0.00 indicates amount less than ` 0.01 million
65.	
The Group is in compliance with number of layers of companies, as prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
391
392
OTHER ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
66.	 UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS AND SHARE PREMIUM
	
A)	
During the year, the Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall :
	
	
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company/Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
	
	
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security, or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
	
(B)	 During the year, the Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Funding Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
	
	
(ii) 	 provide any guarantee, security, or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
67.	 UNDISCLOSED INCOME
	
The Group does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or 
survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
68.	 DETAILS OF CRYPTO CURRENCY OR VIRTUAL CURRENCY
	
The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
OTHER ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
69.	 LOANS & ADVANCES	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
There are no loans or advances in the nature of loans which are granted to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related 
parties (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person that are; (a) 
repayable on demand or (b) without specifying any terms or period of repayment, except below;
As at 31 March 2024
Type of Borrowers
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature of 
loan outstanding
Aggregate amount of 
loans/ advances in nature 
of loans
Percentage to the total 
Loans and Advances in 
the nature of loans*
Promoters
 -
 -
 -
Directors
 -
 -
 -
KMPs
 -
 5.00
0.01%
As at 31 March 2023
Type of Borrowers
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature of 
loan outstanding
Aggregate amount of 
loans/ advances in nature 
of loans
Percentage to the total 
Loans and Advances in 
the nature of loans*
Promoters
 -
 -
 -
Directors
 -
 -
 -
KMPs
 -
 -
 -
* Percentage of aggregate loans granted during the year
70.	
The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which subsumes the Provident Fund and the 
Gratuity Act and rules there under. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has also released draft rules thereunder 
on 13 November 2020 and has invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under active consideration by the 
Ministry. The Group will evaluate the rules, assess the impact if any, and account for the same once the rules are 
notified and become effective.
71.	
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited (NCSL), a former associate, received a show cause notice and order from NSE 
Clearing Ltd (NCL) in the matter of Anugrah Stock and Broking Pvt. Ltd (Anugrah or Trading member) and Vrise 
Securities Pvt. Limited. Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has upheld NCL order on 15 December 2023. NCSL 
has appealed against the SAT order at the Supreme Court of India, asserting compliance with all relevant laws and 
regulations. The appeal is in the process of admission with the Supreme Court of India. The Company has obtained 
legal opinion on the matter and the Company believes that the NCSL will receive a favourable order in this regard. 
Accordingly, there is no adjustment required in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
393
394
OTHER ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
72.	
Under the Shareholders’ Agreement dated 05 March 2019, entered between Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
(EFSL), CDPQ Private Equity Asia PTE. Limited (CDPQ) and ECL Finance Limited (together referred as Parties), EFSL 
had agreed, pursuant to clause 8.1 & 8.2 to make equity investment of an amount equivalent to the amount of losses 
on Select real estate/structured finance Loans (Select Loans) into ECL Finance Limited within six months of the default 
leading to loss incurred by the ECL Finance Limited on or before the date of the conversion of the Investor CCDs 
into Equity Shares. The rationale for this undertaking was to keep the total equity/net worth of ECL Finance Limited 
unimpacted on account of impairment in the select loan accounts. During the previous year ended 31 March 2023, 
Parties have agreed and concluded that loss event for three of the borrowers in the Select Loans have crystalized and 
hence, EFSL has agreed to make good the loss amounting to ` 1,295.20 million incurred by ECL Finance Limited in 
earlier years. Accordingly, EFSL has recorded such loss in its profit and loss for the year ended 31 March 2023. The 
Parties have agreed that no loss event has been crystalized in respect of other Select Loans amounts mentioned in 
above said clauses of the agreement and hence there is no obligation of EFSL.
73.1 	The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 14 May 2024, have recommended a final dividend of ` 1.50 per equity 
share (on face value of ` 1 per equity share), subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting.
73.2 	During the year, the Company has declared and paid the final dividend of ` 1.25 per equity share (on face value of ` 1 
per equity share) for the financial year ended 31 March 2023, based on the approval of the members of the Company 
at the Annual General Meeting held on 26 September 2023.
74.	
During the year, two subsidiaries of the Group, ECL Finance Limited and Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited (subsidiaries), 
due to the change in the existing rights attached to the financial instrument, the investment in Security Receipts 
(“SRs”) which were previously measured at fair value through profit and loss, were derecognized and revised terms of 
rights in SRs representing residual interest in the trust (“SR Instrument - Equity”) have been recognized and measured 
at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI - Equity). Further, during the year ended 31 March 2024, 
these subsidiaries has taken impact of ` (11.20) million (net of tax) on SRs in other comprehensive income pertaining 
to exited Portfolio.
	
During the previous year ended 31 March 2023, two subsidiaries of the Company had sold certain financial assets 
amounting to ` 16,718.90 million (net of provisions) to various asset reconstructions company trusts (‘ARC Trusts’) 
and acquired security receipts (SR) amounting to ` 5,227,20 million from these ARC Trusts. Ind AS 109 – ‘Financial 
Instruments’, prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, requires substantially all risks and rewards to 
be transferred for the purpose of de-recognition of such financial assets from these subsidiaries financial statements. 
The Company had undertaken substantially all risks and rewards in respect of such financial assets. As a result, these 
financial assets were de-recognized in the subsidiaries financial statements. Based on assessment of probability of 
default, loss given default in respect of these financial assets (i.e. sold during the year ended 31 March 2023 and in 
earlier years) and in light of various factors viz. exposures to certain sectors and assessment of credit and market risks 
for certain counter parties relative to such risks at initial recognition, the Group has recorded charge due to change in 
valuation of POCI loans of  2,693.00 million (net) for the year ended and is included in “Change in valuation of credit 
impaired loans”.
75.	
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 13 May 2022, had approved the Scheme of arrangement 
between Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (‘EFSL’) and Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as 
Edelweiss Securities Limited) (‘NWML’) and their respective shareholders and creditors (‘the Scheme’), under section 
230 to 232 read with section 52 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which inter-alia envisaged 
demerger of Wealth Management Business Undertaking (‘Demerged Undertaking ‘as defined in the Scheme) of EFSL 
into the NWML and issue of shares of NWML to the shareholders of EFSL pursuant to demerger.
	
The National Company Law Tribunal Bench at Mumbai (Tribunal ) has approved the Scheme on 27 April 2023. The 
certified copy of the order of the Tribunal approving the Scheme was received by the Company on 12 May 2023 and 
was filed with the Registrar of Companies on 18 May 2023 (‘Effective Date’). As per the Scheme, the Appointed Date 
of the Scheme is same as Effective Date i.e., 18 May 2023. Pursuant to the Scheme, the equity share capital of NWML 
held by EFSL stand cancelled. Further, NWML has allotted 1,05,28,746 equity shares to the shareholders of EFSL as 
on the record date as per the Scheme. In accordance with Appendix A of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 10 
Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners and as per the scheme, the distribution of non-cash assets to shareholders 
of the Company and carrying value of net assets of Wealth Management Business Undertaking have been adjusted 
against the Retained Earnings amounting to ` 23,531.81 million. In view of above, the financial statements of the 
current year are after giving effect of the Scheme as on appointed date i.e.,18th May 2023 and hence previous year 
numbers are not comparable to that extent. Further, on account of demerger, Company has accounted for net gain 
amounting to ` 83.20 million during the current year ended 31 March 2024.
As per the Scheme, Company transferred assets and liabilities of Demerged Undertaking to the NWML and Company 
derecognised all assets and liabilities of Demerged Undertaking using acquisition method.
Particulars
Amount in millions
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 20.00
Trade Receivables
 73.38
Investments
 23,531.80
Other financial assets
 264.92
Total financial assets (A)
 23,890.10
Non-financial assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
 0.79
Other non-financial assets
 225.37
Total Non-financial assets (B)
 226.16
TOTAL ASSETS (C)= ((A)+(B))
 24,116.26
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade Payables
 35.64
Other financial liabilities
 353.10
Total financial liabilities (D)
 388.74
Non-financial liabilities
Current tax liabilities (net)
-
Provisions
 14.16
Other non-financial liabilities
 181.55
Total non-financial liabilities (E)
 195.71
TOTAL LIABILITIES (F)=((D)+(E))
 584.45
Networth Adjusted to Equity on account of demerger (G)= ((C)-(F))
 23,531.81
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
395
396
To the Members of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial statements of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (“the 
Company”), which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024 and the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss, including the Standalone Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, Standalone Statement of Cash Flows and 
the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024 and its Standalone Profit including Other Comprehensive Income, its Standalone 
Cash Flows and the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as 
specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the standalone financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have 
fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements 
section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures 
designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The 
results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our 
audit opinion on the accompanying standalone financial statements.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED) 
 
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
 
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
76. 
During the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, an investor has invested in Security receipts issued by 
ARC trusts as senior class investor in such trusts amounting to ` 3,250 million and ` 12,000 million respectively. These 
pertain to certain loans and security receipts sold by one of the subsidiary company, ECL Finance Limited to the ARC 
trusts. EFSL and another subsidiary company, Edelweiss Securities and Investments Private Limited (“ESIPL”) have 
provided a Put option to the investor assuring to pay or guarantee the payment of agreed aggregated total pay-out 
value after reducing any payment to investors from underlying assets during the period i.e., amount invested along with 
a minimum guaranteed return as per the agreement. Further, based on management assessment and given current 
estimates/cash flows from underlying assets, the likelihood of any payment to investor is considered as remote. 
Further, as the risks and rewards continues in the Group, these are accounted as financial assets in the consolidated 
financial statements and the consequent expected credit loss is recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
77. 
ECap Equities Limited (Ecap), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has entered into an agreement dated 28 
November 2019, pursuant to which upon happening of a contingency whereupon if the investors who have subscribed 
for a majority in the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) to which ECL Finance Limited (ECLF) and Nido Home Finance 
Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited) (NHFL), subsidiaries of the Group have sold financial 
assets does not receive the agreed IRR (IRR) as per the agreement in which case Ecap shall be required to either 
arrange for a buyer thereof and/or purchase the assets at IRR.
78. 
The Group has complied with the Rule 3 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 amended on 05 August 2022 relating 
to maintenance of electronic books of account and other relevant books and papers. The Group’s books of accounts 
and relevant books and papers are accessible in India at all times and backup of accounts and other relevant books 
and papers are maintained in electronic mode within India and kept in servers physically located in India on daily basis.
79. 
Change in valuation of credit impaired loans represents valuation movement of loans of consolidated ARC trusts.
80. 
ECL Finance Limited (ECLF), the subsidiary’s Board of Directors in their meeting have approved the decision of ECLF 
to exit the Real Estate and Structured Finance business (“Portfolio”) and reduce the underlying loan portfolio in the 
near to mid-term. Consequently, the ECLF business model with respect to the Portfolio has changed from ‘hold to 
collect’ to ‘hold to collect and sell’. As per the requirements of Ind AS 109 “Financial Instruments, effective from 01 
January 2024, consequent to these change the Group has reclassified Portfolio measured at amortised cost to fair 
value through other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
81.  The Group has process whereby periodically all long term contract (including derivative contracts) are assessed for 
material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Group has reviewed and ensured that adequate provisions as required 
under any law / accounting standard for material foreseeable losses on such long terms contracts (including derivative 
contract) has been made in the books of accounts.
82.  Previous year’s figures have been regrouped / reclassified to conform to current year presentation. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
397
398
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment of investments in subsidiary companies 
(As described in Note 1.4.1.3 and Note 6 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company has investments in various subsidiaries 
aggregating ` 46,001.90 million which are not listed 
(equity) or quoted. These investments are valued at 
cost and are required to be assessed for impairment 
in accordance with Ind AS 36, when any indicators of 
impairment are observed.
In carrying out such impairment assessment, a 
significant judgement of the management is involved 
in estimating the investee company’s “value in use”, 
in accordance with Ind AS 36. Estimation of the value 
in use requires the management to apply appropriate 
assumptions with respect to the growth rates for 
future cash flow projections of the investee company 
and discount rates for determining present value of 
such cash flows.
In view of the high degree of management’s 
judgement involved in estimation of the recoverable 
amount of investments in unlisted subsidiaries and 
the inherent uncertainty relating to the assumptions 
supporting such estimates, we considered this area 
as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included considering the appropriateness 
of the processes laid down by the management for assessment 
of impairment in the value of investments in subsidiaries 
combined with procedures performed as follows:
•	
Considered management’s assessment of impairment from 
the management experts wherever considered necessary 
and assessed whether any impairment indicators existed 
for investment in individual subsidiaries.
•	
Traced the net-worth of the individual subsidiaries to 
their audited financial statements to assess whether any 
impairment indicators were present.
•	
Assessed information used to determine the key 
assumptions, including growth rates and discount rates.
•	
Assessed the disclosures relating to investments 
in subsidiaries included in the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the requirements of Ind 
AS.
IT systems and controls
Financial accounting and reporting processes, 
especially in the financial services sector, are 
fundamentally reliant on IT systems and IT controls 
to process significant transaction, hence we identified 
IT systems and controls as a key audit matter for the 
Company.
Automated accounting procedures and IT environment 
controls, which include IT governance, general IT 
controls over program development and changes, 
access to programs and data and IT operations, are 
required to be designed and to operate effectively to 
ensure reliable financial reporting.
Our audit procedures focused on the IT infrastructure and 
applications relevant to financial reporting of the Company:
•	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
Company’s IT access controls over the information 
systems that are important to financial reporting and 
various interfaces, configuration, and other identified 
application controls.
•	
Tested IT general controls (logical access, changes 
management and aspects of IT operational controls). This 
included testing requests for access to systems were 
reviewed and authorized.
•	
Tested the Company’s periodic review of access rights. 
Also tested requests of changes to systems for approval 
and authorization.
•	
In addition to the above, tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of certain automated controls that were 
considered as key internal controls.
•	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of 
compensating controls in case deficiencies were 
identified and where necessary, extended the scope of 
our substantive audit procedures.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Board report and Annual report, but does not include the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Board report and Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s 
report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified 
above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
standalone financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Management for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance including Other Comprehensive Income , Cash Flows and Changes in Equity of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, as amended. This 
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone 
financial statement that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these standalone financial statements.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
399
400
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures 
and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because of the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matter:
The comparative financial information of the Company for year ended March 31, 2023 were audited by predecessor auditor 
who expressed an unmodified opinion on those standalone financial statements dated May 26, 2023. Accordingly, we do not 
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
express any opinion, as the case may be, on the figures reported in the standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2023. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India 
in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief 
were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
 	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books;
	
(c)	
The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss including the Standalone Statement of 
Other Comprehensive Income, and the Standalone Statement of Cash Flow and Standalone Statement of Changes 
in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,2015, as amended;
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2024 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
	
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company with reference 
to these standalone financial statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure 2”;
	
(g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of 
section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to its directors during the year is in accordance 
with the provisions of section 197 of the Act;
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial 
statements – (Refer Note 33(1)(a) and (b) to the standalone financial statements);
	
	
ii.	
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – (Refer Note 65 to the 
standalone financial statements);
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
401
402
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
	
	
iv.	
(a)	
The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in 
the note 52 (A) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company 
to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
	
	
	
(b)	
The Management has represented, that, to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 52 
(B) to the standalone financial statements, during the year no funds have been received by the Company 
from any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the same declared for the previous year 
is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in note 56.1 to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company has used an accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course 
of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 1, 2023, reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention is not applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVJ9653
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 14, 2024
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 UNDER THE HEADING “REPORT ON 
OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE
Re: Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (“the Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and 
situation of Property, Plant and Equipment.
	
(a)	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	
All Property, Plant and Equipment were physically verified by the management in the previous years in accordance 
with a planned programme of verifying them once in three years which is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets.
	
(c)	
According to information and explanations given to us, the title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the 
name of the Company.
	
(d)	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment or intangible assets during the year ended March 
31, 2024.
	
(e)	
According to information and explanations given to us, there are no proceedings initiated or are pending against 
the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and 
rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	
The Company’s business does not require maintenance of inventories and, accordingly, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b) 	 The Company has not been sanctioned any working capital limits in excess of ` five crore rupees in aggregate 
from banks and financial institutions during any point of time of the year on the basis of security of current assets. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on Clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iii)	 (a)	
During the year the Company has provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee and provided 
security to companies as follows:
(` in million)
Particulars
Guarantees
Put Option
Security
Loans
Advances in 
nature of Loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year
- Subsidiaries
22,090.00
3250.00
Nil
45,455.62
Nil
- Others
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
*Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases
- Subsidiaries
26,414.86 (**)
13690.00
1712.41
36,090.10
Nil
- Others
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
	
	
* the above balance includes outstanding as at March 31, 2024 
	
	
** Guarantees originally issued against the above was ` 71,690 million
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
403
404
	
(b)	
During the year the investments made, guarantees provided, security given and the terms and conditions of the 
grant of all loans and advances in the nature of loans and guarantees to Companies are not prejudicial to the 
Company’s interest.
	
(c)	
The Company has granted loans to group companies where the schedule of repayment of principal and payment 
of interest has been stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular. As represented by the Management, there 
are no loans given to other than group companies.
	
(d)	
There are no amounts of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to companies which are overdue for 
more than ninety days.
	
(e)	
There were no loans or advance in the nature of loan granted to group companies which had fallen due during the 
year, that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given to 
the same parties.
	
(f)	
According to information and explanations given to us, the Company has not granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans, either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment to group 
companies. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iv)	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not advanced loans to 
directors / to a Company in which the director is interested to which provisions of Section 185 of the Companies Act 
2013 apply and hence not commented upon. The Company has made investments/ given loans /guarantees/ provided 
security which is in compliance to the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act 2013.
(v)	
The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be 
deposits within the meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Companies Act and the rules made thereunder, to the extent 
applicable. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	 The Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 
2013, for the products/services of the Company.
(vii)	 (a)	
According to information and explanations given to us, the Company is generally regular in depositing with 
appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ 
state insurance, income-tax, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it. The provisions relating to duty of customs 
and duty of excise are currently not applicable to the Company. According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on audit procedures performed by us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of these 
statutory dues were outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became 
payable.
	
(b)	
According to records of the Company, the dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state 
insurance, income-tax, service tax, and other statutory dues have not been deposited on account of any dispute, 
are as follows:
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 UNDER THE HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL 
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE (CONTINUED)
(` in million)
Name of the statue
Nature of 
dues
Gross 
Demand
Paid under 
Protest
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
3.23
-
AY 2001-02
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
17.91
-
AY 2008-09
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
141.38
-
AY 2009-10
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
237.89
-
AY 2010-11
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
101.40
-
AY 2011-12
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
91.24
-
AY 2012-13
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
23.13
-
AY 2013-14
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
20.20
-
AY 2014-15
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
50.66
-
AY 2016-17
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
54.33
-
AY 2017-18
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
61.25
-
AY 2018-19
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
118.12
-
AY 2020-21
High Court
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
13.46*
-
AY 2022-23
Assessing officer
Service Tax
Service Tax
430.75
16.15
FY 2008-09 to  
2011-12
CESTAT, Mumbai
Service Tax
Service Tax
119.75
-
FY 2009-10 up to 
Jun 2012
CESTAT, Mumbai
Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
3.03
0.15
FY 2018-19
Commissioner 
(Appeals)
	
	
*Company has received the assessment order and demand notice dated April 30, 2024 under Section 143(3) of 
the Income Tax Act, 1961, for assessment year 2022-23 and a tax demand of ` 13.46 million (including interest) on 
account of certain disallowances.
(viii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, 
previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during 
the year.
(ix)	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans 
or other borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company did not have any term loans outstanding 
during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company, no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the 
Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations 
of its subsidiaries.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 UNDER THE HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL 
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
405
406
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised loans during the year on the 
pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries companies.
(x)	
(a) 	 As per management and information provided, monies raised during the year by the Company by way of public offer 
(including debt instruments) were applied for the purpose for which they were raised.
	
(b) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly 
convertible debentures during the year and accordingly, the requirement to report on Clause (x)(b) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	 (a) 	 According to the information and explanations given to us, no fraud by the Company or on the Company has been 
noticed or reported during the year.
	
(b)	
During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by 
secretarial auditor or by us in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 with the Central Government.
	
(c)	
As represented to us by the management, there are no whistle blower complaints received by the company during 
the year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(xii)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, transactions with the related parties are in compliance with 
Sections 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the 
standalone financial statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have 
been considered by us.
(xv)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions 
with its directors or persons connected with its directors and hence requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	 (a)	
The provisions of Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to the 
Company. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause (xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not conducted any Non-Banking Financial activities without obtained a valid Certificate of 
Registration (CoR) from the Reserve Bank of India as per the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 UNDER THE HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL 
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE (CONTINUED)
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanation given to us, the Group has one core investment company as part of 
Group.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current year and in the immediately preceding financial year respectively.
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of statutory auditors during the year and accordingly requirement to report on clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. The previous auditors have completed their term during the year.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 66 to the standalone financial statements, ageing and expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the standalone 
financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any 
material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, 
however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting 
is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all 
liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and 
when they fall due.
(xx)	 (a)	
In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a 
fund specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act (the Act), in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 
of Section 135 of the Act. This matter has been disclosed in note 26(b) to the standalone financial statements.
	
(b)	
There are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing projects, that are required to be transferred to a special 
account in compliance of provision of sub section (6) of Section 135 of Companies Act. This matter has been 
disclosed in note 26(b) to the standalone financial statements.
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVJ9653
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 14, 2024 
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
ANNEXURE 1 REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 UNDER THE HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL 
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’’ OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
407
408
“ANNEXURE 2” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON 
THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EDELWEISS FINANCIAL SERVICES 
LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
To the Members of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under Section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an 
audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and 
the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
 
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting with reference to Standalone Financial Statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control over financial reporting with reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion 
or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the 
risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting 
and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
For Nangia & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
FRN No. 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Partner
Membership No.: 601788 
UDIN: 24601788BKFMVJ9653
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 14, 2024
	INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Continued)
	
“ANNEXURE 2” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE STANDALONE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EDELWEISS FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (Continued)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
409
410
	STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET 
	
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
ASSETS
Financial assets
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
2
 461.03
 1,350.09
(b)
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
3
 9.48
 39.17
(c)
Trade Receivables
4
 154.50
 305.64
(d)
Loans
5
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
(e)
Investments
6
 46,080.37
 72,100.70
(f)
Other financial assets
7
 104.59
 199.89
Total financial assets
 83,192.36
 103,018.89
Non-financial assets
(a)
Current tax assets (net)
 826.03
 1,143.22
(b)
Deferred tax assets (net)
8
 3,803.28
 1,895.05
(c)
Property, Plant and Equipment
9
 6.96
 10.34
(d)
Other Intangible assets
9
 -
 -
(e)
Other non-financial assets
10
 960.50
 1,118.36
Total Non-financial assets
 5,596.77
 4,166.97
TOTAL ASSETS
 88,789.13
 107,185.86
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Financial liabilities
(a)
Trade Payables
11
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 -
 1.30
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 3,112.59
 2,232.69
(b)
Debt securities
12
 28,079.84
 25,886.54
(c)
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
13
 1,597.39
 -
(d)
Other financial liabilities
14
 1,288.74
 6,480.45
Total financial liabilities
 34,078.56
 34,600.98
Non-financial liabilities
(a)
Current tax liabilities (net)
 29.21
 7.86
(b)
Provisions
15
 4.00
 9.31
(c)
Other non-financial liabilities
16
 48.93
 15.08
Total non-financial liabilities
 82.14
 32.25
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 34,160.70
 34,633.23
EQUITY
(a)
Equity Share capital
17
 898.89
 898.38
(b)
Other equity
18
 53,729.54
 71,654.25
TOTAL EQUITY
 54,628.43
 72,552.63
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 88,789.13
 107,185.86
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements.
1 to 69
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
	STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
Interest income
19
 4,079.80
 3,499.18
Fee and commission income
20
 399.11
 821.49
Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
23
 (5,870.18)
19,770.41
Total Revenue from operations
 (1,391.27)
24,091.08
Other income
21
 11,668.09
 6,795.84
Total income
 10,276.82
 30,886.92
Expenses
Finance costs
22
 3,268.90
 3,027.37
Impairment on financial instruments
24
 3.33
 1,493.56
Employee benefits expense
25
 347.21
 334.17
Depreciation and amortisation
9
 3.29
 3.57
Other expenses
26
 1,498.84
 2,881.69
Total expenses
 5,121.57
 7,740.36
Profit before tax
 5,155.25
 23,146.56
Tax expense:
27 & 28
Current tax
 111.36
 -
Deferred tax
 (1,908.23)
 (735.91)
Profit for the year
 6,952.12
 23,882.47
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Re-measurements of the defined benefit plans
 (4.27)
 0.33
Other comprehensive income
 (4.27)
 0.33
Total comprehensive income
 6,947.85
 23,882.80
Earnings per share (`) (Face value ` 1 each)
29
- Basic (`)
 7.73
 26.59
- Diluted (`)
 7.72
 26.59
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
1 to 69
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
411
412
	STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
A
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/(Loss) before tax
 5,155.25
 23,146.56
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
3.29
3.57
Fair value change in investments
(1,849.30)
(23,552.48)
Fair value change in provisions
220.60
 2,052.85
Profit on sale of investments (net)
(11,576.00)
(6,799.59)
Impairment/(reversal) on financial instruments
3.33
 1,493.56
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
 -
 0.21
Interest income
(4,079.80)
(3,499.18)
ESOP and SAR cost
(27.40)
14.23
Finance costs
3,268.90
3,027.37
Operating cash flow before working capital changes
(8,881.13)
(4112.90)
Adjustments for:
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
147.80
(160.91)
Decrease/(Increase) in other financial assets
95.30
896.35
Decrease/(Increase) in other non-financial assets
157.90
(348.66)
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables
878.60
1080.69
(Decrease)/increase in provisions and other financial liabilities
(5,317.40)
(386.44)
(Decrease)/increase in other non-financial liabilities
33.90
(61.96)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations
(12,885.03)
(3093.83)
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
227.17
(192.25)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities - A
(12,657.86)
(3,286.08)
B
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(0.90)
(8.31)
Sale of property, plant and equipment
1.00
0.74
Purchase of investments
(12,749.20)
(6,150.00)
Sale of investments
28,646.63
12,332.29
Decrease/(Increase) in other bank balances
29.70
499.91
Loan (given)/Repayment of loans ( Refer note 1 below)
(7,359.23)
(7,319.59)
Interest received
4,079.80
3,499.18
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities - B
 12,647.80
 2,854.22
C
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from exercise of ESOP & SAR
2.76
1.65
Repayment of Debt securities
(6,875.69)
(6,710.00)
Proceeds from Debt securities
9,013.81
7,617.42
Proceeds from/(repayment of) borrowings (other than debt securities) 
(Refer note 1 below)
1,597.41
 -
Dividend paid
(1,403.59)
(1,376.06)
Interest paid
(3,213.70)
(2,370.40)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities - C
(879.00)
(2,837.39)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
(889.06)
(3,269.25)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year
1,350.09
4,619.34
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year (refer note 4 below)
461.03
1,350.09
	STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (CONTINUED)
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
Notes:
1. 	
Cash receipts and payments for transactions with group companies in which the turnover is quick, the amounts are 
large, and the maturities are short are presented on net basis in accordance with Ind AS-7 Statement of Cash Flows.
2.	
Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Ind AS 7 prescribed under the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 under the Companies Act, 2013.
3.	
Refer note 32 for changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
4.	
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash on hand
0.01
 0.01
Balances with banks - current accounts
461.02
 1,350.08
Total
461.03
1,350.09
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
1 to 69
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
413
414
	STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
A	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
                     898.38 
                 898.20 
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to prior period errors
                             - 
                         - 
Restated balance at the beginning of the current reporting year
                     898.38 
                 898.20 
Changes in equity share capital during the year on account of allotment of shares
                         0.51 
                     0.18 
Balance at the end of the year
                     898.89 
                 898.38 
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Edelweiss Employees Welfare Trust and Edelweiss Employees Incentive and Welfare Trust are extension of Company’s financial statements, these trusts are holding 
4,48,96,780 number of equity shares amounting to ` 44.90 million (previous year ` 44.90 million). These are deducted from total outstanding equity shares.
	
2.	
Refer note 17 for detailed quantitative information including investors holding more than 5% of equity share capital.
	
3.	
The above two Welfare Trusts hold an aggregate 4,48,96,780  equity shares of the Company for incentive and welfare benefits for group employees as per extant 
applicable Securities and Exchange Board of India regulations (SEBI). Pursuant to the exercise of  right available under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the Company has applied before the expiry date of 27 October 2019 for extension of the time limit for disposing of aforesaid equity shares. 
The said application is under consideration and approval for extension from SEBI is awaited as at date.
B.	 OTHER EQUITY
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
 Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Employee 
Stock Option 
Plan (ESOP) 
reserve/Stock 
appreciation 
rights (SAR)
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Balance at 01 April 2022
 -
 2.03
 30,670.40
 761.58
 508.64
 17,161.31
 49,103.96
Profit for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 23,882.47
 23,882.47
Other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 0.33
 0.33
Total Comprehensive Income for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 23,882.80
 23,882.80
Dividends to equity shareholders
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,325.35)
 (1,325.35)
Transfers on exercise of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 23.28
 (23.28)
 -
 -
 -
Issue of equity instruments on ESOP & SAR
 (1.65)
 -
 1.47
 -
 -
 -
 (0.18)
Share application money received
 1.65
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1.65
ESOP & SAR charges transferred to reserves
 -
 -
 -
 (30.95)
 -
 30.95
 -
Reversal on account of lapses of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 -
 (149.65)
 -
 -
 (149.65)
ESOP Charge
 -
 -
 -
 32.21
 -
 -
 32.21
SAR charge
 -
 -
 -
 108.81
 -
 -
 108.81
Balance at 31 March 2023
 -
 2.03
 30,695.15
 698.72
 508.64
 39,749.71
 71,654.25
	STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED)
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions))
B.	 OTHER EQUITY (CONTINUED)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
 Total
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Employee 
Stock Option 
Plan (ESOP) 
reserve/Stock 
appreciation 
rights (SAR)
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Balance at 31 March 2023
 -
 2.03
 30,695.15
 698.72
 508.64
 39,749.71
 71,654.25
Profit for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 6,952.12
 6,952.12
Other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (4.27)
 (4.27)
Total Comprehensive Income for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 6,947.85
 6,947.85
Dividends to equity shareholders
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (1,110.47)
 (1,110.47)
Transfers on exercise of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 24.65
 (24.65)
 -
 -
 -
Issue of equity instruments on ESOP & SAR
 (17.14)
 -
 16.63
 -
 -
 -
 (0.51)
Share application money received
 19.39
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 19.39
ESOP & SAR charges transferred to reserves
 -
 -
 -
 (52.84)
 -
 52.84
 -
Reversal on account of lapses of ESOP & SAR
 -
 -
 -
 (295.19)
 -
 -
 (295.19)
ESOP Charge
 -
 -
 -
 9.60
 -
 -
 9.60
SAR charge
 -
 -
 -
 36.42
 -
 -
 36.42
On account of Demerger (Refer Note 58)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (23,531.80)
(23,531.80)
Balance at 31 March 2024
 2.25
 2.03
 30,736.43
 372.06
 508.64
 22,108.13
 53,729.54
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
1 to 69
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
415
416
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
1.	 	
BACKGROUND
	
	
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (‘the Company’) Public Limited company domiciled in India, and incorporated 
under the provision of Companies Act, 1956 and is registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) as 
Category I – Merchant Banker. The Company was incorporated on November 21, 1995 and is the ultimate holding 
company of Edelweiss group of companies. The Company has its registered office at Edelweiss House, Off C.S.T. 
Road, Kalina, Mumbai, India.
	
	
The Company is principally engaged in providing investment banking services and holding company activities 
comprising of development, managerial and financial support to the business of Edelweiss group entities.
	
	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.1		
BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
The standalone financial statements of the Company has been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time).
	
	
These standalone financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments and other financial assets held for trading, which have been measured at fair value. The standalone 
financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) and all values are rounded to the nearest million, except 
when otherwise indicated.
1.2		
PRESENTATION OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
The Company presents its standalone statement of assets and liabilities in order of liquidity in compliance with the 
Division III of the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. An analysis regarding recovery or settlement within 12 
months after the reporting date (current) and more than 12 months after the reporting date (non-current).
1.3		
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
1.3.1	
Date of recognition
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities, with the exception of borrowings are initially recognised on the trade date, 
i.e., the date that the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. This includes 
regular way trades purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame 
generally established by regulation or convention in the market place. The Company recognises borrowings when 
funds reach the Company.
1.3.2 
Initial measurement of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Trade receivables are measured at 
transaction price. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.4		
CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
1.4.1	
Financial assets:
	
	
The Company classifies all its financial assets based on the business model for managing the assets and the asset’s 
contractual terms, measured at either:
	
	
Financial assets carried at amortized cost (AC)
	
	
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold the 
asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The 
changes in carrying value of financial assets are recognised in profit and loss account.
 
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
	
A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are measured at FVTPL. The Company 
measures all financial assets classified as FVTPL at fair value at each reporting date. The changes in fair value of 
financial assets are recognised in Profit and loss account.
1.4.1.1	 Amortized cost and Effective interest method
	
	
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating 
interest income over the relevant period.
	
	
For financial instruments the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
(including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction 
costs and other premiums or discounts) excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt 
instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial 
recognition.
	
	
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial recognition 
minus the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any 
difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount, adjusted for any loss allowance. On the other hand, 
the gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss 
allowance.
1.4.1.2	 Financial assets held for trading
	
	
The Company classifies financial assets as held for trading when they have been purchased or issued primarily 
for short-term profit making through trading activities or form part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are 
managed together, for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit is taking. Held-for- trading 
assets are recorded and measured in the balance sheet at fair value.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
417
418
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.4.1.3	 Investment in equity instruments
	
	
The Company measures all equity investments at fair value through profit or loss except, for Investment in 
subsidiaries and associates are recognised at cost, subject to impairment if any at the end of each reporting period. 
Cost of investment represents amount paid for acquisition of the investment.
1.4.2	
Financial liabilities
	
	
All financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost except for financial guarantees, and derivative financial 
liabilities.
1.4.2.1	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
After initial measurement, debt issued, and other borrowed funds are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on issue funds, and costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR.
1.4.2.2 Financial assets and Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities in this category are those that are not held for trading and have been either 
designated by management upon initial recognition or are mandatorily required to be measured at fair value under 
Ind AS 109. Management only designates an instrument at FVTPL upon initial recognition when one of the following 
criteria are met. Such designation is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis:
•	
The designation eliminates, or significantly reduces, the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from 
measuring the assets or liabilities or recognising gains or losses on them on a different basis; or
•	
The liabilities are part of a group of financial liabilities, which are managed, and their performance evaluated on 
a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy; or
•	
The liabilities containing one or more embedded derivatives, unless they do not significantly modify the cash 
flows that would otherwise be required by the contract, or it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar 
instrument is first considered that separation of the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited.
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in fair 
value are recorded in profit and loss with the exception of movements in fair value of liabilities designated at FVTPL 
due to changes in the Company’s own credit risk. Such changes in fair value are recorded in the Own credit reserve 
through OCI and do not get recycled to the profit or loss. Interest earned or incurred on instruments designated at 
FVTPL is accrued in interest income or finance cost, respectively, using the EIR, taking into account any discount/ 
premium and qualifying transaction costs being an integral part of instrument. Interest earned on assets mandatorily 
required to be measured at FVTPL is recorded using effective interest rate.
1.4.2.3	 Financial guarantee:
	
	
Financial guarantees are contract that requires the Company to make specified payments to reimburse to holder for 
loss that it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when it is due in accordance with the terms of 
a debt instrument.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
	
	
Financial guarantee issued or commitments to provide a loan at below market interest rate are initially measured at 
fair value and the initial fair value is amortised over the life of the guarantee or the commitment. Subsequently they 
are measured at higher of this amortised amount and the amount of loss allowance.
1.4.3	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
	
	
Financial instruments issued by the Company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance 
with the substance of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
	
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all 
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company entity are recognised at the proceeds received, net of 
direct issue costs.
	
	
Repurchase of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss 
is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue, or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.
1.5		
RECLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
	
	
The Company does not reclassify its financial assets subsequent to their initial recognition, apart from the exceptional 
circumstances in which the Company acquires, disposes of, or terminates a business line. Financial liabilities are 
never reclassified.
1.6		
EMPLOYEE WELFARE TRUST
	
	
The Company is a sponsor to two trusts namely: (i) Edelweiss Employees’ Welfare Trust; and (ii) Edelweiss Employees’ 
Incentives and Welfare Trust. These trusts have been formed exclusively to provide benefits to employees of the 
Company and its subsidiaries and associates. These trusts have been treated as an extension of the Company 
for the purpose of these financial statements. Accordingly, the equity shares of the Company held by these trusts 
have been treated as treasury shares. The excess of the cost of such shares over the face value of shares has been 
reduced from the securities premium account of the Company.
1.7		
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
1.7.1 
Derecognition of financial assets due to substantial modification of terms and conditions
	
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset when the terms and conditions have been renegotiated to the extent 
that, substantially, it becomes a new loan, with the difference recognised as a derecognition gain or loss, to the 
extent that an impairment loss has not already been recorded.
	
	
If the modification does not result in cash flows that are substantially different, the modification does not result 
in derecognition. Based on the change in cash flows discounted at the original EIR, the Company records a 
modification gain or loss, to the extent that an impairment loss has not already been recorded.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
419
420
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.7.2 
Derecognition of financial assets (other than due to substantial modification)
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Company of similar financial assets) 
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. The Company 
also derecognises the financial asset if it has both transferred the financial asset and the transfer qualifies for 
derecognition.
	
	
The Company has transferred the financial asset if, and only if, either:
	
	
•	
The Company has transferred its contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset; or
	
	
•	
It retains the rights to the cash flows but has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass–through’ arrangement.
	
	
A transfer only qualifies for derecognition if either:
	
	
•	
The Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or
	
	
•	
The Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset
	
	
The Company considers control to be transferred if and only if, the transferee has the practical ability to sell the 
asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposing 
additional restrictions on the transfer.
1.7.3 
Derecognition of financial liabilities
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled, or expires.
	
	
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a 
derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference between the carrying value 
of the original financial liability and the consideration paid, including modified contractual cash flow recognised as 
new financial liability, would be recognised in profit or loss.
1.8		
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
	
	
The Company records allowance for expected credit losses for all amortised cost financial assets and financial 
guarantee contracts, in this section all referred to as ‘financial instruments. Equity instruments are not subject to 
impairment under Ind AS 109.
	
	
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and 
lease receivables. The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. The Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of 
its receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the 
receivables.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.8		
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)
	
	
For all other financial instruments, the Company recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk since initial recognition. If, on the other hand, the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the Company measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an 
amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses (12m ECL). The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be 
recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition 
instead of on evidence of a financial asset being credit-impaired at the reporting date or an actual default occurring.
	
	
For financial assets, the expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows 
that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Company expects to 
receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The Company recognises an impairment gain or loss in 
profit or loss for all financial instruments with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss 
allowance account.
1.9		
WRITE OFF
	
	
Financial assets are written off either partially or in their entirety only when the Company has stopped pursuing the 
recovery. If the amount to be written off is greater than the accumulated loss allowance, the difference is first treated 
as an addition to the allowance that is then applied against the gross carrying amount. Any subsequent recoveries 
are credited to impairment on financial instruments in statement of profit and loss.
1.10	
DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE
	
	
The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair 
value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. 
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
	
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair 
value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would 
use the asset in its highest and best use. The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as summarised below:
	
	
•	
Level 1 financial instruments −Those where the inputs used in the valuation are unadjusted quoted prices 
from active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has access to at the measurement 
date. The Company considers markets as active only if there are sufficient trading activities with regards to 
the volume and liquidity of the identical assets or liabilities and when there are binding and exercisable price 
quotes available on the balance sheet date.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
421
422
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.10	
DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE (CONTINUED)
	
	
•	
Level 2 financial instruments−Those where the inputs that are used for valuation and are significant, are derived 
from directly or indirectly observable market data available over the entire period of the instrument’s life.
	
	
•	
Level 3 financial instruments −Those that include one or more unobservable input that is significant to the 
measurement as whole. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on 
a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the 
hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. The Company periodically 
reviews its valuation techniques including the adopted methodologies and model calibrations.
1.11	
REVENUE FROM CONTRACT WITH CUSTOMER
	
	
Revenue is recognized when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised 
good or service (i.e. an asset) to a customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of 
that asset.When (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, the Company recognizes as revenue the amount of 
the transaction price (excluding estimates of variable consideration) that is allocated to that performance obligation. 
The Company applies the five-step approach for recognition of revenue:
	
	
i.	
Identification of contract(s) with customers;
	
	
ii.	
Identification of the separate performance obligations in the contract;
	
	
iii.	
Determination of transaction price;
	
	
iv.	
Allocation of transaction price to the separate performance obligations; and
	
	
v.	
Recognition of revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied 
	
	
Revenue Recognition for different heads of Income are as under:
	
	
(i)	
Investment banking advisory fees, Syndication fees (net of tax)
	
	
	
Advisory/Syndication fees are recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with agreement entered into with 
respective investment managers / advisors.
	
	
(ii)	
Interest income
	
	
	
Interest income is recognized using the effective interest rate.
	
	
(iii)	 Dividend income
	
	
	
Dividend income is recognized in the standalone statement of profit or loss on the date that the Company’s 
right to receive payment is established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend 
will flow to the entity and the amount of dividend can be reliably measured. This is generally when the 
Shareholders approve the dividend.
	
	
(iv)	 Profit or loss on sale of investments
	
	
	
Profit or loss on sale of investments is recognised on trade date basis. Difference between the sale price and 
average cost of acquisition is recognized as profit or loss on sale of investments.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.12	
EARNINGS PER SHARE
	
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders for 
the year by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
	
	
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue 
equity shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the 
net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders for the year by weighted average number of equity shares 
considered for deriving basic earnings per share and weighted average number of equity shares that could have 
been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
1.13	
RETIREMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT 
	
	
Provident fund and national pension scheme
	
	
The Company contributes to a recognised provident fund and national pension scheme which is a defined 
contribution scheme. The contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss when an employee renders the related service.
	
	
Gratuity
	
	
The Company’s gratuity scheme is a defined benefit plan. The Company’s net obligation in respect of the gratuity 
benefit scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that the employees have earned in return 
for their service in the current and prior periods, that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the 
fair value of any plan assets, if any, is deducted. The present value of the obligation under such benefit plan is 
determined based on independent actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Benefits in respect 
of gratuity are funded with an insurance company approved by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(IRDA). Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur.
	
	
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. 
	
	
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of:
	
	
•	
The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and
	
	
•	
The date that the Company recognises related restructuring costs
	
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The Company 
recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss:
	
	
•	
Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailments and non-
routine settlements; and
	
	
•	
Net interest expense or income
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
423
424
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.13	
RETIREMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT (CONTINUED)
	
	
Compensated Absences
	
	
The eligible employees of the Company are permitted to carry forward certain number of their annual leave 
entitlement to subsequent years, subject to a ceiling. The Company recognises the charge in the statement of profit 
and loss and corresponding liability on such non-vesting accumulated leave entitlement based on a valuation by 
an independent actuary. The cost of providing annual leave benefits is determined using the projected unit credit 
method.
	
	
The liability is provided based on the number of days of unutilised leave at each balance sheet date based on a 
valuation by an independent actuary.
1.14	
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
	
	
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees of the Group and others providing similar services that are 
granted by the Company are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. 
These includes Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) which are equity settled share-based payments In order to arrive 
at the fair value of the options, the Black-Scholes Option Pricing formula is used.
	
	
a.	
with respect to Company’s employees:
	
	
	
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over 
the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with 
a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate 
of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, 
if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with 
a corresponding adjustment to the Employee Stock Option Plan Reserve and Stock Appreciation Rights 
Reserve. In cases where the share options granted vest in installments over the vesting period, the Company 
treats each installment as a separate grant, because each installment has a different vesting period, and hence 
the fair value of each installment differs.
	
	
b.	
with respect to employees of the Group:
	
	
	
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is accounted as a 
capital contribution (deemed investment) to the respective subsidiaries over the vesting period, based on the 
Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments 
expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised such that the 
cumulative capital contribution (deemed investment) is increased so that it reflects the revised estimate, with 
a corresponding adjustment to the Employee Stock Option Plan Reserve. In cases where the share options 
granted vest in installments over the vesting period, the Company treats each installment as a separate grant, 
because each installment has a different vesting period, and hence the fair value of each installment differs. 
Whenever, these estimates are expected to get settle between the subsidiaries and the Company, they are 
accounted as receivable/payable.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.15	
PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT
	
	
Property plant and equipment (PPE) is stated at cost excluding the costs of day–to–day servicing, less accumulated 
depreciation, and accumulated impairment in value. PPE is recognised when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the item is expected to flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. Changes in the expected useful life are accounted for by changing the depreciation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Subsequent costs incurred on an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount thereof 
when those costs meet the recognition criteria as mentioned above. Repairs and maintenance are recognised in 
profit or loss as incurred if recognition criteria are not met.
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an 
item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets (other than freehold land and properties under 
construction) less their residual values over their useful lives. Depreciation is provided on a written down value basis 
from the date the asset is ready for its intended use or put to use whichever is earlier. In respect of assets sold, 
depreciation is provided up to the date of disposal.
	
	
As per the requirement of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has evaluated the useful lives 
of the respective Property, Plant & Equipment which are as per the provisions of Part C of the Schedule II for 
calculating the depreciation. The estimated useful lives of the fixed assets are as follows:
Nature of assets
Estimated useful life
Building (other than Factory Building)
60 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
8 years
Office equipment
5 years
Computers - servers and networks
6 years
Computers - end user devices, such as desktops, laptops, etc.
3 years
Leasehold improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the 
period of lease, whichever is shorter.
	
	
Amount of those components which have been separately recognised as assets is derecognised at the time 
of replacement thereof. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and 
equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in profit or loss.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives, and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
425
426
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.16	
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
	
	
The intangible assets mainly include the value of computer software. Intangible assets are recognised when it is 
probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Company and the cost 
of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are recorded at the consideration paid for the acquisition 
of such assets and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment, if any. Intangibles such as 
software are amortised over a period of 3 years based on its estimated useful life.
	
	
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or 
disposal. Gains and losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets are recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
when the asset is derecognised.
1.17	
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
	
	
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired 
based on internal/external factors. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount 
of the asset. If such recoverable amount of the asset or the recoverable amount of cash generating unit which the 
asset belongs to is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. The 
reduction is treated as an impairment loss and is recognized in the statement of profit and loss. If at the balance 
sheet date there is an indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no longer exists, the recoverable 
amount is reassessed and the asset is reflected at the recoverable amount subject to a maximum of the depreciable 
historical cost.
1.18	
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less.
1.19	
PROVISIONS AND OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
	
	
Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration 
required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where the probability of outflow is considered to be remote, or probable, 
but a reliable estimate cannot be made, a contingent liability is disclosed. Given the subjectivity and uncertainty of 
determining the probability and amount of losses, the Company takes into account a number of factors including 
legal advice, the stage of the matter and historical evidence from similar incidents.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.20	
INCOME TAX
	
	
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax.
1.20.1	
Current tax
	
	
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before tax’ as 
reported in the financial statement of profit and loss because of items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s current tax is calculated 
using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
1.20.2	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the standalone financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are 
generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will 
be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are also recognised with respect to carry forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits can be utilised.
	
	
It is probable that taxable profit will be available against which a deductible temporary difference, unused tax loss 
or unused tax credit can be utilised when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences which are expected to 
reverse in the period of reversal of deductible temporary difference or in periods in which a tax loss can be carried 
forward or back. When this is not the case, deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent it is probable that:
	
	
•	
the entity will have sufficient taxable profit in the same period as reversal of deductible temporary difference or 
periods in which a tax loss can be carried forward or back; or
	
	
•	
tax planning opportunities are available that will create taxable profit in appropriate periods.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the 
liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
	
	
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the 
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount 
of its assets and liabilities.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
427
428
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.20	
INCOME TAX (CONTINUED)
1.20.3	
Current and deferred tax for the year
	
	
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
1.21	
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION 
UNCERTAINTY
	
	
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described above, the management is required 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
	
	
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period 
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
1.22	
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	
	
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the management has made 
in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the standalone financial statements.
1.22.1	
Business model assessment
	
	
Classification and measurement of financial assets depends on the results of the solely payments for principal and 
interest (SPPI) and the business model test. The Company determines the business model at a level that reflects 
how Group of financial assets are managed together to achieve a particular business objective. This assessment 
includes judgement reflecting all relevant evidence including how the performance of the assets is evaluated and 
their performance is measured, the risks that affect the performance of the assets and how these are managed and 
how the managers of the assets are compensated. The Company monitors financial assets measured at amortised 
cost that are derecognised prior to their maturity to understand the quantum, the reason for their disposal and 
whether the reasons are consistent with the objective of the business for which the asset was held. Company’s 
continuously monitors of whether the business model for which the remaining financial assets are held continues to 
be appropriate and if it is not appropriate whether there has been a change in business model and so a prospective 
change to the classification of those assets is required.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
1.23	
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
	
	
The Company based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when these financial statements 
were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to 
market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected 
in the assumptions when they occur.
	
	
Following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end 
of the reporting period that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
1.23.1 
Fair value of financial instruments
	
	
The fair value of financial instruments is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under 
current market conditions (i.e., an exit price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated 
using another valuation technique. When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the 
balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using a variety of valuation techniques 
that include the use of valuation models. The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where 
possible, but where this is not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair values. Judgements and estimates 
include considerations of liquidity and model inputs related to items such as credit risk (both own and counterparty), 
funding value adjustments, correlation, and volatility.
1.23.2 
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all categories of financial assets requires judgement, in particular, 
the estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows and collateral values when determining impairment 
losses and the assessment of a significant increase in credit risk. These estimates are driven by a number of factors, 
changes in which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
	
The Company’s ECL calculations are outputs of models with a number of underlying assumptions regarding the 
choice of variable inputs and their interdependencies.
	
	
It is Company’s policy to regularly review its models in the context of actual loss experience and adjust when 
necessary.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
429
430
2.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash on hand
0.01
0.01
Balances with banks:
-  in Current accounts
461.02
 1,350.08
Total
 461.03
 1,350.09
3.
BANK BALANCE OTHER THAN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Fixed deposits with banks to the extent held as security against 
borrowings (Refer Note 1)
 -
 31.61
-  Earmarked balance with bank (unpaid dividends)
 9.48
 7.56
Total
 9.48
 39.17
Note 1:
Fixed deposit aggregating to ` Nil million (previous year ` 30.87 million) have been pledged with Trustee against 
coupon payment of Debt Securities.
4.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Receivables from related parties
 154.59
 135.89
Receivables from other than related parties
 10.01
 169.75
Receivables - credit impaired
 9.02
 27.31
Gross Receivables
 173.62
 332.95
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses- unsecured
(9.02)
(0.71)
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(10.10)
(26.60)
Allowance for expected credit losses
(19.12)
(27.31)
Total
 154.50
 305.64
4.
TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
4.1
Trade Receivable Ageing Schedule
As at 31 March 2024
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Particulars
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
 157.23
 6.84
 0.53
 -
 -
 164.60
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
 5.00
 4.02
 9.02
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross receivables (A)
 157.23
 6.84
 0.53
 5.00
 4.02
 173.62
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
(6.46)
(3.11)
(0.53)
 -
 -
(10.10)
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
(5.00)
(4.02)
(9.02)
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total ECL Provision on receivables (B)
(6.46)
(3.11)
(0.53)
(5.00)
(4.02)
(19.12)
Total receivables net of provision = (A)-(B)
 150.77
 3.73
 -
 -
 -
 154.50
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
431
432
4.
TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)
4.1
Trade Receivable Ageing Schedule (Continued)
As at 31 March 2023
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Particulars
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years 2-3 years More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
 305.64
 -
 -
 -
 -
 305.64
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 3.36
 -
 13.85
 4.09
 6.01
 27.31
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Gross receivables (A)
 309.00
 -
 13.85
 4.09
 6.01
 332.95
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
(0.71)
 -
 -
 -
 -
(0.71)
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
(2.65)
 -
(13.85)
(4.09)
(6.01)
(26.60)
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total ECL Provision on receivables (B)
(3.36)
 -
(13.85)
(4.09)
(6.01)
(27.31)
Total receivables net of provision = (A)-(B)
 305.64
 -
 -
 -
 -
 305.64
4.2
Reconciliation of impairment allowance on trade receivables:
Particulars
Amount
Impairment allowance measured as per simplified approach
Impairment allowance as on 01 April 2022
(55.86)
(Add)/ less: asset originated or acquired / reversals (net)
28.55 
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2023
(27.31)
(Add)/ less: asset originated or acquired / reversals (net)
8.19 
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2024
(19.12)
	
Notes:
	
	
1)	
No trade or other receivables are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly 
with any other person.
	
	
2)	
No trade or other receivables are due from firms or private companies in which directors is partner, a director or a 
member.
	
	
3)	
There are no unbilled or not due trade receivables as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023.
5.
LOANS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Term Loans (at amortised cost)
Loans to related parties (refer note 35)
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Total Gross (A)
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(4.57)
(4.33)
Total (Net) (A)
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
Unsecured
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Total Gross (B)
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(4.57)
(4.33)
Total (Net) (B)
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
Loans in India
Public sector
 -
 -
Others
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Total Gross (C)
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(4.57)
(4.33)
Total (Net) (C) (I)
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
Loans outside India
 -
 -
Less: Impairment loss allowance
 -
 -
Total (Net) (C) (II)
 -
 -
Total (C) (I) and (C) (II)
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
These loans are considered to have low credit risk based on credit evaluation undertaken by the Company. There is 
no history of any defaults on these loans. Since the counter-parties are subsidiaries of the Company, the Company 
regularly monitors to ensure that these entities have enough liquidity which safeguards the interest of investors and 
lenders. Accordingly, there is very minimal Expected credit loss allowance on the aforesaid loans.
Loans including installment and interest outstanding due from the directors amounts to ` Nil million (previous year 
` Nil million).
Loans given to subsidiaries are pledged against debt securities is amounting to ` 22,368.63 million (previous year 
` 15,739.10 million).
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
433
434
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
5.	 LOANS (CONTINUED)
5.1	 Credit Quality
	
The table below shows the credit quality and the maximum exposure to credit risk based on the Company’s internal grading and year-end stage 
classification. The amounts presented are gross of impairment allowances.
	
Loans at amortised cost
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Total
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Total
Performing
High grade
 36,386.96
 -
 -
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
 -
 -
 29,027.73
Standard grade
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Non-performing
Impaired
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 36,386.96
 -
 -
 36,386.96
 29,027.73
 -
 -
 29,027.73
5.2	 Gross carrying amount and corresponding ECL reconciliation - Loans
Particulars
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Total
Stage I
Stage II
Stage III
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Balance at 31 March 2022
 21,707.64
 3.83
 -
 -
 -
 -
 21,707.64
 3.83
Net new and further lending/(repayments)
 7,320.09
 0.50
 -
 -
 -
 -
 7,320.09
 0.50
Balance at 31 March 2023
 29,027.73
 4.33
 -
 -
 -
 -
 29,027.73
 4.33
Net new and further lending/(repayments)
7,359.23
 0.24
 -
 -
 -
 -
 7,359.23
 0.24
Balance at 31 March 2024
 36,386.96
 4.57
 -
 -
 -
 -
 36,386.96
 4.57
6.	 INVESTMENTS
As at 31 March 2024
At Fair Value through 
profit and Loss
At cost 
(subsidiaries)
Total
Equity Instruments
 3.62
 37,957.99
 37,961.61
Debt securities
 -
 8,000.01
 8,000.01
Preference Shares
 -
 1,650.00
 1,650.00
Mutual Fund
 74.85
 -
 74.85
Total
 78.47
 47,608.00
 47,686.47
Investments in India
 78.47
 47,601.85
 47,680.32
Investments outside India
 -
 6.15
 6.15
Total
 78.47
 47,608.00
 47,686.47
Less - Impairment Loss allowance
 -
 1,606.10
 1,606.10
Total
 78.47
 46,001.90
 46,080.37
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 78.47
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 78.47
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 46,001.90
As at 31 March 2023
At Fair Value through 
profit and Loss
At cost 
(subsidiaries)
Total
Equity Instruments
 23,643.75
 48,413.05
 72,056.80
Debt securities
 -
 -
 -
Preference Shares
 -
 1,650.00
 1,650.00
Mutual Fund
 -
 -
 -
Total
 23,643.75
 50,063.05
 73,706.80
Investments in India
 23,643.75
 50,056.90
 73,700.65
Investments outside India
 -
 6.15
 6.15
Total
 23,643.75
 50,063.05
 73,706.80
Less - Impairment Loss allowance
 -
 1,606.10
 1,606.10
Total
 23,643.75
 48,456.95
 72,100.70
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 3.07
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 3.07
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 72,097.63
	
Notes:
	
1)	
Investments in equity shares of subsidiaries are pledged against Debt securities issued by the company is amounting 
to ` Nil million (previous year ` Nil million).
	
2)	
Investment in equity shares of subsidiary is pledged against Debt securities issued by another subsidiary amounting 
to ` 1,712.41 million (previous year ` 1,712.41 million).
	
3)	
Impairment on investment has been assessed based on business projection approved by Board of directors of 
respective subsidiaries. Impairment is recognised, based on management assessment, if the recoverable value is 
less than carrying amount.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
435
436
6.	 INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
	
4)	
During the previous year ended Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (the “Company” or “EFSL”) held 30% in the 
equity shares of Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (“NWML”). Till 30 March 2023, EFSL had significant influence 
over NWML as per Ind AS 27 – Separate Financial Statements Investments and accounted for such investment in 
NWML at cost. With effect from 30 March 2023, EFSL did not had significant influence on NWML in accordance 
with Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, pursuant to the amendment agreement dated 09 
March 2023 to the amended and restated shareholders’ agreement dated 18 March 2021 between EFSL, Edelweiss 
Global Wealth Management Limited (“EGWML”), PAGAC Ecstasy Pte Ltd (“PAGAC”) and NWML, the amendment 
to the articles of association of NWML and the appointment of independent trustee on 30 March 2023 to act on 
behalf of EFSL shareholders. Accordingly, such investment in NWML had been re-measured at fair value as per 
requirements Ind AS 28 and had recorded a fair value gain of ` 23,434.87 million during the year ended 31 March 
2023.
	
5)	
During the previous year ended 31 March 2023, the Company had recorded impairment provision of ` 1,599.95 
millions on its investment in a subsidiary company on account of Group restructuring/demerger.
7.	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Margin placed with broker
 -
 0.46
Deposits- others
 2.78
 19.94
Corporate guarantee fees receivable
 89.46
 121.24
Advances recoverable in cash for value to be received
 12.35
 58.25
Total
 104.59
 199.89
8.	 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (NET)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Deferred tax assets
Trade Receivables
Provision for expected credit losses
 5.96
 7.96
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets
Difference between book and tax depreciation
 6.49
 7.80
Unused tax losses
Unused tax losses / credits
 3,876.00
 783.04
Employee benefit obligations
Disallowances under section 43B of the Income Tax Act, 1961
 0.99
 2.15
Others
Provision on risk and reward undertaking
 178.05
 1,312.68
Total Deferred Tax Asset (A)
 4,067.49
 2,113.63
Deferred tax liabilities
Fair value gain on investment
(0.91)
(27.84)
Effective interest rate on Borrowing
(263.30)
(190.74)
Total Deferred Tax Liability (B)
(264.21)
(218.58)
Deferred tax assets (net) (A-B)
 3,803.28
 1,895.05
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
9.	 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLES
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and amortisation
Net Block
As at 
01 April 2023
Additions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
01 April 2023
Charge for 
the year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2024
a)
Property, Plant and
Equipments
Freehold Building
 1.75
 -
 -
 1.75
 0.47
 0.06
 -
 0.53
 1.22
Furniture and Fixtures
 0.23
 -
 -
 0.23
 0.11
 0.02
 -
 0.13
 0.10
Vehicles
 6.20
 -
 -
 6.20
 0.85
 1.70
 -
 2.55
 3.65
Office equipment
 1.89
 -
 0.19
 1.70
 1.10
 0.21
 0.02
 1.29
 0.41
Computers
 10.22
 0.99
 4.00
 7.21
 7.42
 1.30
 3.09
 5.63
 1.58
Total (A)
 20.29
 0.99
 4.19
 17.09
 9.95
 3.29
 3.11
 10.13
 6.96
b)
Intangibles
Software
 77.34
 -
 -
 77.34
 77.34
 -
 -
 77.34
 -
Total (B)
 77.34
 -
 -
 77.34
 77.34
 -
 -
 77.34
 -
Total (A+B)
 97.63
 0.99
 4.19
 94.43
 87.29
 3.29
 3.11
 87.47
 6.96
Particulars
Gross Block
Depreciation and amortisation
Net Block
As at 
01 April 2022
Additions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
01 April 2022
Charge for 
the year
Deductions/
adjustments 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2023
a)
Property, Plant and
Equipments
Freehold Building
 1.75
 -
 -
 1.75
 0.40
 0.07
 -
 0.47
 1.28
Furniture and Fixtures
 0.23
 -
 -
 0.23
 0.08
 0.03
 -
 0.11
 0.12
Vehicles
 0.95
 6.00
 0.75
 6.20
 0.30
 0.98
 0.43
 0.85
 5.35
Office equipment
 1.92
 0.50
 0.53
 1.89
 1.38
 0.20
 0.48
 1.10
 0.79
Computers
 12.75
 1.81
 4.34
 10.22
 9.72
 1.94
 4.24
 7.42
 2.80
Total (A)
 17.60
 8.31
 5.62
 20.29
 11.88
 3.22
 5.15
 9.95
 10.34
b)
Intangibles
Software
 78.57
 -
 1.23
 77.34
 77.75
 0.35
 0.76
 77.34
 -
Total (B)
 78.57
 -
 1.23
 77.34
 77.75
 0.35
 0.76
 77.34
 -
Total (A+B)
 96.17
 8.31
 6.85
 97.63
 89.63
 3.57
 5.91
 87.29
 10.34
	
The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment during the year ended  31 March 2024.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
437
438
10.
OTHER NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Input tax credit
 783.60
1,020.84
Prepaid expenses
 26.06
 62.24
Other advances
 108.31
17.95
Contribution to gratuity fund (net) (Refer note 31)
 42.53
17.33
Total
 960.50
1,118.36
11.
TRADE PAYABLES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises  
and small enterprises (MSME)
 -
 1.30
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises  
and small enterprises
Trade payables to related parties
 2,975.20
 2,056.66
Trade payables to non-related parties
 137.39
 176.03
Total
 3,112.59
 2,233.99
11.1 Trade payables ageing schedule
 As at 31 March 2024
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
 Particulars
 Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
 More than 
3 years
 Total
(i)	
MSME
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(ii)	
Others
 3,112.59
 -
 -
 -
 3,112.59
(iii)	 Disputed dues- of micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iv)	 Disputed dues-Others
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 3,112.59
 -
 -
 -
 3,112.59
As at 31 March 2023
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
 Less than 
1 year
 1-2 years
 2-3 years
 More than 
3 years
 Total
(i)	
MSME
 1.30
 -
 -
 -
 1.30
(ii)	
Others
 2,232.69
 -
 -
 -
 2,232.69
(iii)	 Disputed dues- of micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(iv)	 Disputed dues-Others
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 2,233.99
 -
 -
 -
 2,233.99
11.
TRADE PAYABLES (CONTINUED)
Particulars
 As at 
31 March 2024
 As at 
31 March 2023
i)	
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED 
Act and remaining  unpaid as at year end
 -
1.30
ii)	
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining  unpaid as at year end
 -
 -
iii)	
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED 
Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 -
 -
iv)	
Interest paid other than under section 16 of MSMED Act, 
to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the 
appointed day during the year
 -
 -
v)	
Interest paid under section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers 
registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day 
during the year
0.02
 0.15
vi)	
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under 
MSMED Act, for payments already made
 -
 -
vii)	 Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
 -
 -
11.2	 Trade Payables includes ` Nil million (previous year ` 1.30 million) payable to “Suppliers” registered under the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006. Interest paid by the Company during the year to “Suppliers” 
registered under this Act is ` 0.02 million (previous year: ` 0.15 million). The aforementioned is based on the responses 
received by the Company to its inquiries with suppliers with regard to applicability under the said Act.
	
There are no “unbilled’’ trade payable, hence the same is not disclosed in the ageing schedule.
12.
DEBT SECURITIES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Secured Debt (At amortised cost)
Non-Convertible Debentures (refer Note 1 below)
 28,079.84
25,886.54
(i)	
Debt securities in India
 28,079.84
25,886.54
(ii)	
Debt securities outside India
 -
 -
Total
 28,079.84
25,886.54
Note 1:
For secured debt, the Company has provided collateral in the nature of exclusive and Pari Passu charge of Loans, 
receivables and investments. The Company has also provided collaterals in the form of securities investments held 
by its subsidiaries.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
439
440
12.
DEBT SECURITIES (CONTINUED)
12.1 Debt Securities - as at 31 March 2024
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
8.00 - 10.99%
 4,738.59
 11,647.49
 11,077.58
 27,463.66
Various (benchmark linked)
 -
 560.00
 -
 560.00
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 56.18
Total
 4,738.59
 12,207.49
 11,077.58
 28,079.84
Debt Securities - as at 31 March 2023
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
8.00 - 10.99%
 1,595.32
 8,215.23
 10,234.61
 20,045.16
19.00 - 19.99%
 210.00
 2,370.00
 -
 2,580.00
Various (benchmark linked)
 1,472.20
 560.00
 -
 2,032.20
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 1,229.18
Total
 3,277.52
 11,145.23
 10,234.61
 25,886.54
The issue proceeds of Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) issued by the Company are being utilized as per the 
objects stated in the offer document. Further, there have been no deviations in the use of proceeds of issue of NCDs 
from the objects stated in the offer document.
All secured & redeemable debt securities issued by the Company and outstanding as on reporting date are fully 
secured by first charge / pari passu charge, as the case may be, on present & future receivables, book debts, loans 
and other financial & non- financial assets. Accordingly, the Company is maintaining asset cover of 1x or such higher 
asset cover required as per the terms of Offer document/ Debenture Trust Deed/ Information Memorandum.
13.
BORROWINGS (other than debt securities)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Unsecured (at amortised cost)
Loans from related parties (refer note 35)
 1,597.39
 -
Total
 1,597.39
 -
Borrowings in India
 1,597.39
 -
Borrowings outside India
 -
 -
Total
 1,597.39
 -
13.
BORROWINGS (other than debt securities) (Continued)
13.1
Loans from related parties - as at 31 March 2024
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
13.00 - 13.99%
 1,595.42
 -
 -
 1,595.42
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 1.97
Total
 1,595.42
 -
 -
 1,597.39
Loans from related parties - as at 31 March 2023
Maturities
<1 years
1-3 years
> 3 years
Total
Rate of Interest
13.00 - 13.99%
 -
 -
 -
 -
Accrued Interest and EIR
 -
 -
 -
 -
Total
 -
 -
 -
 -
14.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (at amortised cost unless otherwise specified)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Accrued salaries and benefits
 267.50
 416.93
Unpaid dividends
 9.48
 7.56
Dividend payable
 -
 235.82
Risk and Reward undertaking (Refer note 57 )
 707.37
 5,215.24
Financial guarantee obligation
 89.46
 121.24
Other advances
 -
 467.51
Other payables
 214.93
 16.15
Total
 1,288.74
 6,480.45
15.
PROVISIONS
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provision for employee benefits and related costs
Compensated absences
 3.95
 8.53
Provision for Capex
 0.05
 0.78
Total
 4.00
 9.31
16.
OTHER NON-FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Statutory dues*
 48.51
 9.06
Others
 0.42
 6.02
Total
 48.93
 15.08
* includes witholding taxes, provident fund, profession tax and other statutory dues payables.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
441
442
17.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Authorised :
Equity Shares of ` 1 each
 1,230,000,000 
 1,230.00 
 1,230,000,000 
 1,230.00 
Preference shares of ` 5 each
 4,000,000 
 20.00 
 4,000,000 
 20.00 
 1,234,000,000 
 1,250.00 
 1,234,000,000 
 1,250.00 
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up:
Equity Shares of ` 1 each
 943,785,026 
 943.79 
 943,275,276 
 943.28 
Less: Shares held by Edelweiss 
Employees Incentives and Welfare Trust 
(Refer note 1)
 (7,301,510)
 (7.30)
 (7,301,510)
 (7.30)
Less: Shares held by Edelweiss 
Employees Welfare Trust (Refer note 1)
 (37,595,270)
 (37.60)
 (37,595,270)
 (37.60)
 898,888,246 
 898.89 
 898,378,496 
 898.38 
A.
Reconciliation of number of shares 
(Before deducting treasury shares)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 943,275,276 
 943.28
 943,097,965 
 943.10 
Shares issued during the year:
-Under Employee Stock Options Plans 
(ESOPs)
 509,750 
 0.51
 177,311 
 0.18 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 943,785,026 
 943.79
 943,275,276 
 943.28 
Note :
1.	
Edelweiss Employees' Welfare Trust and Edelweiss Employees' Incentive and Welfare Trust are extension of 
Company's financial statements. These trusts are holding 44,896,780 number of equity shares amounting to 
` 44.90 million (previous year ` 44.90 million). These are deducted from total outstanding equity shares.
2.	
The above two Employee Welfare Trust(s) hold an aggregate 44,896,780 equity shares of the Company for 
incentive and welfare benefits for group employees as per extant applicable SEBI regulations. Pursuant to the 
exercise of right available under Regulation 29 of SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the 
Company has applied before the expiry date of 27 October 2019 for extension of the time limit for disposing 
of aforesaid equity shares. The said application is under consideration and approval for extension from SEBI is 
awaited as at date.
B.
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1 per share. Each holder of equity shares 
is entitled to one vote per share.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the equity shareholders will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of 
the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any, in proportion to the number of equity shares held 
by the shareholders.
17.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
C.
Details of shares held by promoters in the Company
As at 31 March 2024
Promoter name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
 % Change 
during the 
year
Rashesh Chandrakant Shah
 145,601,730 
 - 
 145,601,730 
15.43%
(0.01)%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 58,126,560 
 1,450,000 
 59,576,560 
6.31%
0.15%
Vidya Rashesh Shah
 31,031,200 
 35,000 
 31,066,200 
3.29%
0.00%
Aparna T Chandrashekar
 12,210,000 
 - 
 12,210,000 
1.29%
0.00%
Kaavya Venkat Arakoni
 11,790,000 
 - 
 11,790,000 
1.25%
0.00%
Neel Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000 
 - 
 2,000,000 
0.21%
0.00%
Sneha Sripad Desai
 1,025,000 
 - 
 1,025,000 
0.11%
0.00%
Shilpa Urvish Mody
 950,000 
 - 
 950,000 
0.10%
0.00%
Arakoni Venkatachalam Ramaswamy
 50,000 
 - 
 50,000 
0.01%
0.00%
Mabella Trustee Services Private 
Limited (on behalf of M/s. Shah Family 
Discretionary Trust)
 38,750,000 
 - 
 38,750,000 
4.11%
0.00%
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
 3,200,000 
 - 
 3,200,000 
0.34%
0.00%
Sejal Premal Parekh
 950,000 
 - 
 950,000 
0.10%
0.00%
Avanti Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000 
 - 
 2,000,000 
0.21%
0.00%
Total
 307,684,490 
 1,485,000 
 309,169,490 
32.76%
0.14%
As at 31 March 2023
Promoter name
No. of 
shares at the 
beginning of 
the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
 % Change 
during the 
year
Rashesh Chandrakant Shah
 145,601,730 
 -
 145,601,730 
15.44%
0.00%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 58,126,560 
 -
 58,126,560 
6.16%
0.00%
Vidya Rashesh Shah
 31,031,200 
 -
 31,031,200 
3.29%
0.00%
Aparna T Chandrashekar
 12,210,000 
 -
 12,210,000 
1.29%
0.00%
Kaavya Venkat Arakoni
 11,790,000 
 -
 11,790,000 
1.25%
0.00%
Neel Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000 
 -
 2,000,000 
0.21%
0.00%
Sneha Sripad Desai
 1,025,000 
 -
 1,025,000 
0.11%
0.00%
Shilpa Urvish Mody
 950,000 
 -
 950,000 
0.10%
0.00%
Arakoni Venkatachalam Ramaswamy
 50,000 
 -
 50,000 
0.01%
0.00%
Mabella Trustee Services Private 
Limited (on behalf of M/s. Shah Family 
Discretionary Trust)
 38,750,000 
 -
 38,750,000 
4.11%
0.00%
Spire Investment Advisors Llp
 3,200,000 
 -
 3,200,000 
0.34%
0.00%
Sejal Premal Parekh
 950,000 
 -
 950,000 
0.10%
0.00%
Avanti Rashesh Shah
 2,000,000 
 -
 2,000,000 
0.21%
0.00%
Total
 307,684,490 
 -
 307,684,490 
32.62%
0.00%
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
443
444
17.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
D.
Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
 Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
 No. of shares
% holding
No. of shares
% holding
Rashesh Shah
 145,601,730 
15.43%
 145,601,730 
15.44%
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 59,576,560 
6.31%
 58,126,560 
6.16%
 205,178,290 
21.74%
 203,728,290 
21.60%
18.
OTHER EQUITY
 Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
 Share application money pending allotment
 2.25
 -
 Capital redemption reserve
 2.03
 2.03
 Securities premium reserve
 30,736.43
 30,695.15
 ESOP and SAR reserve
 372.06
 698.72
 General reserve
 508.64
 508.64
 Retained earnings
 22,108.13
 39,749.71
 Total
 53,729.54
 71,654.25
For movement of the above components refer statement of changes in equity.
Nature and Purpose
18.1
Capital redemption reserve
The Company has recognised capital redemption reserve on buy back of equity share capital.
18.2
Securities premium reserve
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for 
limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares / allotment of ESOP / SAR in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
18.3
ESOP and SAR reserve
ESOP and SAR options outstanding represents the amount transferred to reserves pursuant to the "ESOP 2011" and 
"SAR 2019" schemes.
18.4
General reserve
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at 
a specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that 
if a dividend distribution in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Company for that year, then 
the total dividend distribution is less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction of 
Companies Act 2013, the requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general 
reserve has been withdrawn. However, the amount previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only 
in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
18.
OTHER EQUITY (CONTINUED)
18.5
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises of the Company's undistributed earnings after taxes.
18.6
Share application money pending allotment
Share application money pending allotment means the amount received on the application on which allotment is 
not yet made (pending allotment).
19.
INTEREST INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
On financial assets measured at Amortised cost
Interest on loans
 4,043.41
 3,454.60
Interest on deposits with Banks
 36.13
 44.58
Other interest income
 0.26
 -
Total
 4,079.80
 3,499.18
20.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Advisory and other fees
 399.11
821.49
Total
 399.11
821.49
Below is the disaggregation of the revenue from contracts with customers and its reconciliation to 
amounts reported in statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Service transferred at a point in time
 399.11
 821.49
Service transferred over time
 -
 -
Total revenue from contract with customers
 399.11
821.49
Geographical Markets
2023-24
2022-23
India
 356.51
788.33
Outside India
42.60
33.16
Total revenue from contract with customers
 399.11
821.49
Note
The Company satisfies its performance obligations on completion of service with regards to investment banking, 
advisory and other fees. The payments on these contracts is due on completion of service, the contracts do not 
contain a significant financing component and the consideration is not variable.
Further, at the end of the year, there are no unsatisfied performance obligations with respect to existing contracts.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
445
446
21.
OTHER INCOME
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Net gain/ (loss) on foreign currency
 -
0.13
Miscellaneous income
 5.18
0.07
Interest on Income Tax Refund
 103.99
 -
Profit on sale of stake in subsidiaries and others (Refer note 64)
 11,558.92
 6,795.64
Total
 11,668.09
6,795.84
22.
FINANCE COST
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
(at amortised cost unless otherwise stated)
Interest on borrowings (other than debt securities)
 14.65
 -
Interest on debt securities
 3,233.15
 3,017.55
Other interest expense
 21.10
 9.82
Total
 3,268.90
 3,027.37
23.
NET GAIN /(LOSS) ON FAIR VALUE CHANGES
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Net gain /(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
On Investments
Fair Value gain / (loss) (Refer note below)
 1,849.32
 23,552.48
Profit / (loss) on trading of securities (net)
 17.09
 3.94
Others
Fair value gain/ (loss) on risk and reward
(7,736.59)
(3,786.01)
Total Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes
(5,870.18)
 19,770.41
Fair Value changes:
Realised gain/(loss)
(5,839.12)
(1,729.22)
Unrealised gain/(loss)
(31.06)
 21,499.63
Total
(5,870.18)
 19,770.41
Note: Refer footnote 4 of note no 6.
24.	 IMPAIRMENT ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
On loans
 0.24
 0.50
On investments*
 -
 1,599.95
On trade receivables
 3.09
(106.89)
Total
3.33
 1,493.56
* Refer footnote 5 of note no 6
25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Salaries and wages
 370.02
 283.05
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1.45
 20.87
Expense on employee stock option scheme/stock appreciation rights 
(Refer Note 38)
(27.40)
 14.23
Staff welfare expenses
 3.14
 16.02
Total
 347.21
 334.17
26.
OTHER EXPENSES
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Advertisement and business promotion
 13.44
 53.94
Auditors' remuneration (Refer note 26.(a))
 20.90
 30.15
Commission and brokerage
 14.71
 8.77
Communication
 0.86
 2.07
Computer software and other expenses
 62.28
 79.71
Commission to non-executive directors
 15.75
 12.50
Electricity charges
 1.46
 1.01
Contribution towards corporate social responsibility ('CSR') (Refer 
Note 26.(b))
 125.00
 100.00
Directors' sitting fees
 3.98
 3.00
Insurance
 8.50
 2.25
Legal and professional fees
 318.07
 334.44
Management fees
 784.67
 2,099.80
Foreign exchange loss
 0.02
 0.20
Membership and subscription
 4.13
 34.55
Goods and Service tax expenses
 33.26
 3.50
Office expenses
 1.60
 4.46
Clearing & Custodian charges
 11.47
 6.78
Printing and stationery
 14.29
 6.52
Rates and taxes
 7.99
 5.22
Rent ( Refer Note 26.(c))
 50.44
 69.26
Repairs and maintenance - others
 0.38
 0.15
Travelling and conveyance
 3.63
 21.87
Postage and courier
 0.96
 0.75
Loss on sale/ write-off of PPE (net)
 -
 0.21
Miscellaneous expenses
 1.05
 0.58
Total
 1,498.84
 2,881.69
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
447
448
26.
OTHER EXPENSES (CONTINUED)
26.
(a)	 Auditors' remuneration
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Statutory Audit
 5.50
 6.80
Limited review
 5.83
 3.60
Certification & others
 9.30
 19.44
Towards reimbursement of expenses
 0.27
 0.31
Total
 20.90
 30.15
26.
(b)	 Details of CSR Expenditure
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
As per the provisions of Section 135 of Companies Act 2013,
(A)	 Amount required to be spent by the Company
 125.00
 100.00
(B)	 Amount of Expenditure Incurred
	
(i)	
Construction/ Acquisition of any assets
 -
 -
	
(ii)	
on purpose other than (i) above
 125.00
 100.00
(C)	 Shortfall at end of the year
	
(i)	
Construction/ Acquisition of any assets
 -
 -
	
(ii)	
on purpose other than (i) above
 -
 -
(D)	 Total of previous years shortfall
 -
 -
(E)	 Reason for shortfall
 N.A
 N.A
(F)	 Nature of CSR activities
	
Education Working to enhance child learning through work with 
system and community and support to the development of 
contextual literature of children
(G)	 Details of related party transactions
	
Name of related party
 EdelGive Foundation
	
Relationship
 Subsidiary
	
Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by 
entering into a contractual obligation
 -
 -
The Company has paid the above amount for CSR expenditure to Edelgive Foundation (subsidiary) section 8 company 
under Companies Act 2013.
26.
(c)	 Leases
	
Rental expenses for the year ended 31 March 2024 aggregated to ` 50.44 million (previous year: ` 69.26 million) 
which has been included under the head other expenses – Rent in the Statement of profit and loss. The Company 
does not have any non-cancellable operating lease.
27.
INCOME TAX
The components of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss for the years ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 
2023 are:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Current tax
 111.36
 -
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years
 -
 -
Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
(1908.23)
(735.91)
Total tax expense
(1796.87)
(735.91)
Total current tax
 111.36
 -
Total deferred tax
(1908.23)
(735.91)
27.1
Reconciliation of the total tax expense
The tax expense shown in the statement of profit and loss differs from the tax expense that would apply if all profits 
had been charged at India corporate tax rate. A reconciliation between the tax expense and the accounting profit 
multiplied by India's domestic tax rate for the years ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 is, as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
Profit before tax
 5,155.25
 23,146.56
Tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Income tax expense calculated based on above tax rate
 1,297.58
 5,825.99
Income not charged to tax or chargeable to lower tax rate
(3,094.45)
(6,905.24)
DTA not created on
Expenditure of current year
 -
318.07
Non Deductible Expenses
 -
 25.27
Tax expense recognised in profit or loss
(1,796.87)
(735.91)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
449
450
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
28.
COMPONENTS OF DEFERRED TAX
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the Balance sheet and changes recorded in the income tax expense:
For the year ended 31 March 2024
Opening 
deferred tax 
asset/(liability)
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Recognised 
directly in 
equity
Others
Total 
Movement
Closing 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Trade receivables- expected credit losses
7.96
(2.00)
 -
 -
 -
(2.00)
5.96
Unused tax losses / credits
783.04
3,092.96
 -
 -
 -
3,092.96
3,876.00
Employee benefits obligations
2.15
(1.16)
 -
 -
 -
(1.16)
0.99
Fair valuation of Investments
(27.84)
26.93
 -
 -
 -
26.93
(0.91)
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible 
assets
7.80
(1.31)
 -
 -
 -
(1.31)
6.49
Effective interest rate on Borrowing
(190.74)
(72.56)
 -
 -
 -
(72.56)
(263.30)
Provision on risk and reward undertaking
1,312.68
(1,134.63)
 -
 -
 -
(1,134.63)
178.05
Total
1,895.05
1,908.23
 -
 -
 -
1,908.23
3,803.28
For the year ended 31 March 2023
Opening 
deferred tax 
asset/(liability)
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Recognised 
directly in 
equity
Others
Total 
Movement
Closing 
deferred 
tax asset/
(liability)
Trade receivables- expected credit losses
15.02
(7.06)
 -
 -
 -
(7.06)
7.96
Unused tax losses / credits
336.54
446.50
 -
 -
 -
446.50
783.04
Employee benefits obligations
1.81
0.34
 -
 -
 -
0.34
2.15
Fair valuation of Investments - loss in 
valuation
0.68
(28.52)
 -
 -
 -
(28.52)
(27.84)
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible 
assets
9.09
(1.29)
 -
 -
 -
(1.29)
7.80
Effective interest rate on Borrowing
(120.02)
(70.72)
 -
 -
 -
(70.72)
(190.74)
Provision on risk and reward undertaking
916.02
396.66
 -
 -
 -
396.66
1,312.68
Total
1,159.14
735.91
 -
 -
 -
735.91
1,895.05
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
28.
COMPONENTS OF DEFERRED TAX (CONTINUED)
28.1 Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits on which deferred tax asset is not recognised in 
balance sheet
As at 31 March 2024
Financial 
Year to 
which the 
loss related 
to
Deductible temporary 
differences
Unused tax losses
Unused tax credits
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial year
Unabsorbed 
depreciation
Unabsorbed long term 
capital losses
Unabsorbed short 
term capital losses
Total
Mat Credit
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
FY 2022-23
 1,599.95  Not Applicable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
FY 2021-22
 200.00  Not Applicable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
FY 2020-21
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,488.88  FY 2028-29
 526.02  FY 2028-29
 3,014.90
 -
 -
As at 31 March 2023
Financial 
Year to 
which the 
loss related 
to
Deductible temporary 
differences
Unused tax losses
Unused tax credits
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial year
Unabsorbed 
depreciation
Unabsorbed long term 
capital losses
Unabsorbed short 
term capital losses
Total
Mat Credit
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Expiry year- 
financial 
year
Amount
Amount
Expiry 
year- 
financial 
year
FY 2022-23
 1,599.95
 Not Applicable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
FY 2021-22
 200.00
 Not Applicable
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
FY 2020-21
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,488.88  FY 2028-29
 526.02  FY 2028-29
 3,014.90
 -
 -
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
451
452
29.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
In accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 33 – "Earnings Per Share" prescribed by Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2015, the computation of earnings per share is set out below:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Profit for the year
 6,952.12
 23,882.47
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares  
of `1 each
Number of shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
 898,378,496
 898,201,185
Number of shares issued during the year
 509,750
 177,311
Total number of equity shares outstanding at the end of the year
 898,888,246
 898,378,496
Weighted average number of shares outstanding at the end of the 
year for basic EPS
 898,871,130
 898,207,466
Number of dilutive potential equity shares
 2,088,781
 115,119
Weighted average number of shares outstanding at the end of the 
year for diluted EPS
 900,959,911
 898,322,585
Earnings per share (EPS) (Face value `1 each)
Basic earnings share (in `)
 7.73
 26.59
Diluted earning per share (in `)
 7.72
 26.59
30.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Primary Segment (Business Segment)
The Company’s business is organised and management reviews the performance based on the business segments 
as mentioned below:
Segment
Activities Covered
Agency
Advisory, transactional services and merchant banking activities
Holding company activities
Development, managerial and financial support to the businesses of 
Edelweiss group entities
Income for each segment has been specifically identified. Expenditure, assets and liabilities are either specifically 
identified with individual segments or have been allocated to segments on a systematic basis.
The management is the Chief Operating Decision Maker(CODM).
The operating segments are the segments for which separate financial information is available and for which operating 
profit / loss amounts are evaluated regularly by the CODM.
Based on such allocations, segment disclosures relating to revenue, results, assets and liabilities have been prepared.
30.
SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Secondary Segment
Since the business operations of the Company are primarily concentrated in India, the Company is considered to 
operate only in the domestic segment and therefore there is no reportable geographic segment.
The following table gives information as required under the Indian Accounting Standard -108 on “Operating Segment”:
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Agency 
business
Holding 
company 
activities
Un-allocated
Total
Segment Revenue
Revenue
 40.40
 10,132.43
 103.99
 10,276.82
Inter Segment Revenue
 -
 -
 -
 -
Revenue from External Customers
 40.40
 10,132.43
 103.99
 10,276.82
Segment Expenditure
 436.30
 4,685.27
 -
 5,121.57
Segment Results (Total profit before Tax)
 (395.90)
 5,447.16
 103.99
 5,155.25
Tax expense
 (1,796.87)
Net profit / (loss) for the period
 6,952.12
Segment Assets
 -
 84,159.82
 4,629.31
 88,789.13
Segment Liabilities
 -
 34,131.52
 29.18
 34,160.70
Capital Expenditure
 -
 0.99
 -
 0.99
Depreciation and Amortisation
 -
 3.29
 -
 3.29
Significant Non-Cash Expenses / (Income) 
other than Depreciation and Amortisation
 -
 (27.40)
 -
 (27.40)
As at 31 March 2023
Particulars
Agency 
business
Holding 
company 
activities
Un-allocated
Total
Segment Revenue
Revenue
 702.42
 30,184.50
 -
 30,886.92
Inter Segment Revenue
 -
 -
 -
 -
Revenue from External Customers
 702.42
 30,184.50
 -
 30,886.92
Segment Expenditure
 567.02
 7,173.34
 -
 7,740.36
Segment Results (Total profit before Tax)
 135.40
 23,011.16
 -
 23,146.56
Tax expense
 (735.91)
Net profit / (loss) for the period
 23,882.47
Segment Assets
 98.31
 104,049.28
 3,038.28
 107,185.86
Segment Liabilities
 242.50
 34,382.88
 7.85
 34,633.23
Capital Expenditure
 4.45
 3.86
 -
 8.31
Depreciation and Amortisation
 1.91
 1.66
 -
 3.57
Significant Non-Cash Expenses / (Income) 
other than Depreciation and Amortisation
 (21.09)
 23,099.79
 -
 23,078.70
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
453
454
31.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN
A)
Defined contribution plan (Provident fund and National Pension Scheme):
In accordance with Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, employees of the 
Company are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund, a defined contribution plan, in which, both 
the employee and the Company contribute monthly at a determined rate. These contributions are made to a 
recognized provident fund administered by Regional Provident Fund Commissioner. The employees contribute 
12% of their basic salary and the Company contributes an equal amount.
The Company recognised ` 6.98 million (previous year: ` 17.60 million) for provident fund and other contributions 
in the statement of profit and loss.
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity):
In accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, the Company provides for gratuity, a defined benefit plan 
covering all employees. The plan provides a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement or termination 
of employment in accordance with the rules laid down in the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. The gratuity benefit 
is partially provided through funded plan and annual expense is charged to the statement of profit and loss on 
the basis of actuarial valuation.
The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation for 
gratuity were carried out as at 31 March 2024.The present value of the defined benefit obligations and the related 
current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the gratuity 
plan and the amounts recognised in the Company’s financial statements as at balance sheet date:
Statement of profit and loss
Expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Current service cost
 0.43
 4.05
Interest on defined benefit obligation
(2.86)
(0.77)
Total included in 'Employee benefits expense'
(2.43)
 3.28
Movement in Other Comprehensive Income:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Balance at start of year (Loss)/ Gain
 9.04
 8.71
Re-measurements on define benefit obligation (DBO)
a.	
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from changes in financial assumptions
(0.04)
 2.05
b.	
Actuarial (Loss)/ Gain from experience over the past year
(0.40)
(0.45)
c.	
Actuarial Loss/(Gain) from changes in demographic assumptions
 -
 -
Return on plan assets excluding amount included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 4.43
(1.27)
Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the 
asset ceiling excluding amount included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability/ (asset)
(8.26)
 -
Balance at end of year (Loss)/ Gain
 4.77
 9.04
31.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity): (Continued)
Balance sheet
Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation (DBO) :
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year
 38.28
 40.46
Acquisition/ (Divestiture)
Interest cost
 1.08
 2.39
Current service cost
 0.43
 4.05
Benefits paid
(4.00)
(7.02)
Past service cost
 -
 -
Actuarial (gain)/loss
0.45
(1.60)
Transfer in / (Out)
(23.03)
-
Present value of DBO at the end of the year
 13.21
 38.28
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 55.61
 53.72
Contributions by Employer
 4.00
 7.02
Benefits paid
(4.00)
(7.02)
Interest income
 3.95
 3.16
Return on plan asset excluding amount included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability/ (asset)
 4.43
(1.27)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 63.99
 55.61
Actual Return on Plan Assets
 8.38
 1.89
Net asset / (liability) recognised in the balance sheet:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Present value of DBO
 13.21
 38.28
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 63.99
 55.61
Net Liability / (Assets)
 (50.78)
 (17.33)
Less: Effect of limiting net assets to asset ceiling
 8.25
 -
Liability / (Assets) recognised in the balance sheet
 (42.53)
 (17.33)
Funded Status [Surplus/ (Deficit)]
 50.78
 17.33
Experience Adjustment on Plan Liabilities: (Gain)/ Loss
 0.40
 0.45
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
455
456
31.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity): (Continued)
Experience adjustments:
Particulars
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
31 March 
2021
31 March 
2020
On plan liabilities: loss / (gain)
0.40
0.45
 2.12
(2.95)
(3.08)
On plan assets: gain / (loss)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Estimated contribution for next year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2.00
Percentage Break-down of Total Plan Assets
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Investment in Unit linked funds with insurance company
99.90%
99.90%
Cash and cash equivalents
0.10%
0.10%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Discount rate
7.00%
7.10%
Salary escalation
7.00%
7.00%
Employees attrition rate
16.00%
16.00%
Mortality Rate
IALM 2012-14 
(Ultimate)
 IALM 2012-14 
(Ultimate)
Interest Rate on Net DBO / (Asset) (%)
7.10%
5.90%
Expected weighted average remaining working life (years)
3.5 years
3.5 years
Sensitivity Analysis
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
DOB increases / (decreases) by
1 % Increase in Salary Growth Rate
0.11
1.16
1 % Decrease in Salary Growth Rate
(0.10)
(1.08)
1 % Increase in Discount Rate
(0.10)
(1.07)
1 % Decrease in Discount Rate
0.11
1.17
1 % Increase in Withdrawal Rate
 -
0.01
1 % Decrease in Withdrawal Rate
 -
(0.01)
Mortality (Increase in expected lifetime by 1 year)
 -
 -
Mortality (Increase in expected lifetime by 3 year)
 -
 -
Note: The sensitivity is performed on the DBO at the respective valuation date by modifying one parameter 
whilst retaining other parameters constant there are no changes from the previous year to the methods and 
assumptions underlying the sensitivity analyses.
31.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
B)
Defined benefit plan (Gratuity): (Continued)
Movement in Surplus / (Deficit)
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Surplus / (Deficit) at start of the year
17.33
13.26
Net Transfer (In)/ Out
 23.03
 -
Current Service Cost
(0.43)
(4.05)
Net Interest on net DBO
2.87
0.77
Re-measurements
(4.27)
0.33
Contributions / Benefits
4.00
7.02
Surplus / (Deficit) at end of year
42.53
17.33
C)
Compensated absences :
The Company provides for accumulated compensated absences as at the balance sheet date using projected 
unit credit method based on actuarial valuation.
D)
Other Disclosures
Description of Asset Liability Matching (ALM) Policy
The Company has an insurance plans invested in market linked bonds. The investment returns of the market-
linked plan are sensitive to the changes in interest rates. The liabilities’ duration is not matched with the assets’ 
duration.
Description of funding arrangements and funding policy that affect future contributions
The liabilities of the fund are funded by assets. The Company aims to maintain a close to full-funding position at 
each Balance Sheet date. Future expected contributions are disclosed based on this principle.
Maturity profile
The average expected remaining lifetime of the plan members is 4 years (31 March 2023: 3.5 years) as at the 
date of valuation. This represents the weighted average of the expected remaining lifetime of all plan participants.
32. CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Particulars
01 April 2023
Cash flows(net)
Others**
31 March 2024
Borrowings*
 25,886.54
 3,735.53
 55.16
 29,677.23
Total liabilities from financing activities
 25,886.54
 3,735.53
 55.16
 29,677.23
Particulars
01 April 2022
Cash flows(net)
Others**
31 March 2023
Borrowings*
 24,322.12
 907.42
 657.00
 25,886.54
Total liabilities from financing activities
 24,322.12
 907.42
 657.00
 25,886.54
* Comprises of Debt securities and borrowings (other than debt securities). 
** Refers to interest accrued during the year.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
457
458
33.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES & COMMITMENTS :
33.1
Contingent liabilities
a)
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt:
- Income Tax matters in respect of which appeal is pending ` 5.69 million (previous year: ` 5.69 million).
- Service Tax matters in respect of which appeal is pending ` 430.75 million (previous year: ` 534.36 million).
- Litigation pending against Company amounts to ` 7.39 million (previous year: ` Nil million).
b)
Other claim not acknowledged as debt:
i)
The Company’s pending litigations mainly comprise of claims against the Company pertaining to proceedings 
pending with Income tax, service tax and other authorities. The Company has reviewed all its pending 
litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are required and disclosed as 
contingent liabilities where applicable, in the financial statements. The Company believes that the outcome 
of these proceedings will not have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and 
results of operations.
ii)
The Company has received demand notices from tax authorities on account of disallowance of expenditure 
for earning exempt income under Section 14A of Income Tax Act 1961 read with Rule 8D of the Income 
Tax Rules, 1962. The company has filed appeal/s and is defending its position. Based on the favourable 
outcome in Appellate proceedings in the past and as advised by the tax advisors, company is reasonably 
certain about sustaining its position in the pending cases, hence the possibility of outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits on this ground is remote.
iii)
Pursuant to the Income Tax Authorities (“the ITA”) investigation, after 31 March 2024, the Company has 
received assessment order cum demand notice from ITA for AY 2022-23. Based on the legal opinion 
obtained by the Company, management believes that the demand is not sustainable. The Company has 
filed an appeal against the said assessment order. Thus, no adjustment has been made or is required in the 
Standalone Financial Statements of the Company.
c)
Guarantees excluding financial guarantees :
Corporate/other guarantee not acknowledged as debt:
Corporate/other guarantee given by the Company on behalf of its subsidiaries and former associate companies 
and to third party which is outstanding as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 is given below:
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Guarantee to trustees and others for non convertible debentures and 
other borrowings
 23,157.75
 25,849.37
Guarantee to Banks for loan taken by subsidiaries and former associates
 3,257.11
 7,232.80
Total
 26,414.86
 33,082.17
33.2
Capital commitment
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net of advances) ` 
Nil million (previous year: ` Nil million).
34.
COST SHARING:
The group companies provide business and support services to each other basis of the signed agreed terms. The 
services provided are with the intent to create synergies at group level for e.g. sharing of empty spaces with the group 
companies, having common HR and admin teams, using one’s available resource for the benefit of the group.
In consideration of the business and management oversight by Edelweiss group, the beneficiaries shall share and pay 
towards the costs, as agreed. It is expressly agreed between the parties that sharing of these cost shall be on the total 
cost over the financial year (April to March) adequate to compensate the function performed , assets employed and 
risks assumed by group companies and will be determined by the beneficiaries and edelweiss group companies. The 
amount payable by the beneficiaries is reviewed intermittently and any amendment to the same is mutually agreed 
upon in writing by the parties. For the purpose of total cost means all operating expense including but not limited to, 
normal recurring cost such as office rent, communication charges, salaries, employee benefits, cost of approved third-
party vendor, deprecation on assets used and amortization.
35. DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”:
(A)
Subsidiaries which are controlled by the Company:
1
ECL Finance Limited
2
Edelcap Securities Limited
3
ECap Securities and Investments Limited
4
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
5
Ecap Equities Limited (formerly known as Edel Land Limited)
6
Edel Investments Limited
7
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company Limited
8
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited
9
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
10
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
11
EC International Limited
12
Edelgive Foundation
13
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte. Limited
14
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. Limited
15
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
16
NIDO Home Finance Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited)
17
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services Limited
18
Comtrade Commodities Services Limited
19
Edel Finance Company Limited
20
Nuvama Investment Advisors LLC (formerly known as EAAA, LLC) (Upto 05 September 2023)
21
EW Special Opportunities Advisors LLC (upto 30 June 2022)
22
Edelweiss Resolution Advisors LLP (upto 01 July 2022)
23
Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors LLP
24
ZUNO General Insurance Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited)
25
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited
26
Edelweiss Private Equity Tech Fund
27
Edelweiss Value and Growth Fund
28
Edelweiss Securities and Investments Private Limited
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
459
460
35. DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(A)
Subsidiaries which are controlled by the Company: (Continued)
29
Edelweiss Employees Welfare Trust
30
Edelweiss Employees Incentive and Welfare Trust
31
Allium Finance Private Limited
32
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Capital Services Limited)
33
India Credit Investment Fund - II (upto 31 October 2023)
34
Edelweiss Real Asset Managers Limited
35
Sekura India Management Limited
36
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited
37
India Credit Investment Fund - III (upto 31 March 2024)
38
India Credit Investment Fund - 5 (from 09 August 2023 upto 31 March 2024)
(B)
Enterprises over which control is exercised by the Company:
Trust name :
1
EARC SAF - 2 TRUST
26
EARC TRUST SC 348
51
EARC TRUST SC 393
2
EARC TRUST SC 6
27
EARC TRUST SC 351
52
EARC TRUST SC 394
3
EARC TRUST SC 9
28
EARC TRUST SC 352
53
EARC TRUST SC 395
4
EARC TRUST SC 102
29
EARC TRUST SC 357
54
EARC TRUST SC 396
5
EARC TRUST SC 112
30
EARC TRUST SC 360
55
EARC TRUST SC 397
6
EARC TRUST SC 130
31
EARC TRUST SC 361
56
EARC TRUST SC 401
7
EARC TRUST SC 227
32
EARC TRUST SC 363
57
EARC TRUST SC 402
8
EARC TRUST SC 228
33
EARC TRUST SC 370
58
EARC TRUST SC 405
9
EARC TRUST SC 229
34
EARC TRUST SC 372
59
EARC TRUST SC 406
10
EARC TRUST SC 238
35
EARC TRUST SC 373
60
EARC TRUST SC 410
11
EARC TRUST SC 245
36
EARC TRUST SC 374
61
EARC TRUST SC 412
12
EARC TRUST SC 251
37
EARC TRUST SC 375
62
EARC TRUST SC 413
13
EARC TRUST SC 263
38
EARC TRUST SC 376
63
EARC TRUST SC 415
14
EARC TRUST SC 266
39
EARC TRUST SC 377
64
EARC TRUST SC 416
15
EARC TRUST SC 298
40
EARC TRUST SC 378
65
EARC TRUST SC 417
16
EARC TRUST SC 306
41
EARC TRUST SC 380
66
EARC TRUST SC 418
17
EARC TRUST SC 308
42
EARC TRUST SC 381
67
EARC TRUST SC 421
18
EARC TRUST SC 314
43
EARC TRUST SC 383
68
EARC TRUST SC 422
19
EARC TRUST SC 325
44
EARC TRUST SC 384
69
EARC TRUST SC 423
20
EARC TRUST SC 329
45
EARC TRUST SC 385
70
EARC TRUST SC 424
21
EARC TRUST SC 331
46
EARC TRUST SC 386
71
EARC TRUST SC 425
22
EARC TRUST SC 332
47
EARC TRUST SC 387
72
EARC TRUST SC 427
23
EARC TRUST SC 334
48
EARC TRUST SC 388
73
EARC TRUST SC 428
24
EARC TRUST SC 344
49
EARC TRUST SC 391
74
EARC TRUST SC 429
25
EARC TRUST SC 347
50
EARC TRUST SC 392
75
EARC TRUST SC 430
35. DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(B)
Enterprises over which control is exercised by the Company: (Continued)
76
EARC TRUST SC 431
89
EARC TRUST SC 453
102
EARC TRUST SC 486
77
EARC TRUST SC 433
90
EARC TRUST SC 455
103
EARC TRUST SC 488
78
EARC TRUST SC 434
91
EARC TRUST SC 456
104
EARC TRUST SC 489
79
EARC TRUST SC 436
92
EARC TRUST SC 459
105
EARC TRUST SC 492
80
EARC TRUST SC 442
93
EARC TRUST SC 461
106
EARC TRUST SC 493
81
EARC TRUST SC 443
94
EARC TRUST SC 462
107
EARC TRUST SC 7 
82
EARC TRUST SC 444
95
EARC TRUST SC 464
(upto 31 December 2023)
83 
84
EARC TRUST SC 445 
EARC TRUST SC 447
96 
97
EARC TRUST SC 470 
EARC TRUST SC 477
108
EARC TRUST SC 109  
(upto 31 December 2023)
85 
86
EARC TRUST SC 448 
EARC TRUST SC 449
98 
99
EARC TRUST SC 481 
EARC TRUST SC 482
109
EARC TRUST SC 440  
(upto 31 December 2023)
87 
88
EARC TRUST SC 451 
EARC TRUST SC 452
100 
101
EARC TRUST SC 483 
EARC TRUST SC 484
110
EARC TRUST SC 441  
(upto 31 December 2023)
(C)
Individuals owning, directly or indirectly, an interest in the voting power of the Company that gives 
them control or significant influence over the Company:
Mr. Rashesh Shah
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Ms. Vidya Shah
Ms. Aparna T. C.
(D)
Key managerial personnel (KMP):
Mr. Rashesh Shah - Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy - Vice Chairman and Executive Director
Mr. Himanshu Kaji - Executive Director (upto 26 September 2023)
Ms. Ananya Suneja – Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Tarun Khurana - Company Secretary
Mr. Rujan Panjwani - Executive Director (upto 2 September 2022)
(E)
Relatives of individuals exercising significant Influence and relatives of KMPs with whom transactions 
have taken place
Ms. Kaavya Venkat
Ms. Shilpa Mody
Ms. Sejal Premal Parekh
Mr. A V Ramaswamy
Ms. Sneha Sripad Desai
Ms. Shabnam Panjwani (upto 2 September 2022)
Ms. Avanti Shah
Mr. Neel Shah
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
461
462
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(F)
Enterprises over which Promoter/KMPS/ Relatives exercise significant influence, with whom 
transactions have taken place
Shah Family Discretionary Trust
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
(G)
Independent Directors
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra (upto 26 September 2023)
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. P. N. Venkatachalam (upto 02 September 2022)
Mr. Ashok Kini
Dr. Ashima Goyal
Mr. Shiva Kumar (from 4 August 2022)
(H)
Associate Entities (upto 30th March 2023) (Refer note 4 of 6):
1
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities Limited)
Subsidiaries of Associate
1
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Finance & Investments Limited)
2
Nuvama Wealth and Investment Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Broking Limited)
3
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited (Nuvama Clearing Services Limited)
4
Nuvama Investment Advisors Private Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Investment Advisors Private 
Limited)
5
Nuvama Financial Services Inc. (Edelweiss Financial Services Inc)
6
Nuvama Financial Services (UK) Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Financial Services (UK) Limited)
7
Nuvama Capital Services (IFSC) Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities (IFSC) Limited)
8
Nuvama Asset Management Limited (formerly known as ESL Securities Limited)
9
Nuvama Investment Advisors (Hongkong) Private Limited (formerly known as Edelweiss Securities (Hong 
Kong) Private Limited)
10
Pickright Technologies Private Limited ( w.e.f 13 March 2023) (upto 30 March 2023)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties:
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 1
 Sale of Equity shares to
Edel Finance Company Limited
 26,408.40
 4,031.50
Ecap Equities Limited
 -
 3,714.72
ECap Securities And Investments Limited
 -
 315.20
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 -
 2,136.27
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 -
 2,134.20
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 2
Investment in Compulsory 
Convertible Debentures of
Edel Finance Company Limited
 8,000.00
 -
 3
Investment in Equity shares of
Edel Finance Company Limited
 2,000.00
 2,000.00
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 1,930.00
 1,650.00
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 495.53
 2,500.00
 4
Term loans given to
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 2,325.00
 8,320.00
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 1,300.00
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 5,009.88
 -
Ecap Equities Limited
 14,368.65
 12,076.22
Edel Finance Company Limited
 21,937.88
 9,698.30
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 -
 5,800.00
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 1,594.20
 7,992.90
Edel Investments Limited
 -
 1,100.00
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 220.00
 220.00
 5
Term loans repaid by
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 4,025.00
 13,559.23
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 1,300.00
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 5,009.88
 488.36
Ecap Equities Limited
 16,812.78
 6,988.04
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 -
 2,746.50
Edel Finance Company Limited
 9,437.41
 6,364.08
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 2,584.10
 6,403.00
Edel Investments Limited
 -
 1,100.00
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 220.00
 220.00
 6
Sale of Property Plant and 
Equipment from
Nuvama Wealth and Investment Limited
 -
 0.00
Ecap Equities Limited
 -
 0.00
 7
Purchase of Property Plant and 
Equipment from
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 0.01
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
463
464
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 8
Remuneration paid to
Mr. Rashesh Shah
 110.03
 80.01
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 67.15
 64.42
Mr. Himanshu Kaji
 23.85
 32.50
Mr. Rujan Panjwani
 -
 34.07
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 13.05
 11.11
Ms. Ananya Suneja
 30.98
 25.11
 9
 Dividend paid on Equity Shares
Mr. Rashesh Shah
 218.40
 211.12
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
 89.00
 84.28
Ms. Vidya Shah
 46.59
 45.00
Shah Family Discretionary Trust
 58.13
 56.19
Spire Investment Advisors LLP
 4.80
 4.64
Ms. Aparna T. C.
 18.32
 17.70
Ms. Kaavya Venkat
 17.69
 17.10
Mr. Rujan Panjwani
 -
 14.34
Mr. Himanshu Kaji
 0.74
 4.31
Ms. Sneha Sripad Desai
 1.54
 1.49
Ms. Shilpa Mody
 1.43
 1.38
Ms. Sejal Premal Parekh
 1.43
 1.38
Ms. Shabnam Panjwani
 -
 0.19
Mr. A V Ramaswamy
 0.08
 0.07
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 1.99
Ms. Avanti Shah
 3.00
 2.90
Mr P N Venkatachalam
 -
 0.07
Mr. Neel Shah
 3.00
 2.90
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 0.09
 0.09
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 0.05
 10
 Loan given to KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 5.00
 -
 11
 Loan repaid by KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 5.00
 -
 12
 Interest income received from 
loan given to KMP
Mr. Tarun Khurana
 0.25
 -
 13
 Share Application money 
received from KMP
Ms. Ananya Suneja
 0.41
 -
 14
 Fee / commission paid to
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 7.80
Nuvama Financial Services Inc.
 -
 0.20
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 0.55
 0.42
Edel Finance Company Limited
 -
 0.09
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 3.60
 2.20
 15
 Management Fees paid to
ECL Finance Limited
 151.50
 1,139.24
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 174.54
 509.93
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 -
 11.39
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 5.57
 11.66
 16
 Fee / commission earned from
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 -
 2.50
Nuvama Wealth and Investment Limited
 -
 0.85
Ecap Equities Limited
 5.00
 -
Edel Finance Company Limited
 5.00
 -
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 5.00
 -
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 7.20
 -
 17
 Royalty Fees received from
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 40.11
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 42.50
 37.50
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 -
 6.89
 18
 Fee / Guarantee commission 
earned from
Edel Finance Company Limited
 1.07
 0.71
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
 -
 1.41
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 27.70
 30.13
ECap Securities And Investments Limited
 0.01
 -
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 0.08
 -
Ecap Equities Limited
 1.28
 2.10
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 0.00
 0.04
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 0.91
 0.19
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 1.50
 -
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
465
466
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 19
 Interest Income on Compulsory 
Convertible Debentures
Edel Finance Company Limited
 0.01
 -
 20
 Interest expense on loan taken
Ecap Equities Limited
 1.97
 -
 21
 Interest Income on loan given
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 388.22
 1,009.00
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 3.73
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 207.04
 36.63
Ecap Equities Limited
 849.96
 538.81
Edel Finance Company Limited
 1,768.01
 1,445.50
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 572.71
 217.20
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 257.18
 201.42
Edel Investments Limited
 -
 1.66
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 0.30
 0.66
 22
 Interest Expense on NCD
Ecap Equities Limited
 91.23
 40.70
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 127.56
 39.27
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 26.79
 13.67
 23
 Interest Expense on Market 
Linked Debentures
Ecap Equities Limited
 17.41
-
 24
 Cost reimbursements paid to
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 81.39
 75.93
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 172.62
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 0.01
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 167.39
Nuvama Wealth and Investment Limited
 -
 378.45
Nuvama Asset Management Limited
 -
 5.33
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 17.00
 -
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 1.30
 -
 25
 Cost reimbursements recovered 
from
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 0.11
 -
ECL Finance Limited
 39.53
 -
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited
 -
 0.59
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
 0.17
 0.14
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 0.77
 0.70
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 0.43
 0.68
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 0.18
 0.20
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 -
 0.01
Ecap Equities Limited
 0.11
 -
Edelcap Securities Limited
 0.52
 0.64
Edel Finance Company Limited
 0.11
 -
 26
 Directors' sitting fees paid to
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra
 0.53
 0.65
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 0.20
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 0.18
Mr. P N Venkatachalam
 -
 0.22
Ms. Dr. Ashima Goyal
 0.83
 0.48
Mr. Ashok Kini
 1.28
 0.71
Mr. Shiva Kumar
 1.35
 0.57
 27
 Commission paid to Non 
executive directors
Mr. Biswamohan Mahapatra
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Kunnasagaran Chinniah
 -
 2.00
Mr. Navtej S. Nandra
 -
 2.00
Mr. P N Venkatachalam
 -
 2.00
Ms. Dr. Ashima Goyal
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Ashok Kini
 2.50
 2.00
Mr. Shiva Kumar
 2.50
 -
Ms. Vidya Shah
 2.50
 2.00
 28
 Redemption of Non Convertible 
Debentures & Market Linked 
Debentures
Ecap Equities Limited
 4,084.85
 -
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 30.05
 -
 29
 Contribution towards corporate 
social responsibility
EdelGive Foundation
 125.00
 100.00
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
467
468
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
Balances with Related Parties
 1
 Investments in Equity Shares in
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 11,504.96
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 11,939.10
 11,443.58
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
 1,712.41
 1,712.41
EC International Limited
 6.15
 6.15
ECap Securities And Investments Limited
 1,599.95
 1,599.95
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited
 280.50
 280.50
Ecap Equities Limited
 147.71
 147.71
EdelGive Foundation
 0.10
 0.10
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 195.98
 195.98
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited
 1.00
 1.00
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 790.01
 790.01
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 8,716.16
 6,786.16
Edel Finance Company Limited
 11,871.55
 9,871.55
Nuvama Wealth Management Limited
 -
 23,531.82
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 697.37
 4,072.99
 2
 Investments in Preference 
shares of
Edel Finance Company Limited
 1,650.00
 1,650.00
 3
Investment in Compulsory 
Convertible debenture of
Edel Finance Company Limited
 8,000.00
 -
 4
Interest accrued on Compulsory 
Convertible debenture of
Edel Finance Company Limited
 0.01
 -
 5
 Gratuity Payable to
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 -
 0.00
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 0.42
 0.42
 6
 ESOP Charges Payable to
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 7.88
 -
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 0.64
 -
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 -
 0.33
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 0.00
 -
Edelcap Securities Limited
 -
 7.39
35
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 -
 1.63
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 -
 0.08
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte. 
Limited
 2.11
 2.11
ECL Finance Limited
 29.69
 0.71
 7
 ESOP Charges Receivable from
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 0.55
 0.62
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
 0.44
 2.54
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 6.73
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 1.60
 9.27
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 1.29
 3.22
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 0.86
 5.17
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 0.73
 2.13
Nuvama Custodial Services Limited
 0.12
 -
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 -
 0.33
Ecap Equities Limited
 1.84
 14.03
Edel Investments Limited
 0.01
 0.01
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 -
 1.47
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
 0.01
 0.11
Edelcap Securities Limited
 0.05
 -
 8
Accrued interest on loans given to Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services Limited
 32.19
 50.63
Edel Finance Company Limited
 132.64
 152.73
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 3.36
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management 
Limited
 5.77
 -
Ecap Equities Limited
 63.73
 56.99
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 40.77
 5.36
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 21.75
 32.66
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 0.00
 0.60
Edel Investments Limited
 -
 1.49
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
469
470
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 9
Accrued interest on loans taken 
from
Ecap Equities Limited
 1.97
 -
 10
Loan given to
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 2,400.00
 4,100.00
Ecap Equities Limited
 4,700.10
 7,144.22
Edel Finance Company Limited
 23,890.00
 11,389.53
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 4,500.00
 4,500.00
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 600.00
 1,589.90
 11
Loans taken from
Ecap Equities Limited
 1,595.42
 -
 12
Non Convertible Debentures 
held by
Ecap Equities Limited
 139.01
 33.29
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 2,207.96
 1,260.80
ECL Finance Limited
 2.74
 -
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 303.12
 -
 13
Trade payable to
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 18.40
 9.65
ECL Finance Limited
 2,926.34
 1,989.36
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 0.04
 23.46
EdelGive Foundation
 -
 0.00
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 0.87
 -
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 0.28
 19.21
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services 
Limited
 14.12
 14.14
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 0.25
 0.25
Edel Finance Company Limited
 -
 0.00
Ecap Equities Limited
 0.70
 0.50
Edel Investments Limited
 0.04
 -
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 0.06
 -
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
 0.63
 -
35.
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARD 24 – “RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURE”: (CONTINUED)
(I)
Transactions and balances with Related Parties: (Continued)
Sr. 
No. Nature of Transaction
Related Party Name
31 March 
2024
31 March 
2023
 14
Trade receivable from
Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 15.07
 37.48
Edelcap Securities Limited
 -
 0.08
Edel Finance Company Limited
 1.05
 0.13
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
 -
 0.02
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 11.19
 4.86
ECap Securities And Investments Limited
 0.05
 -
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 0.06
 0.07
Ecap Equities Limited
 0.64
 0.41
ZUNO General Insurance Limited
 -
 6.89
Edel Investments Limited
 0.00
 -
Edelweiss Rural & Corporate Services Limited
 -
 0.00
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 3.11
 0.05
Edelweiss International (Singapore) Pte. Limited
 0.00
 0.07
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
 0.02
 0.02
ECL Finance Limited
 43.71
 85.29
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 82.44
 0.41
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 -
 0.16
 15
Risk and Reward undertaking
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
 -
 702.32
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 1,301.20
 1,915.98
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 32,880.84
 16
Guarantee given on behalf of 
Group Company
ECap Securities And Investments Limited
 2,200.00
 -
Ecap Equities Limited
 3,330.60
 6,523.30
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company 
Limited
 10,396.20
 16,575.40
Edel Finance Company Limited
 3,170.00
 470.00
Nuvama Wealth Finance Limited
-
 -
NIDO Home Finance Limited
 1,095.71
 917.10
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
 2,622.35
 3,284.89
ECL Finance Limited
 1,100.00
 1,200.00
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited
 2,500.00
 -
0.00 indicates amounts less than ` 0.01 million.
Notes:
 1
Information relating to remuneration paid to key managerial person mentioned above excludes provision made 
for gratuity and provision made for bonus which are provided for group of employees on an overall basis.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
471
472
36.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company manages the capital structure by a balanced mix of debt and equity. The Company’s capital 
management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. 
The Company maintains sound capitalisation both from an economic and regulatory perspective. The Company 
continuously monitors and adjusts overall capital demand and supply in an effort to achieve an appropriate balance of 
the economic and regulatory considerations at all times and from all perspectives. These perspectives include specific 
capital requirements from rating agencies.
Capital structure includes infusion in the form of equity and structured debt from strategic business partners in certain 
of Company’s subsidiaries to fund expansion and assist in achieving expected growth in the competitive market.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial years ended 31 March 2024 and 
31 March 2023.
This framework is adjusted based on underlying macro-economic factors affecting business environment, financial 
market conditions and interest rates environment. Company monitors capital using debt-equity ratio, which is total 
debt divided by total equity.
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Total Debt
 29,677.23
 25,886.54
Equity
 54,628.43
 72,552.63
Net Debt to Equity
 0.54
 0.36
Total Debt = Debt securities+ Borrowings (Other than debt securities)
37.
DISCLOSURE OF LOANS AND ADVANCES GIVEN PURSUANT TO REQUIREMENTS 
OF REGULATION 34(3) OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(LISTING OBLIGATION AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015, 
AS AMENDED.
Entity
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
Loan 
outstanding**
Maximum 
amount 
outstanding 
during the 
year*
Loan 
outstanding**
Maximum 
amount 
outstanding 
during the 
year*
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited
2,432.19
4,150.00
 4,150.63
 10,929.23
ECL Finance Limited
 -
 -
 3.36
 1,300.00
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited
5.77
4,762.67
 -
 488.36
Ecap Equities Limited
4,763.83
8,250.72
 7,201.21
 7,338.19
Edel Finance Company Limited
24,022.65
23,890.00
 11,542.26
 14,638.30
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited
621.75
2,585.10
 1,622.56
 3,828.10
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
 -
220.00
 0.60
 220.00
Edel Investments Limited
 -
 -
 1.49
 1,100.00
Edelweiss Securities And Investments Private 
Limited
4,540.77
4,500.00
 4,505.36
 4,500.00
All the above loans have maturity of 0-3 years as per contracted terms. 
*Maximum amount outstanding during the year represents principle outstanding. 
**Loan outstanding includes principal and interest accrued
38.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited ("EFSL" hereafter), has recognised share based payment expenses for the years 
ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 based on fair value as on the grant date calculated as per option pricing 
model. The grants represent equity-settled options under the Employee Stock Option Plans and Stock Appreciation 
Rights Plans (hereafter referred to as, "ESOP 2011" and "SAR 2019" or "ESOPs" "SARs" ).
The Edelweiss Group has granted ESOPs under the two plans viz., ESOP 2011 & SAR 2019 to its employees on 
an equity-settled basis as tabulated below. The ESOPs/SARs provide a right to its holders (i.e., Edelweiss group 
employees) to purchase one EFSL share for each option at a pre-determined strike price on the expiry of the vesting 
period. The ESOP/SAR hence represents an European call option that provides a right but not an obligation to the 
employees of the Edelweiss group to exercise the option by paying the strike price at any time on completion of the 
vesting period, subject to an outer boundary on the exercise period.
EFSL has granted stock options to employees of the Edelweiss group on an equity-settled basis as tabulated below.
Particulars
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Dates of grant
Varying
Varying
Option Type
Equity settled
Equity settled
No. of outstanding options at 31 March 2024
 4,859,570
 2,254,725
No. of outstanding options at 31 March 2023
 8,057,420
 4,592,500
No. of Equity shares represented by an option
1 share for 1 option
1 share for 1 option
Fair Value per option
Varies as per the 
grant date
Varies as per the 
grant date
Exercise Price
Varies as per the 
grant date
Varies as per the 
grant date
Vesting Period
2-6 years
1-4 years
Vesting Conditions
Service
Service
*Includes, SAR 2019 1,75,100, ESOP Nil (previous year SAR 2019 345,050, ESOP Nil) approved but not granted.
The vesting of options is subject to the employee's continued employment with the Edelweiss group. 
The ESOPs and SARs shall vest as follows:
Particulars
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Duration from grant date
% options vesting
% options vesting
12 months from the grant date
 -
25.00%
24 months from the grant date
33.33%
25.00%
36 months from the grant date
 -
25.00%
48 months from the grant date
33.33%
25.00%
60 months from the grant date
 -
 -
72 months from the grant date
33.34%
 -
Total
100.00%
100.00%
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
473
474
38.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
Plan description
Plan Name
Grant Date
Vesting Conditions
Term of Options
Payout
ESOP Plan 2011
Various
As specified in tables above
1-4 years
Equity settled
SAR Plan 2019
Various
As specified in tables above
2-6 years
Equity settled
Movement of number of Options for FY 2023-24 and 2022-23
Number of options
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019 ESOP 2011
Total
SAR 2019 ESOP 2011
Total
Outstanding at the start of the year
 8,057,420
 4,592,500  12,649,920  10,914,200
 7,182,488  18,096,688
Granted during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Exercised during the year
 (99,000)
(556,500)
 (655,500)  (1,034,220)
 (25,000)  (1,059,220)
Lapsed/ cancelled during the year
(3,098,850)
(1,781,275)  (4,880,125)  (1,822,560)  (2,564,988)  (4,387,548)
Outstanding at the end of the year*
 4,859,570
2,254,725
 7,114,295
 8,057,420
 4,592,500  12,649,920
Exercisable at the end of the year
 -
 1,946,725
 1,946,725
 -
 3,263,050
 3,263,050
*Includes, SAR 2019 175,100, ESOP Nil (previous year SAR 2019 345,050, ESOP Nil) approved but not granted.
Weighted Average Exercise Price for FY 2023-24 and 2022-23
Weighted Average Exercise Price (`)
31 March 2024*
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Outstanding at the start of the year
 136.20
 166.84
 123.38
 172.77
Granted during the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
Exercised during the year
52.36
34.79
61.00
60.75
Lapsed/ cancelled during the year
88.24
182.01
104.55
184.47
Outstanding at the end of the year
50.74
69.58
136.20
166.84
Exercisable at the end of the year
NA
76.25
NA
187.44
Weighted Average Share price at the 
exercise date
 78.30
58.59
58.85
58.98
* During the year, there is reduction in strike price on account of demerger (refer note 58).
Outstanding Options as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Number of options outstanding
 4,859,570
 2,254,725
 8,057,420
 4,592,500
Weighted average strike price (`)
 50.74
 69.58
 136.20
 166.84
Weighted average remaining lifetime of options  
(in years)
 1.35
 0.07
 1.65
 0.16
Number of employees covered under the scheme
 111
 143
 122
 166
38.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK 
APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLANS (CONTINUED)
Options granted during FY 2023-24 and 2022-23
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
 ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Number of options granted
 -
 -
 -
 -
Weighted average strike price (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted average remaining lifetime of options  
(in years)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Number of employees covered under the scheme
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted Average Fair value per option (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Weighted Average Intrinsic value per option (in `)
 NA
 NA
 NA
 NA
Assumptions for Fair Value for FY 2023-24 and 2022-23
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Weighted average share price (in `)
 112.17
 157.75
 136.33
 169.52
Weighted average strike price (in `)
 50.74
 69.58
 136.20
 166.84
Weighted average remaining lifetime 
of options (in years)
 1.35
 0.07
 1.65
 0.16
Expected volatility (% p.a.)
56% p.a. - 72% p.a.
41% p.a. - 72% p.a.
56% p.a. - 72% p.a.
41% p.a. - 72% p.a.
Risk-free discount rate (% p.a.)
5.1% p.a. - 6.9% p.a.
4.3% p.a. - 7.8% p.a.
5.1% p.a. - 6.9% p.a.
4.3% p.a. - 7.8% p.a.
Expected dividend yield (% p.a.)
0.7% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
0.4% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
0.7% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
0.4% p.a. - 2.4% p.a.
Other Disclosure
Particulars
31 March 2024
31 March 2023
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Total
SAR 2019
ESOP 2011
Total
Charges during the year due 
to share based payments
 (22.57)
 (4.83)
 (27.40)
 10.71
 3.52
 14.23
Liability due for share based 
payments
 191.24
 180.82
 372.06
 343.65
 355.07
 698.72
Intrinsic value of the liability 
above
 1.93
 10.40
 12.33
 4.83
 20.36
 25.19
39.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has operations in India. Whilst risk is inherent in the Company’s activities, it is managed through an 
integrated risk management framework, including ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to 
risk limits and other controls. This process of risk management is critical to the Company. The Company is exposed 
to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. It is also subject to various operating and business risks.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
475
476
39.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Risk management strategy:
The strategy at an execution level is supported by -
1. 	
Three tiered risk management structure to manage and oversee risks
2. 	
Board and Executive Level Committees to review and approve risk exposures
3. 	
Risk Management framework to ensure each risk the Company is exposed to is given due importance and 
managed through a well-defined framework and guidelines
4. 	
Well-defined Standard Operating Procedures and Product approval framework to ensure risks are mitigated at 
operational level
5. 	
Adequate segregation of duties to ensure multi-layered checks and balances
6. 	
Exception reporting framework to ensure process and policy deviations are adequately addressed
Risk management structure:
The Board of Directors are responsible for the overall risk management approach and for approving the risk 
management strategies and principles.
The Board has appointed the Risk Committee which is responsible for monitoring the overall risk process within the 
Company and reports to the Audit Committee
The Risk Committee has the overall responsibility for the development of the risk strategy and implementing principles, 
frameworks, policies and limits.
The Company is responsible for implementing and maintaining risk related procedures to ensure an independent 
control process is maintained. The Company works closely with and reports to the Risk Committee, to ensure that 
procedures are compliant with the overall framework.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss the Company may face due to current/potential inability or unwillingness of a 
customer or counterparty to meet financial /contractual obligations. Credit risk also covers the possibility of losses 
associated with diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties. The Company’s lending activities is 
restricted to only its subsidiaries within the Edelweiss Group, the Company has adopted a policy of dealing with 
creditworthy counterparties and obtains sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of 
financial loss from defaults.
Credit risk is measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to make repayments. Credit 
risk is monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits approved by the board within a 
framework of delegated authorities. It is managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear and 
consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers. Presently Company has credit exposure only to it’s 
subsidiaries where adequate control and monitoring is ensured.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk emanates from the possible mismatches due to differences in maturity and repayment profile of assets 
and liabilities. To avoid such a scenario, the Company has maintained cash reserves in the form of Fixed Deposits, 
Cash, Loans which are callable any time at the Company’s discretion, etc. These assets carry minimal credit risk and 
can be liquidated. These would be to take care of immediate obligations while continuing to honour commitments as 
a going concern.
39.
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
The table below at note number 42 summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flows of the Company’s 
financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March. All OTC derivatives used for hedging are shown by maturity, based on 
their contractual undiscounted payment obligations. All exchange traded derivatives held for trading are analysed 
based on expected maturity.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk which can affect the Company’s performance due to adverse movements in market prices of 
instrument due to interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates. The objective of the Company’s market risk 
management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
Foreign exchange risk – Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due 
to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s foreign exposure is limited to investments and loans to 
Group entities outside India. The Company aggregates the foreign exchange exposure emerging out of these loans/
investments and the same is hedged using OTC and exchange traded derivatives. Positions are regularly monitored 
by the Company and rebalanced/ rolled over based on the inflow and outflow of funds. The Company don’t have any 
foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024.
40.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
40.1
Valuation governance framework
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, 
independent price determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, Company sources alternative market 
information, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
40.2
Fair value hierarchy
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy.
Level 1 – valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical 
instruments in active markets that company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: Those where the inputs that are used for valuation and are 
significant, are derived from directly or indirectly observable market data available over the entire period of the 
instrument’s life.
Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: Those that include one or more unobservable input 
that is significant to the measurement as whole.
40.3
Financial instruments measured at Amortised Cost
The following table sets out the fair values and fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortised cost. 
The information given with respect to financial instruments for which the fair value differs from the carrying amount. 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade and other payables as on 31 March 2024 
approximate the fair value because of their short-term nature. Difference between carrying amounts and fair values 
of bank deposits, other financials assets and other financial liabilities is not significant in each of the years presented.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
477
478
40.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
40.3
Financial instruments measured at Amortised Cost (Continued)
Particulars
31 March 2024
Total 
Carrying 
Amount
Total fair 
value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets:
Loans
 36,382.39
 36,382.39
 -
 -
 36,382.39
Financial liabilities
Debt securities
 28,079.84
 28,079.84
 28,079.84
 -
 -
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 1,597.39
 1,597.39
 -
 -
 1,597.39
Particulars
31 March 2023
Total 
Carrying 
Amount
Total fair 
value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial assets:
Loans
 29,023.40
 29,023.40
 -
 -
 29,023.40
Financial liabilities
Debt securities
 25,886.54
 25,886.54
 22,366.27
 3,520.27
 -
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 -
 -
-
-
 -
40.4
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the fair 
value hierarchy. Exchange traded and OTC derivatives are at gross amount i.e. before offsetting margin 
money.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
Investments
Equity instruments
 3.62
 -
 -
 3.62
Mutual Fund
 74.85
 -
 -
 74.85
Total investments measured at fair value
 78.47
 -
 -
 78.47
Total financial assets measured at fair value 
on a recurring basis
 78.47
 -
 -
 78.47
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
Investments
Equity instruments
 3.07
 108.86
 23,531.82
 23,643.75
Total investments measured at fair value
 3.07
 108.86
 23,531.82
 23,643.75
Total financial assets measured at fair value 
on a recurring basis
 3.07
 108.86
 23,531.82
 23,643.75
40.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
40.5
Movement in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
The following tables show a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets and 
liabilities which are recorded at fair value.
Particulars
Financial assets
Equity instruments at FVTPL
As at 31 March 2022
 -
Transfer into level 3
 23,531.82
As at 31 March 2023
 23,531.82
Transfer into level 3
 -
Transferred on account of demerger ( Refer Note 58 )
 (23,531.82)
As at 31 March 2024
 -
40.6
Fair valuation principles
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the 
principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions (i.e., an exit price), 
regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique. The Company uses 
valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
The Company’s fair value methodology and the governance over its models includes a number of controls and other 
procedures to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place to ensure its quality and adequacy. Where fair values 
are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price 
determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, Company sources alternative market information, with 
greater weight given to formation that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
40.7
Fair valuation techniques
Equity instruments
The equity instruments which are actively traded on recognised stock exchanges are valued at readily available active 
prices on a regular basis. Such instruments are classified as Level 1. Equity instruments in non-listed entities are 
initially measured at transaction price and re-measured at each reporting date at valuation provided by external valuer 
at instrument level. Such unlisted equity securities are classified at Level 2.
40.8
Transfer between Level 1 and level 2
During the year there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
479
480
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
40.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED)
40.9
Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 and sensitivity of fair value measurement to change 
in unobservable market data
As at 31 March 2024
Type of Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of 
estimates for 
unobservable 
input
Increase 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Investments in 
unquoted equity 
shares categorised at 
Level 3
Simple Average 
of discounted 
projected Cash 
Flows and 
Comparable 
Companies 
multiple
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
As at 31 March 2023
Type of Financial 
Instruments
Valuation 
Techniques
Significant 
Unobservable 
input
Range of 
estimates for 
unobservable 
input
Increase 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of increase in 
unobservable 
input
Decrease 
in the 
unobservable 
input
Change in fair 
value because 
of decrease in 
unobservable 
input
Investments in 
unquoted equity shares 
categorised at Level 3
Simple Average 
of discounted 
projected Cash 
Flows and 
Comparable 
Companies 
multiple
Fair value per 
share
` 2,238 
per share
5%
 1,176.59
5%
 (1,176.59)
41.
MATURITY ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be 
recovered or settled. With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Company uses the same basis of expected 
repayment behaviour as used for estimating the effective interest rate. Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon 
amortisations.
Particulars	
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
ASSETS	
Financial assets	
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
 461.03
 -
 461.03
 1,350.09
 -
 1,350.09
(b)
Bank balances other than 
cash and cash equivalents
 9.48
 -
 9.48
 39.17
 -
 39.17
(c)
Trade Receivables
 154.50
 -
 154.50
 305.64
 -
 305.64
(d)
Loans
 10,796.96
 25,585.43
 36,382.39
 7,393.97
 21,629.43
 29,023.40
(e)
Investments
 78.47
 46,001.90
 46,080.37
 111.93
 71,988.77
 72,100.70
(f)
Other financial assets
 12.35
 92.24
 104.59
 58.71
 141.18
 199.89
Total financial assets (A)	
 11,512.79
 71,679.57
 83,192.36
 9,259.51
 93,759.38  103,018.89
Non-financial assets	
(a)
Current tax assets (net)
 -
 826.03
 826.03
 -
 1,143.22
 1,143.22
(b)
Deferred tax assets (net)
 -
 3,803.28
 3,803.28
 -
 1,895.05
 1,895.05
(c)
Property, Plant and Equipment
 -
 6.96
 6.96
 -
 10.34
 10.34
(d)
Other Intangible assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
(e)
Other non- financial assets
 26.06
 934.44
 960.50
 80.19
 1,038.17
 1,118.36
Total non-financial assets (B)	
 26.06
 5,570.71
 5,596.77
 80.19
 4,086.78
 4,166.97
TOTAL ASSETS (C = A+B)	
 11,538.85
 77,250.28
 88,789.13
 9,339.70
 97,846.16  107,185.86
Particulars	
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
LIABILITIES	
Financial liabilities	
(a)
Trade Payables
 3,112.59
 -
 3,112.59
 2,233.99
 -
 2,233.99
(b)
Debt securities
 5,650.91
 22,428.93
 28,079.84
 3,847.02
 22,039.52
 25,886.54
(c)
Borrowings  
(other than debt securities)
 1,597.39
 -
 1,597.39
 -
 -
 -
(d)
Other financial liabilities
 482.43
 806.31
 1,288.74
 1,120.26
 5,360.19
 6,480.45
Total financial liabilities (D)	
 10,843.32
 23,235.24
 34,078.56
7,201.27
27,399.71
34,600.98
Non-financial liabilities	
(a)
Current tax liabilities (net)
 -
 29.21
 29.21
 -
 7.86
 7.86
(b)
Provisions
 4.00
 -
 4.00
 9.31
 -
 9.31
(c)
Other non-financial liabilities
 48.93
 -
 48.93
 15.08
 -
 15.08
Total non-financial liabilities (E)	
 52.93
 29.21
 82.14
 24.39
 7.86
 32.25
TOTAL LIABILITIES (F = D+E)	
 10,896.25
 23,264.45
 34,160.70
 7,225.66
 27,407.57
 34,633.23
NET TOTAL ASSETS / 
(LIABILITIES) (C-F)
 642.60
 53,985.83
 54,628.43
2,114.04
70,438.59
72,552.63
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
481
482
42.
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL ASSETS, DERIVATIVES AND 
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS BY REMAINING CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flows of the Company's financial liabilities, 
financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments as at 31 March. All OTC derivatives used for hedging are 
shown by maturity, based on their contractual undiscounted payment obligations. All exchange traded derivatives 
held for trading are analysed based on expected maturity.	
	
	
	
	
	
As at 31 March 2024
Non-derivative  
financial liabilities
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Trade payables
3,112.59
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,112.59
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
1,597.39
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,597.39
Debt securities
1,178.48
2,523.55
3,524.01
15,626.17
14,505.55
 37,357.76
Other financial liabilities
482.43
 -
 -
806.31
 -
 1,288.74
Total undiscounted non-
derivative financial liabilities
 6,370.89
 2,523.55
 3,524.01
 16,432.48
 14,505.55
 43,356.48
Non-derivative  
financial assets
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Cash and cash equivalent and 
other bank balances
 470.51
 -
 -
 -
 -
 470.51
Trade receivables
 154.50
 -
 -
 -
 -
 154.50
Loans
 7,296.86
 3,000.00
 3,815.32
 17,574.68
 4,700.10
 36,386.96
Investments
 78.47
 -
 -
 -
 46,001.90
 46,080.37
Other financial assets
 12.35
 -
 -
 89.46
 2.78
 104.59
Total undiscounted non-
derivative financial assets
 8,012.69
 3,000.00
 3,815.32
 17,664.14
 50,704.78
 83,196.93
Commitments
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Financial Guarantee and 
contracts issued
 923.50
 1,148.70
 9,965.70
 12,160.35
 2,216.61
 26,414.86
42.
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL ASSETS, DERIVATIVES AND 
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS BY REMAINING CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES 
(CONTINUED)
As at 31 March 2023
Non-derivative  
financial liabilities
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Trade payables
 2,233.99
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,233.99
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Debt securities
 156.74
 78.96
 3,611.32
 11,743.46
 10,296.06
 25,886.54
Other financial liabilities
 1,120.26
 -
 -
 5,360.19
 -
 6,480.45
Total undiscounted non-
derivative financial liabilities
 3,510.99
 78.96
 3,611.32
 17,103.65
 10,296.06
 34,600.98
 -
 -
Non-derivative  
financial assets
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Cash and cash equivalent and 
other bank balances
 1,389.26
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1,389.26
Trade receivables
 305.64
 -
 -
 -
 -
 305.64
Loans
 7,393.97
 -
 -
 21,629.43
 -
 29,023.40
Investments
 111.93
 -
 -
 -
 71,988.77
 72,100.70
Other financial assets
 58.71
 -
 -
 121.24
 19.94
 199.89
Total undiscounted non-
derivative financial assets
 9,259.51
 -
 -
 21,750.67
 72,008.71
 103,018.89
Commitments
Upto 
3 months
Between 
3 to 6 
months
Between 
6 months to 
1 year
Between 
1 year to 
3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Financial Guarantee and 
contracts issued
 17,171.60
 446.57
 664.50
 2,241.90
 12,557.60
 33,082.17
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
483
484
43.
TOTAL MARKET RISK EXPOSURE		
	
	
	
	
Fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. The Company classifies exposures to market risk into either trading 
or non–trading portfolios and manages each of those portfolios separately. Fair value or future cash flows of financial 
instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity 
prices. The Company classifies exposures to market risk into either trading or non–trading portfolios and manages 
each of those portfolios separately. Such risks the market risk for the trading portfolio is managed and monitored 
based on a VaR methodology that reflects the interdependency between risk variables. Non–trading positions are 
managed and monitored using other sensitivity analyses.	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Carrying 
amount
Traded risk
Non-traded 
risk
Carrying 
amount
Traded risk
Non-traded 
risk
Assets
Cash and cash equivalent and 
other bank balances
 470.51
 -
 470.51
 1,389.26
 -
 1,389.26
Trade receivables
 154.50
 -
 154.50
 305.64
 -
 305.64
Loans at amortised cost
 36,382.39
 -
 36,382.39
 29,023.40
 -
 29,023.40
Financial investments– FVTPL
 78.47
 78.47
 -
 23,643.75
 111.93
 23,531.82
Financial investments– at cost
 46,001.90
 -
 46,001.90
 48,456.95
 -
 48,456.95
Other Financial assets
 104.59
 -
 104.59
 199.89
 -
 199.89
Total
 83,192.36
 78.47
 83,113.89
 103,018.89
 111.93
 102,906.96
Liability
Debt securities
 28,079.84
 -
 28,079.84
 25,886.54
 -
 25,886.54
Trade payables
 3,112.59
 -
 3,112.59
 2,233.99
 -
 2,233.99
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
 1,597.39
 -
 1,597.39
 -
 -
 -
Other financial liabilities
 1,288.74
 -
 1,288.74
 6,480.45
 -
 6,480.45
Total
 34,078.56
 -
 34,078.56
 34,600.98
 -
 34,600.98
44.
DISCLOSURE RELATED TO COLLATERAL
The table sets out availability of Company assets to support funding
As at 31 March 2024
Pledge as 
collateral
Available as 
collateral
Total carrying 
amount
Cash and cash equivalent including bank balance
 -
 470.51
 470.51
Trade receivables
 154.50
 -
 154.50
Loans
 22,368.63
 14,013.76
 36,382.39
Investments
 1,712.41
 44,367.96
 46,080.37
Other financial assets
 -
 15.13
 15.13
Property, plant and equipment
 -
 6.96
 6.96
Other non financial assets
 -
 960.50
 960.50
Total assets
 24,235.54
 59,834.82
 84,070.36
44.
DISCLOSURE RELATED TO COLLATERAL (CONTINUED)
As at 31 March 2023
Pledge as 
collateral
Available as 
collateral
Total carrying 
amount
Cash and cash equivalent including bank balance
 30.87
 1,358.39
 1,389.26
Trade receivables
 305.64
 -
 305.64
Loans
 15,739.10
 13,284.30
 29,023.40
Investments
 1,712.41
 70,388.29
 72,100.70
Other financial assets
 -
 78.65
 78.65
Property, plant and equipment
 -
 10.34
 10.34
Other non financial assets
 -
 1,118.36
 1,118.36
Total assets
 17,788.02
 86,238.33
 104,026.35
45.
ANALYSIS OF RISK CONCENTRATION
Industry analysis - risk concentration
As at 31 March 2024
Financial 
services
Others
Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalent and other bank balances
 470.51
 -
 470.51
Trade receivables
 154.50
 -
 154.50
Loans
 36,382.39
 -
 36,382.39
Investments
 46,080.37
 -
 46,080.37
Other financial assets
 104.59
 -
 104.59
Total assets
 83,192.36
 -
 83,192.36
As at 31 March 2023
Financial 
services
Others
Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalent and other bank balances
 1,389.26
 -
 1,389.26
Trade receivables
 305.64
 -
 305.64
Loans
 29,023.40
 -
 29,023.40
Investments
 72,100.70
 -
 72,100.70
Other financial assets
 199.89
 -
 199.89
Total assets
 103,018.89
 -
 103,018.89
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
485
486
46.
EVENTS AFTER REPORTING DATE
The Company has evaluated all events that occur after balance sheet date through the date when the financial 
statements were issued to determine if they must be reported. The management of the Company determined that 
there were no reportable subsequent events
47.
DETAILS OF BENAMI PROPERTY HELD
The Company does not have any benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
company for holding any Benami property.
48.
SECURITY OF CURRENT ASSETS AGAINST BORROWINGS
During the year, the Company not availed any borrowings based on the current assets
49.
WILFUL DEFAULTER
The Company is not declared as wilful defaulter by any bank or financial Institution or other lender.
50.
RELATIONSHIP WITH STRUCK OFF COMPANIES
Where the company has any transactions with the companies struck off under section 248 of Companies Act, 2013 or 
section 560 of Companies Act, 1956, the Company shall disclose the following details, namely:-
As at 31 March 2024
Name of struck off 
Company
Nature of transactions 
with struck-off Company
Balance  
outstanding
Relationship with the 
Struck off company, if 
any, to be disclosed
There are no transactions with struck-off Company during the year
As at 31 March 2023
Name of struck off 
Company
Nature of transactions 
with struck-off Company
Balance  
outstanding
Relationship with the 
Struck off company, if 
any, to be disclosed
Marvel Limited
Commission Income
 -
None
Four Seasons Hotel
Professional Fees
 -
None
Anahat Organisation 
Development Consultancy 
Pvt Ltd
Professional Fees
 -
None
Shams Cable Network
Office Expense
 -
None
51.
REGISTRATION OF CHARGES OR SATISFACTION WITH REGISTRAR OF 
COMPANIES (ROC)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory 
period.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
52.
 UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS AND SHARE PREMIUM:
A)
During the year, the Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries) 
with the understanding that the intermediary shall, other than as disclosed in note (1) below:
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries) or
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security, or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Note (1)
During the year, the Company has given loans to its subsidiaries/fellow subsidiary companies in the ordinary course of business, which are at Arm’s 
length and the same is approved by Board Audit Committee of the Company . The Company confirms that the below transactions are in accordance 
with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and Companies Act, 2013 and the such transactions are not in 
violation of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
As at 31 March 2024
S. 
No.
Name of 
Intermediary
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Name of Company 
in which investment 
done by Intermediary
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Remarks
1
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
30-Jun-23
 700.00
Ecap Securities and 
Investment Limited 
(Ecap Sec)
Loan Given
30-Jun-23
 700.00
Ecap Eq and Ecap Sec 
are subsidiary of EFSL.
2
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
31-Jul-23
 670.00
Edelcap Securities 
Limited (Edelcap)
Loan Given
31-Jul-23
 670.00
Ecap Eq and Edelcap 
are subsidiary of EFSL.
3
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
30-Aug-23
 800.00
Edelcap Securities 
Limited (Edelcap)
Loan Given
06-Sep-23
 800.00
Ecap Eq and Edelcap 
are subsidiary of EFSL.
4
Edelweiss Investment 
Adviser Limited(EIAL)
Loan 
Given
27-Sep-23
 325.00
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Investment
27-Sep-23
 250.40
EIAL and Ecap Eq are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
5
Edelweiss Investment 
Adviser Limited(EIAL)
Loan 
Given
13-Mar-24
 250.00
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Investment
13-Mar-24
 250.00
EIAL and Ecap Eq are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
487
488
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
52.
 UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS AND SHARE PREMIUM: (CONTINUED)
As at 31 March 2023
S.No.
Name of 
Intermediary
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Name of Company 
in which investment 
done by Intermediary
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Remarks
1
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
04-Apr-22
 2,300.00
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Non 
convertible 
Debenture
04-Apr-22
 2,300.00
Ecap Eq and ERCSL are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
2
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Loan 
Given
28-Dec-22
 960.00
India Credit 
Investment Fund II 
(ICIF II)
Units of Funds
28-Dec-22
 957.09
ERCSL is subsidiary 
of EFSL and ICIF II 
investments are held 
through ERCSL.
3
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Loan 
Given
Various 
Dates
 2,120.00
Edel Finance 
Company Limited 
(EFCL)
Loan Given
24-Jun-22
 2,120.00
ERCSL and EFCL are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
4
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Loan 
Given
Various 
Dates
 1,750.00
Edelweiss Retail 
Finance Limited 
(ERFL)
Loan Given
26-Dec-22
 1,750.00
ERCSL and ERFL are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
5
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Loan 
Given
Various 
Dates
 2,148.00
Edelweiss Investment 
Advisors Limited 
(EIAL)
Loan Given
30-Dec-22
 2,148.00
ERCSL and EIAL are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
6
Edelweiss Rural & 
Corporate Services 
Limited (ERCSL)
Loan 
Given
Various 
Dates
 200.00
Ecap Equities Limited 
(Ecap Eq)
Loan Given
Various 
Dates
 200.00
ERCSL and Ecap Eq are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
7
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
01-Mar-23
 830.00
Edelweiss Securities 
And Investments 
Private Limited(ESIPL)
Loan Given
01-Mar-23
 830.00
Ecap Eq and ESIPL are 
subsidiary of EFSL.
8
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
Given
17-Mar-23
 650.00
Edel Investment 
Limited (EIL)
Compulsorily 
Convertible 
Debenture 
Infusion
17-Mar-23
 650.00
Ecap Eq is wholly 
owned subsidiary of 
EFSL and EIL is wholly 
owned subsidiary of 
Ecap Eq.
9
Edelweiss Securities 
And Investments 
Private Limited(ESIPL)
Loan 
Given
28-Mar-23
 2,300.00
Edelweiss Alternative 
Asset Advisors Limited 
(EAAA)
Compulsorily 
Convertible 
Debenture
28-Mar-23
 2,300.00
ESIPL is wholly owned 
subsidiary of EFSL. As 
per Group restructuring 
plan, ESIPL will be 
holding Company for 
EAAA.
	NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
52.
UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS AND SHARE PREMIUM: (CONTINUED)
(B)
During the year, the Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall, other than as disclosed in note (2) below
(i)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries) or
(ii)	
provide any guarantee, security, or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Note (2)
During the year, the Company has taken loans and given loans to its subsidiary company in the ordinary course of business, are at Arm’s length and 
the same is approved by Board Audit Committee of the Company. The Company confirms that the below transactions are in accordance with relevant 
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and Companies Act, 2013 and the such transactions are not in violation of the 
Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
As at 31 March 2024	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
S.No. Name of Lender
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Loan given to
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions
Remarks
1
Ecap Equities 
Limited(Ecap Eq)
Loan 
taken 
from
Various 
dates
 1,595.42
Edel Finance 
Company Limited 
(EFCL)
Loan given
Various 
dates
 1,595.42
Ecap Eq and EFCL 
are subsidiary of 
EFSL
As at 31 March 2023
S.No. Name of Lender
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions Loan given to
Nature
Date
Rupees in 
millions Remarks
Nil
Note (3)
Based on the legal opinion obtained by the Company, the transactions undertaken by NBFC-CIC of borrowing/lending/investment to and from its 
holding/subsidiary/affiliate/group entity(ies) or borrowing from outside the Group for onward lending/investments for carrying on their respective 
business in ordinary course will not attract reporting under Rule 11(e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (the 'Rules'). Accordingly, 
transactions undertaken by the Company with Edel Finance Company Limited (NBFC CIC) is not disclosed under the Rules.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
489
490
53.
UNDISCLOSED INCOME
The Company have not any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or 
survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
54.
The Company Doesn’t have any immovable properties whose title deeds are not held in name of the Company.
55.
LOANS AND ADVANCES
As at 31 March 2024
Type of Borrowers
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature of 
loan outstanding
Aggregate amount of 
loans/ advances in nature 
of loans
Percentage to the total 
Loans and Advances in 
the nature of loans*
Promoters
 -
 -
 -
Directors
 -
 -
 -
KMPs
 -
 5.00
0.01%
Related Parties
 36,386.96
 45,455.62
99.99%
* Percentage of aggregate loans granted during the year
As at 31 March 2023
Type of Borrowers
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature of 
loan outstanding
Aggregate amount of 
loans/ advances in nature 
of loans
Percentage to the total 
Loans and Advances in 
the nature of loans*
Promoters
 -
 -
 -
Directors
 -
 -
 -
KMPs
 -
 -
 -
Related Parties
 29,027.73
 46,507.42
100.00%
* Percentage of aggregate loans granted during the year
The Company has granted loans or advances to Group companies in the nature of loans, without specifying period of 
repayment of principal to companies. However, during the year the Company has executed supplementary agreement 
with all such Group companies to stipulate the schedule for repayment of principal. The repayment of principal as per 
supplementary agreement is not due on these loans. Of these following are the details of the aggregate amount of 
loans or advances in the nature of loans granted to promoters or related parties as defined in clause (76) of section 2 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
56.1
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 14 May 2024, have recommended a final dividend of ` 1.50 per 
equity share (on face value of ` 1 per equity share), subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
56.2
During the year, the Company has declared and paid the final dividend of ` 1.25 per equity share (on face value 
of ` 1 per equity share) for the financial year ended 31 March 2023, based on the approval of the members of the 
Company at the Annual General Meeting held on 26 September 2023.
57.
During the year ended 31 March 2024, the Company and two subsidiaries of the Group, ECL Finance Limited and 
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited (subsidiaries), has agreed to discontinue risk and reward agreement in respect of 
security receipts (SRs). Basis this agreement, the Company has agreed to settle net outstanding unrealized losses on 
SRs amounting to ` 7,165.30 millions. Accordingly, the Company has paid ` 5,232.50 millions during the year ended 
31 March 2024 and balance will be paid subsequent to the year end.
During the previous year ended 31 March 2023, two subsidiaries of the Company had sold certain financial assets 
amounting to ` 16,718.90 million (net of provisions) to various asset reconstructions company trusts (‘ARC Trusts’) 
and acquired security receipts (SR) amounting to ` 5,227.20 million from these ARC Trusts. Ind AS 109 – ‘Financial 
Instruments’, prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, requires substantially all risks and rewards to 
be transferred for the purpose of de-recognition of such financial assets from these subsidiaries’ financial statements. 
The Company had undertaken substantially all risks and rewards in respect of such financial assets. As a result, these 
financial assets were de-recognized in the subsidiaries’ financial statements. Based on assessment of probability of 
default, loss given default in respect of these financial assets (i.e. sold during the year ended 31 March 2023 and in 
earlier years) and in light of various factors viz. exposures to certain sectors and assessment of credit and market risks 
for certain counter parties relative to such risks at initial recognition, the Company has recorded fair value loss of ` 
3,786.01 million (net) for year ended and is included in “Net gain / (loss) on fair value changes.
58.
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 13 May 2022, had approved the Scheme of arrangement 
between Edelweiss Financial Services Limited ('EFSL') and Nuvama Wealth Management Limited (formerly known as 
Edelweiss Securities Limited) ('NWML') and their respective shareholders and creditors (‘the Scheme’), under section 
230 to 232 read with section 52 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, which inter-alia envisaged 
demerger of Wealth Management Business Undertaking ('Demerged Undertaking 'as defined in the Scheme) of EFSL 
into the NWML and issue of shares of NWML to the shareholders of EFSL pursuant to demerger.
The National Company Law Tribunal Bench at Mumbai (Tribunal ) has approved the Scheme on 27 April 2023. The 
certified copy of the order of the Tribunal approving the Scheme was received by the Company on 12 May 2023 and 
was filed with the Registrar of Companies on 18 May 2023 (‘Effective Date’).
As per the Scheme, the Appointed Date of the Scheme is same as Effective Date i.e., 18 May 2023.
Pursuant to the Scheme, the equity share capital of NWML held by EFSL stand cancelled. Further, NWML has allotted 
1,05,28,746 equity shares to the shareholders of EFSL as on the record date as per the Scheme. In accordance 
with Appendix A of Indian Accounting Standard ( Ind AS) 10 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners and as per 
the scheme, the distribution of non-cash assets to shareholders of the Company and carrying value of net assets 
of Wealth Management Business Undertaking have been adjusted against the Retained Earnings amounting to 
` 23,531.80 millions . In view of above, the financials of the Current period are after giving effect of the Scheme as on 
appointed date i.e.,18th May, 2023 and hence previous period numbers are not comparable to that extent.
Further, on account of demerger, Company has accounted for net gain amounting to ` 83.20 millions during the 
current year ended 31 March 2024.
As per the Scheme, Company transferred assets and liabilities of Demerged Undertaking to the NWML and Company 
derecognised all assets and liabilities of Demerged Undertaking using acquisition method.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
491
492
58.
Particulars
Amount
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 20.00
Trade Receivables
 73.38
Investments
 23,531.80
Other financial assets
 264.92
Total financial assets (A)
 23,890.10
Non-financial assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
 0.79
Other non-financial assets
 225.37
Total Non-financial assets (B)
 226.16
TOTAL ASSETS (C)= ((A)+(B))
 24,116.26
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade Payables
 35.64
Other financial liabilities
 353.10
Total financial liabilities (D)
 388.74
Non-financial liabilities
Current tax liabilities (net)
-
Provisions
 14.17
Other non-financial liabilities
 181.55
Total non-financial liabilities (E)
 195.72
TOTAL LIABILITIES (F)=((D)+(E))
 584.46
Networth Adjusted to Equity on demerger (G)= ((C)-(F))
 23,531.80
59.
Under the Shareholders’ Agreement dated 05 March 2019, entered between Edelweiss Financial Services Limited 
(EFSL), CDPQ Private Equity Asia PTE. Limited (CDPQ) and ECL Finance Limited (together referred as Parties), EFSL 
had agreed, pursuant to clause 8.1 & 8.2 to make equity investment of an amount equivalent to the amount of losses 
on Select real estate/structured finance Loans (Select Loans) into ECL Finance Limited within six months of the default 
leading to loss incurred by the ECL Finance Limited on or before the date of the conversion of the Investor CCDs 
into Equity Shares. The rationale for this undertaking was to keep the total equity/net worth of ECL Finance Limited 
unimpacted on account of impairment in the selected loan accounts. During the previous year ended 31 March 2023, 
Parties have agreed and concluded that loss event for three of the borrowers in the Select Loans have crystalized and 
hence, EFSL has agreed to make good the loss amounting to ` 1,295.20 million incurred by ECL Finance Limited in 
earlier years. Accordingly, EFSL has recorded such loss in its profit and loss for the year ended 31 March 2023. The 
Parties have agreed that no loss event has been crystalized in respect of other Select Loans amounts mentioned in 
above said clauses of the agreement and hence there is no obligation of EFSL.
60.
During the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, an investor has invested in Security receipts issued by 
ARC trusts as senior class investor in such trusts amounting to ` 3,250 million and ` 12,000 million respectively. These 
pertain to certain loans and security receipts sold by one of the subsidiary company, ECL Finance Limited to the ARC 
trusts. EFSL and another subsidiary company, Edelweiss Securities and Investments Private Limited (“ESIPL”) have 
provided a Put option to the investor assuring to pay or guarantee the payment of agreed aggregated total pay-out 
value after reducing any payment to investors from underlying assets during the period i.e., amount invested along with 
a minimum guaranteed return as per the agreement. Further, based on management assessment and given current 
estimates/cash flows from underlying assets, the likelihood of any payment to investor is considered as remote.
61.
Nuvama Clearing Services Limited (NCSL), a former associate, received a show cause notice and order from NSE 
Clearing Ltd (NCL) in the matter of Angra Stock and Broking Pt. Ltd (Angra or Trading member) and Vries Securities 
Pt. Limited. Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has upheld NCL order on 15 December 2023. NCSL has appealed 
against the SAT order at the Supreme Court of India, asserting compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. The 
appeal is in the process of admission with the Supreme Court of India. The Company has obtained legal opinion on 
the matter and the Company believes that the NCSL will receive a favourable order in this regard. Accordingly, there 
is no adjustment required in the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company.
62.1 The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which subsumes the Provident Fund and the 
Gratuity Act and rules there under. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has also released draft rules thereunder 
on 13 November 2020 and has invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under active consideration by the 
Ministry. The Company will evaluate the rules, assess the impact if any, and account for the same once the rules are 
notified and become effective.
62.2 The Company has complied with the Rule 3 of Companies ( Accounts) Rules, 2014 amended on 5 August 2022 
relating to maintenance of electronic books of account and other relevant books and papers. The Company's books 
of accounts and relevant books and papers are accessible in India at all times and backup of accounts and other 
relevant books and papers are maintained in electronic mode within India and kept in servers physically located in 
India on daily basis.
63.
DETAILS OF CRYPTO CURRENCY OR VIRTUAL CURRENCY
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the current financial year and 
any of the previous financial years.
64.
During the year ended 31 March 2024, other income includes gain amounting to ` 11,527.78 million (previous year ` 
6,795.64 million) on sale of investments in its subsidiaries ( Namely ECL Finance Limited and Edelweiss Securities and 
Investments Private Limited).
65.
The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed 
for material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as 
required under any law/ accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including 
derivative contracts) has been made in the books of accounts.
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
493
494
66.
RATIO ANALYSIS
Particulars
Year Ended 
31 March 2024
Year Ended 
31 March 2023
% Change Remarks
1
Debt-Equity 
Ratio
 0.54
0.36
51% Increase in the debt is more than the 
increase in the equity , resulted in increase 
in Debt-Equity ratio during the year.
2
Interest Service 
Coverage Ratio
 2.58
8.65
(70%) Decrease in the profit before tax compare to 
the previous year has resulted in decrease 
in Interest service coverage ratio.
3
Total debt to 
Total assets
 0.33
 0.24
38% Decrease in Total assets from ` 107,185.86 
million in previous year to ` 88,789.13 
million in current year, resulted in increase 
in Total Debt-Total Assets ratio during the 
year.
4
Net profit 
margin (%)
67.65%
77.32%
(13%) Decrease in Net Profit from ` 23,882.47 
million in previous year to ` 6,952.12 million 
in current year, resulted in decrease in Net 
profit margin ratio during the year.
Notes:
1)
Debt-equity Ratio = Total debt (Debt securities + Borrowings other than debt securities) / Net worth
2)
Interest Service Coverage Ratio = Profit before interest and Tax / interest expense
3)
Total debt to Total assets = (Debt securities + Borrowings other than debt securities) / Total assets
4)
Net profit margin = Net Profit for the year / Total income
5)
Current ratio, Long term debt to working capital, Bad Debts to account receivables ratio, Current liability ratio, 
Debtors turnover, Inventory turnover and Operating margin (%) are not applicable owing to the business model 
of the company
	NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 (CONTINUED)
	
CIN-L99999MH1995PLC094641
	
(Currency : Indian rupees in millions)
67.
The Company is in compliance with number of layers of companies, as prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
68.
Previous year’s figures have been regrouped / reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
69.
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest million as per the 
requirements of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements.
As per our report of even date attached
For Nangia & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
ICAI Firm's Registration Number: 002391C/N500069
Jaspreet Singh Bedi
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Partner
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
Membership No: 601788
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
Mumbai 14 May 2024
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
495
496
FORM AOC-I
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
PART A: SUBSIDIARIES*
(Currency : Indian rupees in million)
Name of the Subsidiary Company
ECL 
Finance 
Limited
Edelcap 
Securities 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Asset 
Management 
Limited
 ECap 
Securities and 
Investments 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Trusteeship 
Company 
Limited
Nido Home 
Finance 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Investment 
Adviser 
Limited
Date since when Subsidiary acquired
18-07-2005
11-01-2008
23-08-2007
11-01-2008
03-09-2007
30-05-2008
11-01-2008
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Exchange rate
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Paid-up Equity Share Capital**
2,138.27
3,639.25
733.43
317.40
1.00
693.50
6,755.50
Paid-up Preference Share Capital
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Reserves of the Subsidiary
25,552.81
456.69
1,653.32
(1,651.32)
5.80
7,454.38
(13,361.94)
Total Assets of the Subsidiary
1,08,282.08
6,901.62
3,277.76
14,951.17
7.72
37,649.46
5,003.45
Total Liabilities of the Subsidiary
80,591.00
2,805.68
891.03
16,285.09
0.93
29,501.58
11,609.89
Investments
73,978.96
6,094.22
1,778.72
14,802.28
6.74
2,058.23
 1,808.22 
Total Turnover
12,737.53
1,524.52
2,545.24
105.46
3.38
4,657.12
1,349.45
Profit/(Loss) before taxation
1,844.22
239.85
376.18
(803.36)
1.54
260.55
(2,407.87)
Provision for taxation
492.35
(39.57)
-
-
0.37
67.50
-
Profit/(Loss) after taxation
1,351.87
279.42
376.18
(803.36)
1.17
193.05
(2,407.87)
Proposed dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
% of shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
FORM AOC-I (CONTINUED)
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
PART A: SUBSIDIARIES* (CONTINUED)
(Currency : Indian rupees in million)
Name of the Subsidiary Company
Edelweiss Rural 
& Corporate 
Services 
Limited
 Comtrade 
Commodities 
Services 
Limited
Edel Finance 
Company 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Retail Finance 
Limited
Zuno General 
Insurance 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Securities and 
Investments 
Private Limited
EC 
International 
Limited
Date since when Subsidiary acquired
30-04-2010
16-07-2010
16-07-2010
19-07-2012
02-03-2016
14-12-2009
11-12-2008
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
USD
Exchange rate
-
-
-
-
-
-
 83.38 
Paid-up Equity Share Capital**
13,179.40
300.00
19,216.75
429.50
8,710.00
6.13
6.20
Paid-up Preference Share Capital
13.60
-
1,650.00
-
-
-
-
Reserves of the Subsidiary
(6,180.55)
(291.77)
6,812.15
5,081.40
(6,221.76)
2,890.44
(1.63)
Total Assets of the Subsidiary
27,285.34
33.62
74,409.94
10,144.92
15,470.44
9,826.33
6.11
Total Liabilities of the Subsidiary
20,286.49
25.39
48,381.04
4,634.02
12,982.19
6,929.76
1.54
Investments
10,282.62
 - 
72,945.70
2,219.34
10,576.03
8,795.66
-
Total Turnover
3,109.37
0.66
4,046.85
1,085.45
6,043.92
1,140.82
150.57
Profit/(Loss) before taxation
(1,008.71)
(8.83)
142.48
181.84
(1,228.19)
(542.52)
157.77
Provision for taxation
17.66
0.02
(649.00)
37.66
-
(169.46)
-
Profit/(Loss) after taxation
(1,026.37)
(8.85)
791.48
144.18
(1,228.19)
(373.06)
157.77
Proposed dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
% of shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
497
498
FORM AOC-I (CONTINUED)
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
PART A: SUBSIDIARIES* (CONTINUED)
(Currency : Indian rupees in million)
Name of the Subsidiary Company
Edelweiss 
Alternative 
Asset Advisors 
Pte. Limited
Edelweiss 
International 
(Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
Edelgive 
Foundation
Edelweiss 
Alternative 
Asset Advisors 
Limited
Edelweiss Asset 
Reconstruction 
Company 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Tokio Life 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited
Allium 
Finance 
Private 
Limited
Date since when Subsidiary acquired
08-08-2008
02-05-2008
29-05-2008
14-05-2008
16-09-2016
25-11-2009
15-06-2009
Reporting currency
SGD
USD
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Exchange rate
61.81
 83.38 
-
-
-
-
-
Paid-up Equity Share Capital**
446.64
1,320.52
104.20
2,488.45
2,632.53
9,155.52
68.26
Paid-up Preference Share Capital
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Reserves of the Subsidiary
3,162.74
498.62
43.97
3,286.60
28,866.01
(1,969.02)
1,365.55
Total Assets of the Subsidiary
5,993.13
1,877.49
235.95
14,121.65
53,584.07
93,159.90
1,436.10
Total Liabilities of the Subsidiary
2,383.75
58.36
87.79
8,346.60
22,085.53
85,973.40
2.29
Investments
5,086.78
 - 
-
7,429.78
42,659.63
77,779.33
-
Total Turnover
1,670.31
301.78
608.85
4,093.71
10,685.08
29,476.48
157.22
Profit/(Loss) before taxation
648.07
(81.85)
(5.33)
1,472.49
4,775.97
(1,565.96)
158.39
Provision for taxation
10.71
25.78
-
360.34
1,224.02
-
32.92
Profit/(Loss) after taxation
637.36
(107.63)
(5.33)
1,112.15
3,551.95
(1,565.96)
125.47
Proposed dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
% of shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
59.82%
75.08%
88.28%
	
FORM AOC-I (CONTINUED)
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
PART A: SUBSIDIARIES* (CONTINUED)
(Currency : Indian rupees in million)
Name of the Subsidiary Company
Edelweiss 
Global Wealth 
Management 
Limited
Nuvama 
Custodial 
Services 
Limited 
Sekura India 
Management 
Limited
Edelweiss 
Real Assets 
Managers 
Limited
ECap 
Equities 
Limited 
Edel 
Investments 
Limited
Nuvama 
Investment 
Advisors 
LLC***
Date since when Subsidiary acquired
09-10-2007
12-02-2021
29-06-2021
25-06-2021
08-10-2008
24-11-2009
21-08-2013
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
USD
Exchange rate
-
-
-
-
-
-
 83.38 
Paid-up Equity Share Capital**
930.00
550.00
0.50
0.62
12,784.49
1,140.22
 - 
Paid-up Preference Share Capital
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Reserves of the Subsidiary
3,614.59
90.64
16.84
134.03
(3,389.66)
2,416.54
 - 
Total Assets of the Subsidiary
8,069.49
5,239.76
111.84
148.60
51,460.25
3,871.78
 - 
Total Liabilities of the Subsidiary
3,524.90
4,599.12
94.50
13.95
42,065.42
315.03
 - 
Investments
8,022.75
 10.86 
 - 
 113.28 
34,723.39
3,228.54
-
Total Turnover
801.85
818.64
357.66
62.80
14,388.97
544.19
 14.82 
Profit/(Loss) before taxation
(412.33)
88.59
(21.91)
28.23
865.67
20.60
3.08
Provision for taxation
-
22.19
(1.26)
 5.50 
(534.22)
(28.97)
-
Profit/(Loss) after taxation
(412.33)
66.39
(20.65)
22.73
1,399.89
49.57
3.08
Proposed dividend
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
% of shareholding
100%
51%
100%
100%
100%
100%
-
*Subsidiary as defined under the Companies Act, 2013
**Includes convertible instruments  
***ceased to be a subsidiary w.e.f. September 5, 2023
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
14 May 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Financials Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
499
500
FORM AOC-I (CONTINUED)
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
Part “B”: Associates
(Currency : Indian rupees in million)
Sr. 
No. 
 Name of the Associate 
-
1
 Latest Audited Balance sheet date 
-
2
 Share of Associate held by the Company on the year end 
-
 No. 
-
 Amount of Investment in Associates (` in million) 
-
 Extend of Holding % 
-
3
 Reason why the associate is not consolidated 
-
4
 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet (` in million) 
-
5
 Profit / Loss for the year 
-
 i.	
Considered in Consolidation 
-
 ii.	
Not Considered in Consolidation (including exceptional items) 
-
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Rashesh Shah
Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Chairman & Managing Director
Vice Chairman & Executive Director
DIN: 00008322
DIN: 00008509
Ananya Suneja
Tarun Khurana
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 12344
14 May 2024
FORM AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto:
I.	
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: Not Applicable:
 (` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Name(s) of the 
related party 
and nature of 
relationship
Nature of 
contracts/ 
arrangements/
transactions
Duration of 
the contracts/ 
arrangements/
transactions
Salient terms of 
the contracts or 
arrangements 
or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
Justification 
for entering 
into such 
contracts or 
arrangements 
or transactions
Date of 
approval 
by the 
Board
Amount 
paid as 
advances, if 
any
Date on which the 
special resolution 
was passed in 
general meeting as 
required under first 
proviso to section 188
II.	
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(` in million)
Sr. 
No.
Name(s) of the related party and 
nature of relationship
Nature of contracts/
arrangements/ 
Transactions
Duration of 
the contracts/
arrangements/ 
Transactions
Salient terms of 
the contracts or 
arrangements or 
transactions including 
the value, if any
Date of approval by 
the Board
Amount paid 
as advances, 
if any
1
Edel Finance Company Limited
(wholly owned subsidiary)
Sale of securities of 
subsidiaries
-
 26,408.40
January 31, 2023
-
2
Edel Finance Company Limited
(wholly owned subsidiary)
Interest received
-
 1,768.01
January 31, 2023
-
For and on behalf of the Board 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
 
Rashesh Shah 
Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00008322
August 2, 2024
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
501
502
	NOTICE
NOTICE OF THE 29TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE 29TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE MEMBERS OF EDELWEISS 
FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (THE COMPANY) WILL BE HELD ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2024 AT 4.00 P.M. 
THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCING (VC) OR OTHER AUDIO VISUAL MEANS (OAVM), TO TRANSACT THE FOLLOWING 
BUSINESS:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:-
	
a.	
the audited Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, together with the 
Report of the Board and the Auditors thereon; and
	
b.	
the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, 
together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To declare a dividend on Equity Shares.
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy (DIN: 00008509), who retires by rotation and, being 
eligible, offered himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.	
Appointment of Mr. C. Balagopal as an Independent Director
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED that Mr. C. Balagopal (DIN: 00430938), who was appointed as an Additional Director of the Company with 
effect from August 2, 2024 by the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the Board) and who holds office upto the 
date of this Annual General Meeting of the Company in terms of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and in 
respect of whom the Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160 of the Act proposing 
his candidature for the office of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed as a Director of the Company.
	
FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Sections 149, 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Act read with Schedule IV to the Act (including any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being 
in force) and the Rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to time, Mr. C. Balagopal, who meets the criteria of 
independence as provided in Section 149 of the Act and Regulations 16 and 17 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and all other applicable provisions, who 
is eligible for appointment as an Independent Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed as an Independent 
Director for a term of 5 years commencing August 2, 2024 and that he shall continue to hold office even after attaining 
the age of 75 years in the year 2027, during his said term of appointment.
	
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board (which term shall be deemed to include any Committee which the Board may have 
constituted or hereinafter constitute to exercise its powers including the powers conferred by this Resolution) be and 
is hereby authorised on behalf of the Company to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may, in its absolute 
discretion, deem necessary or expedient in the interest of the Company and with power on behalf of the Company to 
settle any questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard without requiring the Board to secure any further 
consent or approval of the Members of the Company.”
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Tarun Khurana 
Company Secretary 
(Membership No. A12344)
August 2, 2024
Registered Office: 
Edelweiss House, 
Off C.S.T. Road, Kalina, 
Mumbai – 400 098 
CIN: L99999MH1995PLC094641 
Email: Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com 
Website: www.edelweissfin.com
NOTES:
1.	
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act), in respect of the Special 
Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM/Meeting) is annexed hereto.
2.	
Pursuant to the Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI) from time to time (MCA Circulars/SEBI Circulars), the AGM is conducted through VC/OAVM without the 
physical presence of the Members at a common venue. Accordingly, as per the MCA Circulars and the SEBI Circulars and 
the applicable provisions of the Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time (Listing Regulations), the 29th AGM of the Company shall 
be conducted through VC/OAVM on Friday, September 27, 2024 at 4.00 P.M.
3.	
Pursuant to Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations and the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), the information in respect of the Directors seeking appointment/
re-appointment at the AGM is given as an Annexure to the Notice.
4.	
As per the provisions of the Act and the Articles of Association of the Company, a Member entitled to attend and vote 
at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need not be a Member of 
the Company. Since the AGM is being conducted in accordance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars through 
VC/OAVM, the requirement of physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility of 
appointment of proxies by Members will not be available for the Meeting. Hence, the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and 
Route Map of the venue of the AGM are not annexed to the Notice of the AGM. However, the Body Corporates, can 
appoint the authorised representatives to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM and participate thereat and cast their votes 
through e-voting.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
503
504
	
Pursuant to the MCA Circulars, the Members are provided with the facility to join the AGM through the VC/OAVM 
mode 15 minutes before the scheduled time of commencement of the AGM and the same shall be kept open until 15 
minutes after the scheduled time of commencement. The Members are requested to follow the procedure mentioned 
in the Notice. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available to 1,000 Members on a 
first come first serve basis as per the MCA Circulars. The shareholders holding 2% and more shareholding, Promoters, 
Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. can attend the Meeting without 
restriction on account of first come first served principle.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, such Members are required to send a scanned certified true copy (PDF/JPG 
Format) of the resolution/authorisation of its Board/ governing body, authorising its representative to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM on its behalf and to vote through remote e-voting. The said certified Resolution/Authorisation shall 
be sent to the Scrutinizer at narasimhan.b8@gmail.com/ab@bnpassociates.in/ support@bnpassociates.in with a copy 
marked to evoting@nsdl.com.
5.	
In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of the names as per the Register 
of Members/Beneficial Owners of the Company will be entitled to vote at the AGM.
6.	
QUORUM
	
The attendance of the Shareholders attending the AGM through VC / OAVM will be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
7.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder and Regulation 44 of the 
Listing Regulations and the MCA Circulars, the Company has provided the facility of electronic voting (e-voting) to 
its Members in respect of the business to be transacted at the AGM. The Company has engaged National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL), as an authorised e-voting agency, for facilitating voting through electronic means (remote 
e-voting and e-voting during the AGM). The detailed procedure for participating in the AGM through VC / OAVM and 
instructions for e-voting i.e. remote e-voting / e-voting during the AGM, forms part of this Notice.
8.	
BOOK CLOSURE
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 of the Act, the Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the 
Company will remain closed from September 18, 2024 to September 26, 2024 (both days inclusive), for the purpose of 
payment of dividend and 29th AGM of the Company.
9.	
DIVIDEND
	
The dividend, as recommended by the Board, if declared at the AGM, will be paid subject to deduction of tax at source, 
as may be applicable, on and from the date of AGM, to those Members:
	
a)	
whose names appear as Beneficial Owners as on the Record Date i.e. September 17, 2024 in the list of Beneficial 
Owners to be furnished by National Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
in respect of the equity shares held in electronic form; and
	
b)	
whose names appear as Members in the Register of Members of the Company as on the Record Date i.e. September 
17, 2024 in respect of the equity shares held in physical form, after giving effect to valid request(s) received for 
transfer/transmission/ transposition of equity shares by the Company.
	
As per the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961, dividend income will be taxable in the hands of Members and the 
Company is required to deduct tax at source at the prescribed rates, as applicable, from the dividend being paid to 
the Members. The TDS rate would vary depending on the residential status of the Members in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961. For detailed information on the same, please refer the Company’s 
website at www.edelweissfin.com.
	
The Members are requested to update their bank account details in the manner as set out in this Notice, in order to 
enable the Company to provide timely credit of dividend in their bank accounts. In case the Company is unable to pay 
the dividend to any Member (holding shares in dematerialised mode), by the electronic mode due to non-availability of 
the details of bank account, the Company shall dispatch the demand draft to such Members by post/courier.
10.	 UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND
	
The Members are requested to note that the dividend which has remained unpaid or unclaimed for 7 consecutive 
years or more from the date of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, will be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) as per Section 124 of the Act.
	
Accordingly, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (IEPF Rules), the Company has during the financial year ended March 31, 2024, 
transferred the Unclaimed Dividend of ` 3,52,319 to the IEPF.
	
Further, 22,194 Equity Shares of ` 1 each of the Company, in respect of which the dividend has not been claimed for 7 
consecutive years or more, have also been transferred to the IEPF Authority.
	
The Members are further requested to note that the unpaid or unclaimed dividends and/or the equity shares transferred 
to the IEPF can be claimed by them by making an online/electronic application in Form IEPF-5. Upon submitting 
duly completed form, applicants are requested to take a print of the same and send the physical copy, duly signed, 
along with the requisite documents specified in Form IEPF-5, to the Company/ Registrar & Transfer Agent (RTA) of the 
Company, M/s. Link Intime India Private Limited (Unit: Edelweiss Financial Services Limited), C 101, 247 Park, LBS Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083, e-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in/ iepf.shares@linkintime.co.in. The Rules and the 
application form (Form IEPF-5), as prescribed by the MCA for claiming the shares/ dividends are available on the website 
of MCA/IEPF authority – www.iepf.gov.in.
	
In view of the above, the Members who have not claimed/encashed the Dividend Warrants for Final Dividend 2016-17 
and/ or any subsequent years are requested to claim their unpaid dividends within stipulated timeline by writing to the 
Company / RTA giving the necessary details.
11.	 GENERAL GUIDANCE TO SHAREHOLDERS
 
• 
NOMINATION FACILITY
	
	
As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act read the Rules framed thereunder, the facility for making nomination 
is available to the Members in respect of the shares held by them. The Members who have not yet registered their 
nomination are requested to register the same by submitting Form No. SH-13. The Members are requested to 
submit the said form to their Depository Participant (DP) in case the shares are held in electronic form and to the 
Company/RTA in case the shares are held in physical form.
	
• 
BANK MANDATES
	
	
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to intimate the RTA under the signature of the Sole/First 
holder, the following information:
	
	
i	
Name of the Sole/First holder and the folio number
	
	
ii	
Particulars of Bank Account viz.,
	
	
	
a)	
Name of the Bank
	
	
	
b)	
Name of the Branch
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
505
506
	
	
	
c)	
Complete address of the Branch with Pin code
	
	
	
d)	
Bank Account Number allotted by the Bank.
	
	
	
In respect of the matters pertaining to Bank details, NECS mandates, nomination, power of attorney, change 
in name/address, etc., the Members are requested to approach:
	
	
	
•	
the Company’s RTA, in case of shares held in physical form; and
	
	
	
•	
the respective Depository Participants, in case of shares held in electronic form.
	
	
	
In any correspondence with the Company/RTA, the Members are requested to quote their account/ Folio 
numbers or DP ID and Client ID in respect of physical or electronic holdings, respectively.
 
• 
MODE OF HOLDING SHARES
	
	
As per Regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations, as amended, securities of listed companies can be transferred only 
in dematerialised form except in case of request received for transmission or transposition of securities. In view 
of this and to eliminate the risks associated with holding physical shares, the Members holding shares in physical 
form are requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialised form. The Members can contact the 
Company/RTA for any support in this regard.
	
• 
UPDATION OF MANDATORY KYC DETAILS
	
	
i.	
Pursuant to SEBI Circular dated April 20, 2018, shareholders who have not furnished the details with regard to 
PAN and Bank particulars are requested to compulsorily furnish the same to the Company RTA/ for registration 
in the folio.
	
	
ii.	
Members are requested to intimate the changes, if any, pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/ mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number (PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, 
bank details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code, 
etc., to their DPs in case the shares are held in electronic form and to the Company/RTA in case the shares are 
held in physical form.
 
• 
SEBI has made it mandatory for all the Companies to use the bank account details furnished by the Depositories 
and the bank account details maintained by the RTA for payment of dividend to Members electronically. With effect 
from April 1, 2024 any payments including dividend in respect of shares held in physical mode shall only be made 
electronically upon registering the required KYC details.
12.	 DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT IN ELECTRONIC FORM AND PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR 
OBTAINING COPY OF ANNUAL REPORT BY E-MAIL:
	
i.	
In accordance with Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder and Regulations 34 and 
36 of the Listing Regulations read with relevant Circulars, the Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24 (including 
the Financial Statements, Board’s Report, Auditor’s report and other documents required to be attached thereto) 
(the Annual Report 2023-24), and the Notice of the AGM, are being sent in electronic mode to Members and other 
persons entitled to receive the Notice, whose e-mail address is registered with the Company or the Depositories.
	
	
The Member who wishes to obtain a hard copy of the Annual Report can send a request for the same at email ID- 
Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com mentioning Folio No./ DP ID and Client ID.
	
ii.	
The Members holding Equity Shares of the Company in Demat Form or Physical Form and who have not yet 
registered their e-mail address are requested to follow the procedure stated in point No. 13 given below for the 
purpose of registration.
	
iii.	
A copy of the Annual Report 2023-24 along with the Notice of the AGM and Explanatory Statement is available 
on the website of the Company at www.edelweissfin.com, BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (NSE) at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively and National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
13.	 PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL IDS WITH THE DEPOSITORIES FOR PROCURING USER ID AND 
PASSWORD AND FOR E-VOTING ON THE RESOLUTIONS SET OUT IN THIS NOTICE:
	
i.	
In case the shares are held in physical mode, shareholders are requested to provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, 
scanned copy of the share certificate (front and back), self-attested scanned copy of PAN and Aadhar Card by 
e-mail to the Company at Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com.
	
ii.	
In case the shares are held in demat mode, please provide DP ID & Client ID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit 
beneficiary ID), Name, self-attested scanned copy of client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, 
PAN, Aadhar to the respective Depository Participants.
	
iii.	
If you are an Individual shareholder holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer to the login method 
explained in these notes.
	
iv.	
Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and password 
for e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
14.	 PROCEDURE TO RAISE QUESTIONS/SEEK CLARIFICATIONS WITH RESPECT TO ANNUAL REPORT:
	
i.	
As the AGM is being conducted through VC/OAVM, the Members are encouraged to express their views / send their 
queries in advance mentioning their name, demat account number (DP ID & Client ID) / Folio No., email id, mobile 
number at Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com.
	
ii.	
The Members desirous of getting any information in respect of the contents of the Annual Report are requested to 
forward the same to the Company Secretary at least 10 days prior to the AGM so that the required information can 
be made available. The same will be replied by/on behalf of the Company suitably.
	
iii.	
In order to enable smooth conduct of AGM, the Members who would like to express their views during the AGM 
may register themselves as a Speaker by sending an email to Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com, mentioning 
name and Folio No., DP ID/CLIENT ID from Saturday, September 21, 2024 (9.00 A.M.) to Monday, September 23, 
2024 (5.00 P.M.)
	
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions and number of speakers, as appropriate for smooth 
conduct of the AGM.
15.	 THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE AS 
UNDER:
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Tuesday, September 24, 2024 at 9:00 A.M. and ends on Thursday, September 26, 
2024 at 5:00 P.M. The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose 
names appear in the Register of Members/Beneficial Owners as on the cut-off date i.e. September 21, 2024, may cast 
their vote electronically. The voting right of shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the paid-up equity share 
capital of the Company as on the cut-off date.
	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes Member of the Company after the notice is send through e-mail and holding shares as of the cut-off date 
i.e. September 21, 2024, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or Issuer/
RTA. However, if you are already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, then you can use your existing user ID and 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
507
508
password for casting your vote. If you forgot your password, you can reset your password by using “Forgot User Details/
Password” or “Physical User Reset Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022-48867000. In 
case of Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after sending of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date i.e. September 21, 2024, 
may follow steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under “Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
 
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
 
A) 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id in 
their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
NSDL.
1.	
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. 
https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under 
“Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this will prompt you to 
enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. 
Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be 
able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service 
provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available 
at https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” 
or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following 
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a 
mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the 
icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new 
screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be 
redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. 
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you 
will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during 
the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
meeting.
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
4.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL 
Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless 
voting experience.
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through 
their existing user id and password. Option will be made available to reach 
e-Voting page without any further authentication. The users to login Easi /
Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click 
on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my 
easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting 
option for eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the 
information provided by company. On clicking the evoting option, the user 
will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider for casting 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available 
at CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System 
Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing 
Demat Account Number and PAN No. from the e-Voting link available on 
www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user 
by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the 
e-Voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders (holding 
securities in demat mode) 
login through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through 
your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. 
Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company name 
or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
	
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
509
510
 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
toll free no. 1800-21-09911
	
B) 
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
 
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
	
(i)	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
(ii)	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
	
(iii)	 A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen.
	
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ 
with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on 
e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
	
(iv)	 Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or 
CDSL) or Physical
 Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members who hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
your user ID is 12**************
c)	
For Members holding shares in Physical 
Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with 
the company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 
101456 then user ID is 101456001***
	
	
(v)	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login and cast your 
vote.
	
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ 
which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
•	
If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open 
the email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file 
is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for 
shares held in physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
•	
If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for those shareholders 
whose email ids are not registered.
	
(vi)	  If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or 
CDSL) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and your 
registered address etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting system 
of NSDL.
	
(vii)	 After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
	
(viii)	 Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
(ix)	 After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
 
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
	
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares 
and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting your 
vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed under 
“Join Meeting”.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
511
512
General Guidelines for shareholders
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG 
Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized 
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to narasimhan.b8@gmail.com/ ab@bnpassociates.
in/ support@bnpassociates.in with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than 
individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking 
on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User 
Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user manual 
for Shareholders available at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a 
request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre at evoting@nsdl.com.
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice:
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode, please provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share 
certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of 
Aadhar Card) by email to Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com.
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary ID), Name, 
client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self 
attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com. If you are an Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login 
method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and password for 
e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update their mobile number and email ID correctly in their demat 
account in order to access e-Voting facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not casted their 
vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be eligible 
to vote at the AGM.
The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
The Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful 
login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu against company name. You are requested 
to click on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/
Member login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note that the members who do not have the User 
ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the remote 
e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
The Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through desktop/laptop for better experience.
3.	
Further, the Members will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting.
4.	
Please note that the Members connecting from Mobile Devices/ Tablets may experience Audio/Video loss due to 
fluctuation in their network. It is, therefore, recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi/ LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of 
aforesaid glitches.
SCRUTINIZER’S REPORT AND DECLARATION OF RESULTS:
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the 29th AGM, submit the report to the Chairman or any 
person authorized by him after completion of the scrutiny of the votes and the results of voting will be announced after the 
AGM. Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the AGM.
The results will be displayed on the website of the Company at https://www.edelweissfin.com and on the website of NSDL 
at www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the declaration of results and will be communicated to BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
513
514
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE DATED AUGUST 2, 2024
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
ITEM NO. 4:-
Based on the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), the Board of Directors of the 
Company (the Board) at its Meeting held on August 2, 2024, had appointed Mr. C. Balagopal (DIN: 00430938) as an Additional 
Director of the Company. As per the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder 
(the Act), Mr. Balagopal holds office up to the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM). Mr. Balagopal was also 
appointed as an Independent Director for a period of 5 years with effect from August 2, 2024. The Company has received a 
notice from a Member proposing the candidature of Mr. Balagopal as an Independent Director of the Company.
A brief profile of Mr. C. Balagopal is as under:
	
Mr. C. Balagopal is the former Chairman (Independent) of the Board of Federal Bank Ltd. He is also a Trustee of Anaha 
Trust; Member of the Governing Council of the Centre for Management Development, Trivandrum; Member of the 
Advisory Board of Fourth Wave Foundation; Member of the Board of TIMed Medical Devices Incubator of SCTIMST. 
Mr. Balagopal completed his BA and MA from Loyola College, Madras University, and joined the IAS in 1977 and worked 
in Manipur and Kerala. In 1983 he resigned from the IAS to promote a venture to make hi-tech biomedical devices for 
the first time in the country. Acquiring the knowhow from Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology, 
Trivandrum (SCTIMST) and with the support of National Research Development Corporation and KSIDC, he set up his 
venture, Penpol Ltd, near Trivandrum.
	
In 1999, Penpol entered into a joint venture with the Terumo Corporation of Japan. Today, Terumo Penpol Ltd is the 
biggest manufacturer of blood bags in India and one of the world’s biggest makers of high-tech bio-medical devices. In 
2012, he sold his stake in Penpol and turned to investing in startups, mentoring entrepreneurs, writing (four books to his 
credit), travel, and his many other interests.
	
Mr. Balagopal runs a Trust, which supports social projects in Kerala and Manipur in primary health, primary education, 
and rural livelihoods.
Mr. Balagopal is also an Independent Director on the Board of Edelweiss Life Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of 
the Company. 
Mr. Balagopal has given his consent for appointment as an Independent Director of the Company and a declaration to 
the effect that he meets the criteria of independence as prescribed under Section 149 of the Act and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the Listing Regulations), as applicable, 
and that he is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director of the Company as per the provisions of the Act and the 
Listing Regulations. Mr. Balagopal is not debarred from being appointed as a Director by SEBI, MCA and any such Statutory 
Authority. 
As per Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations, the approval of the Members is also sought for continuation of the appointment 
of Mr. Balagopal as an Independent Director since he would be attaining the age of 75 years in the year 2027 during the term 
of his appointment.
Mr. Balagopal is a person of integrity and has relevant skills, experience and expertise in the area of financial services, for 
him to be appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of the Company. The Board is of the view that Mr. Balagopal 
possesses and has the requisite skills and capabilities having worked as Chairman of a private sector bank and expertise in 
financial services sector, regulatory contexts, strategic planning and understanding of economic trends. He has leadership 
experience in the financial services sector as identified and required for appointment as an Independent Director of the 
Company.
Based on the recommendations of the NRC and considering the qualification and, experience, the Board recommends 
the appointment of Mr. Balagopal as an Independent Director for the term of 5 years from August 2, 2024 by a Special 
Resolution as set out in Item No. 4 of the Notice.
Mr. Balagopal is not related to any Promoter, Director and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
Except Mr. Balagopal, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their relatives are concerned or interested 
in this item of business, in any manner whatsoever.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
 Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
 
Tarun Khurana
Company Secretary
(Membership No. A12344)
August 2, 2024
Registered Office:
Edelweiss House,
Off C.S.T. Road, Kalina,
Mumbai – 400 098
CIN: L99999MH1995PLC094641
Email: Efsl.Shareholders@edelweissfin.com
Website: www.edelweissfin.com
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
515
516
Details of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) pursuant to 
Regulation 36 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings:
Particulars
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Mr. C. Balagopal
Date of Birth
August 12, 1966
October 2, 1952
Age
58 years
72 years
Date of first Appointment
February 20, 1996
August 2, 2024
Experience in functional Area
Over three decades of experience in 
financial services sector
Varied experience in his capacity as 
ex-IAS Officer and former Chairman 
(Independent) of Federal Bank Limited. 
Also providing philanthropic services in 
the rural and social sector.
Qualification
•	 B.E. (Electronics & Communication)
•	 MBA from the University of Pittsburgh
•	 BA and MA from Loyola College, 
Madras University
Terms and Conditions of 
Appointment/ Re-appointment
Appointed as an Executive Director, 
liable to retire by rotation
Appointed as an Independent Director 
for a period of 5 years w.e.f. August 2, 
2024
Remuneration to be paid
Entitled for payment of Salary, 
Perquisites and Bonus as approved 
by the Members at the AGM of the 
Company held on September 3, 2021
Entitled for sitting fees for attending 
Meetings of Board & Committees and 
also commission
Remuneration last drawn
Refer Corporate Governance Report 
forming a part of the Annual Report
N.A.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year ended March 31, 2024
5
N.A.
Directorship in other Companies 
(Public Limited Companies)
•	 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited;
•	 Edelweiss Asset Management 
Limited;
•	 Edelweiss Real Assets Managers 
Limited;
•	 Edelweiss Global Wealth 
Management Limited;
•	 Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors 
Limited.
•	 Trivandrum Centre for Performing 
Arts;
•	 Accelerated Freeze Drying Co 
Limited;
•	 Edelweiss Life Insurance Company 
Limited.
Name of listed entities from which 
the person has resigned in the past 
three years
ECL Finance Limited (a High Value 
Debt Listed Entity as defined under the 
Listing Regulations)
None
Particulars
Mr. Venkatchalam Ramaswamy
Mr. C. Balagopal
Membership/ Chairmanship of 
Committees of other public limited 
companies*
Member of the:
1.	Audit Committee:
	
•	 Edelweiss Asset Management 
Limited;
	
•	 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited.
2.	Stakeholder Relationship 
Committee:
	
•	 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction 
Company Limited (Chairman);
	
•	 Edelweiss Real Assets Managers 
Limited.
Nil
Relationship with other Directors 
inter-se and with Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company
None
None
No. of shares held in the Company
5,95,76,560 Equity Shares of ` 1 each
80 Equity Shares of ` 1 each
*Only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee have been considered for the Committee position.
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Statutory Reports
Annual Report 2023-24
517
518
NOTE
NOTE
Registered Ofﬁce:
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina,
Mumbai - 400 098, Maharashtra, India.
CIN L99999MH1995PLC094641
Email : efsl.shareholders@edelweissﬁn.com
www.edelweissﬁn.com
Tel : 022 4079 5199
Company/EdelweissFin 
EdelweissFin
