 
 
 
 
 
29th May, 2024 
 
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor 
Plot No. C/1, G Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai- 400 051 
 
 
NSE Symbol : HAVELLS 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street 
Mumbai- 400 001 
 
Scrip Code : 517354 
 
Sub: Integrated Annual Report for FY 2023-24 alongwith the Notice of AGM 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Please find enclosed herewith the 41st Annual Report of Havells India Limited (‘the 
Company’) for the financial year 2023-24 as the 6th Integrated Report of the Company 
alongwith the Notice convening the 41st Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 
the 28th day of June, 2024. 
 
Please note that the Integrated Report also contains the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) alongwith the Report on Reasonable Assurance undertaken on 
BRSR Core.  
This may be taken as due compliance of relevant provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
Kindly acknowledge receipt.  
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
for Havells India Limited 
 
 
 
(Sanjay Kumar Gupta) 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl: As above 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SANJAY 
KUMAR 
GUPTA
Digitally signed by 
SANJAY KUMAR 
GUPTA 
Date: 2024.05.29 
09:59:00 +05'30'
NOTICE is hereby given that the 41st (Forty First) Annual 
General Meeting of Havells India Limited will be held on 28th 
June, 2024, Friday at 2:00 pm through Video Conferencing 
(VC) or Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM) for which purpose 
the Registered Office of the Company situated at 904, 9th 
Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, 
New Delhi – 110 001 shall be deemed as the venue for the 
Meeting and the proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to 
be made thereat, to transact the following businesses: 
ORDINARY BUSINESS 
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial 
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
31st March, 2024, the Reports of the Board of Directors 
and Auditors thereon and the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March, 2024 and the Report of Auditors 
thereon. 
2.	
To confirm the payment of Interim Dividend of ` 3.00 per 
equity share of ` 1/- each already paid during the year as 
Interim Dividend for the Financial Year 2023-24. 
3.	
To declare a Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per equity share of 
` 1/- each, for the Financial Year 2023-24.
4.	
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta (DIN: 00002838), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
5.	
Re-appointment of Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002810) as Director, who retires by 
rotation and being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment 
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a SPECIAL 
RESOLUTION: 
	
“RESOLVED 
THAT 
Shri 
Surjit 
Kumar 
Gupta 
(DIN: 00002810), who retires by rotation at this Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a 
Director liable to retire by rotation.”
NOTICE
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
Regd. Office: 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K G Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110 001
Corp. Office: QRG Towers, 2D, Sector – 126, Expressway, Noida (U.P.) – 201 304
Tel. No.: 0120-3331000, Fax No.: 0120-3332000, E-mail: investors@havells.com
Website: www.havells.com, CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
6.	
Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 and all other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s), enactment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, 
for the time being in force), the Cost Auditors appointed 
by the Board of Directors of the Company, to conduct 
the audit of the cost records of the Company for the 
Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025, be paid the 
remuneration as set out in the Statement annexed to the 
Notice convening this Meeting.”
7.	
Re-appointment of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002838) as the Whole-time Director of the 
Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an ORDINARY 
RESOLUTION: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT in line with the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Other Employees of the Company 
and pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 
198, 203 read with Schedule V and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (including 
any statutory modification(s), enactment(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), consent 
be and is hereby accorded for the re-appointment of 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002838) as a Whole-
time Director of the Company for a further period of 5 
(Five) years from 1st January, 2025 to 31st December, 
2029 on the following terms and conditions including 
remuneration (and also including the remuneration to 
be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in 
Havells India Limited
1
any financial year during the aforesaid period, subject 
to the requirements of Schedule V to the Companies 
Act, 2013) as enumerated herein below:
1.	 Period
From 
1st 
January, 
2025 
to 
31st December, 2029
2.	 Remuneration
	
Salary
Basic Salary of ` 40 lakhs per 
month which may go upto ` 75 
lakhs per month over a period of 
5 years
	
Commission
0.60% of the Profit before Tax
	
Perquisites
For this purpose perquisites are 
classified into three categories A, 
B and C:
	
Category ‘A’
	
a)	 Medical Reimbursement :
	
	
Expenses incurred, including Medical Insurance, 
for self and family subject to a ceiling of one 
month’s salary in a year or three month’s salary 
over the period of three years.
	
b)	 Club Fees : 
	
	
Fees of clubs subject to a maximum of two 
clubs, admission and life membership fees not 
being allowed.
	
c)	 Personal Accident Insurance/ Term Life Insurance:
	
	
Premium not exceeding ` 25,000/- p.a.
	
Category ‘B’
	
a)	 Company’s contribution towards Provident 
Fund, Superannuation Fund. 
	
b)	 Gratuity payable shall not exceed one months’ 
salary for each completed year of service.
	
Category ‘C’
	
The Company shall provide a car with chauffer 
and telephone at the residence. Provisions of the 
car for use in Company’s business and telephone 
at residence will not be considered as perquisites. 
Personal long distance calls and use of car for 
private purpose shall be billed by the Company.
	
Other allowances, benefits and perquisites admissible 
as per Rules of the Company, from time to time.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Company and/ or any Committee thereof be and is hereby 
authorised to alter or vary any or all of the terms, conditions 
and/ or to increase the remuneration of Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta as approved subject to a maximum monthly basic 
salary of ` 75 lakhs and perquisites including the monetary 
value thereof within the limits specified in Schedule V to the 
Companies Act, 2013, without any further reference to the 
Company in General Meeting.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing Resolution, Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, 
Company Secretary of the Company, be and is hereby 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, 
as may be considered necessary, proper or desirable in the 
said regard including filing of returns with any authority.”
8.	
Re-appointment of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002842) as the Whole-time Director & Group 
CFO of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a SPECIAL 
RESOLUTION: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT in line with the Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Policy 
of 
Directors, 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel and Other Employees of the Company and 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 
read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (including any statutory 
modification(s), enactment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), consent be and is hereby accorded 
for the re-appointment of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002842) as the Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
of the Company for a further period of 5 (Five) years from 
1st April, 2025 to 31st March, 2030 on the following terms 
and conditions including remuneration (and also including the 
remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy 
of profits in any financial year during the aforesaid period, 
subject to the requirements of Schedule V to the Companies 
Act, 2013) as enumerated herein below:
1.	 Period
From 1st April, 2025 to 31st March, 2030
2.	 Remuneration
	
Salary
Basic Salary of ` 66 lakhs per month 
which may go upto ` 110 lakhs per 
month over a period of 5 years 
	
Commission
0.50% of the Profit before Tax
	
Perquisites 
For this purpose perquisites are classified 
into three categories A, B and C:
	
Category ‘A’
	
a)	 Medical Reimbursement :
	
	
Expenses incurred, including Medical Insurance, 
for self and family subject to a ceiling of one 
month’s salary in a year or three month’s salary 
over the period of three years.
	
b)	 ESOP/ ESPS:
	
	
As per policies and rules of the Company.
	
c)	 Club Fees : 
	
	
Fees of clubs subject to a maximum of two 
clubs, admission and life membership fees not 
being allowed.
	
d)	 Personal Accident Insurance/ Term Life Insurance: 
Premium not exceeding ` 25,000/- p.a.
	
Category ‘B’
	
a)	 Company’s contribution towards Provident 
Fund, Superannuation Fund. 
	
b)	 Gratuity payable shall not exceed one and a half 
months’ salary for each completed year of service.
	
c)	 Leave Entitlement: As per Company’s Policy.
	
Category ‘C’
	
The Company shall provide a car with chauffer 
and telephone at the residence. Provisions of the 
car for use in Company’s business and telephone 
at residence will not be considered as perquisites. 
Personal long distance calls and use of car for 
private purpose shall be billed by the Company.
	
Other allowances, benefits and perquisites admissible 
as per Rules of the Company, from time to time.
Havells India Limited
2
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company and/ or any Committee thereof be and is 
hereby authorised to alter or vary any or all of the terms, 
conditions and/ or to increase the remuneration of Shri 
Rajesh Kumar Gupta as approved subject to a maximum 
monthly basic salary of ` 110 lakhs and perquisites 
including the monetary value thereof within the limits 
specified in Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013, 
without any further reference to the Company in General 
Meeting.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing Resolution, Shri Sanjay Kumar 
Gupta, Company Secretary of the Company be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as may be considered necessary, proper or 
desirable in the said regard including filing of returns with 
any authority.”
9.	
Re-appointment of Shri Bontha Prasada Rao 
(DIN: 01705080) as an Independent Director for a 
Second Term
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a SPECIAL 
RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED 
THAT 
Shri 
Bontha 
Prasada 
Rao 
(DIN: 01705080), who was appointed as an Independent 
Director by the Shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of the Company held in year 2020 for 
a term of 5 (Five) years and who meets the criteria of 
Independence as provided under Section 149(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and who is eligible for re-appointment and 
is recommended by the Board of Directors upon the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee for the office of Director as an Independent 
Director, be and is hereby re-appointed, in accordance 
with Sections 149, 150, 152 read with Schedule IV 
and any other applicable provisions of the Act and 
the corresponding rules framed thereunder, as an 
Independent Director for a further period of 5 (Five) years 
upon the expiry of his First Term.”
10.	 Re-appointment of Shri Subhash S Mundra 
(DIN: 00979731) as an Independent Director for a 
Second Term
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a SPECIAL 
RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED 
THAT 
Shri 
Subhash 
S 
Mundra 
(DIN: 00979731), who was appointed as an Independent 
Director by the Shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) of the Company held in year 2020 for 
a term of 5 (Five) years and who meets the criteria of 
Independence as provided under Section 149(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and who is eligible for re-appointment and 
is recommended by the Board of Directors upon the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee for the office of Director as an Independent 
Director, be and is hereby re-appointed, in accordance 
with Sections 149, 150, 152 read with Schedule IV 
and any other applicable provisions of the Act and 
the corresponding rules framed thereunder, as an 
Independent Director for a further period of 5 (Five) years 
upon the expiry of his First Term.”
11.	 Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Vivek 
Mehra 
(DIN: 00101328) as an Independent Director for a 
Second Term
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a SPECIAL 
RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED THAT Shri Vivek Mehra (DIN: 00101328), 
who was appointed as an Independent Director by the 
Shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the 
Company held in year 2020 for a term of 5 (Five) years 
and who meets the criteria of Independence as provided 
under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the 
Act’) and the SEBI Listing Regulations and who is eligible 
for re-appointment and is recommended by the Board of 
Directors upon the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee for the office of Director as 
an Independent Director, be and is hereby re-appointed, 
in accordance with Sections 149, 150, 152 read with 
Schedule IV and any other applicable provisions of the 
Act and the corresponding rules framed thereunder, as an 
Independent Director for a further period of 5 (Five) years 
upon the expiry of his First Term.”
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary 
Noida, April 30, 2024
Membership No. F3348
Registered Office: 
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K. G. Marg, Connaught Place,  
New Delhi – 110 001 
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
Havells India Limited
3
NOTES 
1.	
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the Special 
Businesses specified above is annexed hereto.
2.	
Pursuant to the Circular Nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 
20/2020, 02/2021, 19/2021, 21/2021, 03/2022 dated 8th 
April 2020, 13th April 2020, 5th May, 2020, 13th January, 
2021, 8th December, 2021, 14th December, 2021, 5th 
May, 2022 followed by Circular Nos. 10/2022, 11/2022 
dated 28th December, 2022 and Circular No. 09/2023 
dated 25th September, 2023 issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“MCA Circulars”) and ‘SEBI’ Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CFD-PoD-2/P/CR/2023/167 dated 7th October, 2023 
(hereinafter referred to as “SEBI Circulars”) physical 
attendance of the Members to the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) venue is not required and AGM be held through 
Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual Means 
(OAVM). Hence, Members can attend and participate in 
the ensuing AGM through VC/ OAVM.
3.	
Since this AGM is being held through VC/ OAVM pursuant 
to the MCA Circulars, physical attendance of members 
has been dispensed with, accordingly, the route map, 
the facility to appoint proxy to attend and cast vote for 
the members is not available for this AGM and hence the 
Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not Annexed hereto. 
However, the Body Corporates are entitled to appoint 
authorised representatives to attend the AGM through 
VC/ OAVM and participate thereat and cast their votes 
through e-voting. 
4.	
Corporate Members are encouraged to attend the 
AGM through their Authorized Representatives. They 
are requested to send by email, a certified copy of the 
Board Resolution/ Power of Attorney authorizing their 
representatives to attend and vote on their behalf in the 
Meeting at investors@havells.com.
5.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/ OAVM 
mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time 
of the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/ OAVM will be 
made available for 1,000 members on first come first 
served basis. However, this number does not include 
the large Shareholders i.e. Shareholders holding 2% or 
more shareholding, Promoters, Institutional Investors, 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons 
of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to 
attend the AGM without restriction on account of first 
come first served basis. 
6.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM will be counted for the purpose 
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
7.	
In compliance with the above circulars, electronic copies 
of the Notice of the AGM alongwith the Integrated Annual 
Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 is being sent to all 
the shareholders whose email addresses are registered/ 
available with the Company/ Depository Participants as 
on the cut-off date of 24th May, 2024. The Notice has 
also been uploaded on the website of the Company 
in the Investors Section under Financials in the Annual 
Reports tab. The complete Integrated Annual Report is 
also available in the same section. The Notice can also be 
accessed from the websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. 
BSE Ltd and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively 
and the AGM Notice is also available on the website of 
NSDL (agency for providing the Remote e-Voting facility) 
i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
However, the Shareholders of the Company may request 
physical copy of the Notice and Integrated Annual Report 
from the Company by sending a request at investors@
havells.com, in case they wish to obtain the same.
8.	
This AGM has been convened through VC/ OAVM in 
compliance with applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the MCA Circular No. 14/2020 dated 
8th April, 2020 and MCA Circular No. 17/2020 dated 13th 
April, 2020, MCA Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 
2020, MCA Circular No. 2/2021 dated 13th January, 
2021, MCA Circular No. 19/2021 dated 08th December, 
2021, MCA Circular 21/2021 dated 14th December, 2021, 
MCA Circular No. 03/2022 dated 5th May, 2022 followed 
by MCA Circular Nos. 10/2022, 11/2022 dated 28th 
December, 2022, 09/2023 dated 25th September, 2023.
9.	
The recorded transcript of the forthcoming AGM on 28th 
June, 2024 shall also be made available on the website of 
the Company www.havells.com in the Investors Section, 
as soon as possible after the Meeting is over. 
10.	 All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice 
and the Explanatory Statement can be obtained for 
inspection by writing to the Company at its email id 
investors@havells.com till the date of AGM. Further, 
Shareholders may also write to the Company at its 
mailing id investors@havells.com for inspection of any 
statutory register/ documents required to be placed at 
the time of AGM of the Company.
11.	 Shareholders seeking any information with regard to 
accounts are requested to write to the Company at 
least 10 days before the meeting so that the information 
is made available by the management at the day of the 
meeting.
12.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Register will 
remain closed from 3rd June, 2024, Monday to 7th June, 
2024, Friday (both days inclusive).
Havells India Limited
4
13.	 The Dividend, if any declared, shall be payable to those 
Shareholders whose name(s) stand registered: 
	
(a)	
as Beneficial Owner as at the end of business hours 
on 2nd June, 2024 as per the lists to be furnished by 
National Securities Depositories Limited and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited in respect of the 
shares held in electronic form, and 
	
(b)	
as Member in the Register of Members of the 
Company/ Registrars & Share Transfer Agent after 
giving effect to valid share transmissions, if any, in 
physical form lodged with the Company as at the 
end of business hours on 2nd June, 2024.
14.	 Pursuant to the amendments introduced in the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (‘the IT Act’) vide Finance Act, 2020, w.e.f. 
1st April, 2020, dividend declared, paid or distributed by 
a Company on or after 1st April, 2020, is taxable in the 
hands of the shareholders. The Company shall, therefore, 
be required to deduct TDS/ WHT at the time of payment of 
dividend at the applicable tax rates. The rates of TDS/ WHT 
would depend upon the category and residential status of 
the shareholder. Members are requested to complete and/ 
or update their Residential Status, PAN, Category as per the 
IT Act with their Depository Participants (‘DPs’) or in case 
shares are held in physical form, with the RTA/ Company 
by sending documents by 7th June, 2024, Friday. For the 
detailed process, please visit website of the Company and 
go through “Instructions on TDS for Dividend” at https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Disclosures/TDS-on-
Dividend/Final_Dividend_FY2023-24.pdf.
15.	 i)	
SEBI vide its Circular, mandated that the security 
holders (holding securities in physical form), whose 
folio(s) do not have PAN or Choice of Nomination or 
Contact Details or Mobile Number or Bank Account 
Details or Specimen Signature updated, shall be 
eligible for any payment including dividend, interest 
or redemption in respect of such folios, only through 
electronic mode with effect from 1st April, 2024, upon 
their furnishing all the aforesaid details in entirety.
	
	
Further, any service requests or complaints received 
from the member, are not processed by RTA till the 
aforesaid details/ documents are provided to RTA.
	
	
SEBI has introduced Form ISR - 1 alongwith other 
relevant forms to lodge any request for registering 
PAN, KYC details or any change/ updation thereof. 
	
	
Members may also note that SEBI vide its Circular 
dated 25th January, 2022 has mandated listed 
companies to issue securities in dematerialized 
form only while processing service requests viz. 
Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim from 
unclaimed suspense account; renewal/ exchange 
of securities certificate; endorsement; sub-division/ 
splitting of securities certificate; consolidation of 
securities certificates/ folios; transmission and 
transposition. In view of the same and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and avail 
various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are 
advised to dematerialise the shares held by them in 
physical form. Accordingly, Members are requested 
to make service requests by submitting a duly filled 
and signed Form ISR – 4. 
	
	
Relevant details and forms prescribed by SEBI 
in this regard including the mode of despatch are 
available on the website of the Company in the 
Investors Section under Shareholders Corner in 
the Downloads Tab at https://www.havells.com/
en/discover-havells/investor-relation/shareholders-
corner.html, for information and use by the 
Shareholders. You are requested to kindly take note 
of the same and update your particulars timely. 
	
ii)	
Members who are holding shares in demat 
mode are requested to notify any change in their 
residential address, Bank A/c details and/ or email 
address immediately to their respective Depository 
Participants.
16.	 During the year, amount of Un-claimed Final Dividend 
for the financial year 2015-16 has been deposited in the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund. Further, amount 
of Un-claimed Final Dividend for financial year 2016-17 is 
due for deposit to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund on 14th August, 2024.
	
The Company also transmitted 405 on account of 
Unclaimed Final Dividend for FY 2015-16 into the DEMAT 
Account of the IEPF Authority held with NSDL (DPID/ 
Client ID IN300708/10656671) in terms of the provisions 
of section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time. These Equity 
Shares were the Shares of such Shareholders whose 
unclaimed/ unpaid dividend pertaining to financial year 
2015-16 (Final) had been transferred into IEPF and who 
have not encashed their dividends for 7 (Seven) years. 
17.	 Concerned Shareholders may still claim the shares or 
apply for refund to the IEPF Authority in Web Form No. 
IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in 
18.	 In case the Dividend has remained unclaimed in respect 
of Financial Years 2016-17 to 2023-24 the Shareholders 
may approach the Company with their dividend warrants 
for revalidation with the Letter of Undertaking for issue 
of duplicate dividend warrants. The Company regularly 
sends letters/ emails to this effect to the concerned 
Shareholders. 
19.	 The annual accounts of the subsidiary companies along 
with the related detailed information is available for 
inspection at the Corporate Office of the Company and 
of the subsidiary concerned and copies will be made 
available to Shareholders of Havells India Limited and its 
subsidiary company upon request. 
Havells India Limited
5
20.	 To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised 
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any 
change in address or demise of any member as soon as 
possible. Members are also advised not to leave their 
demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement 
of holdings should be obtained from the concerned 
Depository Participant and holdings should be verified. 
21.	 Pursuant to the requirements of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 on 
Corporate Governance, the information about the Directors 
proposed to be appointed/ re-appointed at the Annual 
General Meeting is given in the Annexure to the Notice. 
22.	 Pursuant to Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 19(1) of the Rules made thereunder, 
Shareholders are entitled to make nomination in respect 
of shares held by them in physical form. Shareholders 
desirous of making nominations are requested to send 
their requests in Form SH.13, which is available on the 
website of the Company. Further, SEBI vide its Circular 
dated 3rd November, 2021 has mandated to furnish 
Form ISR-3 for opting out of Nomination by physical 
shareholders in case the shareholder do not wish to 
register for the Nomination.
23.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as 
amended) and the Circulars issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs dated 8th April, 2020, 13th April, 2020, 
5th May, 2020, 13th January, 2021, 08th December, 2021, 
14th December, 2021, 5th May, 2022, 28th December, 
2022 and 25th September, 2023 the Company is providing 
facility for voting by electronic means for all its Members 
to enable them to cast their vote electronically and the 
business may be transacted through such e-voting. 
	
A member may exercise his/ her vote at the General 
Meeting by electronic means and the Company may pass 
any resolution by electronic voting system in accordance 
with the provisions of the aforesaid Rule. 
	
For this purpose, the Company has entered into an 
agreement with National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL) for facilitating voting through electronic means, as 
the authorized agency. 
	
The facility of casting votes by a member using remote 
e-voting system as well as e-voting on the day of the 
AGM will be provided by NSDL. 
	
The Members attending the AGM who have not already 
cast their vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise 
their right at the meeting.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting 
prior to the Meeting may also attend the AGM but shall 
not be entitled to cast their vote again. Members may 
contact Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary, 
for any grievances connected with electronic means at 
investors@havells.com, Tel. # 0120-3331000.
24.	 The remote e-voting period commences on 25th June, 
2024, Tuesday (8:30 am) and ends on 27th June, 2024, 
Thursday (5:00 pm). 
	
a.	
Members of the Company, holding shares either in 
physical form or in dematerialized form, as on the 
cut-off date i.e. 21st June, 2024, Friday may opt for 
remote e-voting and cast their vote electronically. 
	
b.	
A person, whose name is recorded in the register 
of members or in the register of beneficial owners 
maintained by the depositories as on cut-off date 
only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote 
e-voting or e-voting at the Meeting. 
	
c.	
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes member of the Company after sending 
of the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off 
date i.e. 21st June, 2024 may obtain the login ID and 
password by sending an email to evoting@nsdl.com or 
investors@havells.com by mentioning their Folio No./ 
DP ID and Client ID No. However, if you are already 
registered with NSDL for e-voting then you can use 
your existing user ID and password for casting your 
vote. If you forget your password, you can reset your 
password by using “Forget User Details/Password” 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com 
	
d.	
Once the vote on a Resolution is cast by the 
Member, the Member shall not be allowed to change 
it subsequently or cast the vote again. 
	
e.	
Member may participate in the AGM even after 
exercising his right to vote through remote e-voting 
but shall not be allowed to vote again. 
	
f.	
At the end of remote e-voting period, the facility shall 
forthwith be blocked.
25.	 The Board vide its Resolution passed on 30th April, 2024 
has appointed CS Mohd Zafar, Practicing Company 
Secretary (Membership No. FCS 9184, COP No. 13875), 
as Scrutinizer for conducting the e-voting process in 
accordance with the law and in a fair and transparent 
manner. The Scrutinizer shall immediately after the 
conclusion of voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast 
through remote e-voting and e-voting on the date of the 
AGM, in the presence of at least two witnesses not in 
the employment of the Company and make, not later 
than 2 working days of the conclusion of the Meeting, a 
consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast 
in favour or against, if any, forthwith to the Chairman of 
the Company or any person authorized by him in writing 
and the Results shall be declared by the Chairman or any 
person authorized by him thereafter. The Results declared 
along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the 
website of the Company www.havells.com and on the 
website of NSDL immediately after the declaration of 
Result by the Chairman or any person authorized by him 
in writing. The results shall also be forwarded to the stock 
exchanges where the shares of the Company are listed.
26.	 SEBI vide its Circulars issued during 2023, established a 
common Online Dispute Resolution Portal (‘ODR Portal’) 
for resolution of disputes arising in the Indian Securities 
Havells India Limited
6
Market. The regulatory norms regarding the same were 
consolidated vide SEBI Master Circular dated 11th August, 
2023. Pursuant to the same, investors shall first take 
up a grievance with the Company directly, escalate the 
same through the SCORES Portal and if still not satisfied 
with the outcome after exhausting all available options, 
investors can initiate dispute resolution through the ODR 
Portal at https://smartodr.in/login. Link to the ODR Portal 
is also available on the homepage of Company’s website 
at https://havells.com/smart-odr.
	
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
REMOTE E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:-
	
The remote e-voting period begins on 25th June, 
2024, Tuesday (8:30 am) and ends on 27th June, 2024, 
Thursday (5:00 pm). The remote e-voting module 
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. 
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual 
shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised 
to update their mobile number and email Id in their 
demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL.
1.	
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of 
NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, 
click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and 
you will be re-directed to NSDL e-Voting website for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	
If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the 
home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP 
and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
options available against company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you 
will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
4.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Havells India Limited
7
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.	
Existing users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any 
further authentication. The users to login Easi / Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your 
existing my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the 
e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on 
registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/ CDSL for e-Voting facility. Once login, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL 
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on 
options available against company name or e-Voting service provider-NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve 
User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned 
website.
	
Helpdesk 
for 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in demat mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and 
CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue 
in login can contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at evoting@
nsdl.com or call at 022-4886 7000 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request 
at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com  or contact at toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for 
shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by 
typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, 
click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. 
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices 
i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/ with your existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in 
to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, 
click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. 
Cast your vote electronically.
Havells India Limited
8
4.	
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat (NSDL 
or CDSL) or Physical 
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members 
who hold shares 
in demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 
8 Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is 
IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members 
who hold shares 
in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your Beneficiary 
ID is 12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c)	
For Members 
holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by 
Folio Number registered with 
the company
For example, if folio number is 
001*** and EVEN is 101456 
then user ID is 101456001***
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders are given below:
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you 
can use your existing password to login and cast 
your vote. 
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first 
time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ 
which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve 
your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to change 
your password. 
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’? 
	
	
(i)	
If your email id is registered in your demat 
account or with the company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your 
email ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and 
open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the 
.pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file 
is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, 
last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or 
folio number for shares held in physical form. 
The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’. 
	
	
(ii)	
If your email id is not registered, please follow 
steps mentioned below in process for those 
shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered 
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“Initial password” or have forgotten your password: 
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com. 
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat account 
number/ folio number, your PAN, your name and 
your registered address etc. 
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on the 
e-Voting system of NSDL. 
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box. 
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button. 
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of 
e-Voting will open. 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting 
on NSDL e-Voting system? 
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all 
the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares 
and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active 
status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed 
under “Join General Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens. 
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent 
or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also 
“Confirm” when prompted. 
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” 
will be displayed. 
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the Resolution(s), you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote. 
Havells India Limited
9
General Guidelines for shareholders: 
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy 
(PDF/JPEG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ 
Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of 
the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to 
vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to cszafar@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional 
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) 
can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-Voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical 
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password. 
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user 
manual for Shareholders available at the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022-48867000 or 
send a request at evoting@nsdl.com in or Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, National Securities Depository 
Limited, Trade World, ‘A’ Wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills 
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 
– 400 013, at the designated email id – evoting@nsdl.
com or pallavid@nsdl.co.in or at telephone nos.:- +91 22 
24994545, +91 22 24994559, who will also address the 
grievances connected with voting by electronic means. 
Members may also write to the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s email address investors@havells.com 
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of email ids for e-voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice: 
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide 
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the 
share certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAAR (self attested 
scanned copy of Aadhaar Card) by email to investors@
havells.com 
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhaar Card) to 
investors@havells.com If you are an Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to 
refer to the login method explained at Step 1 (A) i.e. Login 
method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and password 
for e-Voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders 
are required to update their mobile number and email ID 
correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting 
facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:- 
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same 
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting. 
2.	
Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be present in 
the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and 
are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM. 
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will 
be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be 
eligible to vote at the AGM. 
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
Remote e-voting. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/ OAVM ARE AS UNDER: 
1.	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps 
mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system. After successful login, you can see link of “VC/ 
OAVM link” placed under “Join meeting” menu against 
company name. You are requested to click on VC/ OAVM 
link placed under Join General Meeting menu. The link 
for VC/ OAVM will be available in shareholder/members 
login where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the members who do not have the User 
ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User 
ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the Notice to 
avoid last minute rush. 
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
Havells India Limited
10
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera and 
use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting.
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
5.	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as 
a speaker by sending their request from their registered 
email address mentioning their Name, DP ID and Client ID/ 
Folio Number, PAN, Mobile Number at investors@havells.
com latest by 23rd June, 2024, Sunday. Those Members 
who have registered themselves as a speaker will only 
be allowed to express their views/ ask questions during 
the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the 
number of speakers depending on the availability of time 
for the AGM.
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary
Noida, April 30, 2024
Membership No. F3348 
Registered Office:
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K. G. Marg, Connaught Place,  
New Delhi – 110 001
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 
102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
ITEM NO. 5
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002810) was last re-
appointed as a Director whose period of office was liable to 
determination by retirement by rotation, by the Shareholders 
in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company held 
on 20th May, 2021.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), he retires by rotation at this AGM 
and being eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment. 
In terms of Section 102 of the Act, the re-appointment of 
a rotational director at the annual general meeting is an 
Ordinary Business.
However, in view of Regulation 17 (1A) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
no listed entity can continue the directorship of any person 
as a Non-Executive Director who has attained the age of 75 
(Seventy Five) years unless a Special Resolution is passed 
to that effect. Accordingly, the re-appointment of Shri Surjit 
Kumar Gupta, aged 82 years, is recommended at this AGM 
as Special Business by way of Special Resolution instead of 
Ordinary Business in compliance of Section 102 of the Act 
read with the amended SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015.
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta is a member of the Promoter Group and 
is one of the First Directors of the Company. Under his guidance 
the Company has emerged as the leading organisation in the 
Electrical Industry with an outstanding prominence for high-
quality engineered products. The Board has benefitted from his 
relevant specialization and expertise.
Details on his attendance of various Board Meetings held 
during the last financial year are included in the Corporate 
Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report.
The Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th April, 
2024, has approved the re-appointment of Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta as a Director liable to retire by rotation and recommends 
the Resolution set out at Item No. 5 to this Notice for the 
approval by the Shareholders of the Company as a Special 
Resolution.
Except Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta and Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta, no other Director(s) and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company and their relatives is concerned or interested, 
financial or otherwise, in this Resolution.
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 are set out in the Annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
ITEM NO. 6
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
in its Meeting held on 30th April, 2024 has approved the 
appointment and remuneration of M/s Chandra Wadhwa & 
Co., Cost Accountants, (Registration No. 00212), as the Cost 
Auditors of the Company to conduct the audit of the cost 
records of the Company for the Financial Year 2024-25 at a fee 
of ` 9.00 Lakhs subject to TDS, GST etc., as applicable, apart 
from out of pocket expenses, as remuneration for cost audit 
services for the Financial Year 2024-25.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors has to be ratified by 
the shareholders of the Company.
Accordingly, consent of the members is being sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 6 of the 
Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditors for the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025.
Havells India Limited
11
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company / their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 6 of the Notice.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at 
Item No. 6 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
ITEM NO. 7
The 5 (Five) year term of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002838), as a Whole-time Director of the Company 
which commenced from 1st January, 2020 is due to expire on 
31st December, 2024. 
The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 
30th April, 2024, and subject to the approval of Members of the 
Company, re-appointed Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, as a Whole-
time Director of the Company for a further period of 5 (Five) years 
with effect from 1st January, 2025 to 31st December, 2029. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 
read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board recommends the re-
appointment of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, as a Whole-time 
Director of the Company, to the Members for their approval. 
Except Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta and Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta, no other Director(s) and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company and their relatives is concerned or interested, 
financial or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at Item No. 7. 
of this Notice. 
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the Annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at 
Item No. 7 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
ITEM NO. 8
The 5 (Five) year term of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta 
(DIN: 00002842), as the Whole-time Director & Group CFO of 
the Company which commenced from 1st April, 2020 is due to 
expire on 31st March, 2025. 
The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held 
on 30th April, 2024 and subject to the approval of Members of 
the Company, re-appointed Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, as the 
Whole-time Director & Group CFO of the Company for a further 
period of 5 (Five) years with effect from 1st April, 2025 to 31st 
March, 2030. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 
read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board recommends the re-
appointment of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, as the Whole-time 
Director & Group CFO, to the Members for their approval. 
A qualified Chartered Accountant with rich experience in finance 
and allied fields, Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, is the Whole-time 
Director and Group CFO of Havells India Limited. He has been 
long associated with the QRG group since the beginning of 
his career. Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta has helped in shaping up 
Finance and allied operations of the Company alongwith the 
standardization of systems and processes. It would thus be in 
the interest of the Company that he continues in his capacity 
as the Whole-time Director & Group CFO.
Members may please note that as per Section 196(3) of the 
Companies Act 2013 read with conditions specified in Part 1 
of Schedule V to the Act, appointment of a wholetime director, 
who has attained the age of 70 years, is required to be made 
by way of a Special Resolution only.
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta though has not attained the age 
of 70 years on the date of his appointment and would attain 
it during his tenure of appointment, the Board of Directors, 
propose the Resolution at Item No. 8 to the Notice, related 
to his appointment as Wholetime Director and Group CFO, 
to be passed as a Special Resolution, as a measure of good 
corporate governance.
Except Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, no other Director(s) and 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives 
is concerned or interested, financial or otherwise, in the 
Resolution set out at Item No. 8. of this Notice. 
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the Annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
ITEM NO. 9
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao (DIN: 01705080) was appointed 
as an Independent Director on the Board of Directors of the 
Company in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in the 
Calendar year 2020 to hold office for a period of 5 (Five) years 
with effect from 22nd June, 2020 (the date of AGM 2020).
In terms of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013, an 
Independent Director is eligible for re-appointment on passing 
of Special Resolution. Shri Bontha Prasada Rao being eligible 
and offering himself for re-appointment, is proposed to be 
appointed as an Independent Director for a Second Term of 
5 (Five) years upon the expiry of his First Term. In the opinion 
of the Board, Shri Bontha Prasada Rao fulfils the conditions 
specified in the Act and rules made thereunder for his re-
appointment as an Independent Director of the Company and 
is independent of the Management.
Havells India Limited
12
In the Performance Evaluation conducted for the year 
2023-24, the performance of Shri Bontha Prasada Rao was 
evaluated satisfactory in the effective and efficient discharge of 
his role and responsibilities as an Independent Director of the 
Company. The Board and its allied Committees have benefitted 
from his relevant specialisation and expertise.
Given his skill and expertise, more specifically mentioned in his 
profile annexed to the Notice and the Corporate Governance 
Report of the Integrated Annual Report, the Board feels that it 
would be in the interest of the Company that Shri Bontha Prasada 
Rao continues in his capacity as an Independent Director.
Details on his attendance of various Board and Committee 
Meetings held during the last financial year are included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report.
The Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th 
April, 2024, has approved the re-appointment of Shri Bontha 
Prasada Rao as an Independent Director and recommends the 
Resolution set out at item No. 9 to this Notice for the approval by 
the Shareholders of the Company by way of Special Resolution.
Except Shri Bontha Prasada Rao, no other Director and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives 
is concerned or interested, financial or otherwise, in the 
Resolution set out at Item No. 9 of this Notice.
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
ITEM NO. 10
Shri Subhash S Mundra (DIN: 00979731) was appointed as an 
Independent Director on the Board of Directors of the Company 
in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in the Calendar year 
2020 to hold office for a period of 5 (Five) years with effect from 
22nd June, 2020 (the date of AGM 2020).
In terms of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013, an 
Independent Director is eligible for re-appointment on passing 
of Special Resolution. Shri Subhash S Mundra being eligible 
and offering himself for re-appointment, is proposed to be 
appointed as an Independent Director for a Second Term of 
5 (Five) years upon the expiry of his First Term. In the opinion 
of the Board, Shri Subhash S Mundra fulfils the conditions 
specified in the Act and rules made thereunder for his re-
appointment as an Independent Director of the Company and 
is independent of the Management.
In the Performance Evaluation conducted for the year 2023-
24, the performance of Shri Subhash S Mundra was evaluated 
satisfactory in the effective and efficient discharge of his role and 
responsibilities as an Independent Director of the Company. 
The Board and its allied Committees have benefitted from his 
relevant specialisation and expertise.
Given his skill and expertise, more specifically mentioned in his 
profile annexed to the Notice and the Corporate Governance 
Report of the Integrated Annual Report, the Board feels that 
it would be in the interest of the Company that Shri Subash S 
Mundra continues in his capacity as an Independent Director.
Details on his attendance of various Board and Committee 
Meetings held during the last financial year are included in 
the Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual 
Report.
The Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th April, 
2024, has approved the re-appointment of Shri Subhash S 
Mundra as an Independent Director and recommends the 
same for the approval by the Shareholders of the Company by 
way of Special Resolution.
Except Shri Subhash S Mundra, no other Director and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives 
is concerned or interested, financial or otherwise, in the 
Resolution set out at Item No. 10 of this Notice.
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
ITEM NO. 11
Shri Vivek Mehra (DIN: 00101328) was appointed as an 
Independent Director on the Board of Directors of the Company 
in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in the Calendar year 
2020 to hold office for a period of 5 (Five) years with effect from 
22nd June, 2020 (the date of AGM 2020).
In terms of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013, an 
Independent Director is eligible for re-appointment on passing of 
Special Resolution. Shri Vivek Mehra being eligible and offering 
himself for re-appointment, is proposed to be appointed as 
an Independent Director for a Second Term of 5 (Five) years 
upon the expiry of his First Term. In the opinion of the Board, 
Shri Vivek Mehra fulfils the conditions specified in the Act 
and rules made thereunder for his re-appointment as an 
Independent Director of the Company and is independent of 
the Management.
In the Performance Evaluation conducted for the year 2023-
24, the performance of Shri Vivek Mehra was evaluated 
satisfactory in the effective and efficient discharge of his role and 
responsibilities as an Independent Director of the Company. 
The Board and its allied Committees have benefitted from his 
relevant specialisation and expertise.
Given his skill and expertise, more specifically mentioned in his 
profile annexed to the Notice and the Corporate Governance 
Report of the Integrated Annual Report, the Board feels that it 
would be in the interest of the Company that Shri Vivek Mehra 
continues in his capacity as an Independent Director.
Havells India Limited
13
Details on his attendance of various Board and Committee 
Meetings held during the last financial year are included in 
the Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual 
Report.
The Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th 
April, 2024, has approved the re-appointment of Shri Vivek 
Mehra as an Independent Director and recommends the 
Resolution set out at item No. 11 to this Notice for the 
approval by the Shareholders of the Company by way of 
Special Resolution.
Except Shri Vivek Mehra, no other Director and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company and their relatives is concerned or 
interested, financial or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at 
Item No. 11 of this Notice.
Disclosure u/r 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is set out in the annexure 
to the Explanatory Statement. Other details as required 
under ICSI Secretarial Standard SS-2 are also included in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Integrated Annual Report 
of the Company.
By Order of the Board 
For Havells India Limited 
Sanjay Kumar Gupta 
Company Secretary 
Noida, April 30, 2024
Membership No. F3348 
Registered Office: 
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building 
K. G. Marg, Connaught Place,  
New Delhi – 110 001 
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304 
Website: www.havells.com
Email: investors@havells.com
Havells India Limited
14
ANNEXURE
PURSUANT TO REGULATION 36 OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015 AND SECRETARIAL STANDARD 2 ISSUED BY ICSI, INFORMATION ABOUT THE 
DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE APPOINTED/ RE-APPOINTED IS FURNISHED BELOW:
Name of Director 
(DIN)
Date of first appointment 
on the Board
Date of Birth, Age
(No. of Equity 
Shares held)
Qualification 
(Relationship with 
other Directors)
Nature of Expertise in specific 
functional areas
Name of Companies in which 
he/ she holds Directorship 
(Name of listed entities from 
where person has resigned 
in past 3 years)
Name of Committees 
of the Companies of 
which he/ she holds 
Membership 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
(DIN: 00002838)
22nd December 2014
16th January,
1972, 52 years
(Nil)
BE (Electronics & 
Communication) DU, 
MBA (Marketing & 
Finance) from Wake 
Forest University, North 
Carolina, USA 
(Related with Shri Surjit 
Kumar Gupta)
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta has 
been working with the QRG 
group for over 2 decades and is 
actively involved in new business 
development activities along with 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta. In addition, 
he has been accredited with 
new product introduction and 
development and also for setting 
up new plants and manufacturing 
facilities for the QRG group. His 
functions include spearheading 
new projects being undertaken by 
the organisation.
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 QRG Enterprises Limited
•	 QRG Investments and 
Holdings Limited
	
(APL Apollo Tubes 
Limited)
Havells India Limited
-	 Audit Committee- 
Member
-	 Executive Committee-
Member
QRG Investments and 
Holdings Limited
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Member
-	 Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee – Member
-	 Executive Committee- 
Member
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
(DIN: 00002810)
8th August 1983
13th January,
1942, 82 years
(Nil)
F.Sc. from Punjab 
University and holds a 
Diploma in Mechanical 
Engineering from State 
Board of Technical 
Education, Punjab. 
(Related with Shri Ameet 
Kumar Gupta)
Shri 
Surjit 
Kumar 
Gupta 
is 
an esteemed member of the 
Promoter Group and is one of the 
First Directors of the Company. 
He has been on the Board of 
Directors 
since 
incorporation 
on 8th August, 1983. Under his 
guidance 
the 
Company 
has 
emerged as a leading organisation 
in the Electrical Industry with an 
outstanding prominence for high 
quality 
engineered 
products. 
He was the prime motivator 
for initial exposures of Havells 
to 
international 
manufacturers 
and 
technology. 
Havells 
has 
successfully entered into several 
foreign 
alliances 
under 
his 
supervision.
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 QRG Enterprises Limited
•	 QRG Investments and 
Holdings Limited
	
(Nil)
Havells India Limited
-	 CSR & ESG 
Committee – Member 
-	 Stakeholder 
Relationship/ 
Grievance Redressal 
Committee – Member
-	 Share Allotment & 
Transfer Committee – 
Chairman
-	 Executive Committee- 
Chairman
QRG Investments and 
Holdings Limited
-	 Asset Liability 
Management 
Committee - Chairman
-	 Executive Committee- 
Chairman
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
(DIN: 00002842)
21st March 1992
17th June, 1957,  
66 years 
(12,90,688 Equity 
Shares of `1/- 
each)
Chartered Accountant
(Not related with 
any Director of the 
Company)
Highly 
qualified 
Chartered 
Accountant with rich experience in 
finance and allied fields, Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta, is the Whole-time 
Director & Group CFO of Havells 
India Limited. He has been long 
associated with the QRG group 
since the beginning of his career 
and has helped shape up the 
finance sector and simultaneously 
played a multi-dimensional role in 
creating the culture, systems and 
processes across the organization.
•	 Havells India Limited
	
(Nil)
Havells India Limited
-	 CSR & ESG 
Committee – Member
-	 Share Allotment & 
Transfer Committee – 
Member
-	 Executive Committee- 
Member
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao 
(DIN: 01705080)
12th May 2020
1st January,1954, 
70 years
(Nil)
Mechanical Engineering 
Graduate from Jawa-
harlal Nehru Technologi-
cal University, Kakinada, 
Post Graduate in Indus-
trial Engineering from 
NITIE, Mumbai  
(now IIM, Mumbai) 
(Not related with 
any Director of the 
Company)
Mr. B. Prasada Rao served as the 
CMD of Bharat Heavy Electricals 
Limited, India till 31st December 
2015. Under his visionary lead-
ership, BHEL was granted the 
coveted Maharatna status by the 
Govt. of India. Forbes magazine 
ranked BHEL at No. 9 of World’s 
Most Innovative companies in July 
2011. Mr Rao has been an active 
contributor in various national level 
forums to promote a stronger man-
ufacturing sector in India. Mr. Rao 
was given a two-year extension as
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 TATA-Boeing Aerospace 
Limited
•	 Poonawalla Fincorp 
Limited
•	 Titagarh Rail Systems 
Limited
	
(Nil)
Havells India Limited
-	 Audit Committee - 
Member
TATA-Boeing Aerospace 
Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
-	 Nomination Review 
Committee – Chairman
Poonawalla Fincorp 
Limited
-	 Asset Liability 
Management 
Committee – Member
Havells India Limited
15
Name of Director 
(DIN)
Date of first appointment 
on the Board
Date of Birth, Age
(No. of Equity 
Shares held)
Qualification 
(Relationship with 
other Directors)
Nature of Expertise in specific 
functional areas
Name of Companies in which 
he/ she holds Directorship 
(Name of listed entities from 
where person has resigned 
in past 3 years)
Name of Committees 
of the Companies of 
which he/ she holds 
Membership 
CMD/BHEL as a special case, 
the first of its kind in a PSU, by 
GoI in recognition of his excellent 
technical 
and 
managerial 
contribution to BHEL. Mr. Rao 
served as member of the Studies 
Group of World Energy Council for 
two terms. He was the Chairman 
of CII Public Sector Enterprises 
Council, is a Fellow of the Institution 
of Engineers (India) and Indian 
National Academy of Engineering. 
He has to his credit a number 
of awards and accolades, both 
institutional and individual. Post 
retirement from BHEL, he has taken 
up the responsibility as MD of Steag 
Energy Services India, a 100% 
owned subsidiary of Steag Energy 
Services Germany- an organization 
involved in offering Engineering and 
O&M services to Power Sector. 
Mr. Rao was conferred with the 
“Engineering Excellence Award by 
the title of “Prof. S N Mitra Memorial 
Award 2018” – by the Indian 
National Academy of Engineers, 
during the year 2018. He was 
conferred “Honorary Doctorate” 
by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological 
University, Kakinada. 
-	 Review Committee – 
Member
-	 IT Strategy  
	
Committee – Chairman
-	 Management 
Committee – Member 
-	 Risk Management 
Committee - Chairman
Titagarh Rail Systems 
Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
-	 Nomination Review 
Committee – Member
Shri Subhash S Mundra
(DIN: 00979731)
12th May 2020
18th July,1954,  
69 years
(Nil)
B.Com, M.Com, Fellow 
Indian Institute of Bank-
ing & Finance, D. Phil 
(HonorisCausa) 
(Not related with any 
Director of the Company)
In a banking career spanning over 
four decades, Mr. Mundra has 
held several important positions 
in 
banking 
industry 
including 
CMD of Bank of Baroda and 
Executive Director of Union Bank 
of India. Post superannuation as 
CMD, Bank of Baroda, he moved 
to RBI as the Deputy Governor 
for three years. During his stint 
at RBI, he also served as RBI’s 
nominee on the Financial Stability 
Board (G20 Forum) and its various 
committees. Mr. Mundra was 
also the Vice-chair of OECD’s 
International Network on Financial 
Education (INFE). Post retirement 
from Reserve Bank of India, Mr. 
Mundra served on the Board of 
BSE Limited, among others, and 
vacated as Chairman of the Board, 
in January 2024, on completion of 
maximum permissible tenure of 6 
years. He was also on the global 
Risk Advisory Committee of PayU 
Global, Netherlands from May 
2019 till March 2024.
Mr. Mundra is a regular presence 
on various media platforms as 
also a speaker on various Forums. 
Amity University has conferred the 
Degree of Doctor of Philosophy 
(D.Phil.), Honoris Causa, upon 
Mr. Mundra, in recognition of his 
services in the field of banking and 
related areas.
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 Indiabulls Housing 
Finance Limited
•	 Airtel Payments Bank 
Limited
•	 Yashraj Biotechnology 
Limited
•	 Ayana Renewable Power 
Private Limited
•	 DSP Asset Managers 
Private Limited
	
(PTC India Limited, Ikab 
Securities & Investment 
Limited)
Havells India Limited
-	 Stakeholders 
Relationship/ 
Grievance Redressal 
Committee – Chairman
-	 Enterprises Risk 
Management 
Committee – Member
Airtel Payments Bank 
Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Chairman
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Member
-	 Customer Service – 
Member
-	 FRMC Committee – 
Member
Yashraj Biotechnology 
Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Chairman
-	 Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee - Member
Ayana Renewable Power 
Private Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Chairman
DSP Asset Managers 
Private Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Member
-	 Unitholder Protection 
Committee - Member
Havells India Limited
16
Name of Director 
(DIN)
Date of first appointment 
on the Board
Date of Birth, Age
(No. of Equity 
Shares held)
Qualification 
(Relationship with 
other Directors)
Nature of Expertise in specific 
functional areas
Name of Companies in which 
he/ she holds Directorship 
(Name of listed entities from 
where person has resigned 
in past 3 years)
Name of Committees 
of the Companies of 
which he/ she holds 
Membership 
Shri Vivek Mehra
(DIN : 00101328)
12th May 2020
21st April, 1955,  
69 years
(Nil)
B. Com (Hons) from 
SRCC, DU, Chartered 
Accountant 
(Not related with any 
Director of the Company)
Mr. Vivek Mehra, is a well-
respected 
senior 
Chartered 
Accountant with an illustrious 
professional career spanning over 
44 years and experience spanning 
across 
sectors 
in 
Taxation, 
accounting, 
risk 
management 
and 
Regulatory 
domains 
of 
Merger & Acquisition specializing 
in Cross-border Investment and 
Transaction Structuring. He has 
held various leadership roles till 
April 2017 in PWC as Partner/ 
Executive Director. He was the 
founder and national leader for 
PwC Regulatory and M&A Tax 
Practices and has been elected 
on PwC Governance Oversight 
Board for two consecutive terms. 
Mr. Mehra had given his valuable 
contribution as a member of the 
Federation of Indian Chambers of 
Commerce and Industry (FICCI) 
Steering Committee and National 
Executive Committee.
•	 Havells India Limited
•	 Jubilant Pharmova 
Limited
•	 DLF Limited
•	 Chambal Fertilizers & 
Chemicals Limited
•	 HT Media Limited
•	 Bharat Hotels Limited
•	 Embassy Office Parks 
Management Services 
Private Limited
•	 House of Masaba 
Lifestyle Private Limited
•	 DLF Assets Limited
•	 Grassroot Trading 
Network For Women
	
(Nil)
Havells India Limited
-	 CSR & ESG Committee 
- Chairman
Jubilant Pharmova Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Chairman
-	 Nomination, Remuneration 
and Compensation 
Committee – Member
-	 Restructuring 
Committee – Member
DLF Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Chairman
-	 CSR & Finance 
Committee - Member
-	 Committee of Directors 
– Member
Chambal Fertilizers & 
Chemicals Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
-	 Buy Back Committee - 
Chairman
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Chairman
-	 Banking & Finance – 
Member
-	 Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee - Chairman
HT Media Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Chairman
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Chairman
-	 Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee – Member
Bharat Hotels Limited
-	 Audit Committee – 
Member
Embassy Office Parks 
Management Services 
Private Limited
-	 Audit Committee –  
	
Chairman
-	 Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee 
– Member
-	 Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee – Member
-	 Risk Management 
Committee – Chairman
-	 Investment Committee 
– Member
DLF Assets Limited
-	 Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee – Chairman
-	 Vigilance officer under Vigil 
Machanism – Chairman
Grassroot Trading 
Network for Women
-	 Finance Committee - 
Member
Note: For other details, including the skills and capabilities in case of independent directors required for the role and the manner in which the proposed person meets 
such requirements, please refer to the Corporate Governance Section of the Integrated Annual Report.
Havells India Limited
17
Havells India Limited
6th Integrated Report
41st Annual Report | 2023-24
Homes
Enriching
Contents
1
Integrated Report 
01-80
01	
Enriching Homes in Mutiple Ways
06	
About this Report
08	
Corporate Overview
12	
Product Portfolio
16	
Message from the Chairman  
and Managing Director
18	
Business Model
20	
Strategy
22	
Risk Management
30	
Stakeholder Engagement
32	
ESG
36	
Materiality
40	
Financial Capital
43	
Manufactured Capital
46	
Human Capital
58	
Intellectual Capital
66	
Social and Relationship Capital
73	
Natural Capital 
78	
Governance 
80	
Corporate Information
2
Statutory Reports 
81-175
81	
Directors’ Report
111	 Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
145	 Management Discussion and Analysis
151	 Report on Corporate Governance
3 Financial Statements 
176-343
176	 Standalone Financial Statements
261	 Consolidated Financial Statements
343	 10-Year Progress at a Glance
344	 Assurance Report
353	 GRI Content Index
To download please visit:  
www.havells.com
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
` 18,550 crores
Net Revenue
` 1,273 crores
PAT
` 1,845 crores
EBITDA
` 20.32
Earnings Per Share
Homes...
Enriching
Driven by the philosophy of ‘Making a Difference’ to the lives 
of our consumers, Havells is strengthened by its large in-
house manufacturing, focussed R&D efforts, digitisation and 
a deep pool of human talent. The in-house manufacturing, 
comprising 15 factories, ensures full control over quality, 
design and supply chain, alongside delivering all our products 
at scale. Our Centre for Research & Innovation (CRI), with its 
four R&D centres, spearheads customer-centric innovations. 
A dedicated Customer Experience & Design (CXD) Studio 
At Havells,
we have been continuously facilitating experiences that enhance the 
comfort and aesthetics of modern homes. Through quality, innovative 
solutions, and thoughtful designs, we are not just providing homes 
with products but enriching the lives of those within. 
focusses on ground-breaking design development, 
driving product differentiation. Our digital initiatives, aimed 
at enhancing customer journey, leverages the latest 
technologies, adding value to our business operations. The 
entire endeavour is supported by a strong team of talented 
individuals, committed to the goal of enriching consumers’ 
lives in meaningful ways.
Ensuring the 
safety of loved 
ones
Redefining 
the way home 
looks & feels
Celebrating 
every moment 
of life
Enhancing 
availability 
through 
omni-channel 
presence
Blending 
technology, 
comfort and 
efficiency
Creating 
a lasting 
experience
Enriching  
Homes by:
Ensuring the safety of loved ones
At Havells, our high-quality products are designed with 
safety assurance of your loved ones, providing peace of 
mind to every household. Our commitment to quality is 
delivered through use of top-grade raw materials, well-
documented manufacturing processes, and rigorous quality 
control through internal programs, coupled with seamless IT 
integration across business operations. Additionally,  
NABL-accredited labs help us fulfil our quality promise 
by enabling stringent product testing before it reaches 
our consumers. High levels of automation across our 
plants ensures delivery of high productivity at global 
quality standards. 
Our focus on product quality and in-house manufacturing 
ensures the reliability, longevity, and consistent performance 
of our products. Over the years, Havells has instilled its 
commitment to consumer safety in the mind of its consumers 
through campaigns like ‘Totally Shockproof Life’ and ‘Wires 
That Don’t Catch Fire’, continually setting new benchmarks 
for excellence.
...in multiple ways
Celebrating every moment of life
Embracing the ‘Deeper into Homes’ philosophy, Havells has 
added and nurtured multiple categories, and caters to over 
70% of sockets inside a home. Our goal is not only to be a 
part of every significant moment in the life of our consumers 
but to also enhance those experiences.
Our modular switches, featuring a wide range, stunning 
designs and innovative technologies, uniquely cater to 
every emotion, décor and home. From daily tasks to special 
occasions, our broad product spectrum plays an integral part 
in enriching every moment. Our presence spans every room 
and corner of the home, in one form or another.
Building on this, in  FY 2023-24, we launched a range of 
products including premium string celebration lights to further 
elevate occasions and make homes even more welcoming.
Havells India Limited
2
Blending technology, comfort and efficiency
Havells constantly strives to integrate technologies into 
its products that provide comfort while seamlessly and 
efficiently blending into the home. Our range of climate 
control appliances ensures that our consumers’ home 
remains a place of comfort, regardless of the season or 
weather extremities. Our commitment to energy efficiency, 
demonstrated through BEE star-rated products, facilitates 
modern-day comforts for our customers while optimising 
electricity savings; while our IoT (Internet of Things) products 
place us at the forefront of home automation, enabling smart 
home capabilities for consumers. 
Redefining the way home looks & feels 
Havells aims its products to also serve as pieces of home 
décor rather than just electrical items. With this perspective, 
our offerings are crafted to fulfil both functional and 
aesthetic roles.
Lighting has become a crucial element of modern home 
décor, transitioning from basic utility to design-centric fixtures. 
Havells plays a significant role in uplifting the look and feel 
of every room with aesthetically superior lighting options, 
whether these lights are switched on or off. Our lighting range 
is designed keeping in mind the tastes and preferences of 
our diverse consumers and has something to offer for every 
home. Our exclusive Havells Home Art Lights stores provide 
a one-stop solution for all decorative lighting needs of every 
household.
The design ethos extends beyond lighting to include other 
categories as well. Our BLDC+ designer fans, uniquely- 
styled water heaters, switch plates with metal and glass 
finishes, are just a few examples of our extensive product 
offerings. Lloyd also launched India’s first designer Stellar & 
Stylus air conditioner range. Stellar features a unique design 
with innovative ambi-lighting and mood lighting. Stylus 
offers interchangeable fascia allowing customisation of the 
appearance of AC unit to match home’s décor, with options 
like grey, turquoise, and wood patterns.
BLDC+ Fan
Stellar AC
Stylus AC
Otto Water Heater
#
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
3
Integrated Report
Enriching Homes in Mutiple Ways
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dealers/
Distributors
E-Commerce
Quick 
Commerce
CPC/CSD 
Canteens
Modern 
Format Retail 
(MFR)
Projects
Brand Shops/
Exclusive Stores
Rural 
Channels
Exports
Enhancing  
availability through omni-channel presence
Havells ensures that all its products are seamlessly delivered to the consumers through a wide omni-channel approach. 
We follow the consumers wherever they wish to be by ensuring availability through channel penetration, digitisation and 
geographical expansion. 
Channels used by Havells
Havells India Limited
4
Creating  
a lasting experience
Havells is characterised by high-quality products and services that 
ensure consumer delight. We pride ourselves in pioneering on-site 
after-sales services in the electricals segment to cater to consumer 
convenience, thereby, ensuring best-in-class customer service. The 
Havells Sync mobile app serves as an integrated platform for the 
consumers to manage all their products and ensures a seamless 
experience throughout the product’s lifecycle.
In essence, Havells stands as a brand its consumers can rely on, focussed on 
enriching homes and lives through its wide range of products. Fuelled by our key 
strategic choices, we not only target to meet consumer expectations, but also 
exceed them. As we continue to strengthen our offerings, we stay committed in 
contributing towards a better home environment and reinforcing our positioning as a 
trusted member of every household.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5
Integrated Report
Enriching Homes in Mutiple Ways
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
About  
this report 
Reporting Period
This Report is for the period April 1, 
2023 to March 31, 2024, and is released 
annually. 
Reporting Boundary
The reporting boundary covers the 
operations of Havells India Limited on 
a standalone basis. This includes all 
eight manufacturing locations - Alwar 
(Rajasthan), Neemrana (Rajasthan), 
Ghiloth (Rajasthan), Baddi (Himachal 
Pradesh), Faridabad (Haryana), Haridwar 
(Uttarakhand), Sahibabad (Uttar Pradesh) 
and Sri City (Andhra Pradesh) and one 
corporate office (Noida, Uttar Pradesh). 
From FY 2023-24 onwards, we have 
also included all our branch offices (25), 
warehouses (23) and one CRI office 
(Noida, Uttar Pradesh), in addition to our 
manufacturing locations and Corporate 
office as part of our reporting boundary. 
Accordingly, previous year data/numbers 
are not comparable to that extent.
Proactive Approach
We follow a proactive approach while 
manufacturing products through 
sustainable measures that minimise 
environmental impacts while conserving 
energy and natural resources. We have 
implemented ESG Systems in our 
plants which are regularly audited by 
independent auditors to ensure their 
effectiveness and accuracy.
Frameworks, Guidelines, 
and Standards
This Report is prepared in accordance 
with the guiding principles of Integrated 
Reporting Framework developed by 
the erstwhile International Integrated 
Reporting Council and maintained 
by the IFRS Foundation. Further, 
the Report has been prepared with 
reference to the GRI Standards and the 
requirements of Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting issued by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI). The GRI Content Index is 
available as part of this Report.
This Report also aligns with:
•	 The Companies Act, 2013 (and the 
rules made thereunder)
•	 National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct
•	 Indian Accounting Standards
•	 Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
•	 Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India
•	 Sustainability Reporting Standards 
Board of the ICAI and the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagement 
(“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised)
Data Integrity
We collected and analysed relevant 
data through our integrated data 
management system applying strict 
internal controls to support the 
disclosures in this Report. Our goal is 
to present accurate, reliable, unbiased, 
comparable, and comprehendible 
information concisely. 
Materiality
On periodic basis, we conduct 
materiality assessment to identify 
material topics. It helps in disclosing 
information that is relevant and 
alongside framing strategies for 
reliable growth.
External Assurance
Reasonable assurance on BRSR 
Core KPIs and limited assurance 
on the Identified Sustainability 
Information in the BRSR & Integrated 
Annual Report respectively has been 
provided by Price Waterhouse & 
Co Chartered Accountants LLP, in 
accordance with the Standard on 
Sustainability Assurance Engagements 
3000 “Assurance Engagements on 
Sustainability Information” and the 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 
3410 “Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both 
issued by the Sustainability Reporting 
Standards Board of the ICAI and the 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised) 
“Assurance Engagements other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information” and the ISAE 
3410 “Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements”. The 
assurance reports attached contains 
details of the subject matter, criteria, 
procedures performed, and reasonable 
assurance opinion and limited 
assurance conclusion, as applicable.
Feedback 
We welcome feedback on our Report to ensure that we continue to disclose  
information that is pertinent and conducive to stakeholder decision-making.
sustainability@havells.com    |    investors@havells.com
Havells India Limited
6th Integrated Report
41st Annual Report | 2023-24
Homes
Enriching
Havells India Limited
6
Navigate Our Report 
Financial 
Capital
Human 
Capital
Intellectual  
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Social and Relationship  
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Capitals covered
Stakeholder groups
Shareholders/investors
Dealers
Bankers and other 
financial institutions 
Employees
Vendors 
Government and 
regulatory agencies 
Customers
Communities
Media
Strategic pillars
Material matters 
•	 Climate Strategy & Action
•	 Human Capital Development
•	 Governance and Ethical Business 
Conduct
•	 Water Stewardship and Air Quality 
Improvement
•	 Occupational Health and Safety
•	 Product Stewardship
•	 Circular Economy and Waste 
Management
•	 Innovation R&D
•	 Capacity Utilisation & Market 
Presence
•	 Distribution Network & Channels
•	 Sustainable Sourcing and Vendor 
Management
•	 Human Rights and CSR
•	 Responsible Digitalisation & 
Technology Use
•	 Customer and Other 
Stakeholders’ Delight
•	 Brand Integrity & Salience
•	 Sustainable Packaging
•	 Biodiversity
•	 Sustainable Manufacturing to 
Achieve Low Carbon Footprint 
Product
Brand
Channel
Innovation
Digitisation
Talent
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
7
Integrated Report
About this report 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Havells at a glance 
Founded in 1958 as a small trading business at Bhagirath Palace in Delhi, over the years 
Havells has evolved into a leading Fast Moving Electrical Goods (FMEG) and Consumer 
Durables company, serving 70+ countries globally. With a portfolio comprising multiple 
prestigious brands, Havells offers a wide range of high-quality products across various 
categories and consumer segments. 
Through an omni-channel approach, Havells ensures 
accessibility and convenience for consumers with presence 
in general trade and brand/exclusive stores, and in emerging 
channels such as modern format retail, e-commerce and 
quick commerce. Supported by continued investments 
in R&D, Havells delivers innovative products with distinct 
features and thoughtful designs that set them apart in the 
market. Havells manufactures 90% of its finished products 
in-house through a large base of 15 manufacturing plants 
across 8 locations in India. Backed by robust corporate 
governance practices and healthy balance sheet, Havells 
has been consistently rated well by independent credit rating 
agencies, currently holding AAA (long-term) and A1+ (short 
term) ratings by CARE.
8
Havells India Limited
Infrastructure
Retail &
Commercial
Industrial
Offices
Homes
Havells is present in every corner of a home with its wide 
product portfolio, and over the years, it has gone beyond the 
homes by also extending its offerings to offices, commercial 
spaces, industries and infrastructure projects. From industrial 
switchgear ensuring safe reliable manufacturing environment 
to underground power cables supporting infrastructure 
projects, and professional lighting illuminating modern offices 
and retail spaces, Havells serves diverse B2B customers. 
Additionally, its street lighting solutions address the growing 
demand spurred by government initiatives focussed on road 
and highway infrastructure development. In essence, Havells 
has gone deeper into homes and also well beyond the homes 
to cater to a much larger consumer base.
Home and Beyond
9
Integrated Report
Havells at a glance 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Vision
Ethos
To be a globally recognised 
corporation for excellence, 
governance, consumer delight 
and fairness to each stakeholder 
including the society and 
environment we operate
Mission
To achieve our vision through 
business ethics, global reach, 
technological expertise, building 
long-term relationships with all our 
associates, customers, partners, 
and employees
Values
Customer Delight
A commitment to 
surpass our customer 
expectations
Integrity and 
Transparency
A commitment to be 
ethical, sincere, and 
open in our dealings
Leadership by 
Example
A commitment to 
set standards for 
our business and 
transactions based on 
mutual trust
Pursuit of 
Excellence
A commitment to strive 
relentlessly, to constantly 
improve ourselves, our 
teams, our services, 
and products so as to 
become the best-in-class
10
Havells India Limited
Our Presence
Asia
Australia
Africa
Middle East
Americas
Europe
Map not to scale
20
6
48
15
4
Numbers That Define Us
Product verticals
Brands
Offices
Manufacturing units
~18,000
Strong dealer network
Research centres
Employees
6,712 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
11
Integrated Report
Havells at a glance 
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Diverse product portfolio
Product Portfolio
Backed by our steadfast focus on innovation, differentiation and quality, our extensive 
product range is crafted to enrich each and every home in multiple ways. Havells has 
emerged as a house of brands with six brands, allowing us to cater to different consumer 
segments and their need state.
Our Brands
Havells India Limited
12
Revenue Mix (FY 2023-24)
Switchgears
Cables
Lighting & Fixtures
Electrical Consumer 
Durables
Lloyd Consumer
Others
12.1%
5.9%
34.1%
20.4%
8.8%
18.8%
Contribution Mix (FY 2023-24)
Switchgears
Cables
Lighting & Fixtures
Electrical Consumer 
Durables
Lloyd Consumer
Others
24.7%
5.3%
25.9%
8.2%
22.4%
13.4%
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
13
Integrated Report
Product Portfolio
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Cables
Power 
cables
Flexible 
cables
Product Segments
Lighting and 
Fixtures
Professional 
Luminaires
Consumer 
Luminaires
Switchgears
Domestic 
switchgears
Capacitors
Switches
Industrial 
switchgears
Havells India Limited
14
Electrical Consumer 
Durables (ECDs)
Fans
Appliances
Water Heaters
Lloyd 
Consumer 
Air 
conditioners
Televisions
Washing 
machines
Refrigerators
Others
Motors
Solar
Pump
Water 
Purifiers
Personal Grooming 
Products (PGPs)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
15
Integrated Report
Product Portfolio
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Message from the Chairman and 
Managing Director
purchase as well as throughout the 
lifespan of our products with a robust 
after‑sales service.
Investing for Sustained 
Growth
Your Company continued its strategic 
investments in long-term growth 
drivers. These investments are 
designed to drive sustainable long-term 
growth with operating leverage.
Brand
Your Company’s sustained focus and 
investment on brand building has 
yielded results in form of enhanced 
brand resonance and strong consumer 
preference. We have transitioned from 
a single brand to ‘house of brands’ 
catering to diverse consumers and 
price segments. Havells tapped into the 
most premium advertising platforms 
across traditional and new-age 
digital mediums.
Omni-channel
With an aim to ensure accessibility for 
our products, we extended our reach 
into emerging channels by enhancing 
our presence in modern format retail 
& e-commerce while also launching 
in quick commerce. As part of the 
Rural Vistaar programme, emphasis 
was laid on creating retail presence in 
towns with <10,000 population through 
expansion of UTSAV stores. This year 
alone, over 250 stores were added, 
taking the total to 600+ UTSAV stores.
Innovation
Aiming to simplify the lives of our 
consumers, we continue to focus on 
development of innovative products. 
Integrating IoT capabilities into our 
product lineup remained a key tool to 
enhance the ease of use. Our R&D 
capabilities enables us to deliver 
aesthetically- & functionally-unique 
solutions. We are taking initiatives to 
expand our R&D facilities and further 
strengthen our existing talent pool.
On the profitability front, your Company 
expanded margins on the back of 
premiumisation, cost efficiencies and 
softening of commodity prices. We 
maintained a robust financial health, 
remained debt-free and continued to 
deliver on our dividend payout track 
record, supported by strong cash 
flow generation.
Enriching Homes
Building upon a strong foundation, 
we are continuously enhancing our 
offerings to transform homes into 
places where moments are cherished 
and lives are enriched. Our products 
leverage latest technologies to enhance 
comfort and convenience for our 
consumers. Havells commitment 
to quality not only ensures the 
functionality of our products, but also 
a safe home environment. Our wide 
variety of products and proximity to 
the consumer, allows us to go deeper 
into homes. We strive to provide 
a lasting experience at the time of 
Dear Valued Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the  
Integrated Report of your Company  
for FY 2023-24. 
Your Company demonstrated 
resilient performance this year. 
While our infrastructure-led 
segments demonstrated robust 
growth, driven by government’s 
sustained infrastructure thrust, 
our B2C segments navigated 
through sluggish consumer demand 
environment.
Havells India Limited
16
Digitisation
During the year, significant investments 
were made towards digitisation 
initiatives covering various facets of 
the organisation across functions. 
It enabled us to drive efficiencies 
and enhance ease of working, both 
internally as well as across the 
value chain.
Manufacturing
Capacity expansion was undertaken 
across categories, underscoring 
our commitment towards in-house 
manufacturing. Establishing capacities 
closer to our customers in the 
Southern part of the country not 
only enhances our competitiveness 
and responsiveness, but also aligns 
with our ESG goals. We believe such 
manufacturing capabilities unlocks the 
required flexibility to create products 
that stand out in the market, drive 
premiumisation, and strengthen 
our brand positioning. We aspire to 
enhance our global competitiveness 
by creating capacities, developing 
products and achieving cost 
efficiencies. Furthermore, deployment 
of Manufacturing Execution Systems 
(MES) in various plants is helping 
improve transparency and productivity.
Talent
Your Company has made significant 
investments in human capital. The 
focus remains on nurturing internal 
talent as well as on strategic new 
additions. Additional emphasis was 
laid on placing strong talent behind 
emerging categories.
International Business
Several new initiatives were undertaken 
to fuel our aspiration of growing the 
international business. With an aim 
to take our priority products to key 
geographies, we intend to partner with 
locally entrenched players in these 
geographies for a long-term success 
story. As part of this approach, we have 
formed a JV for air conditioner business 
in US and continue to explore options 
for other products and geographies.
ESG
As we progress on our sustainability 
journey, we remain steadfast in our 
commitment to ESG principles. By 
integrating sustainability into our 
business strategy and decision-making 
processes, we aim to generate long-
term value for our stakeholders.
Through our environmental management 
initiatives, we are committed towards 
minimising our carbon footprint, 
reducing waste, and conserving natural 
resources. We have started a journey 
towards embracing a net-zero target, 
serving as a foundation for setting 
clear and ambitious targets. During 
the year, we achieved a significant 
milestone by receiving ‘Zero Waste 
to Landfill’ certification across all our 
plants and corporate office. As a part 
of our green initiatives, we are piloting 
cleaner alternatives to traditional fossil 
fuels, thus reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions and air pollutants. Energy 
efficiency remains a key objective in 
our product development process, 
leading to substantial electricity savings 
for consumers.
Committed to the betterment of 
community, our initiatives are aligned 
with ideology of ‘Padhega India, tabhi 
to badhega India’. Through association 
with Plaksha University, we are working 
towards making a significant impact 
on the education & technology journey 
of students by setting up research 
building with cutting-edge labs and 
facility. Our ongoing mid-day meal 
initiative in Rajasthan helps in improving 
school enrolments and attendance. 
Our collaboration with Central Square 
Foundation (CSF) enabled upskilling 
of teachers across 1,700+ schools, 
contributing towards the foundation of 
quality education. During the year, we 
partnered with Chanakya University 
(Bangalore) for setup of data centre to 
enable IT facilities for the students.
Outlook
As we enter FY 2024-25 with 
expectations of a strong summer, 
and robust real estate activity, we 
are hopeful for consumer demand 
pickup. We endeavour to create 
long-term value by leveraging our 
diverse product portfolio and making 
continued investment in the key pillars 
of growth. With our initiatives starting to 
yield promising outcomes, we remain 
optimistic about Lloyd’s journey and 
its potential in an expanding consumer 
durables space. We continue to be 
excited about the opportunity which 
India offers in the categories we 
play in, and are confident about our 
ability to deliver shared value for all 
our stakeholders.
In closing, I extend my sincere gratitude 
to our board of directors, employees, 
customers, channel partners, 
suppliers and all our shareholders for 
their continuous faith and support, 
empowering us at each step of our 
journey and contributing to our growth.
Regards,
Anil Rai Gupta
Chairman and Managing Director
We continue to be 
excited about the 
opportunity which 
India offers in the 
categories we play in, 
and are confident about 
our ability to deliver 
shared value for all 
our stakeholders.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
17
Integrated Report
Message from the Chairman  
and Managing Director
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
HOW WE WORK
Driving excellence. Enriching lives.
Business Model
INPUTS
Vision
To be a globally recognised 
corporation for excellence, 
governance, consumer 
delight and fairness to each 
stakeholder including the 
society and environment we 
operate.
Mission
To achieve our vision 
through business ethics, 
global reach, technological 
expertise, building long-
term relationships with all 
our associates, customers, 
partners, and employees.
Ethos
Intellectual Capital
R&D spend: ` 206 crores
R&D team strength: 713
R&D centres: 4
Investment in brand building: ` 527 crores 
New designs applied in FY 2023-24: 232
Patents applied in FY 2023-24: 48
Natural Capital
Installed solar power capacity: 11.26 MW
Energy consumed: 1,80,887 MWh
Water consumption: 283.05 mega litres 
Waste generated: 53,958 MT
Financial Capital
Equity: ` 7,438 crores
Cash (net of debt): ` 3,015 crores
Human Capital
Total employees: 6,712
New employee hire: 1,831 
Average hours of training per employee:  
13.6 hours
Social and Relationship Capital
Dealers: ~18,000
Retailers: 2.47 lakhs
Electricians: 2.98 lakhs
Total active vendors: 8,718
CSR spend: ` 30 crores
Manufactured Capital
Manufacturing units: 15
Warehousing space: ~42 lakh sq. ft.
Offices: 48 
Gross block value: ` 4,414 crores
Capex: ` 713 crores
Pursuit of 
excellence
Values
Integrity and 
transparency
Leadership by 
example
Customer  
delight
Research and Development
•	 Consumer-centric R&D 
capabilities focussing on futuristic 
technologies, smart connected 
solutions, quality & reliable 
products, and unique designs
•	 Addresses consumer pain 
points and preferences while 
keeping the user experience 
seamless
•	 Drives premiumisation and 
differentiation
Procurement
•	 Establishing long-term 
strategic relationships with 
suppliers
•	 Partnering with suppliers in 
their growth journey
•	 Digitising procurement 
aspects for better efficiency 
and visibility
•	 Higher sourcing from 
domestic suppliers, aligned 
with Make in India initiative
Supply chain and logistics
•	 Omni-channel distribution 
approach to offer products to 
consumer wherever they are, 
and at their convenience
•	 Products available through 
dealers/distributors, brand 
shops/exclusive stores, 
modern format retail (MFR) 
stores, CPC/CSD canteens, 
rural Utsav stores, e-commerce 
and quick commerce
Manufacturing
•	 Continuous investment in 
scaling up manufacturing 
capabilities
•	 In-housing key products 
for better control and clear 
product differentiation
After sales service
•	 Ensure customer delight with on-time prompt after 
sales services
•	 Using technology and people engagement as levers 
for lasting customer relationships
Business Activities
Havells India Limited
18
Our business model enables value creation across every aspect of the business chain, 
ensuring a sustainable and consistent growth. From building exceptional R&D capabilities 
for product differentiation to manufacturing high-quality products in-house and ensuring 
customer delight, our strategies are woven around the fabric of our ethos to drive excellence 
and meet stakeholders’ expectations.
OUTCOME
OUTPUT
Financial Capital
Revenue: ` 18,550 crores
EBITDA: ` 1,845 crores 
PAT: ` 1,273 crores
EPS: ` 20.32 per share
Contribution to exchequer: ` 4,361 crores
Manufactured Capital
Total number of product category: 20
Active SKUs: 20,000+
Intellectual Capital
Brands owned: 6
Patents granted till now: 94
Social and Relationship Capital
Net promoter score: 75
Daily mid-day meal enrolments: 70,000 students
Tree plantation: 4,07,500 Teak trees
Sanitary kits distributed: 2,20,000 kits
Education infrastructure building & scholarship:  
350+ students 
Foundation learning & numeracy programme:  
86,000+ students across 1,700+ schools 
Skill development programme: 5,000 electricians
Natural Capital
Total solar energy generated: 11,296.60 MWh
Total renewable energy consumed:  
11,159.29 MWh
Total water recycled: 33%
Total waste recycled: 49%
Human Capital
Employees associated with the Company for 
5+ years: 39.81% 
Attrition rate (Permanent Employees): 18.89%
Cable
Electrical 
Consumer 
Durables
Switchgears
Lighting and 
Fixtures
Lloyd
Others
Brands
Brand
Channel
Innovation
Digitisation
Talent
Strategic 
priorities
Product development
•	 Full control over quality 
and design of the 
product through in-house 
manufacturing
•	 Alignment between 
innovation, business and 
manufacturing to ensure 
seamless journey from 
ideation to implementation 
to delivery
Sales and marketing
•	 House of brand with six brands 
in FMEG & consumer 
durables space
•	 Strong focus on brand 
building efforts with healthy 
advertising and sales 
promotion spends
•	 Strategic collaborations 
and campaigns including 
national & regional brand 
ambassadors, cricketing 
event partnerships, digital 
campaigns, in-shop 
advertising, etc.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
19
Integrated Report
Business Model
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Comprehensive strategy  
for long-term growth and 
value creation
Strategy
Our strategic blueprint is built around five key pillars, each designed to fortify our market 
presence and drive sustainable value creation for all our stakeholders. From reinforcing 
our brand identity to leveraging latest digital technologies, we are committed to delivering 
excellence across every facet of the business operations. Through significant investments 
in research and development, we aim at developing innovative and differentiated products, 
enhancing our competitive edge in the market. Implementing a long-term approach 
towards forging stronger connections with our existing channel partners while continuously 
adding new channels to reach the consumers, we ensure better accessibility and 
experience for our consumers. Further, additional emphasis is laid on building a strong 
talent pool through a mix of leaders from within and infusion of new talent.
Our actions
•	 Reinforcing the ethos of brand 
‘Havells’
•	 Straddling across different consumer 
groups and socio economic/income 
with clear positioning of each of the 
brand
•	 Sustained investments in the 
brand to deepen connect with 
stakeholders
•	 Enhancing brand reach across 
multiple channels with customised 
and unique targeting
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Our actions
•	 Strengthening the relationship with our 
dealer network
•	 Getting closer to the consumers 
through strong tie-ups with multi-brand 
outlets, regional retailers, and modern 
formats. Expanding in e-commerce 
and quick commerce
•	 Going deeper by exploring new 
markets in the semi-urban and rural 
regions; adding touchpoints in smaller 
towns through Utsav stores
•	 Widening the customer base by 
catering a diverse set of base
Channel
Brand
Havells India Limited
20
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Capitals impacted
Our actions
•	 Integrating individual & 
company aspirations
•	 Entrepreneurial with 
distributed leadership
•	 Developing leaders from 
within; focus on placing 
strong talent behind 
emerging categories
•	 Instituting wealth creation 
opportunity
Our actions
•	 Leveraging IT infrastructure 
for digital transformation, 
improving overall product 
experience and enhancing 
consumer journey
•	 Deploying new-age digital 
technologies in all functions 
to drive consistent value-
creation for stakeholders
•	 Making technology an 
enabler and partner of 
business
Digitisation
Talent
Our actions
•	 Product extension & expansion 
with focus on innovation and 
product development and 
continued investments in R&D
•	 Capability building that cuts 
across the businesses through 
centre of excellence
•	 Increasing alignment between 
business & innovation
•	 Thought leadership and 
development of breakthrough 
products serving consumer 
aspirations
Innovation
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
21
Integrated Report
Strategy
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
To oversee the Company’s risk management 
strategy, the Board of Directors have established 
the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
Committee. The ERM Committee plays a pivotal 
role in supervising the way in which management 
oversees adequacy, adherence & effectiveness 
to the Company’s risk management framework, 
considering the risks the business challenges and 
opportunities.
A business-centric approach to risk management 
is used to identify potential risks. Based on 
materiality of the risk, response strategies are 
developed and assigned to concerned risk owner. 
Head of risk management works closely with 
all business and functional team in carrying out 
identification, evaluation, monitoring and reporting 
of risk response, under the guidance of Leadership 
Council and ERM Council. Update on risk 
management is presented before ERM Committee 
at least twice a year.
During the year, ERM software was implemented, 
and a business and function-specific risk maturity 
assessment was initiated for self-benchmarking. 
To strengthen business resilience, company’s 
Information Security Management System (ISMS) 
has been certified with ISO 27001:2022.
Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) Framework
Risk Management
The internationally-recognised COSO framework serves as the foundation for Havells’ 
risk management, facilitating the integration of risk management functions into business 
processes and verticals throughout the organisation. Strong emphasis is placed on the 
adoption of Next-Gen technologies, which support an enterprise-wide view of risks, 
compliance and governance, and enable a more holistic approach for risk optimisation. Our 
integrated approach offer agility, improve productivity, enhance efficiency, and enable well-
informed decision-making to the stakeholders.
The integrated risk management framework proves instrumental in helping the management to identify the best possible 
option to mitigate identified risks, in line with the organisation’s strategy, objectives, and risk appetite.
ERM Maturity 
Objective
Business
resilience
Improved 
communication 
& collaboration
Enhance 
Corporate 
Governance
Proactive risk 
management 
and strategic 
decision-making
Improved 
operational 
efficiency and 
engagement
Havells India Limited
22
ERM Journey
COSO Framework 
Governance
Governance  
& Culture
Strategy & 
Objective 
Setting
Review & 
Revision
Information, 
Communication 
& Reporting
ERM Council
Leadership Council
ERM Committee
Board of Directors
Risk Prioritisation
Risk 
Response
Monitoring & 
Reporting
Risk 
Identification
Risk 
Assessment
ERM 
Process
2010-11
•	 1st ERM meeting
•	 Refreshment/ 
Development of SOPs 
across business 
function and location
2011-15
•	 Implementation of 
SOPs 
•	 Adopted COSO 
Framework
•	 Deployment 
of Compliance 
Management Solution
•	 Risk-Based Audit  
•	 Risk Register & Risk 
Control Matrix
•	 Fraud Assessment
2015-20
•	 Implementation of 
SAP GRC
•	 Adoption of Advanced 
Data Analytics and 
Forensic Tools
•	 Test of Design & 
Effectiveness - RCM 
for IFC
•	 Focus on Process & 
Control Automation
•	 Exceptional Reporting 
& Alert
2020-24
•	 ISO 27001 : 2022 
Certification
•	 ERM Software 
implemented
•	 Adoption of Emerging 
Technologies
•	 ERM Policy Refresh
•	 ERM Maturity Survey
•	 ERM Maturity 
Assessment
•	 Benchmarking with 
Global Peers
COSO = Committee of Sponsoring Organisation of the Treadway Commission
RCM = Risk Control Matrix
SOP = Standard Operating Procedure
IFC = Internal Financial Control
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
23
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Risk Rating Matrix
Risk Heat Map - Residual Risks
* Risk Heat Map is depicting current status of the identified risks after counter measures (Risk Nos. as per Risk Rating Matrix)
S No
Critical Risk
Likelihood
Impact
Velocity
Risk Rating 
1
Risk of business disruption due to Natural Disaster, Geopolitical 
Conflicts & Relations
Likely
Medium
Very 
Rapid
2
Risk of Geographical & Channel concentration
Less Likely
Medium
Low
3
Risk Relating to Lloyd segment
Likely
Low
Low
4
Risk due to dependency on a Single Plant Location
Likely
Medium
Rapid
5A
Risk of lag in meeting emerging  
consumer trends
Likely
Medium
Slow
5B
Risk due to dependency on third party for critical technologies
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
6A
Risk on Brand Positioning
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
6B
Risk on account of Brand Reputation & Social Media 
Likely
Medium
Rapid
7
Risk due to unsatisfactory customer service
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
8
Risk factors in Product Quality Management – Product 
Performance vs Brand Perception
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
9A
Risk of Import Dependency - RM & Traded products
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
9B
Financial Risk - Commodity & Currency Fluctuation
Likely
Low
Rapid
10A
Risk of Supply Disruption (Supply Chain Management)
Less Likely
Medium
Slow
10B
Working Capital Management - Inventory Management
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
11A
Risk factors of ineffective succession planning in Critical roles
Less Likely
Low
Slow
11B
Risk factors of Employees Attrition
Likely
Medium
Slow
12
Cyber threats
Likely
Low 
Very 
Rapid
13
Risk to Intellectual Property & Counterfeit Products Risk
Likely
Low
Rapid
14
Risk of Non-Compliance to Statutory & Regulatory Provisions
Less Likely
Medium
Rapid
15
Risk factors - Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG)
Likely
Medium
Rapid
Likely
Less 
Likely
Unlikely
Low
Medium
High
3, 11A
4, 6B, 15
5A, 11B
2, 9B, 10A, 
13
5B, 6A, 7, 8, 
9A, 10B, 12, 14 
1
Critical
Acceptable with Mitigation 
Acceptable 
Havells India Limited
24
Summary - Key Risks & their response
Sales & Marketing 
Risk of Geographical & 
Channel Concentration
Risk Response
Multiple strategies put together help us to meet customer preference, market 
trend and competition:
•	 Through Rural Vistaar initiative, Havells has become the most penetrated 
FMEG brand in rural markets with presence of rural distributors in 3,000+ 
towns (10k-50k population)
•	 In our endeavour to reach <10K population towns, a new rural retail 
initiative has been started called Havells Utsav exclusive store, wherein 
637 stores have been opened till FY 2023-24
•	 Focus on emerging channels such as MFR/RR, CPC/CSD, E-Commerce 
and quick commerce
•	 Adopted DMDC (Different models for different channels) to avoid conflict 
with existing channels
A brief summary of the key identified risks and their response is mentioned below. We have also mapped the key risks to 
respective capitals highlighting the potential impact. 
Marketing (Marcom)
Risk on Brand Positioning,
Social Media & Brand 
Reputation
Risk Response
The organisation consistently prioritises social media, brand positioning, 
and reputation. Various creative measures are implemented to address the 
relevant business risk, such as –
•	 Continuous brand health tracking to drive brand consideration & 
preference
•	 Positive sentiment monitoring is conducted via digital media activities and 
B2B engagements, including seminars and exhibitions
•	 Establishment of digital command & control centre for engaging with both 
online & offline customers and other stakeholders
•	 A system for online reputation management has been set-up, enabling 
timely resolution of customer grievances, sentiment analysis and user 
feedback
•	 More than 25 digital campaigns were launched in FY 2023-24
•	 Digital marketing tools are used to amplify the reach and impact of TV 
advertisements
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
25
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
After-Sales Service
Risk of Brand Reputation due to 
unsatisfactory customer service
Risk Response
To exceed consumer expectations and improve their experience, proactive 
steps are implemented as:
•	 Registration of service requests is available 24*7 throughout the year via 
various channels
•	 Continuous monitoring for customer loyalty cum satisfaction index through 
NPS methodology
•	 Extensive use of new-edge technologies for customer experience
•	 Service personnel are trained through online and offline medium on both 
aspects – technical and soft skills
•	 ~81% of customer calls are resolved within 24 hours and up to 96% are 
resolved within 72 hours
Centre for Research & Innovations
•	 Risk of lag in meeting 
emerging consumer trends
•	 Risk due to dependency 
on third party for critical 
technologies
Risk Response 
The Company initiates several projects to increase its technological 
capabilities and innovative products in order to keep up with market trends 
and consumer needs. These initiatives includes:  
•	 World-class product innovations powered by leading technology, design & 
UX (User Experience)
•	 Customer-centric innovations led by deep understanding of consumer’s 
pain, preferences and business opportunities
•	 Incorporation of emerging mindshare like sustainability in product 
development
•	 In-house ownership of critical technologies through a CoE (centres of 
excellence) and platform approach
•	 To support innovation, >1% of our Net sales is invested on R&D annually
•	 CRI headcount has grown to 700+
•	 Process, infrastructure and advanced methodology updates to increase 
the efficiency and effectiveness of new product development
Quality Management 
Risk factors in Product Quality – 
Product Performance vs Brand 
Perception
Risk Response
We have established a robust mechanism for Quality Maturity Progression 
through well-defined organisation metrics and score cards. Other measures 
to uphold our quality standards include:
•	 Well-documented process, system and IT integration
•	 Strategic initiatives to drive customer-centric quality, trade & distribution 
quality, customer experience labs and built-in-quality
•	 Maintaining a high level of people and supplier engagement through 
various initiatives
Havells India Limited
26
Supply Chain Management
Risk of Supply Disruption & 
Inventory Obsolescence
Risk Response
Supply Chain Management is considered as one of the critical focus area, 
some of the steps taken to address risk of supply disruption & efficient 
working capital management are:
•	 Usage of advanced forecasting tools
•	 SKU rationalisation & liquidation of aged inventories
•	 Established an integrated and flexible network to meet business 
requirements
•	 Calendarising of recurring and planned events
•	 Focus on adoption of new-age technology to enhance productivity 
and efficiency
Procurement & Supplier Management
•	 Risk of Import Dependency
•	 Financial Risks - Commodity & 
Currency Fluctuation
Risk Response
Measures to mitigate import dependency and reduce the impact of currency 
and commodity price fluctuations include:
•	 To ensure a sustainable supply chain, identification of alternate sourcing 
avenues for critical parts and raw materials is regularly evaluated
•	 Import dependency has been reduced to less than 15% of total sourcing
•	 Buying of commodity items is based on an average price model, linked to 
LME or related indexes
•	 Average price is further benchmarked against current market prices 
(domestic/international) on a periodic basis
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
27
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Human Resources Management
Risk factors of ineffective 
succession planning in 
Critical roles
Risk Response
To take care of the risk of succession planning in critical roles and timely 
onboarding, a number of initiatives have been undertaken. These include:
•	 Leadership development program
•	 Grooming future leaders
•	 Empowering, engaging and sharpening skillset
•	 Process automation
There are various programmes/ initiatives undertaken by the Company with 
respect to job satisfaction, skill enhancement, employee retention, rewards 
and recognition. Some of the initiatives to minimise employee attrition are 
highlighted below:
•	 Structured and systematic functional induction
•	 Enhancing employee experience through various welfare and development 
initiatives
•	 Competency development framework for career pathing
•	 Reward and recognition programmes
Information & Cyber Security
Risk of Cyber Threats
Risk Response
Defense in depth strategy is adopted to create cyber security resilience. The 
safeguard measures includes:
•	 Deployment of next-gen tools & technologies to protect from sophisticated 
cyber-attacks
•	 Deployment of role-based access control and zero trust network access
•	 Deployment of SASE (Security Access Service Edge) and Next-Gen SIEM
•	 Attack surface monitoring
•	 Data leakage and privacy protection
•	 Dedicated SOC (Security Operation Centre) and NOC 
(Network Operation Centre)
•	 3rd party risk management solution
Measures to enhance cyber resilience include:
•	 Company’s information security management system is 
ISO 27001:2022 certified
•	 Implementation of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for 
business applications
•	 DC & DR sites are in different seismic zones
•	 Deployment of digital risk, brand protection platform, threat intelligence & 
cyber risk rating platform
•	 Conducting regular user education & awareness programme which includes 
both online & offline trainings, Email flyers and phishing attack Mock Drills
Risk of employee attrition
Havells India Limited
28
Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG)
Risk relating to Environmental, 
Social & Governance which 
include:
•	 Climate Change Risk
•	 Occupational, Health & Safety 
Risk, Fire Safety
•	 Governance Risk
Risk Response
We embed ESG principles across every aspect of our operations through 
measures such as:
•	 Initiation of Net Zero journey to address climate change risk
•	 Roll out of Supplier ESG Assessment Framework
•	 Attained Zero Waste to Landfill Certification
•	 Continued recognition by leading framework and Indices like CDP, MSCI 
ESG, DJSI, CRISIL
•	 Our manufacturing plants are ISO 14001, 45001 and 50001 certified
Audit & Compliance 
Risk of Non-Compliance to 
Statutory & Regulatory Provisions
Risk Response
Strict policies and measures are in place to ensure compliance with the 
relevant laws and regulations:
•	 The Company follows a ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy with respect to  
non-compliance
•	 Quarterly compliance status, along with exception (if any) is reported to 
senior management, Audit Committee & Board of Directors
•	 Consequence Management Grid has been established
•	 Quarterly review by the Internal Audit team (both in-house as well as 
outsourced) is conducted
•	 Compliance refresh is done as and when applicable or on half yearly basis, 
whichever is earlier
Legal 
Risk to Intellectual Property & 
Counterfeit Products
Risk Response
Counterfeit goods and intellectual property are both protected by a 
well‑established system:
•	 IP’s such as trademarks, logos, patents, and design of our products are 
protected by registering under relevant Acts
•	 To protect intellectual property, appropriate measures are taken with 
respect to civil & criminal actions, both in India and internationally
•	 To reduce product counterfeit, spot raids are conducted on manufacturers 
of fake products
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
29
Integrated Report
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Building value with effective 
stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Engagement
Effective engagement with stakeholders is a crucial aspect of our business process, 
enabling us to formulate and implement robust initiatives for shared value creation. 
Keeping this in mind, we have in place diverse engagement channels facilitating 
timely and open communication with our stakeholders on relevant topics to meet their 
expectations and build trust.
Engagement channels
Stakeholders
Engagement topics
Shareholders / 
Investors
•	 Annual general meeting
•	 Results press release
•	 Earnings / analysts calls
•	 Disclosures tools (annual report, 
BRSR, websites)
•	 Company performance
•	 Profitability
•	 Sustainable business model
•	 Long-term growth strategy
•	 Value creation
•	 Cost efficiencies
•	 Transparent and ethical business practices
•	 Strong governance
Employees
•	 Company newsletter
•	 Internal emails
•	 Intranet
•	 Training and safety programmes
•	 Employee surveys
•	 Rewards and recognitions
•	 Organisational purpose
•	 Employee benefits and policy
•	 Career development opportunities
•	 Learning and development
•	 Diversity and inclusion
•	 Equal opportunities
•	 Occupational health and safety
•	 Wealth creation
Customers
•	 Customer service
•	 Marketing campaigns
•	 Social media engagements
•	 Webinars
•	 Website
•	 Customer feedback
•	 Offline engagement activities
•	 Product quality and sustainability
•	 Product innovation
•	 Proactive grievance handling
•	 Superior customer experience
•	 Quick response to pricing and 
technical queries
Havells India Limited
30
Engagement channels
Stakeholders
Engagement topics
Vendors
•	 Supplier meetings
•	 Contract negotiations
•	 Supplier code of conduct, 
policies and standards
•	 Strategic and enduring collaborations
•	 Sustained growth prospects
•	 Dissemination of relevant information
•	 Sharing technical knowledge and other 
collaborations
•	 Skill development support
Government 
and regulatory 
agencies
•	 Regular compliance report
•	 Statutory audit
•	 Timely disclosures as mandated by the 
government
•	 Effective compliance to laws
•	 Initiatives taken towards protecting the 
environment, employee generation and 
nation development
Communities
•	 CSR activities
•	 Surveys to assess community 
impact
•	 Public hearings
•	 Complaints and grievance 
redressal
•	 Creating livelihood opportunities
•	 Skilling and upskilling beneficiaries
•	 Community welfare initiatives for better 
education and health, hygiene and 
sanitation facilities
•	 Sustainable operations
Dealers
•	 Dealer meets
•	 Dealer surveys
•	 Dealer feedbacks
•	 Welfare schemes
•	 Training and education
•	 Building long-term relationship
•	 Sustained growth prospects
•	 Ethical contract terms and transparent 
practices
•	 Technical knowledge exchange and other 
collaborations
Bankers and 
other financial 
institutions
•	 Credit rating surveys
•	 Annual report
•	 Credit rating
•	 Sustainable business model
•	 Transparent financial disclosures
•	 Governance
•	 Timely debt servicing
Media
•	 Press conferences
•	 Management interviews
•	 Media meets
•	 Thought leadership
•	 Thematic articles
•	 Media queries response
•	 Sharing important announcements and 
relevant information meant for mass 
stakeholders
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
31
Integrated Report
Stakeholder Engagement
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ESG 
1.0
ESG 
2.0
ESG
ESG Journey
2021-23
•	 Published our first BRSR report with 
leadership indicators (voluntarily)
•	 Rated “A” by Morgan Stanley ESG Rating & 
Indices
•	 Member of FTSE4Good Indices family
•	 CRISIL rated Havells “highest in the sector”
•	 Installed capacity of 9 MW (Solar Energy)
•	 Published ESG targets in annual report
2023-24
•	 Filed CDP disclosures with “B” rating in water security disclosure  
(above global average) and “C” in Climate change disclosure  
(global average)
•	 Roll out of Supplier ESG Assessment framework
•	 Attained Zero-waste to landfill certification
•	 Increased our reporting boundaries from plants to include Branch Offices 
and Warehouses
•	 Initiated our Net-zero roadmap journey (Including Scope 3 inventorisation)
2018-19
•	 Ranked 7th globally in Electrical 
category (Dow Jones)
•	 Started publishing Scope 3 
GHG Emissions (Employee 
computing)
2016-18
First step towards renewable 
energy “Installation of First 
Solar Plant at Alwar”
Published First Sustainability Report including reporting of 
GHG Emission (Scope 1 & 2) in line with GRI standards
2012-13
2019-21
All Havells operation sites 
were ISO 14001 & 50001 
certified
Havells India Limited
32
ESG Ratings and Recognitions
Our structured ESG efforts have been consistently recognised by reputed ESG rating agencies
MSCI (Global) ESG Rating
CDP Reporting
Sustainalytics (Global)
S&P (Global) ESG ranking
We have been consistently ranked in the 
top 10 global companies in the electrical 
equipment sector
ESG Risk Rating
Negligible
0-9.99
Low
10-19.99
High
30-39.99
Severe
40+
Medium 
20.95
The “C” rating in climate change suggests that 
Havells’ performance in addressing climate-related 
issues is comparable to the average performance of 
reporting companies
“Climate Change Disclosure 2023”
Average performance
Metal products 
manufacturing
Global 
Average
Asia
Havells CDP Score
C
C
C
C
The “B” rating in water security is higher than the Asia 
regional average of “C”, and higher than the Metal 
products manufacturing sector average of “C”
“Water Security Disclosure 2023”
Average performance
Metal products 
manufacturing
Global 
Average
Asia
Havells CDP Score
B
C
C
C
ESG Rating history
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC
Aug-20 May-21 Oct-21 Dec-22 Sep-23
BBB
BBB
A
A
A
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
33
Integrated Report
ESG
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FTSE4Good (Global)
The FTSE4 Good Index 
Series identifies companies 
that demonstrate strong 
environmental, social and 
governance practices 
measured against globally 
recognised standards
CRISIL
CRISIL has rated “Havells” highest in its sector in 
the recently published Sustainability Yearbook
Business World Magazine Awards
India’s most Sustainable Business of the year Award 2023
Havells India Limited was ranked at 2nd position all over 
India in 2023 as India’s Most Sustainable Companies in the 
category of Capital goods
Zero Waste to Landfill Certificate 
by Intertek
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intertek does hereby certify that an independent assessment has 
been conducted on behalf of: 
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED 
and has been assessed and verified by Intertek to: 
 
ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL 
Main Address: 
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector 126, Expressway, 
NOIDA, Uttar Pradesh, 201304, India 
 
See appendix for additional sites and additional site scopes 
 
Conformance Criteria: 
Overall Scope: Zero Waste to landfill diversion rate of at least 99% is applicable 
to corporate activities and manufacturing of cables, wires, industrial & 
domestic products, control panels, distribution board, air conditioner, MCB and 
EWA, fan, small domestic appliances, washing machine, motor, lighting, geyser, 
ACB, MCCB, control gear, starters, load bank and capacitors. 
Certification Number: 
ZWL-2024-06 
 
Initial Verification Date: 
06 March 2024 
 
Date of Certification Decision: 
06 March 2024 
Certificate Issued: 
15 March 2024 
 
Certificate Valid Until: 
05 March 2027 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Calin Moldovean 
President 
 
Intertek Testing Services NA, Inc.  
4700 Broadmoor SE, Suite 200 
Kentwood, Michigan 49512, United States 
 
In the issuance of this certificate, Intertek assumes no liability to any party other than to the Client, and then only in accordance with the agreed upon 
Certification Agreement. This certificate’s validity is subject to the organization maintaining their system in accordance with Intertek’s requirements for 
systems certification. Validity may be confirmed via email at certificate.validation@intertek.com. 
The certificate remains the property of Intertek, to whom it must be returned upon request. CT-ZWL_Verified-Unacc-EN-A4-14.03.23 
CarbonNeutral® Certified by HP
Corporate Governance Rating by 
CareEdge
CareEdge Advisory Research and Training (CART) 
assigned Corporate Governance Rating of ‘CG 2+’ 
(CG Two plus) to Havells India Limited
Havells India Limited
34
ESG Goals Status
Category
Target Undertaken
FY 2012-13
Base Year 
Target for 
FY 2023-24
FY 2023-24 
Performance
Emission 
Management
Scope 3 Emissions Inventorisation
Not measured
100% 
measurement
Completed*
Diesel Consumption (ltr) Reduction 
22.3 Lakh
11.20 Lakh 
(50%)
11.15 Lakh
(50%)
Waste 
Management
Zero Waste to Landfill
70%
0%
0%
End user disposal authentication in  
all types of organic waste
Not obtained
100%
100%
Sustainable 
Sourcing
Assessment of ESG Risks of all critical 
suppliers 
Not measured
100%
100%
Product
Zero Ozone Depleting Substance (R22 Gas) 
in manufacturing (Kg)
600
0
0
LCA
Lifecycle Assessment (LCA)
Not Carried 
out
LCA for high 
revenue products
Initiated**
*Scope 3 emissions inventorisation for base year 2022-23 has been completed with 100% measurement 
**LCA training and awareness sessions carried out along with LCA study of two major SKUs
Havells India Limited, in its pursuit of sustainable development, had set ambitious ESG targets for FY 2023-24. These targets 
encompass various aspects of environmental stewardship, including emission management, waste management, sustainable 
sourcing, zero ODS (Ozone Depleting Substances), and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). 
By focussing on reducing emissions, optimising waste management practices, ensuring sustainable sourcing of materials, 
eliminating ODS, and conducting LCA training, Havells aims to minimise its environmental footprint while maximising its 
positive impact. 
The table below illustrates the Company’s achievements in meeting these targets during FY 2023-24.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
35
Integrated Report
ESG
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Managing what matters most to 
our people and the planet
Materiality
Identifying material topics and managing them effectively across our business activities 
is integral to create sustained value for our stakeholders. A five-step methodology 
to identify, strategise, manage, score and rank the material topics, together with our 
sustainability model, helps us to prioritise our stakeholder needs and build strong and 
reliable partnerships.
Process for Materiality Assessment
We conducted an ESG materiality survey. 100+ 
participants, including the management and senior 
leadership team, participated in the survey and various 
material topics were shortlisted for consideration.
•	 Each of these topics were assigned a framework 
score, industry score, survey score, risk score and 
management score
•	 The frameworks considered included Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR), 
Used ESG 
frameworks and 
standards, ESG 
ratings, and peer 
benchmarking to 
recognise potentially 
relevant issues
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), Morgan 
Stanley Capital International (MSCI) & 
Sustainalytics
•	 The industry score was determined after 
considering various domestic and international 
companies in the electrical equipment and 
appliances space
Issues ranked 
according to 
importance based 
on management and 
employee surveys
100+ responses 
received from 
participants
Recognise significant 
environmental, social 
and governance risks 
and opportunities
Determine areas 
for target setting to 
improve business 
and sustainability 
performance
Incorporate these 
factors in the 
overall business 
strategy
Communicate 
the new strategy 
to all relevant 
stakeholders
Fresh ranking of 
issues based on the 
weighted average 
score achieved by 
each issue
Separate score 
assigned to each 
material issue based 
on the response
Five-Step Methodology
IDENTIFY
STRATEGISE
MANAGE
SCORE
RANK
Havells India Limited
36
In increasing order of priority
Environmental
E	
Environmental 
S	
Social
G	
Governance
Climate strategy and action
Build resilience to minimise the 
impact of climate change on business 
activities and supply chain. Ensure 
that manufacturing and usage of our 
products yield low carbon footprints 
and carbon intensity.
Product stewardship
Manufacture high-quality products 
that are safe, durable, repairable and 
serviceable. Foster sustainability by 
optimising resource utilisation across 
the product lifecycle.
Water and air quality
Conserving water and using it 
judiciously is our key priority. We are 
also committed to maintaining air 
quality in and around our premises.
Circular economy and 
waste management
We aspire to achieve zero waste 
to landfill by responsible end-of-life 
disposal of our products. The 5Rs 
approach (reduce, reuse, recycle, 
recover and residual management) is 
adopted to enable this.
Material Topics
E
Climate strategy 
& action
E
Sustainable 
packaging
E
Biodiversity
E
Sustainable manufacturing to achieve 
low carbon footprint product
E
Product 
stewardship
E
Circular economy 
and waste 
management
S
Human capital 
development
S
Human rights 
and CSR
S
Responsible digitalisation 
& technology use
S
Occupational 
health and safety
E
Water stewardship 
and air quality 
improvement
G
Governance and ethical 
business conduct
G
Innovation 
R&D
G
Sustainable 
sourcing and vendor 
management
G
Customer and other 
stakeholders’ delight
G
Brand integrity 
& salience
G
Capacity utilisation 
& market presence
G
Distribution network 
& channels
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
37
Integrated Report
Materiality
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Human capital development
Empower our employees through effective 
learning & development, leadership 
and succession planning, employee 
engagement, fair treatment and diversity 
and inclusion, among other favourable 
initiatives and policies.
Governance and ethical 
business conduct
Drive accountability and maintain 
ethical integrity while pursuing our 
economic interests.
Distribution network and 
channels
Implement an omni-channel strategy to 
reach out to a larger consumer base across 
diverse locations.
Occupational health and safety
Foster employee well-being by providing a 
safe, sound and healthy work environment 
to all employees.
Brand integrity and salience
Enhance consumer trust, ensure strong 
brand recall and build a positive image 
of the Company and its products 
across different categories in the 
consumers’ mind. 
Capacity utilisation and 
market presence
Capacity utilisation is directly correlated 
to market demand and Company’s 
presence. It is the percentage a plant 
is actually generating compared to its 
maximum potential.
Responsible digitalisation and 
technology use
Ensure business continuity and protect 
personal data integrity through efficient IT 
risk management and robust contingency 
planning.
Innovation and R&D
Continuously focus on innovation to 
stay current and relevant in the ever-
evolving business landscape, meet 
consumer expectation and achieve 
sustained growth.
Sustainable sourcing and 
vendor management
Sustainable procurement,  supply chain 
resilience, local vendor management.
Human rights and CSR
Uphold human rights and undertake 
ongoing initiatives for uplifting the 
society as per the UN Declaration of 
Human Rights.
Customer and other 
stakeholders’ delight
Our stakeholders form the core of our 
value creation. We believe in creating value 
and equitable wealth for our stakeholders 
through our business process.
Social
Governance
Havells India Limited
38
Sustainability Model
Our sustainability model has been developed to maximise stakeholder value creation, an aspect central to all our business 
activities and key decisions. Thoughtful consideration of our material topics, in discussion with our stakeholders, has 
helped us to arrive at the sustainability model. Aligned with our core corporate governance values – ethics, integrity and 
transparency, the model also considers our business objectives and stakeholder expectations.
Focus on Compliance
We are governed by a robust compliance mechanism that ensures adherence to the relevant statutory laws and 
regulations. The mechanism ensures no discrimination and child labour or forced labour within the Company.
During the year, no material fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on the Company for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations. There were no incidents of non-compliance or fines levied with respect to the 
regulations or voluntary codes relating to the health and safety impacts of Havells’ products and services, products-
related communication and product information disclosure and labelling.
Strategy
•	 Climate strategy & action
•	 Human capital 
development
•	 Governance and ethical 
business conduct
•	 Water and air quality
•	 Occupational health 
and safety
•	 Product stewardship
•	 Circular economy and 
waste management
•	 Innovation R&D
•	 Sustainable sourcing and 
vendor management
•	 Human rights and CSR
•	 Responsible digitalisation 
& technology use
•	 Customer and other 
stakeholders’ delight
•	 Brand integrity & salience
•	 Capacity utilisation & 
market presence
•	 Distribution network & 
channels
ESG
Business System
Governance
Social
Environmental
Stakeholder
value creation
Societal 
impact
Long-term 
performance
Material topics
Policies &
procedures
Resource
input
Stakeholder
engagement
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
39
Integrated Report
Materiality
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1
4
2
5
3
6
Financial Capital
Practising Financial Prudence
At Havells, financial discipline is at the forefront of our focus. Leveraging our strong 
financial position, we have been able to capitalise on sectoral opportunities, expand 
into new markets, and enhance our product offering to maximise stakeholder value. 
Additionally, through our balanced capital allocation, we have been able to foster long-
term growth across categories. 
We are committed to maintaining a robust financial position 
that supports our growth strategies and delivers sustainable 
value to our stakeholders. During the year, we stepped up 
investments in strategic pillars and ensured prudent capital 
allocation to capture future opportunities.
Since our foray into the electrical consumer business in 
2003 with fans and lighting products, we have significantly 
expanded our offerings. Over the years, we have introduced 
multiple categories, including consumer durables, into our 
portfolio. We have not only broadened our product range 
but have also strengthened new categories with significant 
investments, developing them into distinct business units. 
This strategic approach has enabled Havells to establish six 
categories, each generating revenue exceeding  
` 1,000 crores. Additionally, our other categories are rapidly 
scaling and exhibiting growth. Our presence in multiple 
diverse categories has enabled us to thrive and sustain 
a strong financial position through various business and 
economic cycles.
At Havells, we continue to bolster our in-house manufacturing 
through consistent capital expenditure in both existing and 
new capacities. Over the past 5 years, we have invested 
` 2,122 crores as capital expenditure, with ` 1,172 crores 
directed towards Havells FMEG portfolio and ` 768 crores 
towards Lloyd. During this period, we invested in two 
greenfield plants – Sri City for Lloyd and Tumkur for Cables. 
Additionally, we expanded our capacities across our product 
categories, enabling a decent capacity headroom to support 
future growth trajectory. This balanced capital allocation 
approach, with dedicated resources for each of the product 
category, underscores our commitment to drive growth 
across our product portfolio.
Prudent Capital Allocation for Sustainable Growth
Capital Expenditure (In ` crores)
Segments
FY24
FY23
FY22
FY21
FY20
Last 5Y
Switchgears
 54 
 27 
 37 
 26 
 52 
 197 
Cables
 251 
 20 
 21 
 27 
 105 
 424 
Lighting and Fixtures
 109 
 22 
 13 
 2 
 3 
 150 
Electrical Consumer Durables
 65 
 42 
 70 
 36 
 136 
 349 
Others
 29 
 7 
 7 
 4 
 4 
 52 
 509 
 118 
 149 
 95 
 301 
 1,172 
Lloyd Consumer
 162 
 404 
 78 
 91 
 32 
 768 
 671 
 522 
 228 
 186 
 333 
 1,939 
Common Capital Expenditure
 42 
 49 
 28 
 25 
 39 
 183 
Total
 713 
 571 
 256 
 211 
 371 
 2,122 
Havells India Limited
40
Economic Value Creation
Particulars (` crores)
FY24
FY23
Revenue generated (includes other income)
 18,799 
 17,045 
Economic value distributed (i+ii+iii+iv+v)
 17,951 
 16,457 
Operating costs (i)
 15,472 
 14,260 
Employee benefits (ii)
 1,541 
 1,275 
Payments to providers of capital (iii)
 516 
 504 
Direct taxes paid (iv)
 392 
 392 
CSR expenditure (v)
 30 
 27 
Economic value generated 
 848 
 588 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
41
Integrated Report
Financial Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Our Performance
Revenue (in ` crores)
FY24
18,550
FY23
 16,868
FY22
 13,889
FY21
 10,428
FY20
 9,429
Earnings per share (in `)
FY24
20.32
FY23
17.16
FY22
19.08
FY21
16.61
FY20
11.71
Dividend payout (%)
FY24
44
FY23
44
FY22
39
FY21
39
FY20
41
Net worth (in ` crores)
FY24
7,438
FY23
 6,614
FY22
 5,989
FY21
 5,164
FY20
 4,305
Debt:Equity
FY24
0.00
FY23
0.00
FY22
0.07
FY21
0.10
FY20
0.01
ROCE (%)*
FY24
25
FY23
23
FY22
28
FY21
30
FY20
21
EBITDA (in ` crores) and EBITDA margin (%) 
FY24
1,845
FY23
 1,603
FY22
1,758
FY21
1,565 
FY20
1,027
10.9%
15.0%
12.7%
9.5%
9.9%
EBITDA
EBITDA margin
PAT (in ` crores) and PAT margin (%) 
FY24
1,273
FY23
 1,075
FY22
1,195
FY21
1,040
FY20
733
7.8%
10.0%
8.6%
6.4%
6.9%
PAT
PAT margin
* ROCE (%) = EBIT / Average Capital Employed 
(Net Worth + Gross Debt)
Havells India Limited
42
Manufactured Capital
1
4
2
5
3
6
Focussed on Excellence in Operations
At Havells, we are making substantial investments in advanced manufacturing processes 
and systems to develop a portfolio of products that meet and exceed customer 
expectations. Our aim is to deliver superior value and innovation, ensuring that each 
product serves as a testament to our manufacturing and quality excellence.
Integrated Manufacturing Operations
Integrated manufacturing operations is the core strength of 
Havells. Investments in latest technologies, mass production 
processes, and robust operations facilitate production of 
reliable and high-quality products. Havells has long practised 
the philosophy of ‘Make in India’, manufacturing 90% of 
its products in-house. All manufacturing plants are unique, 
based on different technologies, but have fully integrated 
manufacturing setups. 
Each plant is equipped with a high depth of in-house 
manufacturing, with all major components produced 
under the same roof. We have procured automatic high-
tech machines from Japan, Europe, and other leading 
manufacturers across the globe.
All manufacturing plants operate with high efficiency, 
reliability, and the creation of a workplace of excellence. We 
make regular investments, in upgrading and establishing 
cutting-edge manufacturing units. Our employees are also 
encouraged to bring new ideas for continuous improvement 
of operational parameters and creating a safe workplace.
Industry 4.0
Industry 4.0, the fourth industrial revolution, marks the 
integration of digital technologies into manufacturing 
processes, revolutionising efficiency, productivity, and 
competitiveness. Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES) 
play a crucial role in this transformation by facilitating  
real-time monitoring, control, and optimisation of production 
processes. Robotics and Autonomous Mobile Robots (AMRs) 
have emerged as key technologies driving innovation and 
efficiency across industries.
While setting up the new plant at Sri City, we explored the role 
of MES, Industry 4.0, robotics, and AMRs and their impact 
on operations, productivity, and future growth. Industry 4.0 
encompasses the adoption of technologies like the Internet 
of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), big data analytics, 
and robotics to create smart factories. Sri City leverages 
interconnected systems to enable autonomous decision-
making, predictive maintenance, and customisation at scale. 
As we navigate an era of rapid technological advancement, 
we continue to leverage cutting-edge solutions to enhance 
our competitive edge and meet evolving customer demands. 
Robotics and AMRs represent a significant area of focus, 
offering opportunities to streamline processes, improve 
efficiency, and deliver improved value to stakeholders.
With more than 20,000 live SKUs across the plants, 
we believe that operational excellence at the factory 
is paramount. Hence, a roadmap is drawn for the 
implementation and strengthening of various key initiatives. 
MES is being deployed in various plants for real-time data 
management, predictive analysis, workflow automation, 
reliability in each operation and traceability. We adopt Industry 
4.0 standards for continuous upgradation of manufacturing 
setups. We also undertake section-by-section analysis across 
the plants for promoting digitisation and the use of IoT.
Impact on Operations
The adoption of Industry 4.0 and MES has profound implications on operations:
Real-time monitoring 
and optimisation lead 
to increased equipment 
uptime, reduced cycle 
times, and higher 
throughput.
MES-driven quality 
control processes 
minimise defects, leading 
to higher customer 
satisfaction and brand 
reputation.
Predictive maintenance 
and optimised resource 
utilisation result in lower 
maintenance costs, reduced 
scrap rates, and improved 
inventory management.
MES enables agile 
manufacturing by facilitating 
quick changeovers, 
customisation, and 
adaptation to market 
demands.
Improved Efficiency
Enhanced Flexibility 
Cost Reduction 
Quality Enhancement
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
43
Integrated Report
Manufactured Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Quality Excellence & Skill Development
Quality Excellence is at the core of everything we do. We 
have embarked on a journey – Quality Transformation 2.0, 
aimed at driving quality excellence through four strategic 
pillars, viz., Customer Centric Quality, Process Discipline 
and Simplification, Supplier Quality, and Competence & 
Engagement.
‘Built in Quality’ is the mantra of Havells manufacturing 
which ensures consistent product quality for our customers. 
Under the ‘Built in Quality’ initiative, Failure Mode and Effects 
Analysis (FMEA) is effectively used for all manufacturing 
processes to ensure necessary robust controls through 
automation, fool-proofing, and availability of skilled and 
competent workforce.
Additionally, people competence and engagement are 
vital elements of our overall manufacturing strategy. This is 
enforced through various programmes like ‘Wise Hands’, 
Golden Hands, Kaizen, and Quality Circles.
‘Quality Circles’ and ‘Kaizens’ play a vital role in spreading 
a culture of continuous improvement by engaging and 
empowering employees to identify problems related to their 
work and resolve them through the PDCA cycle. It also 
supports the implementation of ideas for uplifting quality 
standards and innovative ideas for ‘mistake proofing’. To 
motivate, recognise and nurture skill, we conduct intra- and 
inter-plant competitions and reward the best teams. Our 
Quality Circle Teams and Kaizen Teams have participated and 
secured prestigious awards in quality circle competitions at 
various forums such as CII, QCFI, among others.
The manufacturing activities at Sri City Plant are 
now fully operational. The plant is set up to handle a 
capacity of 1 million AC units per annum. This state-
of-the-art plant has fully integrated manufacturing 
operations and in-house production of all critical 
items. Plant machinery and processes are well 
equipped with MES, with major operations being 
handled by women employees.
AC Plant Operational at Sri City
The Takshila Room, a new way of learning, is designed 
to provide a supportive and innovative environment 
for our teams. This recent concept was developed 
at our Water Heater Plant in Neemrana. The space is 
dedicated to education, empowerment, and growth 
for both new and existing employees, including 
visitors. It is a place where we can come together 
to learn, collaborate, and enhance our skills. This 
learning environment is meticulously crafted to foster 
collaboration, hands-on practice, and skill mastery. 
It focusses on safety learnings, new techniques, 
improving our problem-solving abilities, and honing our 
communication skills.
The focus areas of ‘My Takshila’ are safety, productivity, 
quality and HR hub. The key features of Takshila 
include inculcating a safety culture with the help of 
safety simulators and models, and enhancing skills 
through models or simulations. It provides both 
theoretical and practical lessons in the basic concepts 
of manufacturing. Knowledge about POSH (Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment) is also imparted through 
videos and QA mechanisms. A trainee receives the 
Green Card named ‘Takshila Parinam’ and will only be 
allowed to work on the floor after the certification. We 
plan to implement its horizontal deployment across the 
plants with digitisation and online data monitoring.
Learning and Development of Operators at ‘Takshila’
Havells India Limited
44
Havells is establishing a Cables plant at Tumkur in 
Karnataka. The upcoming state-of-the-art factory 
reflects a strong commitment to excellence and 
innovation in the segment. The new plant at Tumkur will 
bolster our manufacturing and supply chain capabilities 
in South India, demonstrating strategic foresight and 
dedication to meeting the growing market demands. 
The greenfield manufacturing plant is expected 
to become operational in FY 2024-25. Spanning 
3,00,000 sq. ft., the initial focus of the plant will be 
on manufacturing LT, Instrumentation, Control Cables 
under one roof, aimed at streamlining operations and 
optimising production processes to maximise output 
and meet customer requirements effectively.
New Manufacturing Plant at Tumkur
Our new Lighting & EMS Division offers a 
comprehensive solution for all electronics 
manufacturing service needs, including PCB Design, 
PCB Assembly, Product Assembly and Testing under 
one roof for our multiple business units. This new 
Lighting & EMS Plant exemplifies an ultra-modern 
facility equipped with SMT lines featuring multi-
mounters and MI Wave soldering lines, complemented 
by multi-product assembly lines.
Our capabilities encompass a ‘Total Product Solution’, 
starting from concept finalisation, prototyping, testing 
and validation to manufacturing or customising 
products based on market inputs. This includes 
assembly of Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) for our 
captive requirements for in-house use across various 
product lines at all plants. The PCB assembly process 
is fully automated, ensuring deskilling of operations 
and high productivity at global quality standards. These 
processes are carried out on the world’s best standard 
Japanese & German machines. The “Quality first” 
approach is embedded in our operations, ensuring 
the production of reliable products with longer life and 
consistent performance.
The facility is capable of manufacturing innovative and smart 
lighting products, including a wide range of LED drivers from 
3W to 250W, and smart LED drivers with features such as 
dimming, & tuneable white using DALI, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, GSM 
and GPRS technology. 
New EMS Manufacturing Facility at Neemrana
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
45
Integrated Report
Manufactured Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Human Capital
Nurturing a Thriving Workforce 
Our employees are the cornerstone of our operations, driving our continued success. 
Their remarkable ingenuity, unwavering commitment, and resilient spirit has propelled us 
to emerge as India’s leading FMEG and Consumer Durables Company. Our policies and 
practices are meticulously designed to foster an inclusive workplace where everyone feels 
valued and empowered.
Driven by Care and Empathy
We take pride in our diverse culture, firmly rooted in the values of transparency, inclusion, collaboration, and excellence. Our 
success is deeply embedded in a commitment to fostering care and empathy across the organisation. Our people are our 
greatest assets, and their fulfilment and safety are critical to our pursuit of excellence. Central to our ethos lies an unwavering 
commitment to meeting our employees’ aspirations while prioritising their safety, health, and well-being.
6,712
Employee strength#
6,347
365
Male
Female
Employee demographics (male/female) 
1,831
New employee hires 
90,000+
Training hours on skill-updating and learning
FY 2023-24 Key Highlights
1
4
2
5
3
6
Strategic Workforce Planning  
and Performance Management
Values based Culture and 
institutionalising values in 
People Practices 
Talent Management 
& Development
Employee Experience
People Process Excellence and 
Data-based Decision-making
Distributed Leadership, 
Diversity & Inclusion
Unlocking Human Potential
# Excluding Directors, KMPs, Trainees and Apprentices
Havells India Limited
46
P1 	Entrepreneurial in Spirit
We are committed to fostering an entrepreneurial mindset 
that drives relentless growth and innovation. We encourage 
our employees to embrace an owner’s mindset, striving to 
deliver best-in-class products and services. This approach is 
more than a slogan; it is a culture of thinking and acting that 
resonates throughout the organisation.
We empower our employees to think creatively, take 
the initiative, and actively seek opportunities for growth 
and innovation. We understand the importance of taking 
calculated risks and encourage our teams to experiment, 
learn from failures, and view risks as avenues for growth 
and development.
Our culture enables employees at all levels to assume 
responsibility for their work, make impactful decisions, 
and contribute significantly to our success. This fosters a 
sense of responsibility and accountability, propelling our 
entrepreneurial spirit.
KHJJS - Aspiration to Achievement
Our philosophy, “Khelen Hum Jee Jaan Se (KHJJS)” - 
Aspiration to Achievement, embodies our entrepreneurial 
spirit. At Havells, target setting is not imposed from the 
top; instead, it is driven by the employees themselves. This 
approach encourages our employees to plan and achieve 
their aspirations and act like entrepreneurs in pursuit of 
innovative solutions. 
Employee Ownership Plan (EOP)
Aligned with our entrepreneurial spirit, we have made all 
employees part of our Employee Ownership Plan (EOP). 
This initiative aims to instil a sense of ownership and offer 
employees an opportunity for future wealth creation as their 
association with the Company grows. Launched in January 
2022, this EOP underscores our commitment to building an 
entrepreneurial culture at Havells.
New Hire and Turnover Rate for FY 2023-24
Category
Unit
Age Group
Gender
Region
Annual Trend
<30
30-50
>50
Male
Female
Corporate 
offices
Plants
Branch 
offices
FY 
2023-24
FY 
2022-23
FY 
2021-22
New Employees hired
No.
 508 
 1,296 
 27 
 1,673 
 158 
 461 
 327 
 1,043 
 1,831 
 1,137 
 1,163 
Rate of New Hires (%)
Rate
66.97%
25.26%
5.27%
27.50%
49.76%
32.22%
28.32%
27.34% 28.60%
19.87%
22.40%
Employees separated
No.
 201 
 937 
 71 
 1,146 
 63 
 206 
 228 
 775 
 1,209 
 1,022 
 865 
Turnover Rate for 
Employees (%)
Rate
26.50%
18.26%
13.87%
18.84%
19.84%
14.40%
19.75%
20.31% 18.89%
17.86%
16.66%
Note: We follow a transparent hiring process and do not discriminate concerning sexual orientation, race, or ethnicity. The table above provides a 
breakdown of our new hires and employee turnover in FY 2023-24 with respect to gender, age and region.
Pillars of Our Human Capital Philosophy
Inspiring our people with 
meaningful work and 
passionate teams, we 
foster an entrepreneurial 
spirit that enables them 
to find purpose and 
make an impact
Prioritising the well-
being and growth of 
our employees through 
personalised care and 
support
Creating a dynamic, 
rewarding and inclusive 
environment where our 
people thrive and excel 
at Havells
Embracing innovative 
thinking to redefine 
possibilities and drive 
transformative change
Entrepreneurial 
in Spirit
Innovation in 
Thinking
Excellence in 
Workplace
Care for 
Employees
P1
P2
P3
P4
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
47
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
P2 	Innovation in Thinking
We strive to build and sustain an innovation-driven workplace by offering our employees a combination of practices that enable 
them to participate in both the structural aspects of how work is organised and the cultural elements, which encompass staff 
empowerment, motivation, and attitudes.
Our approach to workplace innovation is fuelled by open dialogue, knowledge sharing, experimentation, and continuous 
learning. We ensure that all stakeholders—employees, staff and customers—have a voice in shaping new models of 
collaboration and social relationships.
Innovation in Thinking: Cultivating a Landscape of Limitless Possibilities 
At Havells, innovation is at the forefront in our culture, deeply ingrained within every aspect of our organisation. It is not merely a 
strategy, but a foundational element that propels us to continuously redefine the boundaries of what is possible. This relentless 
pursuit of innovation shapes our approach to work, fuels our growth, and inspires us to set new industry standards. By nurturing 
a workplace where innovative thinking is celebrated and novel ideas are brought to life, we ensure that our commitment to 
innovation permeates every project, every team, and in every initiative.
Our platform SOCH is a prime example of how 
we foster an innovative culture. It provides a 
dynamic space for employees across all levels to 
share their ideas and solutions, directly impacting 
our products and processes. The interactive 
nature of SOCH has made it a popular tool within 
Havells, allowing us to harness a diverse range of 
thoughts and innovations that drive us forward. 
This platform not only enhances our business 
operations but also boosts our sustainability 
efforts, making innovation a cornerstone of our 
corporate ethos.
SOCH: Unleashing Creative Potentials
Havells India Limited
48
In our manufacturing processes, the Kaizen 
philosophy is deeply embedded. It is not just 
about incremental improvements; it’s about 
thinking outside the box and making impactful 
changes. In FY 2023-24, a remarkable 37,047 
Kaizens were implemented, demonstrating our 
proactive approach and dedication to continuous 
enhancement. This practice not only improves our 
operational efficiency but also fosters a sense of 
ownership and pride among our employees.
We’re not only focussed to grow as an 
organisation, but believe in taking the industry 
further ahead in the pursuit of innovative excellence. 
Further enriching our culture of innovation, the 
Architect & Interior’s Design Debates organised by 
our Professional Lighting division provide a platform 
to industry experts for sharing cutting-edge ideas 
and sustainable practices.
These debates bring together creative minds to 
discuss and develop forward-thinking design 
solutions, ensuring that Havells remains at the 
forefront of the lighting industry with innovations 
that are both practical and inspiration.
Through these initiatives, Havells has established 
a robust ecosystem of innovation. Our approach 
to continuous evolution ensures that every idea 
has the potential to initiate change, and every 
individual has the opportunity to contribute 
significantly.
Our commitment to cultivating an innovative 
culture remains firm. By encouraging creativity and 
embracing new ideas, Havells is not just leading 
the industry but is also paving the way for a more 
sustainable and innovative future. Together, we are 
pushing the boundaries of what’s possible, setting 
new standards, and inspiring future generations. 
This commitment to exceeding expectations is the 
true essence of innovation at Havells.
Architect & Interior’s Design Debates: Shaping the Future of Design
Kaizen: Celebrating Continuous Improvement
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
49
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
P3 	Excellence at Workplace 
The GPTW (The Great Place to Work) India, has recognised 
Havells as India’s Best Workplaces for the fifth consecutive 
year, underscoring our dedication to establishing a high-
trust, high-performance organisation. We have also been 
named one of India’s top workplaces in Manufacturing 
for 2024 by Great Place to Work® India, and India’s Best 
Workplaces dedicated to building a culture of innovation 
by All. Our investment in leadership development through 
programmes like Havells Young Leaders Programme 
demonstrates our steadfast commitment to nurturing 
young talent and grooming future leaders. We are eager to 
continue our journey of excellence, ensuring Havells remains 
a workplace where each employee feels valued, engaged, 
and empowered.
At Havells, we have introduced a comprehensive 
leadership programme, Sankalp, designed to enhance 
the skills and capabilities of our workforce. Our 
commitment to fostering a strong, people-centric 
culture that emphasises performance forms the 
bedrock of this initiative. Sankalp aims to foster a 
culture of continuous learning and develops high-
performance teams by equipping our managers 
with the tools and knowledge to build trust and 
drive performance.
The learning journey extends beyond the workshops 
to include E-learning modules, mentor access, and 
community learning opportunities to ensure continuous 
growth and development of our people managers. Sankalp 
not only develops leaders for critical positions but also 
enhances the personal brand of our managers by providing 
them with opportunities for recognition by Great Manager 
Institute (GMI).
We are also committed to empowering our employees by 
equipping them with essential skills in key development 
areas. To address these needs, we have developed targeted 
product training programmes. By investing in our employees’ 
development, we ensure that they are well-equipped to excel 
in their roles and make meaningful progress.
Empowering Growth Through Learning & Development
Havells India Limited
50
The average training hours per Full Time Employee for 
FY 2023-24 are shown below in the table:
FY 2023-24
Training and development 
Hours
Total Number of training hours
91,375.5
Average hours of training per employee
13.6
	
Male
13.2
	
Female
20.2
Average hours of training per employee
13.6
	
Senior Management
17.6
	
Middle Management
10.0
	
Junior Management
25.0
Breakdown of hours per employee 
category
Percentage
Senior/Middle Management
59.63%
Junior Management
40.37%
We take pride in introducing ‘Gurukul’. Havells’ 
innovative Learning Management System (LMS). 
Gurukul is a comprehensive resource hub designed 
to foster continuous learning and development across 
the organisation. It acts as a centralised knowledge 
repository, offering E-Learning modules on Mandatory 
Trainings, Functional Induction and vital safety 
protocols.
Employees can access interactive training modules 
to enhance their skills with key features including 
robust safety training modules. Gurukul is more than 
just an LMS; it’s a catalyst for growth, empowerment, 
and excellence, enabling employees to contribute 
meaningfully to our success. With Gurukul, the path to 
knowledge is boundless, paving the way for a brighter 
future at Havells.
Average hours of training per employee
FY24
FY23
13.6
5.6
The total hours of training increased from 34,104 hours in 
FY 2022‑23 to 91,375.5 hours in FY 2023-24 with average 
hours of training per employee increasing from 5.6 hours to 
13.6 hours.
Note:
1.	Details of the total and average number of training hours provided 
to employees are presented in the table above.
2.	The average hours of training per employee has increased by more 
than 100% compared to the previous financial year.
Gurukul - Learning Management System
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
51
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior Management
93.41%
100.00%
92.56%
66.67%
Middle Management
93.28%
91.92%
89.90%
80.14%
Junior Management
97.03%
96.30%
85.43%
73.55%
Note: 
1.	Details of the Reporting Managers having performance conversations with their respective employees in the FY 2023-24 are mentioned in the 
above table.
People Review & Development Priorities
Our employees engage in structured performance conversations to receive regular feedback on their performance and areas 
for improvement. We have established a people review process to evaluate and identify development opportunities, specifically 
for our managerial employees. This feedback informs the creation of personalised and functional development journeys that 
contribute to our growth. For self-development, we provide our employees with access to various e-learning courses. 1,000+ 
managers have utilised performance conversations tool for having constructive dialogues with their respective employees and 
helping them curate a development plan for themselves.
At Havells, we understand the importance of building a 
talent pipeline and attracting the best talent. To fulfil this 
objective, we’ve developed the Havells Young Leaders 
Programme (HYLP), which entails recruiting management 
trainees from premier institutes. This programme enables 
us to recognise and nurture future leaders who resonate 
with Havells’ vision. This programme is thoughtfully 
designed to provide young management trainees with 
an expedited path to leadership roles aligned with our 
business requirements.
Havells Young Leaders Programme
Havells India Limited
52
Developing Leaders from Within
Havells is an equal opportunity employer committed 
to fostering an enabling work environment. Our talent 
strategy revolves around inclusivity and meritocracy to align 
professional and business goals to achieve excellence. Our 
aim is to build strong human relationships at the workplace, 
keep our people energised, and promote unity, as every 
employee is an integral member of our large, close-knit family.
Diversity at Havells
We recognise diversity as a powerful catalyst for innovation 
and inclusivity, essential for fostering a vibrant work 
environment that enhances business performance. This 
expansive outlook on diversity not only enriches our collective 
experience but also empowers us to attract, develop, 
and retain specialised skills and competencies in a highly 
competitive industry. Our Neemrana Lighting and Sri City 
plants serve as prime examples, embodying a rich diversity 
among our blue-collar workforce of 515 & 490 women 
respectively. They also underscore our unwavering dedication 
to inclusivity and manufacturing excellence. However, we 
acknowledge that there’s still a long road ahead. It is through 
this commitment that we continue to propel our Company 
towards new heights of success, fully aware that the journey 
towards true inclusivity and excellence is ongoing.
Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23
Category
Gender
Age Group
Gender
Age Group
Male
Female
<30
30-50
>50
Male
Female
<30
30-50
>50
Senior Management
98.10%
1.90%
-
52.47%
47.53%
98.62%
1.38%
-
52.75%
47.25%
Middle Management
96.02%
3.98%
4.02%
88.42%
7.56%
96.72%
3.28%
3.55%
88.82%
7.63%
Junior Management
89.00%
11.00%
42.43%
54.99%
2.58%
91.47%
8.53%
37.66%
59.38%
2.96%
Board of  Directors - (ED 
+ Independent Directors + 
Non Independent Directors)
92.86%
7.14%
-
-
100.00%
92.86%
7.14%
-
-
100.00%
Key Management  
Personnel (KMP)
100.00%
-
-
-
100.00%
100.00%
-
-
-
100.00%
Note: 
1.	Details of the Representation of Women (in percentage) are presented in the table above.
Gender diversity in the overall workforce
FY24
FY23
13.03%
6.79%
Note:
1. Details of the representation of Women inclusive of Employees and Workers are presented in the graph above.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
53
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The salaries and remunerations we provide are based on 
the qualifications and experience of our employees. We 
also have a Remuneration Guidelines for employees at the 
executive level.
Our policies and processes recognise the importance of 
diversity and the way it enriches perspectives, encourages 
creativity, and brings together a variety of talents and 
experiences. Attracting the right talent and ensuring their 
long-term association with Havells is at the core of our 
recruitment process. We uphold a strict non-discrimination 
policy during hiring and provide equal opportunity and fair 
remuneration to all candidates. This philosophy facilitates a 
culture of inclusivity among our people.
Gender diversity is a key component of our talent strategy. 
We have been focussing on improving diversity among our 
young engineer intakes by hiring more women. Moreover, 
we are planning to initiate diversity and inclusion visioning 
programme in which we will collaborate with many 
stakeholders from various groups to understand their 
perspectives, aspirations, and belief systems.
P4 	Care for Employees
Employee Well-being
We place utmost attention to the well-being of our 
employees, which is fundamental to our commitment to 
sustainable operations and our promise of ‘care’. We actively 
engage in various initiatives aimed at promoting positivity, 
wellness, and good health among our employees and 
their families.
One key initiative is the ‘Wellness Wednesday’ programme, 
where employees can voluntarily participate in wellness-
related seminars, enhancing their knowledge and promoting 
healthy living. Additionally, we have enhanced our insurance 
coverage to provide comprehensive support to our 
employees and their families in times of need.
Another notable programme is the ‘Care Leave’ initiative, 
which offers paid leave to enrolled members for self-
care or to attend to immediate family members during 
medical emergencies. This programme underscores our 
collaborative workplace culture, emphasising trust, teamwork, 
and empathy.
In line with our commitment to fostering a supportive and 
inclusive work environment, we prioritise the well-being of our 
employees across all operations in India. Our comprehensive 
benefits package, encompassing maternity leave, life 
insurance, accident insurance, and healthcare coverage, 
reflects this dedication. Additionally, we offer retirement 
provisions to ensure the long-term financial security of 
our employees.
These benefits extend to all the employees, demonstrating 
our firm belief in equality and care for every member of the 
Havells family. While paternity leave and stock ownership 
options are exclusively available to full-time employees, 
our overarching goal is to cultivate a workplace where 
everyone feels valued and supported, both personally 
and professionally.
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
Senior Management 
(Basic salary)
Senior Management 
(Remuneration) 
Middle Management 
(Basic salary)
Middle Management 
(Remuneration)
Junior Management 
(Basic salary)
Junior Management 
(Remuneration) 
Trainees/
Apprentices, etc.  
(Remuneration)
Permanent Workers 
(Remuneration) 
1.06
1.08
1.00
0.96
1.10
1.07
1.36
0.75
* Details of Remuneration of Women w.r.t. Men bifurcated on the lines of Employee Category in Havells for FY 2023-24 has been mentioned in 
the graph.
Havells India Limited
54
These initiatives reflect our unwavering commitment to ensuring the well-being of our employees, ensuring that they feel 
supported, valued, and empowered to lead healthy and fulfilling lives both at work and at home.
Details of permanent employees who availed parental leaves and returned to work in the same year have been given in the 
table below:
Employee Parental Leave - Entitlement, Return to Work, and Retention Rate
Parameters
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Employees entitled for parental leaves
6,347
365
6,712
5,820
270
6,090
Total employees who took parental leave
257
16
273
209
23
232
Total number of employees who returned to 
work in the reporting period after parental 
leave ended
257
10
267
209
16
225
Total number of employees who returned 
to work after parental leave ended and are 
still employed 12 months after their return 
to work
156
11
167
91
19
110
Return to work rate*
100.00%
90.91%
99.63%
100.00%
69.57%
96.98%
Retention rate**
74.64%
68.75%
74.22%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
* Return to work rate is the ratio of the total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended by the total number of 
employees due to return to work after parental leave ended.
** Retention rate is the ratio of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following parental leave by the total number of employees 
returning from parental leave in the previous reporting period.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
55
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Building a Safety Culture
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) is paramount to Havells 
with a focus on prevention, intervention, and collaboration. 
We have invested in cutting-edge technologies and processes 
to mitigate risks associated with manual interactions with 
machinery. Our manufacturing and operational processes 
adhere to stringent frameworks, protocols, and training to 
promote safe practices and behaviours.
Key learnings from incidents are shared across units to 
prevent recurrence and enhance our safety track record. The 
Havells’ OHS management system is aligned with the highest 
standards, meeting the 5-Star Integrated Audit standards of 
renowned safety councils.
We are committed to fostering a safety culture through 
a variety of training programmes tailored for employees. 
Digitalised and gamified modules complement our regular 
training sessions. We regularly conduct safety awareness 
initiatives like presentations, newsletters, and toolbox talks. 
Our ‘Safety Champion’ initiative recognises and incentivises 
positive safety practices, while events like Safety Week further 
reinforces safety awareness. We also ensure that safety messages 
reach the families of our employees through informative booklets 
and displays, covering road and home safety measures.
At Havells, safety is our highest priority. Safety training is 
typically conducted by the EHS Head or our Safety Marshals. 
Moreover, we practice a Train-the-Trainer approach across 
all manufacturing facilities, focussing on risk identification, 
mitigation, and emergency response. This strategy ensures 
that knowledge is effectively passed, particularly in jobs 
of high criticality. Our Front Line Catalyst programme is 
vital in supporting this knowledge transfer, with safety as a 
fundamental aspect.
Additionally, we engage in safety mock drills and behaviour 
based safety training to foster a culture of safety beyond 
conventional classroom environments. Regular sessions on 
Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA), Chemical 
Handling, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), Waste 
Management, etc. are also conducted. Safety Marshals 
provide general safety training to shop floor workers weekly, 
emphasising the practical use of Personal Protective 
Equipment (PPE) to mitigate risks, a practice deeply 
embedded in our culture.
Furthermore, we are boosting safety awareness through 
various training modules integrated into our Learning 
Management System Portal, Gurukul.
Havells India Limited
56
As we move forward, we remain committed to nurturing our human capital, recognising that our employees are the 
cornerstones of our success. We will continue to invest in their growth and well-being, ensuring that Havells remains a 
place where creativity, innovation, and excellence thrive.
Our journey in FY 2023-24 has been marked by significant achievements and a steadfast commitment to our employees. 
We look forward to building on this foundation, driving continuous improvement, and fostering a culture where every 
member of the Havells family can thrive and contribute to our collective success.
Looking Forward
GLOSSARY
Employees/ Full-time 
Employees
Permanent employees including Senior, Middle, and Junior management. This excludes  
Directors, KMP, Trainees/apprentices, and Other than permanent employees and workers.
Senior Management 
Management-level from General Manager to Executive President
Middle Management
Management-level from Assistant Manager to Joint General Manager
Junior Management 
Management level from Receptionist to Senior Executive
Temporary Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Workers
Permanent Workers and Contractual Workers
Workforce
Workforce includes the Permanent employees, Other than permanent employees, Permanent 
workers, and Other than permanent workers at all significant locations of operations of Havells 
India Limited. This excludes Directors, KMP, and Trainees/apprentices.
Basic Salary
Fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties. It excludes any 
additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime work or bonuses.
Remuneration
Basic salary plus additional amounts/incentives paid to employees  
(Employees+ Contractual workers)
Significant location of 
operations
HO, CRI, Plants, Branch offices, and Warehouses
Safety Performance
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total recordable work-related injuries*
Employee
2
2
Worker
7
4
Rate of Total recordable work-related injuries
Employee
0.08
 0.68 
Worker
0.18
 0.11 
No. of fatalities as a result of work-related injury
Employee
0
0
Worker
1
1
Rate of  fatalities as a result of work-related injury
Employee
0
0
Worker
0.03
0.03
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health  
(excluding fatalities)
Employee
-
-
Worker
-
-
Rate of high consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employee
-
 - 
Worker
-
 - 
Total number of hours worked
Employee
2,64,91,005
-
Worker
3,93,25,112
-
* The main type of work-related injuries involved fractures, cut injuries, and other wounds.
Note: The rates have been calculated basis of 10,00,000 hours worked.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
57
Integrated Report
Human Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Intellectual Capital
` 206 crores
Amount spent on R&D activities in FY 2023-24
1
4
2
5
3
6
Our intellectual capital is powered by extensive knowledge base, deep understanding 
of the consumer needs and valuable market insights. This helps us to embrace cutting-
edge technologies, innovate new and unique solutions, and quickly adapt to the evolving 
business landscape, ensuring customer delight and sustained progress.
Technology 
ownership
End-to-end 
product 
responsibility
Consumer 
centricity
Havells research and development is led by our DSIR 
recognised Centre for Research & Development (CRI). As 
a unique and world-class R&D organisation, CRI strives 
making technology seamless and making a difference 
consumer lives.
Three Pillars of  
R&D Vision
Continued R&D efforts have yielded results over the last year 
as well. We developed differentiated and innovative solutions 
for our consumers in different segments and by leveraging 
cutting-edge technology.
Introduction of Solar Dual Mode Micro Invertor (DMMI): 
Backed by four US patents, DMMI brings the possibility of 
harnessing clean Solar energy at individual homes level. With 
its unique modular design, it can be scaled for residential 
to commercial applications and incompatible with various 
inverter and grid configurations.
BLDC+ fans: Havells launched wide range of technologically-
advanced energy saving fans under its BLDC+ range. The 
range combines BLDC motor technology, premium material 
and aesthetics, and direct voice command capabilities.
Hello Lloyd: Allows convenience of controlling AC with just 
voice commands, without requiring any remote, smartphone 
or any other smart interface device. Simply use the voice 
command “Hello Lloyd” and change power, temperature, fan 
speed and ambient settings.
India’s 1st Designer AC range: Lloyd flagship Stellar and 
Stylus ACs, with the design principle of tech. meeting art to 
create desirability and feature loaded with mood lighting and 
in-built air purifier.
Havells Nutrigrinder: The unique grinder combines 
traditional stone grinding methods with modern technology. 
It uses natural stones, customised motor, and a special gear 
system to get the right speed and power for both dry and wet 
types of grinding.
Havells India Limited
58
Recognitions
Red Dot Brand & Communication
IF Award
CII Industrial Innovation Award
German Design Award
CII Design Excellence Award
Golden Peacock Award
German Design Award
Meditate Air Purifier - Product UX
Meditate Air Purifier - Product UX
Meditate
Amaya Fan
Qtron MCCB - Concept
Essence Wet & Dry Grinder - Concept
Otto Storage Water Heater
Meditate Air Purifier - Innovative Product
Nutrigrind Wet & Dry Grinder
Top 50 Innovative Companies
Good Design Award Japan
Elante Washing Machine
Bianca Water Heater
Zella Immersion Rod
2023
2024
brands & communication design 2023
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
59
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Leading the way through Smart Products
We are committed to leveraging the benefits of advanced technology to create truly innovative products that prioritise the 
needs and wants of everyday consumers. In this endeavour, we have completed over 30 large scale lighting projects across 
India in FY 2023-24.
Context
•	 Shri Ram Mandir, Ayodhya, a cultural and architectural marvel, required a strong lighting strategy 
to fully illuminate the temple
•	 The lighting project presented unique challenges due to its intricate architecture and carvings, 
arousing the need for customised lighting solutions to accentuate them
•	 Tough journey in transformation from artistic approach to realistic approach, considering strong 
structural and Vaastu challenges such as non-usage of non-ferrous material across the entire site
•	 Considering the high influx of devotees and outdoor settings of the project, the solutions were 
required to be impact resistant and durable
•	 Need of small form factor yet not compromising on the lighting performance
Shri Ram Mandir in all its glory
Lighting
CASE STUDY
Solution
•	 Havells pushed the boundaries of innovation to integrate aesthetics and 
functionality in the lighting design and application
•	 Minimalistic designs were used, with special attention to the shape, size and 
colour of luminaires, to enhance the work of art without any visual hindrance 
– a perfect fusion of light and dark scenario
•	 Special optics were created to direct light beam towards the intended 
application area
•	 To enhance comfort of devotees, direct glare of  
LEDs was eliminated with high quality diffusers
Havells India Limited
60
Garbh Griha
•	 Highlighted the Ram Lalla idol and the surrounding architecture of Garbh Griha
•	 In-ground luminaires in both linear and circular shapes for illuminated walls and 
pillars
Pillars & Columns
•	 With each pillar being unique, highlighted the design and carvings of the pillars 
with high impact resistant in-ground-up lighters 
•	 Installed spotlight-framing projectors to draw attention to the columns
Ceiling
•	 High-end optics with minimal glare highlighted the ceiling elegance while 
ensuring general lighting
•	 Customised colour of the fixtures body to beautifully blend into the architecture
Gummat
•	 Critical temple architecture required flexible optics to illuminate intricate carvings
•	 Special cables designed for lighting capitals and arches
Steps
•	 Designed bespoke step lights with aesthetic appeal and high efficacy
•	 Enhanced visitors comfort as well as elevated overall temple illumination
The intricate details and majestic architecture of the 
temple were thoughtfully illuminated at multiple areas
Implemented through innovative products specially 
crafted to address the unique lighting needs
Step Light
•	 High brightness and long reach ensure clear visibility on steps and pathways 
with a reduced upward light component
•	 Ideal choice for outdoor environments owing to compact size, dust and 
water resistance
Inground Burial-Engross GenX
•	 Designed for both outdoor and indoor spaces, ensures durability and  
lighting comfort
•	 Compact, trim-less product provides glare-free illumination equipped  
with voltage stabiliser and versatile tilt options, without impeding the  
movement of devotees
Wall and Ceiling Profile Light System
•	 Innovative spilt design and screwless mounting for easy installation and 
maintenance
•	 Enables glare-free illumination while the stone-coloured channels harmonises 
with the temple’s aesthetics
Gold-plated Spotlights
•	 Custom-built spotlight, with 24-carat gold plating, highlights the idol of Ram Lalla
•	 Variable tilt angles to precisely direct the beam of light
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
61
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Reinforcing Trust to Touch Lives Across the Nation
As a part of our ongoing commitment to brand enhancement, 
we continue to invest in reinforcing the mass premium image 
of our brand, which is synonymous with trust, durability, 
design and premiumness. As the brand has become even 
more customer-centric, we have crafted numerous iconic 
advertising campaigns, contributing to sustained improvement 
in consumer awareness and consideration. Our strategic 
focus includes building a diverse portfolio to cater to the 
` 527 crores
Advertisement & Sales 
Promotion spend in FY 2023-24 
2.8%
Revenue share directed towards  
Advertisement and Sales Promotion in  
FY 2023-24
Brand Ambassadors
ever-changing needs of different consumer groups and 
households, thereby enhancing brand relevance.. Over the 
years, Havells has transformed into a house of 6 brands, each 
with a defined role of catering to different consumer segments 
of a diverse India. Our efforts have involved collaborating with 
multiple brand ambassadors on national and regional levels, 
engaging with influencers in emerging digital platforms, and 
executing year-round advertising initiatives. 
Havells India Limited
62
Havells X Influencer Collaborations
Vikrant Massey
Mandira Bedi
Aditi Rao Hydari
Karan Wahi
Harmanpreet Kaur
Shruti Haasan
Tripti Dimri
Raima Sen
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
63
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Key advertising campaigns and initiatives during the year
Havells BLDC+ Fans - Look Up To Havells
Havells Lighting - Har light mein Delight
Havells Water Purifiers - Sahi Paani Ka Sign Havells Alkaline
Havells Water Heaters - What-A-Heater
Havells Crabtree Switches - Har pal ke liye switch
Havells Appliances - Zindagi ki sharing
Lloyd Stellar - India’s First Designer AC
Lloyd Washing Machine - The Art of Washing,  
The Essence of Caring
Havells India Limited
64
Havells Studio Meditate Air Purifier - Feel Beyond
Havells Personal Grooming -  Rishton Ki Grooming
Havells - Anamorphic outdoor content
Havells Air Cooler - Garmi ko jao bhool, Be Mr. Cool
Fan Innovation - Ganesh Chaturthi
Lloyd - Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah
Lloyd Stellar - CGI Videos
Lloyd Refrigerator - The Ultimate Choice For Freshness
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
65
Integrated Report
Intellectual Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Havells’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives 
are designed to support the nation’s goal of inclusive 
growth and the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). The initiatives are focussed on the areas of 
generating environmental benefits, reducing carbon footprint, 
conducting educational and skill development programmes, 
fostering diversity and inclusion, eradicating hunger / 
augmenting nutrition, and organising women empowerment 
and sensitisation workshops. Aligned with the Company’s 
business models, the initiatives are creating a profound 
impact on the communities we serve and operate in, and 
Robust Review Mechanism
CSR 
Monitoring
Appointment of third 
party for impact 
assessment
Adherence to terms 
and conditions of 
MoUs/agreement
Periodic visits (including 
surprise visits) by the 
Corporate and local 
CSR Teams
Milestone-based 
monitoring of projects
Social and 
Relationship Capital
1
4
2
5
3
6
Havells sustained efforts to promote a sustainable and inclusive ecosystem with 
equal opportunities for all and a healthier planet for future generations underscores its 
commitment to creating enhanced value for all stakeholders and the communities that it 
operates in and serves.
contributing significantly to environmental conservation.
Our sustainability ethos focusses on the welfare of the 
communities we work with, especially those linked with our 
business segments & manufacturing operations. Havells 
follows powerful CSR strategies & framework according 
to OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development) comprising key areas of Health & Nutrition, 
Sanitation, Education, Environment, Skill Development and 
Heritage Conservation.
Community Development & Sustainable Initiatives Through CSR
Havells India Limited
66
Keeping up with our ethos to give back to the society, 
Havells Mid-day meal programme aims to improve the 
health and nutrition levels of students in government 
schools and improve their attendance and learning 
outcomes. Since 2005, when it was first introduced, 
the programme has benefited over 95 million students 
across 300+ Villages in 7 Blocks of Alwar District 
(Rajasthan), vis. Laxmangarh, Ramgarh, Kishangarh 
Bas, Umrain, Alwar City, Malakhera and Govindgarh. 
The programme has resulted in a jump in attendance 
and child enrolment as well as a reduction in drop-
out rates within government schools, positively 
impacting the lives of school children. Another positive 
outcome has been an increase in enrolment of girl 
child, reducing discrimination and inequality within 
the society. Additionally, free coaching classes were 
provided to over 900 students across 10+ schools of 
Alwar (Rajasthan), where mid-day meals are served, in 
FY 2023-24.
For the 7th consecutive time, Havells Mid-day Meal 
programme was awarded with Bhamashah Award for 
Outstanding CSR performance from State Education 
Minister of Rajasthan, on September 11, 2023.
Mid-day Meal Kitchen
Mid-day Meal & Free Coaching Classes in Alwar (Rajasthan)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
67
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
In 2021, Havells collaborated with Plaksha University to 
make a meaningful impact in technological change and 
evolution. Havells Research Building was built as a part 
of this CSR initiative and offers scholarships to needy 
students. Through association with Plaksha University, 
we are working towards making a significant impact 
on the education & technology journey of students by 
setting up research building with cutting-edge labs and 
facility. The initiative aims to create a vibrant ecosystem 
of innovation and research, and is fully committed to 
enrol a socially, geographically and gender diverse 
batch of students, cultivating diversity and inclusion. 
350+ students, researchers and faculty members have 
been using the Havells Research Building.
With the aim to facilitate learning and growth of 
underprivileged children up to Grade 3, Havells 
associated with Central Square Foundation (CSF) to 
implement FLN program in Aligarh (U.P.), in  
FY 2023-24. The program provides special education 
training & capacity building for government teachers, 
under the spectrum of Foundation Learning & 
Numeracy (FLN) program, as per Nipun Bharat 
guidelines. Havells emerged as a key contributor, 
benefiting 86,000+ students across 1,700+ schools 
in Aligarh district through this intervention. The 
program inculcated among the teachers a ‘Structured 
Pedagogy’ approach to teaching and efficient use 
of teacher guides and also created an ecosystem to 
support teachers via State Resource Group.
In FY 2023-24, we associated with the Chanakya 
University, Bangalore and contributed towards the 
construction of its Data centre and Core IT area. 
Support for exploring the IT Facility within the university 
was also extended to the students.
Empowering through Education
Havells India Limited
68
Since 2018, Havells has planted over 21 lakh teak 
trees in the Sagar, Sehore, Vidisha and Raisen districts 
of Bhopal, reaping immense ecological benefits 
for communities and the planet, and achieving the 
twin purpose of environmental conservation and 
preservation of flora and fauna. The survival rate 
of trees exceeds 85% as per a survey conducted 
by MPRVVN and the Indian Institute of Forest 
Management (Bhopal). The high survival rate is 
supported by regular monitoring and continuous 
availability of water supply, among other favourable 
factors. As per a study conducted by IIFM, the 
total amount of CO2 sequestration potential of the 
plantation after the final harvest (60 years) would be 
4,30,687 tonnes. The plantation drive is conducted 
in association with Madhya Pradesh Rajya Van Vikas 
Nigam Limited (MPRVVN).
Environment Conservation
Havells ‘Project Baala’ empowers and educates 
women and girls about menstrual health and hygiene. 
With over 2,800+ menstrual hygiene workshops, the 
project has impacted over 6 lakh women and girls in 
23 States & 4 UTs across 50 districts. In January 2024, 
Havells received the National Award for Eminence 
for Project Baala from the Ministry of Commerce & 
Industry, under the category of Best CSR Project.
Hygiene and Sanitation (Project Baala)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
69
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
To support upskilling and create livelihood 
opportunities for the underprivileged youth, and to 
meet the UN Sustainable Development Goal (UNSDG), 
Maharath programme was launched by Havells in 
January 2024. The program is run in collaboration 
with Electronic Sector Skill Council of India (ESSCI) to 
explore the various facets of the industry and equip 
young electricians from marginalised communities with 
future-ready skills. During the year, 5,000 electricians 
across the nation have been certified under the 
program, who enjoy benefits such as pan India and 
international recognition, improved career prospects, 
knowledge enhancement, and awareness about new 
products and technology. The certified candidates won 
accolades and appreciation, and are ready to start 
their entrepreneurial journey.
To promote national sports, Havells organised a 
junior golf training program for children of caddies, 
in association with the Delhi Golf Club. The program 
has given young kids an ideal platform to pursue their 
interest in golf, with young Golfers expressing great 
enthusiasm to learn the sport. The program helped 
participants to champion the basics and understand 
the nuances, getting inspired in the process, to 
master the game.
Central to our ethos is our commitment to diversity 
and inclusion. Through well-structured policies and 
procedures, we lay down a solid framework for women 
empowerment and build a gender-neutral workforce. 
As part of our gender equality initiative, over 350 
female employees have been deployed at Sri City 
plant, Bangalore.
Skill Development Programme (Maharath Programme)
Junior Golf Training programme (National Sports)
Diversity and Inclusion in Manufacturing Plants
Havells India Limited
70
Key Initiatives for Go-To-Market (GTM) Excellence in FY 2023-24
Augmenting Electrician Enrolment
Key focus was maintained on onboarding new electricians 
during the year, leading to a significant growth in new 
registrations across the branches. On an average, a 5% 
increase in new electrician enrolments was observed 
every month.
Personalised Offers For Electricians
At Havells, effective partner engagement is at the forefront 
of our priority. As an industry-first concept, we launched 
B2C personalised monthly offers for the electricians, 
encouraging them to align their performance in respect to 
achievable targets and earn bonus points. The electricians 
were segregated in different cohorts based on their past 
performance and were assigned achievable monthly targets, 
customised to their unique capabilities and performance. 
This exercise, helped us not only build a strong connection 
with the electricians, but also resulted in a significant 
improvement in monthly conversions and member retention. 
The monthly average for unique accumulating electricians has 
increased by 20%.
Introducing QR Codes For Process Efficiency
Keeping with our dedication to streamline operations and 
continually enhance partner experience, we shifted from 
barcode to QR code for all our products in September 2023. 
The initiative simplified the scanning process, making it more 
user-friendly, easy and quick for our partners, along with 
improving the traceability. Being a crucial step performed by the 
retailers and electricians while selling our products, QR code 
scanning also helps in reducing the time lag between sale and 
point accumulation and provides a more realistic accumulation 
data on monthly basis. The accumulated points can be used 
by dealers and electricians to redeem various rewards.
Upskilling 6,500 In-Store Professionals
We started an initiative to train and upskill 6,500 in-store 
professionals across 45 cities in India. The move aims to 
improve the point-of-sales experience and foster customer 
delight as well as improve employee productivity and build 
a reliable talent supply chain. Through this initiative, Havells 
in-store sales professionals will get the opportunity to learn 
innovative techniques and sales skills based on detailed on-
field analysis involving technology and human interventions.
We are proud to win the ‘Making India Employable Awards’ 
by India Education Forum and India Employer Forum in the 
‘Corporate Excellence’ category for our training and upskilling 
programme and other front-line engagement activities.
Expanding Our Brand Store Footprint
Designed to provide best-in-class consumer experience, 
Havells brand stores significantly strengthens the Company’s 
brand image as well as drives its business in the urban, 
semi-urban and rural markets of India. Continuing our focus 
on expanding our brand store footprint, we added 200 new 
brand stores in the urban and semi-urban markets and 250+ 
UTSAV stores in the rural markets (under 10,000 population 
towns). New brand stores set-up in the urban and semi-urban 
areas are larger in size, enabling a wider range of product 
display and enhanced customer experience.
Embracing the power of digital technology, we have 
embarked on an ambitious journey to implement ePOS (a 
point-of-sale software) across our brand stores. This will help 
organise CRM/loyalty initiatives through secondary sales 
tracking. The project will also enable the brand shop partners 
to better manage their inventory for improved margins.
Brand stores will continue to be an important channel in 
Havells portfolio. With accelerated thrust on rural markets 
supported by our growing UTSAV brand store footprint, we 
intend Havells offerings to the last-mile and deliver a seamless 
product experience for customers in rural India as well.
Urban Distribution: Channel Expansion in 
Urban Areas
To fortify our market presence in the urban territories, ‘Urban 
Distribution’, an innovative channel expansion initiative, was 
launched by Havells. With a strategic focus on enhancing 
accessibility and availability of our products and in a quest to 
serve urban communities better, a range of essential trade 
products including Switches, MCBs, Flexible Cables, and 
Fans were introduced under the initiative.
By expanding our reach, diversifying our product offerings, 
and forging strong partnerships, we are poised to emerge 
as the preferred brand for essential electrical products in the 
urban markets.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
71
Integrated Report
Social and Relationship Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Objectives 
of ‘Urban 
Distribution’ 
initiative 
Channel Expansion Strategy: 
By leveraging a network of over 
100 distributors to be appointed 
in the financial year, Urban 
Distribution aims to penetrate 
deep into urban markets, 
reaching customers at their 
doorsteps.
Improved Accessibility: 
Facilitate easier access for 
customers to procure essential 
electrical products, thereby 
addressing their diverse needs 
conveniently.
Enhanced Market Presence:
Establish a robust presence 
at retail outlets across urban 
towns, ensuring widespread 
availability of our trade 
products.
Strengthened Partnerships:
Forge long-lasting partnerships 
with distributors, empowering 
them with quality products and 
extensive support to foster 
mutual growth.
Empowering Our Supply Chain Partners
In our efforts to ensure continuous engagement with our 
partners, over 45 strategic suppliers were invited to Havells 
‘Samanvay’ meetings in FY 2023-24. During these meetings, 
a purchase fair was organised to showcase our wide range 
of products to the suppliers and to identify new opportunities 
for business growth of suppliers. Additionally, open discussion 
sessions and factory tours were also arranged with our senior 
management. The events played a key role in establishing long-
term strategic alliances between the suppliers and Havells.
In order to impart ESG (Environmental, Social, and 
Governance) consciousness, evaluate supplier performance 
and assess business practices, supplier self-assessments 
were also conducted during the year. Leveraging India’s 
strong ecosystem, empowered by initiatives such as 
Production Linked Incentive Scheme and Make in India, 
80% of our products were sourced domestically. Equally, 
incremental sourcing from near to factory continues to be a 
vital element of our sourcing strategy.
Customer Service
With a commitment to providing a lasting experience, 
customer service remains among the top priorities for the 
Company. We bolstered our service network, now comprising 
1,980 channel partners having a strong workforce of 7,000+ 
well trained and highly dedicated technicians, extending 
Additional emphasis was placed on promptly addressing customer queries and issues. During the year, 81% of the service 
calls were closed within 24 hours, with 96% within 72 hours. Further, 99.9% of the escalations were closed within 24 hours, 
underscoring our highly responsive customer support. We continue to enhance our customer service which is evident in our 
improving KPIs such as Net Promoter Score of 75% and average technician rating by customer 4.6 out of 5.
coverage to more than 20,000 pin codes nationwide. This 
backbone of our service infrastructure, our service partners, 
were actively engaged through Service Partner Meets and a 
unique engagement programme SAHYOG.
Launched in August 2023 with 2 new programmes:
QRG Growth Fund – Industry’s first & only wealth creation plan for Service Partners 
Industry’s First Comprehensive Personal Accident Insurance for Field Technicians  
up to ` 5 Lakhs
Havells SAHYOG
Havells India Limited
72
Natural Capital
Environmental conservation and sustainability are at the core of everything we do. This 
is exemplified by our focussed endeavours to reduce our carbon footprint through 
responsible product stewardship, optimised resource utilisation, enhanced renewable 
energy usage, minimised waste, biodiversity initiatives and circular-economy approach. 
A robust policy framework and responsible practices drive our progress towards our 
sustainability goals.
1
4
2
5
3
6
45%
Reduction in total Scope 1 & 2 
intensity as compared to base 
year 2012-13
50%
Reduction in diesel consumption 
from base year 
Zero
Waste to Landfill Certification in 
FY 2023-24
902 tCO2e
Reduction in GHG emissions 
through 39 energy management 
initiatives in FY 2023-24
1,989 tCO2e
Reduction in GHG Emissions 
through the transition 
from diesel to PNG in the 
manufacturing process in 
FY 2023-24
8.4%
Share of renewable 
energy in total electricity 
consumed in FY 2023-24
7,971 tCO2e
Emissions mitigated with solar 
usage in FY 2023-24
59%
Reduction in energy intensity 
as compared to base year 
2012-13
1,259 MWh
Energy saving through energy 
management initiatives
21 Lakh
Number of trees planted till date
11,159 MWh 
Total Renewable Energy 
Generated including Solar Energy 
and Biogas Energy in FY 2023-24
11.26 MW
(33% of total contract 
demand)
Solar power generation 
capacity in FY 2023-24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
73
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Energy and Emission Management
Our ESG strategy is centred on energy efficiency and 
emissions reduction to address climate change. We 
leverage technology-driven innovations to minimise our 
carbon footprint, improve fuel efficiency, optimise electricity 
usage, and incorporate renewable energy sources to 
decrease indirect energy consumption.
Over the years, a significant amount of CO2 emissions has 
been offset by Havells through various initiatives, including 
renewable energy utilisation, deployment of energy‑saving 
projects, tree plantations, and implementation of Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR). Our commitment to 
sustainability has resulted in a substantial reduction of 
39,086 MTCO2e emissions during the period  
FY 2012‑13 to FY 2023-24 through renewable solar 
energy. Implementation of many energy‑efficient measures 
such as maximising natural light usage, deploying sensor-
triggered lighting systems, and adopting the ISO:50001 
energy management system has also helped us reduce our 
carbon footprints and combat climate change. In FY 2023-
24, we successfully completed 39 energy-saving projects, 
leading to a total energy savings of 1,259.14 MWh and 
CO2 mitigation of 902 MTCO2e.
We have successfully shifted from using Light Diesel Oil 
(LDO) to Piped Natural Gas (PNG) at our four manufacturing 
locations in Faridabad, Ghiloth, Neemrana, and Haridwar 
Fan. This transition enabled us to reduce our carbon 
emissions by 1,989 tCO2e in FY 2023-24. At our Neemrana 
plant, we use bio-based fuels. In the future, we plan to 
expand the use of bio-based fuels to our other plants.
In the upcoming fiscal year, we plan to scale up our solar 
power capacity to 16 MW approximately by installing a 
4.6 MW solar power plant at our Alwar facility. This move 
shall equip us to meet 67% of our total electricity demand 
through renewable energy sources, thereby, reducing 
Scope 2 emissions considerably.
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS)
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are mainly used in air 
conditioners, chillers, refrigerators, and dryers as gas refills. 
Last financial year, we made a commitment to phase out ODS 
from all our manufacturing units by FY 2023-24. In  
FY 2023-24, our manufacturing operations resulted in 
zero kilograms of CFC-11eq. We have replaced R22 with 
refrigerants that have zero ozone depletion potential (ODP).
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) (Kg of CFC-11eq.) 
FY23
FY24
FY22
FY21
FY20
FY19
429
335.9
194.7
163.7
269
0
Net-Zero Journey 
Havells has taken a significant step towards sustainability by 
embarking on its net-zero journey, marking a pivotal moment 
in its commitment to environmental stewardship. In line with 
this initiative, Havells has meticulously inventoried its Scope 
1, 2, and 3 emissions with base year 2022-23, ensuring a 
comprehensive understanding of its carbon footprint across all 
operational facets. Leveraging this data, Havells is strategically 
aligning its future roadmap with the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) framework, aiming to set a definitive net-zero 
target year. This proactive approach underscores Havells’ 
dedication to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and fostering 
a more sustainable future for generations to come.
Biodiversity
Havells biodiversity focus aligns with its core values 
of environmental stewardship and sustainability. By 
implementing a range of initiatives and programmes, we have 
Havells India Limited
74
effectively addressed biodiversity conservation challenges, 
while promoting ecological resilience and community 
engagement.
We refrain from engaging in any business activities that would 
cause irreversible or negative harm to biodiversity. Further, we 
ensure that our operational sites are not located near areas 
of high biodiversity value or protected areas. To preserve the 
ecosystem and mitigate the accelerated loss of biodiversity, 
tree plantation drives are being organised by the Company.
By integrating biodiversity considerations into our core 
business practices and engaging with stakeholders at all 
levels, we play a crucial role in protecting and preserving 
biodiversity for the current and future generations.
EPR
Havells’ commitment to responsible product stewardship and 
environmental conservation is exemplified by its Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR) initiatives. The initiatives 
involve various programs and strategies to bring down waste 
generation, promote resource efficiency, and ensure proper 
management and disposal of products, especially at the end 
of their lifecycle.
One of the key pillars of our EPR efforts is the implementation 
of take-back and recycling programme for our products. 
The programmes provide convenient and accessible 
channels for consumers to return end-of-life products, 
including drop-off locations, and partnerships with retailers. 
By providing these collection avenues, we ensure that our 
products are diverted from landfills and properly recycled, 
lowering their environmental impact and contributing to the 
circular economy.
For a higher impact, the EPR principles have also been 
integrated into our product design and innovation processes. 
Our design team prioritises materials that are recyclable, 
reusable, and environmentally friendly, facilitating the recovery 
and recycling of valuable resources at the end of a product’s 
life. By designing products with disassembly and recyclability 
in mind, we minimise waste generation and promote the 
efficient use of resources throughout the product lifecycle.
We also participate in industry associations and working 
groups focussed on EPR and product stewardship. Such 
participation enables sharing of best practices and advocating 
for policy reforms to strengthen EPR regulations and promote 
sustainable waste management practices across the industry.
Overall, 5,478 MT of Plastic, 25,046 MT of E-Waste, and 513 
MT of Battery Waste have been collected and channelised 
through tie-ups with waste management agencies. The 
channelisation is in line with EPR rules for E-Waste, Plastic 
Waste, and Battery Waste.
Waste Management
Waste management is a core component of Havells’ 
sustainability strategy. We aim to minimise waste generation 
and promote responsible disposal practices throughout 
our operations. To achieve this goal, the Company has 
implemented a series of initiatives focussed on waste 
reduction, recycling, and circular economy principles.
One of the primary strategies employed by us is ‘waste 
minimisation through process optimisation and resource 
efficiency’. By implementing lean manufacturing principles 
and initiatives for continuous improvement, we have 
identified opportunities to reduce waste at every stage of the 
production cycle. This includes optimising raw material usage, 
reducing packaging waste, and streamlining manufacturing 
processes to minimise scrap and offcuts. Moreover, we 
have collaborated with various governmental and non-
governmental organisations to develop integrated systems, 
processes, and controls to manage both hazardous and non-
hazardous waste and comply with the national and state-level 
waste regulations.
A comprehensive recycling programme to divert waste from 
landfills and promote the reuse of materials has also been 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
75
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
implemented by the Company. The programme encourages 
partnerships with local recycling facilities and waste 
management providers to ensure that recyclable materials 
such as paper, plastics, metals, and glass are properly sorted, 
collected, and recycled.
In recognition of our waste management efforts, we have 
been awarded with zero-waste to landfill certificate by Intertek 
for all our manufacturing plants and corporate offices.
Product Stewardship
Havells is deeply committed to product stewardship and 
recognises its responsibility to ensure the safety, sustainability, 
and proper management of its products, throughout their 
lifecycle. To fulfil this responsibility, a product stewardship 
programme, encompassing design, manufacturing, 
distribution, use, and end-of-life disposal, has been instituted 
by the Company.
A key aspect of our approach to product stewardship is 
the integration of environmental considerations into product 
design and innovation. By using materials that are non-toxic, 
recyclable, and environmentally friendly, the Company aims 
to reduce the environmental impact of its products from the 
outset. We also plan to incorporate life cycle assessments 
as a part of new product development to evaluate their 
environmental footprint and identify opportunities for 
improvement in their early stages.
Other than integrating sustainability and innovation at the 
product development stage, we actively engage with our 
suppliers to ensure responsible sourcing of materials and 
promote sustainable manufacturing practices. Through 
supplier assessments, audits, and partnerships, the Company 
addresses social and environmental issues throughout its 
supply chain.
During distribution, the next phase of the product lifecycle, 
customers are provided with the necessary resources and 
information for safe and responsible usage of our products. 
This includes guidance on proper storage, handling, and 
disposal practices to minimise environmental and health risks.
Towards the end of a product’s life, we facilitate take-back 
programmes for proper disposal of products. Recycling 
initiatives are also instituted to promote reuse or recycling of 
materials, whenever possible.
Water Stewardship
We understand that water is a shared resource and are 
committed to using it responsibly. With a clear focus on 
achieving resource-neutral operations, the Company 
promotes water treatment, recycling, and reuse of this 
precious resource, thus lowering its consumption as well as 
wastage and ensuring its availability for the future generations.
Our effluent treatment systems use a reverse osmosis 
process to improve water quality and prepare it for recycling. 
Such systems ensure that the level of effluents remain well 
below the prescribed regulatory requirements. The recycled 
water is then utilised for various unit-level operations.
To gauge water savings, automatic water recirculation systems 
have been installed in the kitchens of select plants for the purpose 
of cleaning utensils. In addition to equipping all our manufacturing 
facilities with Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) except Sri City, five 
manufacturing facilities also have Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP) 
for a more comprehensive approach to wastewater management. 
Nearly all of the treated water is reused within our premises to 
flush toilets or develop greenbelts and plantations. All applicable 
guidelines and directions to maintain the required STP and ETP 
standards as required by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 
and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) are strictly followed.
In addition to wastewater treatment, we also lay emphasis 
on rainwater harvesting for groundwater recharge. Rainwater 
harvesting structures have been installed at all our facilities to 
fulfil this objective.
Water Withdrawal and Consumption
Source (In Megalitres)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
All Locations
Stress Area
All Locations
Stress Area
Water Withdrawal by Source 
	 Ground Water
226.94
181.88
155.06
82.87
	 Third Party
117.10
49.39
56.43
56.43
	 Others
-
-
-
-
Total Water Withdrawal
344.04
231.27
211.49
139.30
Water Consumption
283.05
218.54
211.49
139.30
Category (In Megalitres)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Fresh Water
 Other Water
Fresh Water
 Other Water
Water Withdrawal
232.72
111.32
145.51
44.55
Havells India Limited
76
Furthering our dedication to responsible water stewardship, 
Havells initiated its participation in the CDP’s water security 
framework, and secured a ‘B’ rating in water security. The 
participation underscores our unwavering resolve to manage 
water-related risks, improve water stewardship practices, and 
enhance long-term resilience.
Circular Economy
By implementing the principles of circular economy across 
all aspects of our operations, we aim to transform our 
business model into one that is regenerative, sustainable, and 
resource-efficient. One of the central strategies employed 
by us is product redesign. The strategy emphasises 
on integrating durability, reparability, and recyclability of 
products as crucial factors into the design process itself. 
By adopting modular designs and utilising eco-friendly 
materials, the Company ensures that its products can be 
easily disassembled, repaired, and recycled at the end 
of their lifecycle, thus minimising waste and maximising 
resource utilisation.
Additionally, our take-back and refurbishment programme 
encourages customers to return used products for 
refurbishment and resale. This not only extends the lifespan 
of the products but also reduces the demand for new 
resources, diminishing the environmental impact associated 
with manufacturing of new goods. For maximum impact, 
any damaged or warranty-expired products are dismantled 
and recycled within a circular economy framework, after 
undergoing adequate safety tests and quality checks.
Hazardous & Non-Hazardous Waste
Responsible management of hazardous and non-hazardous 
waste is a priority at Havells. To ensure this, we have 
deployed a rigorous waste management system that ensures 
that all waste is segregated at source. Special emphasis is 
placed on storage, handling, transportation, and disposal 
of hazardous waste to safeguard human health and the 
environment. All hazardous waste is disposed through 
authorised dealers approved by the Central/State Pollution 
Control Boards.
Waste diverted from disposal
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Recycled
1,442.05
246.06
Re-used
-
13.15
Other recovery options
53.92
8.82
Non-Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (MT)
Recycled
25,058.69
15,382.16
Re-used
3,682.11
2,421.82
Other recovery options
295.52
12.73
Waste directed to disposal
Hazardous waste diverted to disposal (MT)
Type of utilisation
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Incineration (with energy recovery)
-
-
Incineration (without energy recovery)
4.18
317.64
Landfilling
2.68
8.10
Other disposal
-
-
Non-Hazardous waste diverted to disposal (MT)
Incineration (with energy recovery)
-
-
Incineration (without energy recovery)
-
-
Landfilling
-
-
Other disposal
23,419.17
-
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
77
Integrated Report
Natural Capital
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board of Directors
Audit Committee
A
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
N
Corporate Social Responsibility & 
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
C
Enterprises Risk Management Committee
R
Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal Committee	

S
Member 
Chairman 
1. Siddhartha Pandit
Whole-time Director
5. T.V. Mohandas Pai
Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director
2. Ashish Bharat Ram
Independent Director
6. Anil Rai Gupta
Chairman and Managing 
Director
3. Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Independent Director
7. Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Whole-time Director
and Group CFO
4. Namrata Kaul
Independent Director
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Committees 
N
C
R
S
A
N
R
R
C
Governance
Havells India Limited
78
Chief Executive Officer
1
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
3
Whole-time Director
3
Independent Director
7
Board summary
Board Independence
8. Puneet Bhatia
Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director
11. Vivek Mehra
Independent Director
8.
10.
11.
12.
13.
9.
N
9. Surjit Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director
C
S
12. Ameet Kumar Gupta
Whole-time Director
13. B. Prasada Rao
Independent Director
14. Upendra Kumar Sinha
Independent Director
A
A
A
10. Subhash S. Mundra
Independent Director
R
S
C
14.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
79
Integrated Report
Board of Directors
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Information
Company Secretary
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Auditors
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse & Co
Chartered Accountants LLP
Internal Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Cost Auditors
Chandra Wadhwa & Co
Cost Accountants
Secretarial Auditors
Balika Sharma and Associates
Company Secretaries
Registrars and Share 
Transfer Agent
Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor,
Plot No. NH 2, LSC, C-1 Block,
Near Savitri Market,
Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110 058
Tel: 011-41410592, 93
011-49411000
Fax: 011-41410591
Email id: delhi@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
Listed on
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
BSE Limited
Bankers
Yes Bank Limited
HSBC Limited
Citi Bank
Standard Chartered Bank
DBS Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
IDBI Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
IndusInd Bank Limited
Registered Office
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
K G Marg, Connaught Place,
New Delhi - 110 001
Corporate Office
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector - 126,
Expressway, Noida - 201 304 (U.P.)
Tel: +91-120-3331000
Website: www.havells.com
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
Havells India Limited
80
Directors’ Report
Your Directors are pleased to present the 41st Annual Report (Integrated) on the business and operations of the Company and the 
audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024. 
1.	
Financial Summary or Highlights 
	
The Board’s Report is prepared based on the standalone financial statements of the Company. The Company’s financial 
performance for the year under review alongwith previous year’s figures are given hereunder –
	
Financial Summary
(` in Crores)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
Revenue from Operations
18,550
16,868
18,590
16,911
Other Income
249
177
249
178
Total income
18,799
17,045
18,839
17,088
Cost of Material Consumed
12,537
11,671
12,569
11,705
Employee Benefits Expense
1,541
1,275
1,549
1,282
Other Expenses
-	
Advertisement & Sales Promotion
527
437
527
437
-	
Others
2,100
1,882
2,103
1,887
EBITDA
2,094
1,780
2,092
1,777
Less: Depreciation & Amortisation Expenses
338
296
339
296
Finance Cost
46
34
46
34
Profit before Tax & Exceptional Expenses
1,710
1,450
1,707
1,447
Exceptional Items
a) Loss due to fire
-
113
-
113
b) Insurance claim receivable
-
(113)
-
(113)
Profit Before Tax
1,710
1,450
1,707
1,447
Less: Tax
437
375
437
375
Profit for the Year
1,273
1,075
1,271
1,072
Other Comprehensive Income
(5)
(8)
(5)
(8)
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year, net of Tax
1,268
1,068
1,266
1,064
	
Havells FY 2023-24 revenue grew 10% over the previous 
year with operating profit expanding faster than the 
revenue growth. This Profit expansion has been achieved 
along with higher investments in brand and talent 
building. Capacity expansion across verticals involving an 
investment of ` 713 crores led to increase in depreciation 
during the year. The profit after tax increased by 18% 
to ` 1,273 crores in FY 2023-24 from ` 1,075 crores in 
FY 2022-23.
2.	
Brief Description of the Company’s Working 
During the Year/ State of Company’s Affairs
	
During the year, Havells continued to strengthen its position 
as a diversified electrical and consumer durables player. 
In a challenging operating environment, your Company 
reported a resilient performance. While B2B segments did 
well on the back of the government’s continued emphasis 
on infrastructure development, the consumer demand 
remained tepid with persistent inflation.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
81
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
Segment wise performance (standalone):
(` in Crores)
Segments
2023-24
2022-23
Revenue
Segment 
Results
Segment 
Results (%)
Revenue
Segment 
Results
Segment 
Results (%)
Switchgears
2,245
596
26.5%
2,120
553
26.1%
Cables
6,318
716
11.3%
5,533
523
9.5%
Lighting and Fixtures
1,627
247
15.2%
1,602
245
15.3%
Electrical Consumer Durables
3,482
387
11.1%
3,296
416
12.6%
Lloyd Consumer
3,785
(164)
(4.3)%
3,369
(223)
(6.6)%
Others
1,094
25
2.2%
950
34
3.5%
Total
18,550
1,807
9.7%
16,868
1,548
9.2%
	
Switchgear segment recorded modest growth of 5.9%, 
we remain optimistic that the uptick in new real estate 
launches will contribute positively towards the demand 
for switchgear and other electrical categories, though 
with a time lag.
	
Cables segment achieved a revenue growth of 14.2%, 
maintaining its double-digit growth momentum driven by 
continued infrastructure-led demand for power cables 
and flexible cables.
	
Lighting segment delivered healthy volume growth led by 
professional lighting, however, value growth was marginal 
at 1.6% due to industry wide persistent price erosion in 
LED components.
	
For Electrical Consumer Durables (ECDs), FY 2023-24 was 
the year of stabilisation post the transition of fans from non-
rated to BEE energy efficiency rating. Affected by lower 
consumer demand and unseasonal rains in the summer, 
the ECD segment revenue grew modestly by 5.6%.
	
Core to our strength, we sustained our investments 
in seeding & expanding new categories. The “others” 
segment which includes motor, solar, pumps, personal 
grooming and water purifier grew by 15.1%.
	
During the year, Lloyd scaled up production in the newly 
commissioned manufacturing plant in Sri City, Andhra 
Pradesh. Lloyd cemented its position among the key 
players in the air conditioner market in India and grew the 
revenue by 12.4% YoY.
	
In FY 2023-24, we intensified efforts to develop our 
international business, leading to a healthy growth in 
export revenues, especially in cables. As part of this focus, 
we established subsidiaries in the US for air conditioners 
and lighting products.
	
The Company strategically invested in its core growth 
pillars–Brand, Omni-Channel, Innovation, Digitisation and 
Talent. Brand building efforts continued as advertisement 
and sales promotion expenses increased to ` 527 crores 
i.e., 2.8% of revenue. As the existing channels were 
bolstered, the Company expanded further into alternate 
channels to enhance its omni-channel presence. 
	
Progressing on our premiumisation agenda, we introduced 
several innovative and premium products across various 
categories. Our range of BLDC+ fans, home art lights 
and designer Lloyd Stellar & Stylus ACs are among the 
notable launches driving the premiumisation. Additionally, 
delivering innovative and unique lighting solutions at the 
Shri Ram Mandir in Ayodhya was one of the highlights of 
the year.
	
Havells adopted on a holistic approach towards 
digitisation, spanning across all business functions with 
an emphasis on improving revenue, managing costs, 
mitigating risks and fortifying the Company foundation. 
Development of internal talent along with capability 
building with an infusion of external talent has been key 
in shaping Havells of tomorrow. During the year, your 
Company was recognised as one of the top 50 Best 
Workplaces in India for ‘Building a Culture of Innovation 
by All – Large’ and recognised as one of India’s top 
workplaces in the Manufacturing sector by Great Place to 
Work® India.
	
The Company ensured financial discipline and strong 
corporate governance. With a robust balance sheet and 
healthy cash flow generation, the Company remains debt-
free and with consistent dividend payout to shareholders.
	
Subsidiary 
Companies, 
Joint 
Venture 
and 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
	
As on 31st March 2024, the Company has four subsidiary 
companies, two being direct subsidiaries and the other 
two being step-down subsidiaries, all of which are 
registered outside India. The two Direct subsidiaries are:
	
•	
Havells Guangzhou International Limited based at 
China and 
	
•	
Havells International Inc based in United States of 
America (USA). 
Havells India Limited
82
	
The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the 
period ended 31st March, 2024, includes the Profit and 
Loss Account for the subsidiary Havells Guangzhou 
International Limited for the complete Financial Year 
ended 31st March, 2024 and Profit and Loss Account 
for the subsidiary Havells International Inc for the 
period starting from 19th October, 2023. The Board of 
Directors of the Company has, by Resolution passed 
in its Meeting held on 30th April, 2024, given consent 
for not attaching the Balance Sheet of the subsidiaries 
concerned. The Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company including the subsidiaries are presented 
in the Integrated Annual Report. The consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared in strict 
compliance with applicable Accounting Standards 
and wherever applicable, the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India. A Report on Performance and Financial Position 
of the subsidiaries included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements is presented in a separate section 
in this Integrated Annual Report. Please refer (Form 
No. AOC-1) annexed to the Financial Statements in the 
Integrated Annual Report.
	
The standalone annual accounts of the subsidiary 
companies and the detailed related information shall be 
made available to Shareholders of the Company and of 
its subsidiary companies upon request and it shall also 
be made available on the website of the Company i.e. 
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/
financials/balance-sheet.html. The annual accounts of 
the subsidiary companies shall also be kept for inspection 
by any shareholder in the Head Office of the Company 
and the office of its subsidiary companies.
3.	
Names of Companies which have become or 
ceased to be its Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures or 
Associate Companies during the year 
	
During the financial year 2023-24 Havells International 
Inc has been incorporated in USA to promote sales 
of Electrical and Electronic goods in USA. Havells 
International Inc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Havells 
India Limited registered in the state of Delaware. Two step 
down subsidiaries have been incorporated by Havells 
International Inc: 
	
•	
Havells HVAC LLC registered in the state of Delaware, 
USA. Purpose of this entity is to market and sell Air 
conditioning units and related accessories within the 
United States of America.
	
•	
Havells Lighting LLC registered in the state of 
Delaware, USA. Purpose of this entity is to market 
and sell Lighting products within the United States 
of America.
	
During February 2024, JV agreement was entered 
into between Havells International Inc and Salesmark 
Ventures, LLC (“SMV”) to take SMV as a 20% JV partner 
in its subsidiary, Havells HVAC LLC. SMV carries relevant 
market understanding to launch and expand distribution 
of Air conditioning product and service business in 
the United States of America. Closure of the said JV 
agreement was done post the balance sheet date on 
12th April, 2024.
	
Apart from the above, there are no other companies 
which have become or ceased to be subsidiaries 
and/ or associate of the Company during the financial 
year 2023-24.
4.	
Reserves 
	
Your Directors do not propose to transfer any amount to 
the general reserves and the entire amount of profit for the 
year forms part of the ‘Retained Earnings’.
5.	
Dividend
	
In line with the Dividend Policy of the Company which 
is available in the ‘Codes & Policies’ section in the 
Investors section on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/
PDF/Code-and-policies/Dividend_policy.pdf the Board 
of Directors, in its Meeting held on 23rd January, 2024, 
declared an interim dividend of ` 3/- per equity share 
of face value of ` 1/- each, to all the Shareholders who 
were recorded on the Register of Members as on 1st 
February, 2024, being the record date fixed for this 
purpose. 
	
In addition to the Interim Dividend, your Directors are 
pleased to recommend a Final Dividend @ ` 6/- per equity 
share for the financial year 2023-24.
	
The proposed dividend, subject to approval of 
Shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting of 
the Company, would result in appropriation of ` 376.01 
crores (inclusive of TDS). The dividend would be payable 
to all Shareholders whose names appear in the Register 
of Members as on the Book Closure Date. The Register of 
Members and Share Transfer books shall remain closed 
from 3rd June, 2024, Monday to 7th June, 2024, Friday 
(both days inclusive).
6.	
Share Capital
	
During the year, the Company issued and allotted 
1,73,292 Equity Shares of ` 1 each of the Company, 
pursuant to the Employee Stock Purchase Plans of 
the Company. As a result of the allotment, the paid-up 
share capital increased to ` 62,66,83,030 comprising 
62,66,83,030 Equity Shares of ` 1 each. The shares so 
allotted rank pari passu with the existing share capital of 
the Company. Apart from the same, there was no other 
change in the share capital of the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
83
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
7.	
Material changes and commitments, if any, 
affecting the financial position of the Company 
which have occurred between the end of the 
financial year of the Company to which the 
financial statements relate and the date of the 
Report
	
No material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of the Company occurred between 
the end of the financial year to which these financial 
statements relate and the date of this Report. 
	
However, in terms of the Employee Stock Purchase 
Schemes of the Company, which are administered 
by Havells Employees Welfare Trust, 3,57,034 Equity 
Shares of ` 1/- each, were approved for Grant on 30th 
April, 2024 and Vested (pursuant to the respective 
Employee Stock Purchase Schemes as hereunder) to 
the eligible employees, which, if exercised, shall result in 
an equivalent no. of Equity Shares of ` 1/- each to be 
allotted/ transferred to the eligible employees under the 
respective schemes. 
	
A summary is given below:
No. of Shares 
Granted 
No. of Shares 
Vested 
Havells Employees Stock 
Purchase Plan 2014
54,274 
54,274 
Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase 
Scheme 2015
1,50,000 
1,50,000 
Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase 
Scheme 2016
41,529 
32,157* 
Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase 
Scheme 2022
1,11,231 
    23,244**
	
* Out of 41,529 Shares Granted for FY 2023-24, 13,842 Shares 
Vested out of Grants for FY 2023-24, 11,135 Shares Vested 
out of Grants for FY 2022-23 and 7,180 Shares Vested out of 
Grants for FY 2021-22.
	
** Out of 1,11,231 Shares Granted for FY 2023-24, 11,125 
Shares Vested out of Grants for FY 2023-24, 9,018 Shares 
Vested out of Grants for FY 2022-23 and 3,101 Shares Vested 
out of Grants for FY 2021-22. 
8.	
Change in the nature of business, if any 
	
There was no change in the nature of business of 
the Company during the financial year ended 
31st March, 2024. 
9.	
Details of Directors or Key Managerial Personnel 
including those who were appointed or have 
resigned during the year
	
During the financial year 2023-24, no changes took 
place in the composition of the Board of Directors of the 
Company. 
	
Retirement 
by 
rotation 
and 
subsequent 
re-appointment 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002838) 
and Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002810), are due to 
retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting, 
and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 
The Board recommends their re-appointment.
	
In view of Regulation 17 (1A) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the re-
appointment of Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta, aged 82 years, 
is recommended at this AGM as Special Business by 
way of Special Resolution instead of Ordinary Business 
in compliance with Section 102 of the Act read with the 
amended SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015. Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta is a member of the Promoter Group and is one of 
the First Directors of the Company. Under his guidance, 
the Company has emerged as a leading organisation in 
the Electrical Industry with an outstanding prominence for 
high-quality engineered products. The Board has benefited 
from his relevant specialisation and expertise.
	
Re-appointment of Whole-time Directors
	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002838), was last 
re-appointed by the Shareholders as a Whole-time 
Director of the Company in the Annual General Meeting 
held on 27th July, 2019 for a period of 5 (Five) years with 
effect from 1st January, 2020. His term is due to expire on 
31st December, 2024.
	
Accordingly, 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors, 
upon 
the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th April, 2024, 
approved the re-appointment of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, 
as a Whole-time Director of the Company for a further 
period of 5 (Five) years to take effect from 1st January, 
2025 to 31st December, 2029. The re-appointment is 
subject to approval of the shareholders in the general 
meeting and the Board recommends the same at the 
ensuing AGM.
	
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta (DIN: 00002842), was last 
re-appointed by the Shareholders as the Whole-time 
Director & Group CFO of the Company in the Annual 
General Meeting held on 27th July, 2019 for a period of 5 
(Five) years with effect from 1st April, 2020. His term is due 
to expire next year on 31st March, 2025.
	
Accordingly, 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors, 
upon 
the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th April, 2024, 
approved the re-appointment of Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta, as the Whole-time Director & Group CFO of the 
Company for a further period of 5 (Five) years to take 
effect from 1st April, 2025 to 31st March, 2030. The re-
appointment is subject to approval of the shareholders in 
the general meeting by way of a Special Resolution and 
the Board recommends the same at the ensuing AGM.
Havells India Limited
84
	
Re-appointment of Independent Directors for 
the Second Term 
	
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao (DIN: 01705080), Shri Subhash 
S Mundra (DIN: 00979731) and Shri Vivek Mehra (DIN: 
00101328) were appointed as Independent Directors for 
a first term of 5 (Five) years with effect from the date of 
AGM held during the calendar year 2020 i.e. 22nd June, 
2020. Accordingly, the First Term is due to expire next 
year on 21st June, 2025.
	
The Board upon recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, in its Meeting held on 30th 
April, 2024, has thus approved the re-appointment of 
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao, Shri Subhash S Mundra and 
Shri Vivek Mehra, for a Second Term of 5 (Five) years 
upon the expiry of their first term. The re-appointment(s) 
are subject to the approval of the shareholders by way of 
Special Resolution(s) in general meeting and the Board 
recommends the same at the ensuing AGM.
	
The Company has received declarations from the 
Independent Directors that they meet the criteria of 
independence as prescribed u/s 149(6) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations. In the opinion 
of the Board, they fulfil the condition for re-appointment 
as Independent Directors on the Board. Further, in 
the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors 
also possess the attributes of integrity, expertise and 
experience as required to be disclosed under Rule 8(5) 
(iiia) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
	
The details of Directors being recommended for 
re-appointment as required under the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 are contained in the accompanying Notice 
convening the ensuing Annual General Meeting of 
the Company. Appropriate Resolution(s) seeking your 
approval for the re-appointment of Directors are also 
included in the Notice.
	
Changes in Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
During the year under review, there were no changes in 
the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, 
the following are the Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company as on March 31, 2024:
	
1.	
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing 
Director & CEO
	
2.	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director
	
3.	
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & 
Group CFO
	
4.	
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Whole-time Director
	
5.	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary
10.	 Number of Meetings of the Board of Directors 
	
During the financial year 2023-24, five meetings of the 
Board of Directors of the Company were held. For details 
of meetings of the Board, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report. 
	
Pursuant to the requirements of Schedule IV to the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
separate Meetings of the Independent Directors of 
the Company were also held on 14th December, 2023 
and 27th March, 2024, without the presence of Non-
Independent Directors and members of the management, 
to inter alia review the performance of Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole, the performance of 
the Chairperson of the Company, taking into account 
the views of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Non-
Independent Directors and also to assess the quality, 
quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the 
Company Management and the Board.
11.	 Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Directors to the best of their knowledge hereby 
state and confirm that:
	
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been followed 
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures, if any;
	
b)	
the Directors had selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company at the end of 
the financial year and of the profit and loss of the 
Company for that period; 
	
c)	
the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care 
for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities; 
	
d)	
the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on 
a going concern basis;
	
e)	
the Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and 
	
f)	
the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
85
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
12.	 Declaration by Independent Director(s) and 
re-appointment, if any 
	
All the Independent Directors have submitted their 
disclosures to the Board that they fulfil all the requirements 
as stipulated in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, so as 
to qualify themselves to be appointed as Independent 
Directors under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the relevant rules thereof.
	
In the opinion of the Board, they fulfil the condition for 
appointment/ re-appointment as Independent Directors 
on the Board. Further, in the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent Directors also possess the attributes 
of integrity, expertise and experience as required to 
be disclosed under Rule 8(5)(iiia) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014. 
13.	 Policy 
on 
Directors’ 
appointment 
and  remuneration  and other matters provided 
under Section 178(3) 
	
Assessment and appointment of members to the Board 
is based on a combination of criteria that includes ethics, 
personal and professional stature, domain expertise, 
gender diversity and specific qualifications required for the 
position. For appointment of an Independent Director, the 
independence criteria defined in Section 149(6) of the Act 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
are also considered. 
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board of Directors is dedicatedly ensuring the continuance 
of a dynamic and forward-thinking Board and recommend 
to the Board qualified candidates for directorship. 
	
The Company’s Policy relating to appointment of 
Directors, payment of managerial remuneration, Directors’ 
qualifications, positive attributes, independence of 
Directors and other matters as provided under Section 
178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 is furnished in 
ANNEXURE – 1 and forms part of this Report. 
	
The Policy is also available in the Investors section, 
under the ‘Codes & Policies’ tab, on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at the web-link https://
www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/
codes-and-policies.html
14.	 Formal Annual Evaluation 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
in accordance with the parameters suggested by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of 
Directors carried out an annual evaluation for the financial 
year 2023-24, of its own performance, its Committees 
and Individual Directors. The evaluation was undertaken 
by way of internal assessments, based on a combination 
of detailed questionnaires and verbal discussions.
	
Performance Evaluation of the Board and 
Committees 
	
The performance of the Board was evaluated by the 
Board Members after considering inputs from all the 
Directors primarily on: 
	
•	
Board composition and quality with emphasis on its 
size, diversity, skill set of members;
	
•	
Periodic review of the Company’s management 
and internal control system for appropriateness and 
relevance; 
	
•	
Board process and procedure with emphasis on the 
frequency of meetings, attendance thereof and flow 
of information;
	
•	
Oversight of the Financial Reporting process 
including Internal Controls and Audit Functions;
	
•	
Engagement in Corporate Governance, ethics and 
compliance with the Company’s code of conduct. 
	
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committees 
on the following parameters:
	
•	
Appropriateness of size and composition;
	
•	
Clarity of mandate and well-defined agenda;
	
•	
Reporting to the Board on the Committee’s activities; 
	
•	
Availability of appropriate internal and external 
support or resources to the Committees.
	
Performance Evaluation of Individual Directors 
	
The performance evaluation of the Individual Directors 
were carried out by the Board and other Individual 
Directors, considering aspects such as: 
	
•	
Display of effective leadership qualities and skill;
	
•	
Implementation of observations/ recommendations 
of Board Members;
	
•	
Effective and timely resolution of grievances of Board 
Members;
	
•	
Ability to bring convergence in case of divergent 
views and conflict of interest situation tabled at 
Board meetings; 
	
•	
Sufficient knowledge of Company strategy and 
objective; 
	
•	
Understand their role as Director, as distinct from 
management;
	
•	
Adequate and productive use of knowledge and 
experience of the Independent Directors for the 
functioning of Board;
	
•	
Efforts for professional development to enable better 
fulfilment of their responsibilities;
	
•	
Ask questions/ critique proposals with confidence;
	
•	
Open 
and 
effective 
participation 
in 
Board 
discussions;
	
•	
Keep stakeholder interest as the touchstone in 
endorsing decisions.
Havells India Limited
86
	
Evaluation Outcome 
	
The evaluation exercise brought forth that the Board is 
well-balanced and knowledgeable and the management 
keeps the Board sufficiently informed. The suggestions 
of Board members are taken seriously and actioned. The 
Board is well structured, has high quality independent 
members and the management is committed to good 
corporate governance. 
	
The committees are well facilitated and given full support 
and freedom to undertake their tasks, discuss various 
issues thoroughly and present them to the Board. Key 
highlights of the Committee Meetings are presented 
before the Board by each Committee Chair adding value 
to the Board proceedings. 
	
The independent directors are eminent persons from their 
respective fields bringing in a mix of knowledge of the 
sector, manufacturing processes, accounting, regulatory, 
leadership and governance areas. Their experience 
reflects in asking the right questions and providing 
meaningful suggestions. 
	
The non-independent directors, led by the Board 
Chairman are industry leaders in their own right and match 
the best global leaders in knowledge, understanding and 
commitment. 
	
The Chairman demonstrates a high level of visionary 
leadership, drives formulation of Company’s long-term 
growth plans, is focussed on maintaining the highest 
governance standards and keeps the interest of all 
stakeholders on top of his agenda.
15.	 Annual Return 
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(a) read with Section 92(3) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Return of the 
Company is available on the website of the Company at 
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/
disclosures.html
16.	 Auditors 
	
1.	
Statutory Auditors
	
	
As per provisions of Section 139(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Company has appointed M/s Price 
Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP 
(Registration No. 304026E/E300009) as Statutory 
Auditors for a period of 5 (Five) years in the AGM of 
the Company held on 30th June, 2021.
	
	
Statutory Auditors’ Report
	
	
The observations of the Statutory Auditor in its 
reports on standalone and consolidated financials 
are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any 
further comments. 
	
	
Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
	
	
There were no instances of fraud reported by the 
auditors. 
	
2.	
Cost Auditors 
	
	
As per Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Company is required to have the audit of its 
cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant in 
practice. 
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 141 read with 
Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder, M/s Chandra Wadhwa & Co., 
Cost Accountants (Firm Regn. No. 000239) were 
appointed as the Cost Auditor of the Company for 
the year ending 31st March, 2024. 
	
	
The due date for filing the Cost Audit Report of 
the Company for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2023 was 31st May, 2023 and the same 
was filed in XBRL mode by the Cost Auditor 
within the due date. 
	
	
Disclosure on maintenance of Cost Records 
	
	
The Company made and maintained the Cost 
Records under Section 148 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (18 of 2013) for the financial year 2023-24.
	
3.	
Secretarial Auditors 
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with corresponding 
Rules framed thereunder, M/s Balika Sharma & 
Associates, Company Secretaries, were appointed 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company to 
carry out the secretarial audit for the year ending 
31st March, 2024. 
	
	
Secretarial Audit Report
	
	
In terms of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
a Secretarial Audit Report given by the Secretarial 
Auditors in Form No. MR-3 is annexed with 
this Report as ANNEXURE – 2. There are no 
qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks 
made by Secretarial Auditors in their Report. 
	
	
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 
	
	
A Secretarial Compliance Report for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2024 on compliance of 
all applicable SEBI Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder, was obtained from M/s 
Balika Sharma & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
Secretarial Auditors.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
87
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
17.	 Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments 
under Section 186 
	
The particulars of loans given, investments made and 
guarantees provided by the Company under Section 186 
of the Companies Act, 2013, have been disclosed in the 
financial statements provided in this Integrated Annual 
Report. Please refer to Note No. 33(14) of the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
18.	 Particulars of Contracts or Arrangements with 
Related Parties 
	
All contracts or arrangements entered into by the 
Company with its related parties during the financial year 
were in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and 
on dealing with Related Party Transactions as approved by 
the Board is available on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy.pdf
	
There were no materially significant related party transactions 
which could have potential conflict with the interests of the 
Company at large. The Company did not enter into any 
contract/ arrangement/ transaction with related parties 
which is required to be reported in Form No. AOC-2 in terms 
of Section 134(3)(h) read with Section 188 of the Act and 
Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
	
Members may refer to Note No. 33(6) of the Standalone 
Financial Statements which sets out related party 
disclosures pursuant to Ind AS.
19.	 Contribution to Exchequer 
	
The Company is a regular payer of taxes and other 
duties to the Government. During the year under review 
your Company paid ` 387.88 crores towards Corporate 
Income Tax as Compared to ` 395.85 Crores paid during 
the last financial year. 
	
The Company has also paid an amount of ` 3,973.11 
crores on account of GST and Custom duty as compared 
to ` 3,618.55 crores paid during last Financial Year.
20.	 Details relating to deposits covered under Chapter 
V of the Companies Act, 2013
	
The Shareholders vide their Special Resolution dated 
9th June, 2014, passed by way of Postal Ballot, have 
approved inviting/ accepting/ renewing deposits, in terms 
of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, making the 
Company eligible for the same. However, the Company has 
not accepted any deposits during the year under review.
21.	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
	
Havells strongly believes in its social responsibility 
being an important part of business philosophy which 
is reflected in our business accountability and our 
commitment to the well-being of communities and 
society through our various environmental and social 
interventions. The Company has in place a CSR Policy 
framed in accordance with the requirements of Section 
135 of the Companies Act and Rules framed thereunder. 
The CSR Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/CSR_Policy.pdf
	
During the year, the Company undertook CSR activities 
in the areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Skill 
Development, Sanitation, Environment and National 
Sports. The details are available in the Social Capital 
section of this Integrated Annual Report.
	
An Annual Report on CSR, setting out the disclosures 
as per Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 alongwith the executive 
summary of Impact Assessment Report is annexed 
herewith as ANNEXURE – 3.
22.	 Audit Committee 
	
As at 31st March, 2024, the Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors of the Company comprised 4 (Four) Members, 
namely Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha, Smt. Namrata Kaul, 
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao and Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, 
majority of them being Independent Directors except for 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, who is a Whole-time Director. 
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha, an Independent Director, 
is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Board 
accepted the recommendations of the Audit Committee 
whenever made by the Committee during the year.
23.	 Integrated Risk Management Framework 
	
The internationally recognised COSO framework serves as 
the foundation for Havells’ risk management framework, 
which facilitates the integration of risk management 
functions into business processes and verticals throughout 
the organisation. The Company places a strong emphasis 
on the adoption of Next Generation Technologies, which 
support an enterprise-wide view of risk and compliance 
and enable a more holistic approach. These technologies 
offer agility and improve productivity, efficiency and well-
informed decision-making.
	
Integrated risk management framework helps the 
management in identifying the best possible option to 
mitigate identified risks in line with the organisation’s 
strategy, objectives and risk appetite. 
	
To oversee the Company’s risk management strategy, 
the Board of Directors established the Enterprises Risk 
Management (ERM) Committee. The ERM Committee of 
the Company supervises the way in which management 
keeps an eye on adherence to the Company’s risk 
management policies and procedures and evaluates the 
suitability of the risk management framework considering 
the risks the Company faces.
Havells India Limited
88
	
The Company’s ERM framework addresses critical risks 
related to each business, function and location within 
the organisation. A business-centric approach to risk 
management is used to identify potential business risks. 
Risk response strategies are then developed and assigned 
	
The ERM Council and Leadership Council provide 
direction for the assessment of risk maturity level and the 
identification of merging business challenges. During the 
year, ERM software has been implemented and a business 
and function-specific risk maturity assessment has been 
initiated for self-benchmarking. The Company’s information 
security management system is ISO 27001:2022 certified.
24.	 Details with respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial controls with reference to the Financial 
Statements 
	
The Company has robust internal financial controls 
(IFC) systems, which is in line with requirement of the 
Companies Act, 2013, which is intended to increase 
transparency & accountability in an organization’s process 
of designing and implementing a system of internal 
control. The Company has a clearly defined Governance, 
Risk & Compliance Framework, Policies, Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOP), Financial & Operational 
Delegation of Authority (DOA). Our SAP ERP & GRC 
system facilitate mapping with role based authority to 
business & functional team to ensure smooth conduct of 
their operations across the organization. The company 
has a well-established Three Line of Defence Governance 
Framework Model for managing risks that commensurate 
with the nature and size of its business considering both 
financial & non-financial controls.
	
The company has a well-established Internal Audit 
function. Risk-based audits are carried out across 
all organizations, departments and sites. The Audit 
Committee at the start of the year approves the Internal 
Audit Plan and Scope of work. In addition, the Audit 
Committee receives a quarterly update of the key findings 
and the action taken report. 
	
The Company has laid down its Internal Financial 
Controls (IFC) in compliance with the Companies Act, 
2013. All the critical processes have been documented 
commensurate with the nature of its business and the size 
and complexity of its operations. These internal financial 
controls with reference to the Financial Statements are 
adequate. This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information.
25.	 Details of the establishment of Vigil Mechanism 
for Directors and Employees 
	
The Company has created a mechanism i.e. ‘SATARK’ 
which helps its stakeholders to disclose malpractices, share 
complaints, grievances or suggestions of any nature. This 
encourages openness, promotes transparency and creates 
a culture of ‘Right Doing’ ensuring high standards of ethics, 
integrity and objectivity in individual conduct. A designated 
team conducts unbiased investigations into the reported 
issues and takes the necessary measures to address the 
issues along with maintaining a confidential conduct. The 
Chairman of the Audit committee/ Head Risk Management 
& Governance at its Discretion considers involving any 
investigator for the purpose of investigation. All reports of 
the investigations are presented to the Audit Committee on 
a Quarterly basis. The SATARK policy can also be found on 
the company’s website, www.havells.com.
26.	 Details of significant and material orders passed 
by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status and Company’s 
operations in future 
	
There was no significant and material order passed by 
the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
27.	 Compliance with Secretarial Standards 
	
The Company is in compliance with the applicable 
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India and approved by the Central 
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act.
28.	 Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
	
As a responsible employer, Havells has always been 
conscious of its duty towards prevention and control 
of sexual harassment at workplace. The Company has 
to the business and functional risk owners. The business, 
functional and location teams work closely with the head 
of risk management to identify risks, monitor performance 
and carry out decided-upon actions. The ERM Committee 
is informed twice a year on the status of all identified risks. 
RISK MATURITY LEVELS
•	 Strategic ERM 
implemented at all levels
•	 Proactive
1. Ad hoc
2. Initial
3. Repeatable
4. Managed
5. Leadership
•	 Reactive
•	 No risk strategy
•	 Some siloed risk 
management
•	 Inconsistent
•	 Established ERM  
processes
•	 Not fully integrated
•	 ERM processes fully  
integrated
•	 ERM tools are used
2010-11
2011-15
2015-20
2020-24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
89
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
complied with provisions relating to the constitution 
of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (the POSH Act) and 
has in place a “Nirbhaya” policy for women employees. An 
Internal Complaints Committee has been constituted as 
per the Policy to provide a forum to all female personnel 
to lodge complaints (if any) and seek redressal. The 
Committee conducts interactive sessions, from time to 
time, to sensitise female employees about the provisions 
of the POSH Act. The Committee submits an Annual 
Report to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
on the complaints received and actions taken by it during 
the relevant financial year. During the financial year 2023-
24, no complaint was lodged with the Internal Complaints 
Committee (ICC). Besides, digital training for all the 
employees of the Company was also conducted during 
the year to apprise them of the provisions of the POSH Act.
29.	 Details pursuant to Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 
	
Details pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
forms part of this Report and are annexed herewith as 
ANNEXURE – 4.
30.	 Employees Stock Purchase Schemes 
	
The Company has in place 4 (Four) employee benefit 
schemes, namely, Havells Long Term Incentive Plan 
2014 (LTIP 2014), Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2015 
(ESPS 2015), Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2016 
(ESPS 2016) and Havells Stock Purchase Scheme 2022 
(ESPS 2022). 
	
All the existing and proposed benefit schemes are 
administered by Havells Employees Welfare Trust under 
the supervision of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee. 
	
Promoters, Independent Directors, Directors directly or 
indirectly holding 10% or above of the equity share capital 
of the Company, Employees not residing in India or Non-
Resident Indians (NRIs) are not eligible for the grant of 
options/ issue of shares under any of the Schemes.
	
The Company has received a certificate dated 25th April, 
2024 from the Secretarial Auditors of the Company that the 
Schemes have been implemented in accordance with the 
applicable SEBI Guidelines and the Resolutions passed by 
the shareholders dated 9th June, 2014 (further amended 
on 8th July, 2022), 4th December, 2015, 13th July, 2016 
and 8th July, 2022 in respect of LTIP 2014, ESPS 2015, 
ESPS 2016 and ESPS 2022 respectively. The Certificate 
will be placed at the Annual General Meeting for inspection 
by Members. There has been no material change in any 
of the subsisting Schemes. Disclosures pursuant to SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, in 
respect of LTIP 2014, ESPS 2015, ESPS 2016 and ESPS 
2022 as at 31st March, 2024 are available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.havells.com/en/discover-
havells/investor-relation/disclosures.html
31.	 Credit Ratings 
	
CARE Ratings 
	
CARE has yet again assigned a CARE AAA [Triple A] rating 
to the long-term facilities of your Company during the 
current Financial Year. This rating is applicable to facilities 
having a tenure of more than one year. Instruments with 
this rating are considered to have the highest degree of 
safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. 
	
CARE has also reaffirmed the CARE A1+ [A One Plus] 
rating assigned to the short-term facilities of your 
Company. This rating is applicable to facilities having 
a tenure up to one year. Instruments with this rating 
are considered to have a very strong degree of safety 
regarding the timely payment of financial obligations.
	
CARE has also reaffirmed the CARE A1+ [A One Plus] 
rating assigned to the Commercial Paper.
	
The Corporate Governance practices of the Company 
are also rated by CareEdge Advisory Research and 
Training (CART) as CG2+. Grading is assigned on a 
six-point scale with CG 1 being the highest and CG 6 
being the lowest. CART’s CG grading is a measure of the 
overall performance of the corporate governance on a 
broad range of parameters such as Board Composition 
and Functioning, Ownership Structure, Organisation 
Structure and MIS, Shareholder Relationship, Disclosures 
and Transparency, Financial Prudence and Statutory & 
Regulatory Compliance.
32.	 Global Certifications 
	
The list of certifications in FY 2023-24 for international 
markets is given below: 
	
-	
Various UL certifications for Lighting, Cables and Air 
Conditioners
	
-	
SLSI Certifications for Fans
	
-	
G-Mark Certifications for various Small Domestic 
Appliances
33.	 Corporate Governance 
	
The Company is committed to the highest level of 
corporate governance standards by applying the best 
management practices, compliance with the law in true 
letter and spirit and adherence to ethical standards for 
effective management and distribution of wealth and 
discharge of social responsibility for the sustainable 
development of all stakeholders. 
Parameters of statutory compliances evidencing the 
standards expected from a listed entity have been duly 
observed and a Report on Corporate Governance as well as 
Havells India Limited
90
the Certificate from Statutory Auditors confirming compliance 
with the requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”) forms part of the Integrated Annual Report. 
A Certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company in terms of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, inter alia, confirming the correctness 
of the financial statements and cash flow statements, 
adequacy of the internal control measures and reporting 
of matters to the Audit Committee, is also annexed to the 
Corporate Governance Report.
34.	 Management Discussion and Analysis Report
	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the 
year under review, as stipulated under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is presented 
in a separate section, forming part of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
35.	 Environment, Health and Safety
Havells India Limited prioritises Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) as crucial components of its overarching 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives. 
The Company’s EHS strategies aim to achieve the most 
environmentally sustainable and safest operations across 
all manufacturing units by optimising natural resource 
usage and ensuring a secure and healthy workplace.
To address the broader ESG agenda, Havells has already 
established a Board-level ESG Committee, led by an 
Independent Director.
In line with its commitment to EHS management, Havells 
has implemented fully integrated EHS management 
systems at all manufacturing sites, certified according 
to internationally recognised ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 
standards. The Company places utmost importance on 
the health and safety of its workforce, as evident from its 
clearly outlined EHS Policy, which is regularly reinforced 
through specialised third-party fire safety audits. We have 
also implemented EnMS (ISO 50001), thus achieving 
improved operational efficiencies.
Safety remains a top priority for Havells and we 
are committed to providing a safe and productive 
environment for our workforce, we continue to maintain 
the best health and safety measures across all our 
manufacturing locations. 100% of our employees and 
workers at manufacturing sites are covered by our 
occupational health and safety management system 
which is audited by an external party on a periodic basis. 
We strive to upgrade our workforce skill levels through 
various learning & development programmes throughout 
the year. Further, at the time of induction, basic safety 
trainings are given to all employees and workers at all 
our manufacturing sites.
Despite not being classified as an energy-intensive 
sector, Havells remains cognizant of its environmental 
impact and actively takes progressive steps to minimise 
it. Our dedication to environmental conservation drives 
our efforts to enhance the Company’s ecological impact. 
Examples of initiatives include installation of 11 MW 
solar capacity, zero waste to landfill and plantation of 
21 lakhs tree saplings within the last five years. We are 
actively pursuing opportunities to amplify the utilisation 
of recycled water and decrease water usage across our 
facilities. Additionally, all our manufacturing plants are 
outfitted with rooftop rainwater harvesting systems.
Havells has been consistently ranked in the top 10 
global companies for ESG performance in the electrical 
sector for the last four years, in addition to being 
featured in the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook. 
Havells has maintained its “A” rating in the Morgan 
Stanley formulated MSCI ESG Rating. MSCI ESG 
methodology is formulated to evaluate a company’s 
resilience in the long term and gauge companies’ 
exposure to ESG risks. 
In 2023, Havells India Limited made its inaugural filing 
with the CDP, focussing on water security and climate 
change. This strategic move underscores the Company’s 
commitment to addressing pressing environmental 
challenges and aligning its business practices with 
global sustainability goals. Water security and climate 
change, in particular, have emerged as two critical 
issues globally. Upon filing for the first time, Havells India 
Limited received a “B” rating in water security and a “C” 
rating in climate change from the CDP. 
The “B” rating in water security is higher than the Asia 
regional average of “C” and higher than the Metal 
products manufacturing sector average of “C”. This 
signifies that Havells is transparent about the water issues, 
has knowledge of impacts on, and of, water issues and is 
taking coordinated action on the same. 
On the other hand, the “C” rating in climate change 
suggests that Havells’ performance in addressing climate-
related issues is comparable to the average performance 
of reporting companies. This is the same as the Asia 
regional average of “C” and the same as the Metal 
products manufacturing sector average of “C”. While 
this indicates room for improvement, it also highlights the 
Company’s transparency and knowledge of impacts on, 
and of, climate issues.
36.	 Research and Development
	
Our journey for strategic transformation of R&D, focused 
around the 3 pillars of consumer centricity, technology 
ownership 
and 
end-to-end 
product 
responsibility, 
continues to deliver significant performance. 
	
We have maintained a strong momentum towards the 
vision of becoming a World-class R&D organisation with 
sustained investment is R&D which equates to 1.1% of 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
91
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Net sales in FY 2023-24 and in turn delivering 42% of 
total Net sales through NPD (New product development) 
in the same period. 
	
Our strive for long term IP (Intellectual Property) creation 
for the organisation saw a major leap in FY 2023–24 
with filing of 48 Patents and 232 Design registrations. 
Our cumulative tally of filed patents stands at 193, out 
of which 94 are already granted and the total of design 
registrations filed till date stands at 1,132 numbers.
	
It was a proud moment for Havells to be recognised for 
the contribution to IP creation by Govt. of India and invited 
as a special guest in the 75th Republic Day parade.
	
Time and again we have demonstrated the complete cycle 
of understanding consumer pains, crafting technology driven 
solutions and delivering consumer delight through seamless 
user experience in our products and solutions. In this regard, 
some of the highlights from the year include design lead 
Innovations in Lloyds ACs, progression in technologies like 
BLDC+ in Fans and On device voice (ODV) feature, Instashift 
switch platform with category leading features.
	
Looking into the future, Sustainable technologies will be 
a key area of focus in our next phase of strategy. During 
FY 2023–24, 46% of our R&D spends were done on 
sustainable technologies and products development. 
We introduced Solar DMMI (Dual mode micro inverter), 
a unique product with the potential of making clean solar 
electricity assessable to every household. Further, we 
have embarked into the journey to reduce our Carbon 
footprint by 50% by 2030 with a robust roadmap.
	
Our R&D efforts continues to be recognised by various 
acclaimed institutions. The key highlight of the year 
includes renewal of registration of our Customer 
Experience & Design Studio, Bangalore Innovation 
centre and Noida R&D centre as Govt. recognized R&D 
Centres by Department of Science of Technology (DSIR), 
Ministry of Science and Technology (MST) and CII Top 50 
Most Innovative company 2023 award – being the only 
electrical goods company to receive this accolade.
37.	 Transfer to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund 
	
(A)	 Transfer of Unpaid Dividend 
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124(5) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, your Company has 
transferred ` 23,82,915 during the year to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund. 
	
	
These amounts were lying unclaimed/ unpaid 
with the Company for a period of 7 (Seven) years 
after declaration of Final Dividend for FY ended 
2015-16.
	
(B)	 Transfer 
of 
Shares 
underlying 
Unpaid 
Dividend 
	
	
During the Financial Year, the Share Allotment 
and Transfer Committee in its Meeting held 
on 29th August, 2023, transmitted 405 Equity 
Shares on account of Unclaimed Dividend (Final) 
for FY 2015-16 into the DEMAT Account of the 
IEPF Authority held with NSDL (DPID/ Client ID 
IN300708/10656671) in terms of the provisions of 
Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended from time 
to time. These Equity Shares were the Shares of 
such 14 Shareholders whose unclaimed/ unpaid 
dividend pertaining to Financial Year 2015-16 
(Final) had been transferred into the IEPF and who 
had not encashed their dividends for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years.
	
	
Individual reminders were sent to concerned 
Shareholders advising them to encash their dividend 
and the complete list of such Shareholders whose 
Shares were due for transfer to the IEPF was also 
placed in the Unclaimed Dividend Section of the 
Investors Section on the website of the Company at 
https://havells.com/corporate/investors/unclaimed-
dividends
	
	
With the transfer of above-said shares into IEPF, 
a total of 2,33,690 Shares of the Company (after 
taking into account the shares claimed back out 
of IEPF) were lying in the Demat A/c of the IEPF 
Authority, hereinabove mentioned, after considering 
the valid claims made therefrom.
	
	
Concerned Shareholders may still claim the shares 
or apply for refund to the IEPF Authority in Web Form 
No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in. The voting 
rights on shares transferred to the IEPF Authority shall 
remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares. 
The shares held in such DEMAT account shall not be 
transferred or dealt with in any manner whatsoever 
except for the purpose of transferring the shares 
back to the claimant as and when he approaches the 
Authority. All benefits except rights issue accruing on 
such shares e.g. bonus shares, split, consolidation, 
fraction shares etc., shall also be credited to such 
DEMAT account. Any further dividend received on 
such shares shall be credited to the IEPF Fund.
38.	 Shares lying in Unclaimed Suspense Account in 
electronic mode 
	
As at 31st March, 2024, a total 1,60,100 Shares were lying 
in the Unclaimed Suspense Account in dematerialised 
form in the Havells India Limited Unclaimed Suspense A/c 
held with IDBI Bank Limited (DP). The voting rights on the 
said shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such 
shares claims the shares. The rightful owner can still claim 
his/ her shares from the suspense account after complying 
with the procedure laid down in the statute regarding the 
same. The Company had so far transferred 2,27,100 (Two 
Lakhs Twenty-Seven Thousand and One Hundred Only) 
Equity Shares into Unclaimed Share Suspense Account 
Havells India Limited
92
in terms of Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI to the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. Subsequently, 67,000 Shares of ` 1/- 
each was transferred to the rightful owners as approved 
by the Share Transfer and Allotment Committee. Further, 
the payment of unpaid/ unclaimed dividend for the last 7 
(Seven) years has also been made to the said shareholders.
39.	 Listing of shares 
	
The equity shares of the Company are listed on the National 
Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE). 
The listing fee for the year 2024-25 has already been paid 
to the credit of both the Stock Exchanges.
40.	 Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption 
and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo 
	
The information pertaining to conservation of energy, 
technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings 
and outgo as required under Section 134(3)(m) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is furnished in 
ANNEXURE – 5 and forms part of this Report.
41.	 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR) 
	
As the significance of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues grows within the corporate landscape, how 
companies report on these matters has evolved. With 
an increasing global awareness of business impacts on 
society and the environment, the practice of ESG reporting 
demands considerable attention. Throughout its history, 
Havells has maintained a commitment to transparently 
communicating its ESG performance in alignment with 
international standards to stakeholders.
	
We take pride in presenting our third BRSR for the fiscal 
year 2023-24. This report adheres to the format outlined 
in the amendment to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI 
Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements (LODR) 
Regulations, as specified in Gazette Notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/22 dated May 05, 2021 and 
is integrated within our Annual Report. Aligned with the 
nine principles of the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India, the BRSR for the financial 
year 2023-24 has been developed. We have bolstered 
our existing robust reporting structure and mechanisms to 
ensure the accurate and reliable capture of data for BRSR 
disclosures. Additionally, commencing this year, the BRSR 
core indicators (aligned with GRI standards) will undergo 
validation as part of the mandated reasonable assurance 
framework by SEBI in Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023.
	
Havells firmly upholds the belief that sustainable and 
inclusive growth can only be achieved through a robust 
foundation of environmental and social responsibility, 
complemented by effective governance. Our report 
serves as evidence of our ongoing endeavours to adopt 
and enact a balanced approach to ESG criteria within 
our business operations, a commitment we transparently 
communicate to stakeholders. In addition to our annual 
voluntary sustainability disclosures, which adhere to 
globally recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standards and the Value Reporting Foundation’s Integrated 
Reporting framework based on six capitals, accessible on 
our website www.havells.com, we have also provided the 
necessary alignment between Sustainability Disclosures 
and the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report 
as mandated by SEBI. This information is also readily 
available on our website.
	
We have also provided the requisite mapping of information 
and principles between the Sustainability Disclosures and 
the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report as 
prescribed by SEBI. The same is also available on the 
website www.havells.com.
42.	 Other Disclosures 
	
There were no transactions on the following matters 
during the year under review and hence no reporting or 
disclosure is required:
	
•	
Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to 
dividend, voting or otherwise.
	
•	
Issue of shares (including sweat equity shares) to 
employees of the Company under any scheme 
save and except Employees’ Stock Option Scheme 
referred to in this Report.
	
•	
There is no proceeding pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
	
•	
There was no instance of one‑time settlement with 
any Bank or Financial Institution.
43.	 Acknowledgements 
	
Our heartfelt gratitude to our customers, whose 
sustained support and feedback has always enabled 
Havells to take account of their unique and evolving 
needs, and accordingly diversify the product portfolio 
to drive utmost customer satisfaction. We thank our 
employees, core contributors to our goodwill and growth, 
for their dedicated efforts and unwavering commitment 
in achieving our shared goals and helping us to navigate 
every challenge. Our success would not be possible 
without the dedication of our vendors, whose continued 
partnership has helped us to forge an extensive global 
footprint and reinforce our industry leadership.
	
Our sincere appreciation to the stewards of good 
governance and responsible practices - the regulatory 
authorities, bankers, financial institutions, rating agencies, 
stock exchanges and depositories, auditors, legal 
advisors, consultants and other stakeholders. You have 
played an instrumental role in creating a level playing field, 
enforcing transparency, ethics and accountability within 
every aspect of our operations.
For and on behalf of 
Board of Directors of Havells India Limited 
Anil Rai Gupta
Noida, April 30, 2024
 Chairman and Managing Director
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
93
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Principle and Rationale
Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 require the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board of Directors of every listed entity, 
among other classes of companies, to 
-	
formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director 
and recommend to the Board a policy, relating to the 
remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel 
and other employees. 
-	
identify persons who are qualified to become directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to 
the Board their appointment and removal.
-	
carry out evaluation of every director’s performance.
-	
formulate the criteria for evaluation of Independent 
Directors and the Board.
Accordingly, in adherence to the abovesaid requirements and in 
line with the Company philosophy towards nurturing its human 
resources, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board of Directors of Havells India Limited hereinbelow 
recommends to the Board of Directors for its adoption the 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy for the directors, key 
managerial personnel and other employees of the Company 
as set out below: 
Company Philosophy
Havells is an equal opportunities employer. The organization 
does not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, 
race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social 
status or disability. The global workforce spread across 
continents, which has over the years transformed Havells 
into a global organisation forms the backbone of the entity. 
Pay revisions and other benefits are designed in such a way 
to compensate good performance of the employees of the 
Company and motivate them to do better in future. Employee 
recognition schemes in the form of ESOPs/ ESPS have also 
been introduced as successful tools in acknowledging their 
contribution and making them partners in the wealth created by 
Havells. The endeavour of the organization is to acknowledge 
the contributions of its directors, key managerial personnel and 
other employees with best compensation and benefits that 
appropriately reward performance in line with the regulatory 
and industry best practices.
Guiding Principles
In the formulation of this Policy, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee has also endeavoured to ensure the 
guiding principles as prescribed u/s 178(4) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the section on Responsibilities of Board under 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, summarized hereunder:
a)	
the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable 
and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate human 
resource including directors of the quality required to run 
the company successfully; 
b)	
relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and 
meets appropriate performance benchmarks; 
c)	
remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel 
and senior management reflecting short and long-term 
performance objectives appropriate to the working of the 
company and its goals; 
d)	
facilitating effective shareholder participation in key 
Corporate Governance decisions such as the nomination 
and election of board members; 
e)	
aligning key executive and board remuneration with the 
longer term interests of the company and its shareholders; 
f)	
ensuring a transparent board nomination process with the 
diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, perspective 
and gender in the Board.
Nomination of the Directors
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board 
of Directors is dedicated to ensuring the continuance of a 
dynamic and forward-thinking Board and recommend to the 
Board qualified candidates for directorship. 
Before recommending a nominee’s candidature to the Board 
for being appointed as a Director, the following criteria set out 
may be applied as guidelines in considering potential nominees 
to the Board of Directors.
General Criteria 
The background and qualifications of the Directors considered 
as a group should provide a significant breadth of experience, 
knowledge and abilities to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities. 
-	
Directors should be selected so that the Board of Directors 
should remain as a diverse body, with diversity reflecting 
gender, ethnic background, country of citizenship and 
professional experience. Because a mix of viewpoints and 
ideas enhances the Board’s ability to function effectively, 
the Committee shall consider the diversity of the existing 
Board when considering potential nominees, so that 
the Board maintains a body of directors from diverse 
professional and personal backgrounds. 
ANNEXURE – 1
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY OF DIRECTORS,  
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND OTHER EMPLOYEE
Havells India Limited
94
-	
Potential nominees shall not be discriminated against on 
the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or 
any other basis prohibited by law. 
-	
Any nominee should be free of any conflict of interest which 
would violate any applicable law or regulation or interfere 
with the performance of the responsibilities of a director. 
- Commitment of the nominee to understanding the 
Company and its industry, embracing the organization’s 
values to help shape its vision, mission and strategic 
direction including oversight of risk management and 
internal control. 
-	
Commitment of the nominee to spending the time 
necessary to function effectively as a Director, including 
attending and participating in meetings of the Board and 
its Committees. 
Specific Criteria 
-	
Demonstrated business acumen, experience and ability 
to use sound judgment and to contribute to the effective 
oversight of the business and financial affairs of a large, 
multifaceted, global organization. 
-	
The nominee reflects the right corporate tone and culture 
and excels at board-management relationships. 
-	
Experience 
in 
strategic 
planning 
and 
managing 
multidisciplinary responsibilities, the ability to navigate 
among diverse professional groups and points of 
view, a track record of communicating effectively in a 
global environment and high standards of integrity and 
professional conduct. 
-	
Nominees understand and endeavour to balance the 
interests of shareholders and/ or other stakeholders and 
put the interests of the company or organization above 
self-interest. He/ she has demonstrated a commitment to 
transparency and disclosure. 
-	
He/ she is committed to superior corporate performance, 
consistently striving to go beyond the legal and/or 
regulatory governance requirements to enhance, not just 
protect, shareholder value. 
-	
Nominee contributes to effective governance through 
superior, constructive relationships with the Executive 
Directorate and management.
Remuneration of the Directors 
The Company strives to provide fair compensation to directors, 
taking into consideration industry benchmarks, Company’s 
performance vis-à-vis the industry, responsibilities shouldered, 
performance/ track record, macroeconomic review on 
remuneration packages of heads of other organizations.
The remuneration payable to the directors of the company, shall 
at all times be determined, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Appointment and Remuneration of Managing 
Director and Whole-time Director
The terms and conditions of appointment and remuneration 
payable to a Managing Director and Whole-time Director(s) 
shall be recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee to the Board for its approval which shall be subject 
to approval by shareholders at the next general meeting of 
the Company and by the Central Government in case such 
appointment is at variance to the conditions specified in 
Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013. Approval of the 
Central Government is not necessary if the appointment is 
made in accordance with the conditions specified in Schedule 
V to the Act. 
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Company may appoint a person as its Managing Director or 
Whole-time Director for a term not exceeding 5 (Five) years at 
a time. 
The executive directors may be paid remuneration either by 
way of a monthly payment or at a specified percentage of the 
net profits of the Company or partly by one way and partly by 
the other. 
The break-up of the pay scale, performance bonus and 
quantum of perquisites including, employer’s contribution to 
P.F, pension scheme, medical expenses, club fees etc. shall be 
decided and approved by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Committee and shall be within the overall remuneration 
approved by the shareholders and Central Government, 
wherever required. 
While recommending the remuneration payable to a 
Managing/ Whole-time Director, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee shall, inter alia, have regard to the 
following matters: 
•	
Financial and operating performance of the Company;
•	
Relationship between remuneration and performance;
•	
Industry/ sector trends for the remuneration paid to 
executive directorate.
Annual Increments to the Managing/ Whole-time Director(s) 
shall be within the slabs approved by the Shareholders. 
Increments shall be decided by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee at times it desires to do so but 
preferably on an annual basis. 
Insurance Premium as Part of Remuneration 
Where any insurance is taken by a company on behalf of 
its Managing Director, Whole-time Director, Manager, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Company Secretary 
for indemnifying any of them against any liability in respect of 
any negligence, default, misfeasance, breach of duty or breach 
of trust for which they may be guilty in relation to the company, 
the premium paid on such insurance shall not be treated as 
part of the remuneration payable to any such personnel. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
95
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
However, if such person is proved to be guilty, the premium paid 
on such insurance shall be treated as part of the remuneration. 
Remuneration of Independent Directors
Independent Directors may receive remuneration by way of 
•	
Sitting fees for participation in the Board and other 
meetings;
•	
Reimbursement of expenses for participation in the Board 
and other meetings;
•	
Commission as approved by the Shareholders of the 
Company;
Independent Directors shall not be entitled to any stock 
options. 
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board may decide the sitting fee 
payable to independent directors. Provided that the amount of 
such fees shall not exceed the maximum permissible under the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
Remuneration to Directors in other Capacity
The remuneration payable to the directors including managing 
or whole-time director or manager shall be inclusive of the 
remuneration payable for the services rendered by him in any 
other capacity except the following: 
(a)	
the services rendered are of a professional nature; and 
(b)	
in the opinion of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the director possesses the requisite 
qualification for the practice of the profession. 
Evaluation of the Directors
As members of the Board, the performance of the individual 
Directors as well as the performance of the entire Board and 
its Committees is required to be formally evaluated annually.
Section 178(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 also mandates 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to carry out 
evaluation of every director’s performance. 
In developing the methodology to be used for evaluation on 
the basis of best standards and methods meeting international 
parameters, the Board / Committee may take the advice of an 
independent professional consultant. 
Nomination and Remuneration of the Key Managerial 
Personnel 
(Other 
than 
Managing/ 
Whole-time 
Directors), Key Executives and senior management 
The executive management of a company is responsible for 
the day to day management of a company. The Companies 
Act, 2013 has used the term “key managerial personnel” to 
define the executive management. 
The KMPs are the point of first contact between the company 
and its stakeholders. While the Board of Directors are 
responsible for providing the oversight, it is the key managerial 
personnel and the senior management who are responsible for 
not just laying down the strategies as well as its implementation. 
The Companies Act, 2013 has for the first time recognized the 
concept of Key Managerial Personnel. As per section 2(51) 
“key managerial personnel”, in relation to a company, means— 
(i)	
the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or 
the Manager; 
(ii)	
the Whole-time Director; 
(iii)	
the Chief Financial Officer; 
(iv)	 the Company Secretary; 
(v)	
such other officer, not more than one level below the 
directors who is in whole-time employment, designated 
as key managerial personnel by the Board and 
(v)	
such other officer as may be prescribed. 
Among the KMPs, the remuneration of the CEO or the Managing 
Director and the Whole-time Director(s), shall be governed by 
the Section on REMUNERATION OF THE DIRECTORS of this 
Policy dealing with “Remuneration of Managing Director and 
Whole-time Director”. 
Apart from the directors, the remuneration of 
•	
All the Other KMPs such as the company secretary or 
any other officer that may be prescribed under the statute 
from time to time; and 
•	
“Senior Management” of the Company which here means, 
the core management team comprising of such members 
of management as determined by the Company under 
Layer 1 of the System-Driven Disclosures in respect of 
Regulation 7(2)(b) of PIT Regulations, shall be determined 
by the Human Resources Department of the Company 
in consultation with the Managing Director and/ or the 
Whole-time Director Finance. 
	
The remuneration determined for all the above said senior 
personnel shall be in line with the Company’s philosophy 
to provide fair compensation to key - executive officers 
based on their performance and contribution to the 
Company and to provide incentives that attract and retain 
key executives, instill a long-term commitment to the 
Company and develop a pride and sense of Company 
ownership, all in a manner consistent with shareholder 
interests. 
	
The break-up of the pay scale and quantum of perquisites 
including, employer’s contribution to P.F, pension scheme, 
medical expenses, club fees etc. shall be decided by the 
Company’s HR department. 
	
Decisions on Annual Increments of the Senior Personnel 
shall be decided by the Human Resources Department 
in consultation with the Managing Director and/ or the 
Whole-time Director Finance of the Company. 
Havells India Limited
96
Remuneration of Other Employees
Apart from the Directors, KMPs and Senior Management, 
the remuneration for rest of the employees is determined on 
the basis of the role and position of the individual employee, 
including professional experience, responsibility, job complexity 
and local market conditions. 
The Company considers it essential to incentivize the workforce 
to ensure adequate and reasonable compensation to the staff. 
The Human Resources Department shall ensure that the level of 
remuneration motivates and rewards high performers who perform 
according to set expectations for the individual in question. 
The 
various 
remuneration 
components, 
basic 
salary, 
allowances, perquisites etc. may be combined to ensure an 
appropriate and balanced remuneration package. 
The annual increments to the remuneration paid to the 
employees shall be determined based on the annual appraisal 
carried out by the HoDs of various departments. 
Decisions on Annual Increments shall be made on the basis of 
this annual appraisal. 
General 
This Policy shall apply to all future employment of Company’s 
Senior Management including Key Managerial Personnel and 
Board of Directors. 
Any or all the provisions of this Policy would be subject to the 
revision/ amendment in the Companies Act, 2013, related 
rules and regulations, guidelines and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 on the subject as may be notified from time to time. 
Any such amendment shall automatically have the effect of 
amending this Policy without the need of any approval by 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and/ or the 
Board of Directors.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
97
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE – 2
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members,
Havells India Limited
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
KG Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi 110001
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED [CIN 
L31900DL1983PLC016304] (hereinafter called “the Company”). 
Secretarial Audit has been conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/ 
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year commencing from 
April 1, 2023 and ended on March 31, 2024 (“Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and 
also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 according to the 
provisions of:
1)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder to the extent notified and came into force;
2)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made there under;
3)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
4)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) & the 
Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
5)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 
and The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993, regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client.
	
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligation and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015;
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018
	
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009
6)	
The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948
7)	
Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952
8)	
Employers Liability Act, 1938
9)	
Environment Protection Act, 1986 and other environmental laws
10)	 Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981
11)	 Factories Act, 1948
12)	 Industrial Dispute Act, 1947
13)	 Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and other applicable labour laws
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
	
i.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
	
ii.	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited read with Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
During the audit Period under review, the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Acts, Laws and 
Regulations and guidelines, to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above.
Havells India Limited
98
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. There were no changes 
in the composition of the Board of Directors or the Committees 
thereof during the period under review.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were 
sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
Majority decisions were carried out with unanimous consent 
and therefore no dissenting views were captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the company commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as stated above.
We further report that during the period under review:
•	
The Company has allotted 8680 Equity Shares for Financial 
Year 2022-23 to Havells Employees Welfare Trust under 
the Havells Employees Stock Purchase Scheme 2022.
•	
The Company has allotted 50,945 Equity Shares for Financial 
Year 2022-23 to Havells Employees Welfare Trust under the 
Havells Employees Long Term Incentive Plan 2014.
•	
The Company has allotted 93,040 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2022-23 to the Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust under the Havells Employees Stock Purchase 
Scheme 2015, which alongwith the 41960 Equity Shares 
lying with the Trust, were transferred to eligible employees 
against exercise of 1,35,000 Equity Shares.
•	
The Company has allotted 20,627 Equity Shares for 
Financial Year 2022-23 to eligible Employees under the 
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Scheme 2016.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: New Delhi
Date: April 25, 2024
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
C P No: 3222
UDIN: F004816F000236168
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure 1 and forms an integral part 
of this report.
ANNEXURE - 1
To
The Members,
Havells India Limited
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building,
KG Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi 110001
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial Records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations & 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company not the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: New Delhi
Date: April 25, 2024
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
C P No: 3222
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
99
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
In adherence to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, the Board of 
Directors upon the recommendation of CSR Committee, 
in its meeting held on 23rd April, 2014, approved a 
CSR Policy of the Company. The CSR Policy was last 
reviewed by the Board on 20th October, 2021. 
	
In accordance with the primary CSR philosophy of the 
group and the specified activities under Schedule VII 
to the Companies Act, 2013, the CSR activities of the 
Company cover certain thrust areas such as mid-day 
meals, education, sanitation facilities, preservation of 
heritage monuments, afforestation etc.
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the 
Company is available on the website of the Company 
https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-
policies/CSR_Policy.pdf in the ‘Investors Section’ 
under ‘Codes & Policies’.
2.	
Composition of CSR & ESG committee
	
As at 31st March, 2024, the Corporate Social 
Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee comprised of 4 (Four) Members of the 
Board, 2 (Two) of which were Independent Directors, 
1 (One) Non-Executive and 1 (One) was Executive. The 
Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Director.
S. 
No.
Name and 
Designation/ 
Nature of Directorship
Total No. of CSR & ESG 
Committee Meetings 
held during the year – 2 
Attendance in CSR & ESG 
Committee Meetings held on
2-May-23
14–Dec–23
1
Shri Vivek Mehra 
Independent Director, 
Chairman


2
Shri Jalaj A Dani 
Independent Director, 
Member


3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta, Non-Executive 
Director, Member


4
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta, Executive 
Director, Member


ANNEXURE – 3
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR PURSUANT TO RULE 8 OF COMPANIES
(CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY) RULES, 2014
The CSR programmes and pursuits of the Company are illustrated in the Social & Relationship Capital section of the Integrated 
Report on page no. 66-72
3.	
Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR 
Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the 
Board are disclosed on the website of the Company.
	
CSR & ESG Committee – https://www.havells.com/en/
aboutus/committees.html
	
CSR Policy – https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/CSR_Policy.pdf
	
CSR 
Programmes 
– 
https://www.havells.com/en/
corporate-social-responsibility.html
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) 
of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8, if applicable.
	
An executive summary of the Impact Assessment Report 
is attached as an annexure to this Report on CSR and the 
complete Impact Assessment Report can be accessed at 
https://havells.com/corporate/csr/csr-overview.
5.
(a) Average net profit of the Company as 
per sub-section (5) of Section 135
: ` 1,510.54 Cr
(b) Two percent of average net profit of 
the company as per sub-section (5) of 
Section 135
:
` 30.21 Cr
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects 
or programmes or activities of the 
previous financial years
:
NIL
(d) Amount required to be set off for the 
financial year, if any
:
` 0.93 Cr
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial 
year [(b)+(c)-(d)]
:
` 29.28 Cr
6.
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both 
Ongoing 
Project 
and 
other 
than 
Ongoing Project)
:
` 29.88 Cr
(b) Amount 
spent 
in 
Administrative 
Overheads
:
NIL
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, 
if applicable
:
` 0.05 Cr
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial 
Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]
:
` 29.93 Cr
Havells India Limited
100
	
(e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount 
Spent for 
the Financial 
Year  
(` In Cr)
Amount Unspent (` In Cr)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per sub-section (6)  
of Section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to  
sub-section (5) of Section 135
Amount
Date of Transfer 
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of Transfer
29.93 crores
NIL
NA
NA
NIL
NA
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set off, if any:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (` in Cr)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of 
Section 135 
30.21 Cr
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (including amount required to be set 
off for the financial year as referred in Pt. No. 5(d) above) 
30.86 Cr
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
0.65 Cr
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 
previous Financial Years, if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.65 Cr
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years: 
S. 
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under sub-
section (6) of 
section 135 
(` In Cr)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR account 
under sub-
section(6) of 
section 135
(` In Cr)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year 
(` In Cr)
Amount transferred to 
a Fund as specified 
under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso 
to sub-section (5) of 
section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(` In Cr)
Deficiency, 
if
Any
Amount
(` In Cr)
Date of
Transfer
1
2021-22
12 Cr
12 Cr
4 Cr
0.09 29.09.2021
8 Cr
NIL
2
2022-23
-
 8 Cr
4 Cr
4 Cr
NIL
3
2023-24
-
 4 Cr
4 Cr
NIL
NIL
	
Note:	The Company earned an interest of ` 0.16 crores (` 0.41 crores in March 2023) on the funds in CSR unspent bank account during 
the year. Further, the Company has made an additional payment of ` 0.79 crores to Ashoka University, on account of interest earned 
(net of taxes) on amount deposited in separate CSR Bank account including ` 0.16 crores interest earned during the year.
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: 
	
Yes
	
If Yes, enter the No. (amount) of Capital assets created/ acquired: ` 14.72 Cr
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
101
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in 
the Financial Year:
S. 
No.
Short particulars 
of the property or 
asset(s) (including 
complete address 
and location of the 
property)
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
(` In Cr)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary  
of the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Address of 
beneficiary
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
1
04 Active IT Networking 
(Chanakya University, 
Global Campus, Haraluru 
& Polanahalli Villages, 
NH648, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District) 
562165
21-03-2024
4.08 
CSR00042868
Chanakya 
University
Chanakya University 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & Polanahalli 
Villages, NH648, 
Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural 
District, 562165
2
27 Laptops and 70 
Desktops  
(Chanakya University, 
Global Campus, Haraluru 
& Polanahalli Villages, 
NH648, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District) 
562165
29-12-2023
0.54 
CSR00042868
Chanakya 
University
Chanakya University 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & Polanahalli 
Villages, NH648, 
Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural 
District, 562165
3
03 Installation & 
Integration of IBMS  
(Chanakya University, 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & Polanahalli 
Villages, NH648, 
Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District)
562165
31-01-2024
0.36
CSR00042868
Chanakya 
University
Chanakya University 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & 
Polanahalli Villages, 
NH648, Devanahalli 
Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District, 
562165
4
Attendance 
Management  
(Chanakya University, 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & Polanahalli 
Villages, NH648, 
Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District)
562165
29-03-2024
0.02 
CSR00042868
Chanakya 
University
Chanakya University 
Global Campus, 
Haraluru & Polanahalli 
Villages, NH648, 
Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural 
District, 562165
5
Building Infrastructure  
(Work-in-Progress) 
(Plaksha University, Block 
B, Sector 101, Alpha, 
SAS Nagar, Punjab)
140306
01-04-2023
9.24
CSR00002211
Reimagining 
Higher 
Education 
Foundation
302, Gopal Heights, 
Netaji Subhash Place, 
New Delhi – 110034
6
12 CCTV Camera 
System with Hard Disk 
and NVR
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
18-01-2024
0.04 
CSR00001995
QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro Food 
Park, M.I.A.,  
Alwar-301030
7
16 New CNG Pick Up Vehicle 
New Body and Paint Work  
(QRG Foundation, F-36 to 
41, Agro Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar)
301030
19-05-2023
0.09 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
Havells India Limited
102
S. 
No.
Short particulars 
of the property or 
asset(s) (including 
complete address 
and location of the 
property)
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
(` In Cr)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary  
of the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Address of 
beneficiary
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
8
850 kg Steam Boiler 
Duel Fuel (Thermax) 
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
26-06-2023
0.16 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
9
Aluminium Store 
Extended in Kitchen 
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
06-07-2023
0.01 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
10
Borewell  
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar) 
301030
20-11-2023
0.05 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
11
Chapati Machine  
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar) 
301030
12-12-2023
0.03 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
12
Networking/ wi-fi 
equipments  
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
18-01-2024
0.05 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
13
Office Revolving Chairs 
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
09-08-2023
0.00 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
14
Water Tank-50000 Ltrs 
(QRG Foundation, F-36 
to 41, Agro Food Park, 
M.I.A., Alwar)
301030
03-02-2024
0.05 
CSR00001995 QRG 
Foundation
QRG Foundation, 
F-36 to 41, Agro 
Food Park, M.I.A., 
Alwar-301030
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of 
Section 135:
	
NA
Anil Rai Gupta
Vivek Mehra
Chairman and Managing Director
Chairman CSR & ESG Committee
Noida, April 29, 2024 
Encl: Executive Summary on Impact Assessment Report
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
103
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF CSR SUPPORT TO PLAKSHA UNIVERSITY
(Executive Summary)
Prepared by Grant Thornton Bharat LLP
About the project
Introduction
•	 Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education in India encounters the challenge of requisite 
technology and infrastructure to provide quality education; 
suitable infrastructure for STEM education is cost intensive 
as it includes procurement of STEM kits, equipment and 
setting up of laboratories
•	 As per the 2021-2022 All India Survey on Higher Education 
(AISHE) report, among undergraduate-level programmes, 
only 7.6% of gross enrollment rate (GER) is in B. Tech 
courses; additionally, as per the latest Annual Status of 
Education (ASER) report, only 31.7% of youth enrolled in 
class XI or higher education opt for STEM courses
•	 Plaksha University was founded in 2015 with a mission to 
change the landscape of engineering in India and the 
Havells’ Support to Plaksha University for Stem Education 
•	 80% of the jobs created in the next decade will require math and science skills, as per the National Science 
Foundation’s research
Need for STEM education
The biggest impediments to STEM education are: 
•	 Lack of infrastructure, curriculum and pedagogy
•	 Lack of funds to support maker spaces and do-it-yourself (DIY) tools
•	 Lack of renowned faculty to facilitate STEM learning among students 
Challenges to STEM Education
•	 Construction of Havells Research Building consisting of makers labs and state-of-the-art equipment to promote 
STEM learning
•	 Scholarship support programme for undergraduate and postgraduate students with a focus on STEM learning
Support from Havells
Theory of Change
Programme and its need 
Infrastructure support
•	 Lack of infrastructure and research facilities for students 
and faculty
Activities conducted
•	 Constructed buildings as per government guidelines
•	 Took all necessary permissions to ensure safety
•	 Installed safety equipment and ensured regular 
maintenance of the same
Outputs
•	 06 certifications/ clearances received 
•	 10 laboratories developed for the practical learning of students
Outcomes
•	 Enhanced learning space due to an increase in the number 
of classrooms
•	 Improved academic performance
•	 Increased student and faculty satisfaction
Impact
•	 Improved the quality of education by providing better 
infrastructure for students
world; its cutting-edge programmes (B.Tech in robotics 
and cyber-physical systems, B.Tech in computer science 
and artificial intelligence, B.Tech in biological systems 
engineering and B.Tech in data science, economics and 
business) and activities are helping to close the gap in STEM 
education 
•	 Havells India Limited entered a partnership with Reimagining 
Higher Education Foundation (RHEF), the sponsoring body of 
Plaksha University in 2021; ​through this partnership, Havells 
India Limited, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR), has committed to support Plaksha University with a 
funding of ` 50 crore to develop infrastructure, research 
facilities and provide scholarships for socio-economically 
disadvantaged students for a period of six years
•	 Till March 2024, ` 35 crore were allocated to Plaksha 
University for building the Havells Research Building and 
supporting scholarship of meritorious students
Measure of Outcomes
Rating scale basis the allocation of average scores on key indicators
Rating
Description​
Avg. %
5
Very high​
> 90% ​
4
High​
80-89%​
3
Medium​
70-79%​
2
Fair
60-69%​
1
Low
<60
Havells India Limited
104
Evaluation criteria
Ratings
Details
Relevance ​(Needs and 
priorities)
Very high
•	 Plaksha University offers new-age courses to B.Tech students and the 
Havells Research Building boasts modern facilities highly relevant to 
students and faculty 
•	 97% students who were interviewed shared that the equipment was very 
relevant to their course requirements, as it helped them gain conceptual clarity
Effectiveness​ (Objectives’ 
achievement)
High
•	 All students mentioned that the Havells Research Building has been a 
primary learning space; hence, there is high utility of the infrastructure
•	 All the students interviewed felt that the classrooms and laboratories are 
conveniently located within the building with quick access and movement to 
and from classrooms, helping in the optimum utilisation of time
•	 87% students stated that the labs in the Havells Research Building were  
well-equipped and at par with universities offering similar courses
•	 Areas of improvement included accessibility of the building for people with 
disabilities (PWDs) and increasing co-working spaces in the building
Efficiency​ (Resource 
optimisation)
Very high
•	 It was observed and reported by students and faculty that the classrooms are 
designed to promote interactive teaching and learning, with clear acoustics, 
visibility and good lighting to ensure a comfortable classroom experience
•	 Lab technicians interviewed shared that all labs facilitate long cycles of 
experiments without disruption, which promotes innovative thinking 
•	 Additionally, the cross-exchange of resources between labs, considering 
one full floor is designated for labs, is very convenient; it promotes cross-
learning between different courses
Impact
(Impact on learning 
outcomes and society)
High
•	 74% students interviewed shared that the facilities in the building have contributed 
towards improved academic performance and understanding of concepts
•	 Students mentioned that the availability of modern equipment aids in 
promoting innovation and critical thinking
•	 87% students shared that the research undertaken by them as part of their 
undergraduate dissertation will benefit the larger community
Sustainability (Continuity 
after withdrawal)
Very high
•	 Operational expenses of the Havells Research Building will be covered by 
the Plaksha University
Infrastructure support
Havells’ Support to Plaksha University for STEM Education
Scholarship support
Scholarship Support Details
Havells also supports meritorious students in pursuing 
education at the Plaksha University 
•	
Havells India Limited provided scholarships to 21 
students during FY 22-24 - four in undergraduate and 17 
in postgraduate courses, coming from different states and 
demographic profiles. The average GPA of undergraduate 
students was 3.51/4 and that of postgraduate students 
was 3.54/4.
All students shared that the support helps them across 
various academic and research fields. Tuition fees is the major 
component of their education expense for their respective 
courses and the scholarship offsets this major expense. 
This summary needs to be read in conjunction with the detailed report
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
105
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE – 4
(A)	
Details pursuant to the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Relevant  
clause u/r 5(1)
Prescribed Requirement 
Particulars
(i)
Ratio of the remuneration (excluding 
Commission) of each director to 
the median remuneration of the 
employees of the company for the 
financial year 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman 
and Managing Director to the median remuneration of the 
employees – 84:1 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, 
Whole-time Director to the median remuneration of the 
employees – 33:1 
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, 
Whole-time Director & Group CFO – 74:1
-	
Ratio of the remuneration of Shri Siddhartha Pandit, 
Whole-time Director – 12:1
(ii)
Percentage increase in remuneration 
(excluding Commission) of each 
director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Executive Officer, Company Secretary 
or Manager, if any, in the financial year 
-	
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, CMD – 10.34 % 
-	
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, WTD – 10.87 %
-	
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, WTD & Group CFO – 8.53 %
-	
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, WTD – 7.96 %
-	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, CS – 7.15 % 
(iii)
Percentage increase in the median 
remuneration of employees in the 
financial year 
1.69 %
(iv)
Number of permanent employees on 
the rolls of company 
7,449 Employees
(v)
Average percentile increase already 
made in the salaries of employees 
other than the managerial personnel 
in the last financial year and its 
comparison 
with 
the 
percentile 
increase 
in 
the 
managerial 
remuneration 
and 
justification 
thereof and point out if there are 
any 
exceptional 
circumstances 
for 
increase 
in 
the 
managerial 
remuneration 
-	
Average 
increase 
in 
remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel – 9.5 % 
-	
Average increase in remuneration of employees other 
than the Managerial Personnel – 10.45 %
The top-level compensation is linked to Profit Before Tax.
(vi)
Affirmation that the remuneration is 
as per the remuneration policy of the 
company
The remuneration is as per the Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Other 
Employees of the Company, formulated pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(B)	 Statement Showing Particulars of Employees Pursuant 
to the Provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014.
	
Details of employee remuneration as required under 
provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Rules are available to any 
shareholder for inspection on request. Such details are also 
available on your Company’s website at https://havells.com/
corporate/investors/disclosure
Havells India Limited
106
ANNEXURE – 5
Disclosure pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014
(A)	 Conservation of Energy
	
(i)	
Steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy 
	
	
Energy 
saving 
through 
various 
improvement 
projects is a way of life at Havells. We look at each 
and every opportunity to optimise the operations, 
utilisation of assets, striving for higher productivity 
and 
efficiency 
thus 
optimising 
the 
energy 
requirements for the manufacturing in all plants. We 
do it through implementing one of the best Energy 
Management Systems (ISO 50001-EnMs), Cutting 
Edge Technology and Innovation. Havells undertook 
39 projects towards conservation of energy. For 
optimising the energy requirement, replacing the 
motors and pumps with energy efficient motors, 
usage of variable speed drives, etc are some of the 
key projects. Also, initiatives are taken up for saving 
energy through control of idle running of machines, 
operating efficiency and controlled use of conveyors. 
Through our initiatives, we were able to mitigate 
902 tons of CO2 emissions thereby contributing to 
combatting climate change. Details for the projects 
is given below:
Description of the project
Energy saved per 
year (kWh)
Capital Expenditure incurred 
in purchase of energy 
conservation equipment (`)
Energy Saved due to Optimization of motors and pumps
3.27 Lacs kWh
8.81 Lacs
Process Optimization and Elimination of Ideal running of 
machines and equipment
2.71 Lacs kWh
15.31 Lacs
Savings through Installation of New machines, technology 
(dryer installation, energy efficient fans, etc.)
6.61 Lacs kWh
28.75 Lacs
Total
12.59 Lacs kWh
52.87 Lacs
	
(ii)	 Steps taken by the Company for utilising 
alternate sources of energy
	
	
Energy saving using Solar Energy is a continuous 
drive to utilize the natural resources. At Havells, 
through addition of solar power, at present solar 
power generation capacity is 11.26 MW, which 
is about 8.4% of total electricity consumption. 
Through our initiatives, we were able to offset 7971 
tons of CO2 emission by Solar. Year wise addition 
of Projects to enhance Solar generation system are 
identified.
	
(iii)	 Capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment
	
	
During the financial year the company has invested 
` 52.87 Lacs for alternate sources of energy and 
new technology. A focused action is ON to identify 
opportunity for identifying all such equipment and 
machinery wherever new technologies are available 
which can help in optimizing energy requirements. 
(B)	 Technology Absorption
(i)	
Efforts made towards technology absorption 
	
Havells R&D Strategy
	
Our R&D strategy is focused around 3 strategic pillars 
of Consumer centric Innovations, Ownership of critical 
technologies and end-to-end Product responsibility. We have 
built capabilities in these areas with our Customer experience 
and Design Studio forming the basis of Consumer and 
ethnographic understanding; Bangalore Innovation centre 
housing the futuristic technologies for Smart and connected 
solutions and Noida R&D Center taking the responsibility of 
quality and reliability of our products through advanced and 
robust development processes. 
	
The sustained investment behind R&D infrastructure, 
processes and people competency over the years has 
enabled significant in-house competence development in 
critical technologies which translated into development of 
novel and experiential product and solutions addressing 
consumer pains and preferences while keeping the user 
experience seamless. 
	
These leaps are well visible through demonstrated 
performance that can be summarized into 3 key areas of 
Technological differentiation, Sustainability & Self-reliance 
and Novelty & customization.
	
Technological Differentiation
	
For solving the issue of network connectivity in spatially 
distributed smart devices network, Zigbee protocol 
based on Bluetooth mesh platform is in-house 
developed and introduced to connected lights and smart 
switches. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
107
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
iSense Smart switches Monoblock with BLE Mesh gateway
	
In the industrial products segment, in-house developed 
and manufactured Instashift switch platform was 
introduced with category leading features in terms of 
switching options, flexibility of load connection and 
usability across multiple use cases and enclosure 
protection.
Instashift platform in four frame sizes across 40A to 800A
	
Flameproof motors platform, capable of working in 
hazardous and explosive conditions are now available up 
to 160 frames with all leading safety certifications like BIS 
(Bureau of Indian standards) and PESO (Petroleum and 
Explosives Safety Organization).
Flameproof motors range
	
To further maintain the lead on critical technology 
ownership, we are continually upgrading our infrastructure 
creating space of newer capabilities. One such highlight 
of the year is operationalization of NVH (Noise, Vibration 
and Harshness) R&D facility at Ghiloth. It is set up with 
the vision of researching sensorial characterises of our 
products like noise and engineer sophisticated solutions 
and USPs.
NVH R&D Facility at Ghiloth
	
Sustainability and Self reliance
	
Materials technology will continue to a critical role for 
achieving our sustainability goals. In this regard, the key 
highlights from this year are as below:
	
•	
Implementation of eco-friendly and energy efficient 
chemical solution at Baddi for anti-tarnish coating of 
small metallic components
	
•	
Re-cycling of injection moulding plastic waste by 
use of special additives
	
•	
In switches, replacement of Polycarbonate material 
by engineered ABS with lower carbon footprint and 
higher cost efficiency
	
•	
Introduction of recycled plastic materials in Air 
Conditioner front panel.
	
Furthermore, in-line with our philosophy of Self-reliance 
and Make in India growth story, we continued to make 
good progress in reduction of import dependence with 
key highlights as below:
	
•	
Local development of Hair dryer series 3151/52 
and 7181
	
•	
Local development of Food processor, Sandwich 
maker and Inclino room heater
	
•	
In-house manufacturing of Heat pump type water 
heater
	
•	
In-house manufacturing of Solar Inverter PCUs up to 
10Kw
                 Hair Dryer 3152
Inclino Room heater 
	
Around the year, we have ensured meeting compliance 
with all applicable regulations including BEE Star ratings, 
RoHS and CPCB.
	
Novelty and customization
	
With the deep understanding of consumer pain and 
preferences and embedding multiple technologies to 
create seamless solution and experiences, we created a 
diverse plethora of Innovations.
	
Continuing our journey of breaking design monotones 
and offering unconventional designs to consumers, 
we introduced Loop alkaline water purifier in a refreshing 
round facia.
Havells India Limited
108
Loop alkaline air purifier
	
As Indoor air pollution continues to be an area of concern for 
consumers, we have introduced Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) 
display feature along with Puro air Ionizer in LLOYD Fresca 
AC series. The visual Air quality sensor and Ionizer works 
in sync to provide both information of air quality as well as 
measures to clean suspended particulate matter from the air.
LLOYD Fresca AC series
	
In 
switch 
range, 
we 
introduced 
Adiva 
range, 
democratizing soft touch and low noise features 
along with premium finishes to a wider consumer base. 
Adiva switch range with soft touch and low noise features
	
Yet another highlight of novel technology application to solve 
consumer pains, is introduction of Impressed current 
cathodic protection (ICCP) technology in Adonia Plus 
water heater that uses a Titanium anode inside the storage 
tank to improve its protection against corrosion and scaling 
of tank, heating element and thermostat sensor pocket. 
This anode technology stays effective for a much longer 
time versus conventional one during the lifecycle of the 
product, thereby enhancing the life of the water heater.
Side cross-section of Adonia plus with e-anode
(ii)	 Benefits derived from these R&D efforts 
	
The benefits derived from R&D efforts have been detailed 
in the ‘Intellectual Capital’ and the ‘Research and 
Development’ section in the Directors’ Report, which 
form part of this Integrated Annual Report.
(iii)	 Technology import and absorption (imported 
during the last three years reckoned from the 
beginning of the financial year)
	
We have more than 20 active domestic and international 
technology 
collaborations 
with 
various 
academia, 
technology companies, start-ups etc. for further 
accelerating our agenda of technology ownership.
	
Following is a list of Key technology absorption initiatives during last 3 years:
No. Technology
Country of Import
Year of 
Import
Absorption 
Status
Description and Usage
1.
Anechoic research 
and Engineering
USA and Belgium
2023
Fully absorbed
For NVH (Noise, Vibration and Harshness) 
research in appliances and creation of 
sophisticated sensory superior features.
2.
Space Tech.
USA (Adapted)
2021
Fully absorbed
TiO2 based photocatalytic disintegration 
technology for Air purification of VOCs 
(Volatile organic compounds) and PM 
(Particulate matter).
3.
Arc Fault Detection
Ireland
2019
Fully absorbed
Technology for fault detection and protection 
in electrical circuits, used in the AFDD range 
of circuit breakers.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
109
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
	
The Company shall continue its endeavour to adopt 
technologies for its product range to meet the 
requirements of a globally competitive market.
	
The expenditure incurred on Research and Development
(` in Crores)
Particulars
2023-24 
2022-23
(a)	Capital
25.93
15.09 
(b)	Recurring
180.18
148.09 
Total
206.11 
163.18 
Total R&D Expenditure as 
% of Total Turnover
1.11%
0.97%
(C)	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo 
	
International Business remains a focussed area of the 
organisation. As we advance our initiatives in brand 
building and channel expansion across the Middle East, 
Africa and SAARC regions, we’re now poised to enter 
the developed economies of Europe, the United States 
and Australia. Our efforts on product development and 
obtaining certifications emphasizes our commitment 
to delivering excellence in these new territories. This 
strategic move will not only strengthen our global 
presence but also position us for sustained growth and 
success in diverse markets. The demand for “Made in 
India” is fuelling our product development and product 
certification to international standards. Air Conditioners, 
Cables, Switchgear and Lighting are spearheading our 
new product developments for International markets. 
	
The details of foreign exchange earnings and 
outgo during the period under review is as under:
(` in Crores)
Particulars 
2023-24
2022-23
Foreign Exchange 
earned
504.52
364.58 
Foreign Exchange 
used
2,629.49
2,937.63
For and on behalf of 
Board of Directors of Havells India Limited 
Anil Rai Gupta 
Noida, April 30, 2024
Chairman and Managing Director
Havells India Limited
110
Business Responsibility &  
Sustainability Reporting
FOREWORD
As we navigate through an era marked by unprecedented global challenges, the imperative for businesses to embrace 
responsibility and sustainability has never been more paramount. 
Climate change stands as one of the most critical challenges of the time, posing substantial risks to both, the environment, 
and the sustainability of business. At Havells, we acknowledge the urgent need for action and embrace the responsibility 
to drive change.
As a pioneer in the electrical and consumer durables industry, Havells is committed to a bold and concrete plan to achieve 
net-zero greenhouse gas emissions. This commitment to net zero is not a singular promise; it is a transformative journey. 
It calls for innovation across all facets of the business, from optimizing operations and transitioning to clean energy 
sources to developing cutting-edge, energy-efficient products and empowering consumers to contribute to their own 
sustainability journey.
In the subsequent sections, you will discover our journey towards integrating environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) principles into our business operations and decision-making processes. From reducing our carbon footprint 
and enhancing energy efficiency to promoting social inclusivity and fostering community engagement, each initiative 
outlined herein reflects our dedication to making a positive impact on society and the environment. During FY 24 we had 
undertaken key measures to reduce carbon footprint, increase energy efficiency, reduce waste generation and proper 
disposal of waste such as:
•	
Conducted certification training program on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for our R&D team with the help of globally 
renowned certification agency. We will now be incorporating Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as part of new product 
development process through which we will be able to calculate the environmental impact of our product. 
•	
We are thrilled to announce that Havells have been awarded the prestigious Zero Waste to Landfill certification, 
marking a significant milestone in our sustainability journey. This achievement underscores our unwavering 
commitment to environmental stewardship and our relentless pursuit of waste reduction and resource efficiency. 
By diverting all wastes from landfill sites and implementing innovative waste management practices across our 
operations, we are not only minimizing our environmental footprint but also contributing to the preservation of natural 
resources and the protection of ecosystems. 
Furthermore, this report underscores our unwavering belief that sustainable business practices are not merely a checkbox 
exercise but a catalyst for innovation, resilience, and competitive advantage. By embracing sustainability as a core driver of 
our business strategy, we are not only mitigating risks but also unlocking new opportunities for growth and differentiation 
in an ever-evolving marketplace. As we continue this journey toward a more sustainable future, we recognize that our 
efforts cannot be realized in isolation. Collaboration and partnership are integral to driving meaningful change, and we are 
committed to working hand-in-hand with our stakeholders – including customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and 
communities – to collectively address the most pressing challenges facing our planet.
We are proud to publish our 3rd BRSR report of the Company for the year 2023-24. The BRSR for FY 2024 is 
aligned with the nine principles of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct notified by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Government of India. Our BRSR report is in line with the SEBI mandate for top 150 listed companies 
for undertaking Reasonable assurance of the BRSR Core KPIs. The same was carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co 
Chartered Accountants LLP
Regards,
Ameet Kumar Gupta
Whole-time Director
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
111
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
SECTION A: 
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)  
of the Listed Entity
L31900DL1983PLC016304
2
Name of the Listed Entity
Havells India Limited
3
Year of incorporation
1983
4
Registered office address
904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, KG Marg,  
Connaught Place, New Delhi – 110001
5
Corporate address
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector – 126, Expressway, Noida – 201304
6
E-mail
sustainability@havells.com
7
Telephone
0120-3331000
8
Website
www.havells.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
FY 2024
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
a.	 The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
b.	 BSE Ltd.
11
Paid-up Capital
` 62,66,83,030 as of March 31, 2024
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Nitin Singh 
Telephone no.: 0120-3331000
e-mail id: sustainability@havells.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under 
this report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only 
for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for 
the entity and all the entities which form a part 
of its consolidated financial statements, taken 
together) –
The disclosures are made on Standalone basis and covers 
the operations of Havells India Limited. This includes all eight 
manufacturing locations - Alwar (Rajasthan), Neemrana 
(Rajasthan), Ghiloth (Rajasthan), Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), 
Faridabad (Haryana), Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Sahibabad (Uttar 
Pradesh) and Sri City (Andhra Pradesh) and one corporate office 
(Noida, Uttar Pradesh). With effect from FY 2024, we have also 
included our branch offices (25), warehouses (23) and one CRI 
office (Noida, Uttar Pradesh), in addition to our manufacturing 
locations and Corporate office as part of our reporting boundary. 
Accordingly, previous year data/numbers are not comparable to 
that extent.
14
Name of assurance provider 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
15
Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable
II.	
PRODUCTS / SERVICES
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Switchgears
Switches, Domestic Switchgears, Industrial 
Switchgears, Capacitors, Automation and Control
12.10%
2.
Cables
Power Cable and Flexible Cables
34.06%
3.
Lighting and Fixture
Professional Luminaires and Consumer Luminaires
8.77%
4.
Electrical Consumer Durables
Fans, Small domestic appliances and Water Heaters
18.77%
5.
Lloyd Consumer
Air Conditioners, Refrigerator, Washing Machine 
Televisions, and other domestic appliances
20.40%
6.
Others
Motors, Solar, Pump, water purifiers and Personal 
Grooming Products
5.90%
Havells India Limited
112
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover): 
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1.
Cables
27320
34.06%
2.
Switchgears
26513, 27104 & 27331
12.10%
3.
Electrical Consumer Durable
27501, 27502, 28132, 27503, 
25931, 27504, 28195 & 27103
18.77%
4.
Lighting and Fixtures
27400, 26101, 26104 & 35105
8.77%
5.
Lloyd Consumer
28192, 27501 & 26401
20.40%
III.	 OPERATIONS
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National (Standalone)
15
48
63
International (Subsidiaries)
-
4
4
	
Note: Number of offices include branches and warehouses
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations (Including through Subsidiaries)
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
Pan India
International (No. of Countries)
70+
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
	
Havells International Business presently contributes around 3% of the overall business of the company. We currently 
supply our products to more than 70 countries worldwide and have invested heavily in HR resources, products, and 
channels to achieve the desired growth in our International Business. Additionally, we have expanded our business by 
entering in US market and we are in the process of developing a roadmap to enter other developed markets as well, 
including Europe, and Australia.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers 
	
	
Havells is a well-known Fast Moving Electrical Goods Company and a major manufacturer of power distribution 
equipment with a strong presence around the world. We have a strong market presence in a variety of products, both 
industrial and domestic. We were the first to introduce exclusive brand showrooms in the electric industry with ‘Havells 
Galaxy’. Now, We have over 900+ Brand shop across the country, allowing customers of both domestic and commercial 
customers to select from a wide range of products for various purposes. We are the most popular FMEG Company 
in rural markets, where we have gained market share in various categories and increased their distribution penetration 
under the “Rural Vistaar” initiative. We have also opened 600+ exclusive stores “Havells utsav” for reaching towns 
with less than 10,000 inhabitants. For urban markets, Havells has multiple channels, including dealers, distributors, 
e-commerce, quick commerce, brand shops, modern format retail, canteens, and projects.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
113
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
IV.	 EMPLOYEES
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
6,712
6,347
94.56%
365
5.44%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
8,293
7,255
87.48%
1,038
12.52%
3.
Total employees (D + E)
15,005
13,602
90.65%
1,403
9.35%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
441
411
93.20%
30
6.80%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
17,151
14,335
83.58%
2,816
16.42%
6.
Total workers (F + G)
17,592
14,746
83.82%
2,846
16.18%
	
	
Note : The figure of permanent employee does not include directors, KMP and apprentices
	
	
During the year, we continued to focus on building a diverse and inclusive workforce culture. As part of our diversity 
goals there has been an increase in overall female workforce from 6.79% in FY 2023 to 13.03% in FY 2024.We will 
continue to work towards the goal of diversity. 
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
6
6
100.00%
-
-
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
100.00%
-
-
3.
Total employees (D + E)
6
6
100.00%
-
-
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
5
5
100.00%
-
-
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
8
8
100.00%
-
-
6.
Total workers (F + G)
13
13
100.00%
-
-
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
14
1
7.14%
Key Management Personnel*
1
-
-
	
*Excluding BOD
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years) 
	
In the FY 2024, we have implemented numerous initiatives to enhance talent retention and engagement. To retain existing 
talent at the managerial level, we have introduced a Talent Mapping exercise to identify employees with potential for larger 
roles in the future, thus creating career paths for them. Additionally, we have launched a career development center called 
“Pragati” for our frontline salespeople, enabling them to progress to first-level managers. Furthermore, a management 
development program named “Unnati” has been initiated for our first-level sales managers. To assess the performance and 
gather feedback, we have implemented a 360-degree survey for senior leaders.
	
In order to meet our future talent requirements, we have established a strong connection with campuses, ensuring a pipeline 
of young talent. To align with our growth aspirations and ensure our workforce is prepared for the future, we have developed 
a comprehensive learning and development strategy that caters to the learning needs at all levels of the organizational 
hierarchy. 
Havells India Limited
114
	
Our initiatives are delivered through a combination of instructor-led training and an online portal utilizing our Learning 
Management System (LMS) platform called Saksham. We are proud to announce that for the fifth consecutive year, we 
have been recognized as a “Great Place to Work” in India. Our scores have consistently improved over the years, leading 
to Havells India Limited being acknowledged as one of India’s Best WorkplacesTM among the top 50 large organizations. 
This recognition highlights our success in inspiring our employees to innovate and fostering a culture that encourages and 
empowers them to explore new and improved ways of doing things.Please refer to the trend for the past three years below:
Particulars
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2022
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
18.84%
19.84%
18.89%
17.41%
27.91%
17.86%
16.41%
22.11%
16.66%
Permanent Workers
5.12%
37.50%
7.46%
3.38%
10.34%
3.84%
4.21%
4.08%
4.21%
V.	
HOLDING, SUBSIDARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURE)
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures 
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
Subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Havells Guangzhou Limited, China
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
2.
Havells International Inc., USA
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
3.
Havells HVAC LLC, USA
Subsidiary of Havells 
International Inc., USA
100.00%
No
4.
Havells Lighting LLC, USA
Subsidiary of Havells 
International Inc.,USA
100.00%
No
VI.	 CSR DETAILS 
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No): Yes
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in `): 18,549.90 Cr
	
(iii)	
Net Worth (in `): 7,430.74 Cr
VII.	 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE COMPLIANCES
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2024
FY 2023
(If yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
YES
-
-
 
-
-
 
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
YES
-
-
 
-
-
 
Shareholders
YES
9
-
Source: 
Stakeholder 
Relationship 
Committee
 3
-
 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
115
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2024
FY 2023
(If yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Employees and 
workers
YES
24
-
Concerns 
and 
suggestions 
received 
through 
various 
formal and 
informal 
modes
 10
-
 
Customers*
YES
8,535
-
Concerns 
and 
suggestions 
received on 
social media, 
Consumer 
email id 
and central 
feedback 
number
7,701
-
Concerns 
and 
suggestions 
received on 
social media, 
Consumer 
email id 
and central 
feedback 
number
Value Chain Partners
YES
3
-
2
-
 
Other (please specify)
 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
*Number includes only grievances / escalations. 
	
Havells places great emphasis on customer service and satisfaction, and we firmly believe in delivering the best service 
to our valued customers. Our primary goal is to minimize instances of customer complaints and grievances through 
effective service delivery and regular reviews. We are dedicated to promptly addressing and resolving any customer 
concerns or complaints. Havells has implemented a well-structured mechanism for addressing grievances. We are 
committed to fostering openness, promoting transparency, and reporting improvements without the fear of reprisal. 
Havells strictly adheres to ‘Zero Tolerance’ Policies regarding non-compliance and is dedicated to cultivating a culture 
that upholds high ethical standards and ensures safe working conditions for all employees. We have established a 
comprehensive system to safeguard our intellectual property, including trademarks, logos, patents, and product designs, 
by registering them under relevant acts. Additionally, we have a process in place for reporting whistleblower complaints, 
known as “Satark,” to the Board on an annual basis and to our external auditors quarterly. Grievance redressal policy 
to be found on the link: https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/VigilMechanism_SatarkPolicy.pdf 
For detailed information on our grievance redressal process, please refer to page 158 of the IAR.
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. 
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental 
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, 
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.
	
Please refer to the materiality page and risk management page in IAR 22 and 36
Havells India Limited
116
SECTION B: 
MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.	
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a. 	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b. 	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c. 	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-
and-policies.html
2.	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. 	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4. 	
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trusted) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted 
by your entity and mapped to each principle.
The below ISO certifications have been taken up at an 
organization wide level:
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 45001
ISO 27001. We are BIS compliant. 
5. 	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
Please refer to IAR, page 35
6. 	
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
Please refer to IAR, page 35
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements 
(listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure) - Please refer to IAR Chairman Statement, page 17
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Name: Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Designation: Whole-time Director
DIN: 00002838
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / 
No). If yes, provide details.
Yes
Name: Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Designation: Whole-time Director
DIN: 00002838
10. 	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above	
policies and follow up action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
On a periodic basis, the ESG performance of the 
company is reported to the executive committee 
of the Board and follow up actions are mapped 
out.
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles,	 and rectification of 
any non-compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Compliance report across all statutory 
requirements is submitted to the Directors 
on a monthly basis and to audit committee 
on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Control 
Manager tool is used to track and enforce 100% 
compliance. 
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide 
name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
117
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
SECTION C: 
PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1 
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial 
year: 
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training and 
its impact
Percentage of persons in 
respective category covered 
by the awareness Programs
Board of Directors
6
A comprehensive presentation of various topics, such 
as enterprise risk management, environment, social, 
governance (ESG) cybersecurity and information 
security, brand and marketing strategy, etc., is carried 
out in the context of the familiarization programme.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
6
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
22
All employees are required to undergo and sign 
off the Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy, 
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy, Idea 
(Innovative thinking and creativity in the group / for 
any suggestions), Satark (for Right Doing under Vigil 
Mechanism) and Nirbhaya training (under POSH). 
Technical trainings for R&D includes Agile Methodology, 
Altium Tool Training, Basics of Patents, Benchmarking 
Workshop, CETOL Software Training, DFMEA Training, 
Ideation Workshop, LCA Training, LS-DYNA Training, 
NX Training, PCB Training.
100%
Workers
13
Workers are required to undergo training on the Safety, 
Skill uprgradation, Human Rights Policy and Code of 
Conduct
100%
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website): 
	
There were no material fines/ penalties/punishment/ award/compounding fees/ settlement amount of material paid in 
proceedings by the directors/ KMPs to regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions during FY 2024.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Any other reason (please specify)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Havells India Limited
118
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
	
Not applicable 
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy. 
	
Yes, Havells India Limited has implemented a comprehensive policy to combat corruption and bribery. The policy can be 
accessed from the following link: https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/Anti-corruption-and-Anti-
bribery-policy.pdf. Havells maintain a zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and bribery in any form. We expect all our 
employees to fully comply with the relevant anti-corruption laws, Havells’ Code of Conduct, and this policy demonstrating 
strict adherence with ethical and transparent business practices with zero violations. Our employees are expected to strictly 
refrain from accepting donations, discounts, favors, or services from existing or potential clients, competitors, suppliers, or 
service providers. Furthermore, every employee is required to provide an annual declaration confirming their adherence to 
these policies.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption: 
	
No disciplinary action was taken against any Directors/KMPs/employees/workers by any law enforcement agency for charges 
of bribery/ corruption. 
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest: 
	
No complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors in FY 2024.
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of 
interest.
	
There were no cases of corruptions or conflicts of interest which required action by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format: 
FY 2024
FY 2023
Number of days of accounts payables*
65.85 Days
62.28 Days
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
*For the purpose of calculating the Cost of goods/services procured, all procurements in the nature of capital expenditures have been 
excluded. Trade payables as disclosed in the audited standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 have been 
considered as the numerator (accounts payable).
9.	
Open-ness of business Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, 
and related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following 
format: 
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024
FY 2023
Concentration of 
Purchases*
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
0.56%
0.50%
b. 	
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
72
89
c. 	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
69.54%
62.00%
Concentration of 
Sales
a. 	
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
79.69%
83.00%
b. 	
Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
15,035
14,695
c. 	
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors
3.45%
3.85%
Share of RPTs in
a. 	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
0.97%
0.15%
b. 	
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
0.05%
0.05%
c. 	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties/ Total loans & advances)**
-
-
d. 	
Investments^ (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)**
51.43%
2.20% 
 	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
^ Including investment in subsidiary
	
*For the purpose of classification of vendors as Trading houses, we have considered all parties who are categorised as such in the vendor 
master.
	
**For loans and advances and Investments, closing balances disclosed in the audited standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 have been considered.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
119
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
	
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial 
year: 
Total Number of awareness programmes 
held 
Topics/Principle covered under the 
training
% of value chain partner covered (by 
value of business done with such 
partners) under the awareness programs
Multiple training/Awareness sessions carried 
out during the year
P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P7, P8, P9
100% of upstream, downstream value chain 
partners and employees have been covered. 
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same. 
	
Yes, we have implemented various codes and policies to effectively handle conflicts of interest involving members of the 
Board. Havells requires all Board members to submit a mandatory declaration, ensuring their compliance with the Code 
of Ethics. This requirement applies to all Directors, Senior Management, and employees across the entire Havells Group. 
By adhering to these standards, we aim to uphold and enforce proper business conduct. The Code serves as a deterrent 
against misconduct and promotes ethical behavior within the organization. For more information, please visit the following 
link: https://www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html
PRINCIPLE 2 
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively. 
	
Havells India is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, and we take product stewardship seriously. Our R&D 
team is dedicated to developing products with a systematic approach that prioritizes the environment. We aim to improve 
energy efficiency, reduce water usage, minimize waste generation, adopt Lean manufacturing with reduced material use, 
and continuously improve the quality, durability, and performance of our products. We are going to Incorporate Life Cycle 
Assessment (LCA) into our product development process to ensure environmental sustainability. It will help us identify 
potential environmental hotspots throughout the product’s life cycle, from raw material extraction to disposal, allowing us to 
make informed decisions to minimize environmental impact. 
	
We adopt a focused approach to using clean technology in our processes and product stewardship during the design 
phase. Our R&D efforts are centered around key focus areas such as energy efficiency, quality, durability, and the usage of 
sustainable materials in our products. 
	
In FY 2024, our recurring expenditure and capital expenditure on R&D were ` 180.18 Cr. and `25.93 Cr. respectively. In 
total, we spent ` 206.11 Cr, with 46% of the percentage of our R&D expenditure dedicated to improving the environmental 
and social impacts of our products and processes. We also invested in capex to improve technology and build capacity for 
innovation. 
	
At Havells India, we are committed to designing and developing products that not only meet customer needs but also 
contribute to a better world. We strive to reduce our environmental impact and create a more sustainable future for all.
2.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
	
Yes, 80% of our sourcing was through sustainable sourcing in FY 2024 which will be continuing to improve further. Havells 
India Limited is committed to have sustainable supply chain on social, ethical and environment aspects and established 
sustainable practices for our suppliers. We do capacity building for our suppliers periodically where ESG guidelines and 
expectations were shared with all strategic suppliers. We have established a procedure to follow Sourcing agreement and 
Vendor Code of conduct, in addition to contractual ESG obligations to encourage vendors to adhere to ESG guidelines. 
A stringent process is put in place to evaluate all new suppliers on ESG parameters such as Statutory and Regulatory 
compliances under Environment, Energy, Waste Management, Health and Safety working conditions etc. 
Havells India Limited
120
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. 
	
Havells has forged partnership with government authorized recyclers as part of its E-Waste & Battery Waste recycling initiative 
as well as plastic waste management collection program. A detailed MOU has been signed for E-Waste, Battery Waste, 
and plastic waste management with the identified treatment value-chain player. Havells offers e-waste drop-off centers 
and ensures environmentally safe management of electronics that have reached their end-of-life or are defective spare 
parts. All necessary legal authorizations required for the processing facilities have been obtained and approved by relevant 
governmental agencies. The recycling and disposal of e-waste are crucial in protecting the environment from hazardous 
consequences.
	
We encourage our channel partners, consumers, and bulk consumers to contribute to environmental preservation by properly 
disposing of their old consumer durable products, accessories, or defective spares. We have various avenues for customers 
to reach us for end-of-life disposal, including a dedicated customer care number (1800 1020 666), website visit, or email 
at ewaste@havells.com. Once we receive end-of-life products at our collection center, we direct them to e-waste recyclers 
authorized by the Central Pollution Control Board/State Pollution Control Board for further processing.
	
In the FY 2024, we reclaimed 25,046 MT of e-waste, 512 MT of Battery Waste and 5,478 MT of plastic packaging 
waste.
	
All our manufacturing facilities are Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWL) certified by renowned third party agency. It shows that 
our company is committed to sustainable practices and reducing its environmental impact. It’s reassuring to say that any 
hazardous waste generated at the factories is securely disposed of with authorized hazardous waste management and 
disposal agencies approved by State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB). Additionally, disposing of non-hazardous solid waste 
and biomedical waste with authorized waste recyclers and biomedical waste disposal agencies ensures secured disposal 
and minimizes any negative impact on the environment.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
	
Yes, we have adhered to government regulations and submitted the Extended Producer Responsibility plan, which is now 
accessible in the public domain. In the FY 2024, we successfully achieved the 100% EPR Target for plastic waste by collecting 
and sustainably disposing of 5,478 MT of plastic waste nationwide. Additionally, we fulfilled our E-Waste EPR obligations by 
reaching the 100% Target through the collection and recycling of 25,046 MT of e-waste and 513 MT of Battery Waste.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? 
	
In FY 2024, we conducted LCA training for our R&D Project Managers who are also the sustainability champions for 
respective product verticals. During this extensive training, LCA has been performed for two of our product categories - Air 
Conditioners and Fan on a sample basis, with key data.
	
From FY 2025, LCA will be incorporated into our New Product Development process for all the product categories.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any 
other means, briefly describe the same along with action taken to mitigate the same 
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry). 
Recycled or re-used Input material to total material
FY 2024
FY 2023
2.64% Recycled Paper Used
2.46 % Recycled Paper Used
10 % reuse or recycled thermoplastic material
10% Thermoset Recycled Plastic Used
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
121
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed
FY 2024
FY 2023
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics (including 
packaging)
-
5,478 MT
-
-
3,617 MT
-
E-Waste
-
25,046 MT
-
-
5,187 MT
-
Hazardous waste
-
513 MT
-
-
-
-
Other waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product 
category. 
	
Please refer to responses to Question 3 and 4 above
PRINCIPLE 3 
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
 (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
6,347
5,975
94.14%
6,347
100.00%
-
-
6,347
100.00%
6,347
100.00%
Female
365
309
84.66%
365
100.00%
365
100.00%
-
-
365
100.00%
Total
6,712
6,284
93.62%
6,712
100.00%
365
5.44%
6,347
94.56%
6,712
100.00%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
7,255
2,519
34.72%
7,255
100.00%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
1,038
157
15.13%
1,038
100.00%
399
38.44%
-
-
-
-
Total
8,293
2,676
32.27%
8,293
100.00%
399
4.81%
-
-
-
-
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
 (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
411
79
19.22%
-
-
-
-
-
-
411
100.00%
Female
30
1
3.33%
-
-
30
100.00%
-
-
30
100.00%
Total
441
80
18.14%
-
-
30
6.80%
-
-
441
100.00%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
14,335
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
2,816
-
-
-
-
2,816
100.00%
-
-
2,816
100.00%
Total
17,151
-
-
-
-
2,816
16.42%
-
-
2,816
16.42%
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format –
FY 2024
FY 2023
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company*
0.13
0.17
	
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 
indicators in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
	
*For the purpose of calculating the spending on measures towards well being of employees and workers, we have considered the 
expense incurred towards employees/workers Health Insurance, Accidental Insurance, Life Insurance, Parental Leaves and Creche 
Facilities, net of any recoveries made from the employees/workers.
	
	
We place utmost attention to the well-being of our employees, which is fundamental to our commitment to sustainable 
operations and our promise of ‘care’. We actively engage in various initiatives aimed at promoting positivity, wellness, 
and good health among our employees and their families.
Havells India Limited
122
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024
FY 2023
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
5.92%
Y
100%
7.27%
Y
Gratuity
100%
5.50%
N
100%
7.37%
N
ESI
1.49%
3.75%
Y
2.67%
4.45%
Y
NPS
3.19%
-
Y
4.15%
-
Y
LTRI
1.46%
-
N
2.38%
-
N
ESOP 2014
2.12%
-
N
2.02%
-
N
ESOP 2015
0.03%
-
N
0.03%
-
N
ESOP 2016
0.55%
-
N
0.54%
-
N
ESOP 2022
3.17%
-
N
2.59%
-
N
	
Majority of the workers are covered under the Employee State Insurance (ESI). For those workers who are not covered under 
ESI, we have voluntarily provided them with a medical insurance policy. Ensuring the health and well-being of employees 
is critical for their overall productivity and job satisfaction. The availability of such policies can provide employees with the 
necessary support and care when needed, which can help improve their morale and productivity.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees 
and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether 
any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard. 
	
Yes, the premises and offices of Havells have been designed with the accessibility of differently-abled employees in mind. 
Ramps have been built to facilitate easy movement, and separate washrooms have been created specifically for differently-
abled people to improve usability and access. 
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes. Havells is dedicated to ensuring that all of its employees, job applicants, and workers are treated fairly in a discrimination-free 
environment. We have established a policy that guarantees non-discrimination based on age, disability, gender reassignment, 
marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including color, nationality, and ethnic origins), religion, belief, 
sexual orientation, and illness. We are an equal opportunity workplace that follows gender-neutral compensation policies and 
norms. To learn more about our diversity and equal opportunity policy, please visit
	
https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/Diversity_Policy.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender 
FY 2024
Permanent employees
Permanent worker*
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.00%
74.64%
-
-
Female
90.91%
68.75%
-
-
Total
99.63%
74.22%
-
-
	
Note: We believe in instilling work life balance in our work environment, in FY 2024, 257 male employee and 16 female employee availed 
parental leave.
	
The paternity leave at present does not cover the male workers. Also, none of the female worker availed maternity benefit.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
123
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. 
Yes
(details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, we have implemented a structured grievance redressal system called SATARK to address any 
concerns that may arise. This system is designed to promote transparency, encourage feedback, 
and facilitate improvements without any fear of retaliation.
Various channels of communication are available for employees and workers to raise their grievances. 
These include a suggestion box or drop box, which is not under camera surveillance, placed at all 
our locations. Additionally, individuals can also share their concerns via email at a dedicated email 
address specifically created for this purpose.
Our grievance redressal policy is applicable to all stakeholders, including directors, employees, 
partners, customers, vendors, contractors, clients, internal or external auditors, and any other third 
parties associated with Havells India Limited, both in India and overseas.
Anyone mentioned above is encouraged to make a protected disclosure if they have any grievances. 
If the complaint falls under the jurisdiction of a separate redressal committee or forum, it will be 
handled accordingly by the respective committee or forum.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity: 
	
At our company, we believe in respecting the rights of our employees. While we may not have any trade unions, we 
wholeheartedly acknowledge and support the freedom of association and collective bargaining.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total (A)
On Health and  
safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total (X)
On Health and  
safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (Y)
% (Y/ X)
No. (Z)
% (Z / X)
 
Employees
Male
6,347
3,498
55.11%
6,347
100.00%
5,754
3,855
67.00%
5,754
100.00%
Female
365
271
74.25%
365
100.00%
262
201
76.72%
262
100.00%
Total
6,712
3,769
56.15%
6,712
100.00%
6,016
4,056
67.42%
6,016
100.00%
 
Workers
Male
411
411
100.00%
411
100.00%
413
413
100.00%
413
100.00%
Female
30
30
100.00%
30
100.00%
24
24
100.00%
24
100.00%
Total
441
441
100.00%
441
100.00%
437
437
100.00%
437
100.00%
	
Note: For more details on our training programs and human capital development initiative, please refer to Human capital section in IAR page 46 to 57.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:	
Category
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
6,347
5,970
94.06%
5,820
5,180
89.00%
Female
365
343
93.97%
270
208
77.04%
Total
6,712
6,313
94.06%
6,090
5,388
88.47%
Workers
Male
411
411
100.00%
409
402
98.29%
Female
30
30
100.00%
34
21
61.76%
Total
441
441
100.00%
443
423
95.49%
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system? 
	
	
Yes. We have implemented ISO 45001 for the health and well-being of its workforce. Various awareness sessions/
trainings are conducted on safety related aspects for the workforce. Training related to Hazard Identification and Risk 
Assessment (HIRA ) and Total Productive Maintenance are also provided. Back-to-basics initiatives with respect to the 
coverage of safety parameters have been initiated to maintain a safe workplace culture. Audits with respect to EHS are 
conducted in all our manufacturing units. Scheduled Medical Examinations have been conducted for workers engaged 
in Hazardous work activities. Monthly Safety Review has been facilitated by HO and Chaired by Manufacturing Site 
Havells India Limited
124
Head/Plant Head on a rotation basis and learning has been implemented across all units to avoid the reoccurrence 
of incidents. We are focused on both, the physical and mental well-being of its workforce and organising various 
programs and discussions with well-being experts and medical practitioners. 100% of our employees and workers at 
manufacturing sites are covered by an occupational health and safety management system that has been audited or 
certified by an external party.
	
	
The operations conducted at our branch offices and warehouses do not perceive any occupational risks and hazards, 
therefore, they are not covered under our occupational health and safety management system. However, their health 
and safety is our priority, and we are committed to ensuring that they have a safe working environment.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity? Please refer to IAR section for detailed description. 
	
	
Havells has implemented various measures and initiatives to identify work-related hazards and evaluate risks, both on a 
routine and non-routine basis.
	
	
•	
Gemba walk 
	
	
•	
Hazard identification and Risk assessment (HIRA)
	
	
•	
Internal and External audit 
	
	
•	
Work permit system 
	
	
•	
Incident Reporting System 
	
	
•	
Workplace Monitoring
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N) 
	
	
Yes, we have multiple kaisens at all manufacturing locations and other mechanisms for workers to report the work-
related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks.
	
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No) 
	
	
Yes, we prioritize the health and well-being of our workforce above everything else. Our aim is to create a workplace 
environment that is supportive and promotes happiness and good health. To achieve this, we have partnered with 
healthcare providers across India to offer high-quality healthcare services to our workforce and their dependents 24/7. 
Our partnership with these hospitals includes coverage for outpatient services, health check-ups, and hospitalization 
services at discounted rates. Additionally, each of our empanelledhospitals has assigned a single point of contact to 
provide priority services and address any queries in case of hospitalization.
	
	
To further promote the health and well-being of our workforce, we offer access to various wellness workshops in all plant 
locations, including our headquarters. Our wellness program, known as “Wellness Wednesday,” focuses on helping 
individuals lead healthier, more balanced, and purposeful lives. We have developed a strategic and structured wellness 
approach with our impaneled hospitals and partners to provide services such as Gynecology, Cardiology, Orthopedics, 
Gastroenterology, and more.
	
	
Please refer to our health and safety section in the IAR on page 54 to 55 for more details on the above disclosure.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: 
Safety Incident/Number
 Category
FY 2024 
FY 2023 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0.08
0.68
Workers
0.18
0.11
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
2
2
Workers
7
4
No. of fatalities
Employees
-
-
Workers
1
1
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) / No. of 
Permanent Disabilities*
Employees
-
-
Workers
-
-
	
Note : Rates have been calculated basis 10,00,000 hours worked
	
An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in the 
table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.	

	
*The BRSR Core requires disclosure of ‘’Number of Permanent Disabilities’’, however, it does not include the definition of ‘Permanent 
Disabilities’. We, in the absence of any other guidance, have considered High Consequence Work-related injury or ill health, which results 
in an injury from which the employee / worker cannot or is not expected to recover fully to the previous health status, this does not include 
fatalities.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
125
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
	
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. 
	
Yes, we have numerous measures in place to establish a safe workplace and culture. Please refer to our IAR page 56 to 57 
for more details
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Benefits
FY 2024
FY 2023
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remark*
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
3
-
-
-
-
Health and Safety
-
-
-
-
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% of the plants were assessed by company and 3rd party Internal auditors
Working Conditions
100% of the plants were assessed by company and 3rd party Internal auditors
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. 
	
A.	
We have established Safety Command centres in all our plants to monitor and promote safety culture.
	
B.	
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) is conducted for all the safety-related incidences and suitable corrective actions are 
taken. Safety Inspections and Safety Audits are conducted periodically. Corrective actions are implemented for all the 
observations observed by the auditors (internal as well as external).
	
C.	
Senior Management conducts a Monthly Safety Review. The key takeaways from the meeting are shared and 
implemented across all manufacturing sites. Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) are identified based on available 
hazards, and regular training programs are conducted to ensure their proper use. A risk control measure implementation 
program is in place to ensure their effectiveness.
	
D.	
We augmented the number of safety placards, posters, and signs at strategic locations to enhance safety awareness 
and remind everyone that safety is a collective responsibility. 
	
Please refer to IAR section 56 to 57 for more details
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N). 
	
Havells strongly believes that good health is an essential part of life, and having a healthy workforce contributes to the 
productivity. Prioritizing the well-being of our employees and their families, we provide medical health insurance, accident 
insurance, and group term life insurance coverage for all our permanent employees and their declared dependents from the 
very first day of their joining at Havells.
	
To promote and support employee wellness, we have established the ‘Live Healthy’ program, which includes free consultations 
with renowned doctors in various medical fields at our Head Office. Through our partnerships with reputable hospitals and 
health labs across the country, we offer employees discounts on annual health checks and facilitate tests, treatments, and 
health checks.
	
During the untimely and unfortunate demise of our employee, we extended the following support to immediate family – 
	
•	
Mediclaim benefits to continue for the Dependent Family for 5 years from the year of demise of the employee.
	
•	
Education fee reimbursement on an actual basis or up to ` 1 Lac per year per child (max 2 children), till his/her 
Havells India Limited
126
graduation or 5 years, whichever is earlier. 
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners. 
	
All the partners involved in Havells’ value chain are covered under the Provident Fund (PF) Act and the Employees’ State 
Insurance (ESI) Act. As per the law, these partners are responsible for deducting and depositing the statutory dues. Additionally, 
the service contract between Havells and the service provider includes a clause under the ‘payment terms’ section, which 
mandates the service provider to make necessary statutory payments such as PF and ESI.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-
health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed 
in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: 
 
 
Total Number of affected Employee/Worker
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2023
Employees
-
-
-
-
Workers
1
1
-
-
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) 
	
No.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partner (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
 100.00%
Working Conditions
 100.00%
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
	
We have implemented a methodical approach to establish a proactive safety program and foster a robust safety culture within 
the organization. Several progressive steps have been taken, including:
	
i.	
Formation of a management safety review team consisting of site heads, plant heads, factory safety officers, factory HR 
heads, and engineering team members. 
	
ii.	
Finalization of safety metrics for review, along with their definitions, by site heads. This includes five lagging indicators 
such as lost time incident, reportable accident, lost time incident rate, no lost time injury, and fire incident, as well as two 
leading indicators of near miss and unsafe acts and unsafe conditions.
	
iii.	
Reviews are conducted on a rotational basis by site heads and plant heads.
	
iv.	
Introduction of the “One Point Lesson” accident investigation format, with horizontal deployment of all lessons.
	
v.	
Revision of the PPE Matrix, preparation of plant-wise PPE training modules, ongoing training programs, introduction of 
safety challans, and surprise checks by shop floor supervisors.
	
vi.	
Modification of the approval matrix in the Compliance Manager to standardize the approval authority following the 
transfer of the safety function reporting from the HR function to the Plant Heads.
	
vii.	
Establishment of a central repository of safety resources on Share Point accessible across the network.
	
viii.	 Initiation of an inter-plant safety assessment exercise by the Factory Safety Officers.
	
ix.	
Participation in Safety Training programs through Tata Steel Digishala. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
127
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 4 
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
	
We have structured our stakeholder identification process around the core principles of inclusivity, materiality, and 
responsiveness. Our stakeholder categories consist of those who are affected by Havells either directly or indirectly. This 
encompasses stakeholders to whom Havells holds legal, financial, or moral obligations. Furthermore, we have assessed 
the viewpoint of stakeholders who have the ability to influence or impact Havells’ strategic direction and decision-making 
processes. These efforts are rooted in our commitment to establishing trust-based relationships with our stakeholders and 
recognizing their priorities in fostering shared value for everyone.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group. 
	
Please refer to the stakeholder engagement page 30 and risk management page 22 in IAR.
Leadership Indicator
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the 
Board. 
	
The principles of governance, ethics, integrity, and transparency form a solid foundation that guides our progress. Havells 
Board of Directors committees are responsible for overseeing and evaluating our Sustainability strategy and Climate Action 
Plan. These committees, namely the CSR and ESG Committee and the Risk Management Committee, ensure effective 
governance in relation to material ESG aspects, including climate-related risks and opportunities. Havells has its CSR 
committee to encompass a broader ESG agenda, in addition to its CSR responsibilities. The CSR and ESG Committee will 
play a crucial role in supporting Havells India Ltd.’s commitment to sustainable and inclusive development, by integrating ESG 
considerations into the decision-making process. The Enterprises Risk Management Committee is tasked with identifying 
risks that may impact our operations and developing policies and strategies to minimize and mitigate these risks as part of 
our risk management efforts. 
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. 
	
Yes, various functions of the Company systematically engage the stakeholders, as stated in the stakeholder section of 
essential indicator 2 in this principle. Our sustainability model is centered around creating value for stakeholders by identifying 
the material topics of Havells through consultation. In order to align long-term thinking and goal orientation, Environmental, 
Social, Governance (ESG) related key performance indicators (KPIs) have been identified for the inclusion of ESG metrics in 
the measurement of senior management’s performance-linked compensation. 
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups. 
	
Havells’ Corporate Social Responsibility philosophy is driven by the idea that small actions can bring about significant changes 
in people’s lives, encapsulated in the motto “Chhote Kadam Badi Soch”. This guiding principle has inspired targeted initiatives 
by us in the areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Skill Development, Sanitation, Environment, Heritage Conservation, 
and other charitable causes. These focus areas not only complement the government’s objectives but also align with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Through its corporate citizenship programs, Havells has been making a 
positive impact on communities throughout India, providing access to food and nutrition, healthcare, sanitation, education, 
and livelihood opportunities for underprivileged children and families. 
Havells India Limited
128
PRINCIPLE 5 
Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity, in the following format: 
Category
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total (A)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees / 
workers covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent 
6,712
6,712
100.00%
6,090
6,090
100.00% 
Other than permanent
8,293
8,293
100.00% 
7,224
7,224
100.00% 
Total
15,005
15,005
100.00% 
13,314
13,314
100.00% 
Workers
Permanent 
441
441
100.00% 
443
443
100.00% 
Other than permanent
17,151
17,151
100.00% 
17,101
17,101
100.00% 
Total
17,592
17,592
100.00% 
17,544
17,544
100.00% 
Havells India Limited has implemented a Code of Conduct (COC) and a Human Rights Policy to safeguard the rights of its 
employees and ensure appropriate working conditions. Regular awareness sessions are conducted on the Code of Conduct 
and Human Rights Policy, which includes induction training, annual declaration, and other discussion platforms for all our 
employees (including third-party security personnel). To further support this effort, we have launched the Havells Gurukal 
Digivarsity portal for training on human rights and other related topics in the FY 2024.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
 
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total 
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D) 
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees 
Permanent
6,712
-
-
6,712
100.00%
6,090
-
-
6,090 100.00%
Male
6,347
-
-
6,347
100.00%
5,820
-
-
5,820 100.00%
Female
365
-
-
365
100.00%
270
-
-
270 100.00%
Other Than 
Permanent
8,293
-
-
8,293
100.00%
7,224
-
-
7,224 100.00%
Male
7,255
-
-
7,255
100.00%
6,530
-
-
6,530 100.00%
Female
1,038
-
-
1,038
100.00%
694
-
-
694 100.00%
Workers
Permanent 
441
-
-
441
100.00%
443
-
-
443 100.00%
Male
411
-
-
411
100.00%
409
-
-
409 100.00%
Female
30
-
-
30
100.00%
34
-
-
34 100.00%
Other Than 
Permanent
17,151
-
-
17,151
100.00%
17,101
-
-
17,101 100.00%
Male
14,335
-
-
14,335
100.00%
16,002
-
-
16,002 100.00%
Female
2,816
-
-
2,816
100.00%
1,099
-
-
1,099 100.00%
Our organization upholds the compliance with the Minimum Wage Act and ensures that both on-roll workers and contractual 
workers are paid accordingly. In addition to this, we have initiated programs that recognize and reward workers for their good 
efforts. Through these special components and benefits, we provide additional compensation to deserving employees. It is 
important to note that our employees are paid as per industry standards, and they do not fall in the category of hourly wages.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
129
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages: 
 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category*
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category*
Board of Directors (BoD)
13#
` 5,04,56,000
1^
-
Key Managerial Personnel
1
` 99,65,136
-
-
Employees other than BoD and KMP
6,347
` 11,03,040
365
` 12,40,209
Workers
411
` 2,83,380
30
` 2,97,549
	
	
*Annual Median Salary/Remuneration
	
	
^We have only one female independent director, who is paid sitting fee and annual commission. Please refer corporate governance 
report for details 
	
	
#We have 4 executive directors who are paid compensation, rest are independent directors who only receive sitting fee and annual 
commission
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024
FY 2023
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
3.74%
2.95%
	
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 
indicators in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
	
For the purpose of calculation of gross wages paid to females, expenses such as Provisions for Bonus, Performance Incentive and long 
term retirement incentives have been distributed in the ratio of salary as per salary register between male and female employees.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
	
Yes, the management committee over sees the HR function covering the afore mentioned aspects.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. - 
	
Havells is strongly committed to preventing any violation of human rights. To ensure compliance with our policy, we have 
implemented a mechanism monitored regularly by an internal committee within the HR department. Both the HR departments 
at plants and the HO conduct regular human rights risk assessments. All stakeholders have 24x7 access to report any 
breaches of the Human Rights Policy anonymously through the Vigilance and ‘Satark’ mechanism, which provides complete 
anonymity.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
Complaint Type 
FY 2024
FY 2023
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
-
-
-
-
-
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
-
-
-
-
Child Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Wages
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other human rights related issues
-
-
-
-
-
-
Havells India Limited
130
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format: 
Complaint Type
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
-
-
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers
-
-
Complaints on POSH upheld
-
-
	
Note: (a) An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators 
in the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348. 
	
(b) There were no POSH Complaints during the year.
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. 
	
Havells is dedicated to fostering an organizational culture that upholds a commitment to supporting the internationally 
recognized human rights outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Furthermore, we strive to avoid any involvement 
in human rights violations. Our Whistleblower policy provides clear guidelines to prevent any negative consequences for 
individuals who come forward with complaints. We ensure that complainants have the right to remain completely anonymous, 
unless mandated by law enforcement agencies. Our Whistleblower Policy can be accessed from https://havells.com/en/
discover-havells/investor-relation/codes-and-policies.html.
	
The organization strictly prohibits any form of retaliation against complainants, including threats of physical harm, termination 
of employment, punitive work assignments, or adverse effects on salary or wages. If a complainant believes they have 
experienced retaliation, they have the option to submit a written complaint to the chairman of the Audit committee.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) 
	
Indeed, our dedication lies in fostering an organizational environment that firmly embraces universally acknowledged human 
rights. Furthermore, we ensure the promotion of social welfare and the cultivation of a human rights-oriented culture through 
contractual obligations and a Supplier Code of Conduct. Our company’s directive on human rights is meticulously adhered to, 
and we conduct informative sessions on a regular basis to enhance awareness in this regard. Additionally, our manufacturing 
sites undergo periodic human rights assessments, with various department heads assuming responsibility for different facets 
of human rights.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
 
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Forced/involuntary labour
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Sexual harassment
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Discrimination at workplace 
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Wages
100% of our plant sites were assessed by the company
Others – please specify
-
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above. 
	
An important observation from the assessment highlighted the lack of understanding of the law among the workers, 
contractors, and subcontractors. Thus, in the FY 2024, we have introduced more comprehensive awareness sessions for 
contractual workers and suppliers on relevant topics.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
131
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints. 
	
Havells is committed to preventing any human rights violations and ensures compliance with its policy through a mechanism 
implemented by the HR department. This mechanism is regularly monitored by the Audit Committee at the board level. 
The HR departments at the plants and Head Office conduct regular human rights risk assessments and generate monthly 
reports. These reports are shared with the Audit Committee on a half-yearly basis. All stakeholders have secure and 24/7 
access to report any breaches anonymously through the Vigilance and the ‘Satark’ mechanism, which provides complete 
anonymity. For more information, please refer to our Human Rights Policy: https://www.havells.com/HavellsProductImages/
HavellsIndia/pdf/About-Havells/Investor-Relations/Codes_Policies/Human_Rights_Policy.pdf.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. 
	
100% scope and coverage has been conducted for all value chain partners.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
	
Yes, the facilities at Havells are specifically designed to ensure easy access for visitors with disabilities. Ramps for smooth 
movement, dedicated washrooms, and specially designated parking spaces for differently abled individuals have been 
incorporated into all our offices to enhance usability and accessibility.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
Sexual Harassment
100.00%
Discrimination at workplace
100.00%
Child Labour
100.00%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
100.00%
Wages
100.00%
Others – please specify
-
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above. 
	
NIL
Havells India Limited
132
PRINCIPLE 6 
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format: 
	
As a growing company we are very conscious of our carbon footprint and strongly believe in responsible growth. Our energy 
consumption from renewable source has increased by 22% demonstrating our focus on renewable energy. Our electricity 
consumption has increased by 16% primarily on account of commissioning of our new factory at Sri City and inclusion of 
branches and warehouses as part of our reporting boundary. We will continue to increase our solar generation capacity and 
reduce dependency on grid electricity as part of our overall GHG reduction targets.
	
It may be noted that we have sold 591.88 GJ of solar energy back to the grid using net metering.
	
Furthermore, percentage of energy consumed through renewable sources is 6.17%.
Parameter
FY 2024
FY 2023
From renewable sources^
Total electricity consumption (A)GJ
40,075.88
32,988.00
Total fuel consumption (B)GJ
97.41
48.16
Energy consumption through other sources (C)GJ
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) GJ
40,173.29
33,036.16
From non-renewable sources^
Total electricity consumption (D) GJ
4,35,226.38
3,76,578.13
Total fuel consumption (E) GJ
1,75,789.37
1,50,870.00
Energy consumption through other sources (F) GJ
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) GJ
6,11,015.75
5,27,448.13
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) GJ**
6,51,189.04
5,60,484.29
Energy intensity per crore rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations)
35.10
33.27
Energy intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
803.20
761.15
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (Crore units)#
23,817.14
22,285.66
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above, other than Energy Intensity per crore rupees of turnover (total energy consumed/ revenue from operations) and any optional 
energy intensity indicator. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
*For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @22.88 `/USD as per World Bank 
website (Source: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/PA.NUS.PPP) has been considered.
	
#For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Total Energy consumed for certain leased branches and warehouses, outsourced canteens and leased equipment (being forklifts and hydra 
cranes) have been estimated by calculating the actual per unit energy consumed in other leased branches and warehouses, company owned 
canteens and equipments which were multiplied with sitting capacity, areas under lease, total headcount of the location and actual lease 
hours in case of leased branches, leased warehouses, outsourced canteens and leased equipment respectively, in the absence of actual 
data for these locations/sources. We are in the process of putting in place a mechanism to capture the actual numbers of all these locations/
sources in the upcoming year.
	
^Types of Renewable and Non- Renewable sources : 
	
Renewable – Solar and Bio-Gas, Non-Renewable – Grid Electricity, Diesel, Petrol, LPG, PNG
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any. 
	
No, we don’t fall under PAT scheme of Government of India.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
133
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
	
Environment conservation through resource management is not only a business practice but also a driving force that motivates 
us to constantly push ourselves to enhance our efficiency and quality in every aspect of manufacturing. Despite not being 
a water-intensive industry, we recognize that India is a water-stressed region. Therefore, we prioritize maintaining a water 
balance and ensuring responsible water usage, as demonstrated by our specific water consumption metric.
	
Our water withdrawal has increased from previous year due to ongoing civil work within our plants, aimed at enhancing our 
infrastructure and capacity for improved production. Additionally, the recent commissioning of our new manufacturing facility 
for Air Conditioners in Sri City, Tamil Nadu, and for Washing Machine in Ghiloth has contributed to the increase in water 
withdrawal. The other reason for increase in water withdrawal is that we have expanded our scope boundary by including 
branch and warehouse operations.
	
Please find below the trend for the last two years
Parameter
FY 2024
FY 2023
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) 	
Surface water
-
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
2,26,936.50
1,55,058.51
(iii) 	 Third party water
1,09,699.62
56,429.75
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) 	 Others (Treated Water)
7,400.00
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
3,44,036.12
2,11,488.26
Total volume of water consumption** (in kilolitres)
2,83,053.04
2,97,856.19
Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations)
15.26
17.68
Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*.
349.13
404.50
Water intensity in terms of physical output (crore units)#
10,353.07
11,843.18
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency. 
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the Total volume of water 
consumption, Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) and Water intensity in terms of physical 
output (crore units) for the FY 2024 indicators in the table above.
	
Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
*For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @22.88 `/USD as per World Bank 
website (Source: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/PA.NUS.PPP) has been taken in consideration.
	
#For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Water consumption and discharge quantity for certain leased branches and warehouses have been estimated based on actual per unit 
consumption and discharge reported in other leased branches and warehouses which are multiplied with sitting capacity and area under 
lease in case of leased branches and leased warehouses respectively, in the absence of actual data for these locations. We are in the process 
of putting in place a mechanism to capture the actual numbers of all these locations/sources in the upcoming year. Further the untreated 
water discharged for these locations are considered as 80% of the water withdrawal from source based on CPCB database report dated 
24th December, 2009.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
	
We have observed an increase in water discharge due to the expansion of our scope boundary, which now includes branch 
and warehouse operations. With the exception of our Faridabad and Sri City manufacturing facilities, all of our manufacturing 
facilities utilize 100% of the treated water from Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) and Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP) for 
horticulture and toilet flushing within the premises. The Faridabad unit discharges treated water (meeting the minimum 
discharge standards) into the municipal sewage line with consent from the relevant authorities. We adhere to all applicable 
guidelines and directives to ensure that the STP and ETP standards required by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 
and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) are maintained.
Havells India Limited
134
Parameter
FY 2024
FY 2023
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water
	
- No treatment
21,183.08
	
- With treatment – Secondary treatment
8,110.00
8,088.00
(ii)	
To Groundwater
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
(iii)	
To Seawater
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
- No treatment
31,690.00
-
	
- With treatment – Secondary treatment
-
-
(v) 	 Others
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
60,983.08
8,088.00
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation. 
	
All of our manufacturing facilities use 100% treated water from sewage treatment plants (STP) or effluent treatment plants 
(ETP) for horticulture and toilet flushing. Furthermore, we have a Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) facility with a capacity of 43 
Kiloliters Per Day at our newly commissioned Air Conditioners plant in Sri City, Tamil Nadu. We are currently in the process of 
carrying out feasibility assessment of ZLD in all of our manufacturing facilities. We strictly adhere to all relevant guidelines and 
standards mandated by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) to maintain 
STP and ETP standards.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
	
Our main source of NOx and SOx emissions is the use of fossil fuels, especially diesel, in our production technique and 
genset. Although our emissions are presently minimum and inside the limits, we are dedicated to improving our environmental 
performance. To obtain this goal, we are evaluating various techiniques inlcuding changing diesel gensets with cleanser 
gasoline alternatives, enforcing extra filtration structures at our emission stores to seize pollutants, and transitioning to using 
PNG wherever adequate infrastructure is available. Additionally, we also are exploring the choice of securing a dependable 
power deliver with minimum electricity interruptions and cargo dropping to reduce the reliance on gensets.
Parameter
Please specify Unit
FY 2024
FY 2023
NOx
Metric Tons
8.45
6.29
SOx
Metric Tons
0.25
0.27
Particulate matter (PM)
-
We conduct third-party laboratory testing for all air emission 
parameters, such as Nox and Sox, at our seven plant locations 
according to a specified schedule to ensure compliance with 
permissible limits. These tests complement our internal monitoring 
systems. Furthermore, we submit the test reports to the relevant 
regulatory authorities and pollution control boards.
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
Others – please specify
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
No independent assurance has been carried out for these indicators.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
135
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format: 
	
From FY 2024, we have increased our reporting boundary to include both branches and warehouses as part of emission 
reporting which has resulted in increase in emissions. Further, we have also included Fugitive emissions. Out of the total 
scope 1 emissions ~ 80% pertains to R32 and R410a gases only which are used for refilling and manufacturing of air 
conditioners. It may be noted that both R32 and R410a otherwise have Zero Ozone Depletion potential. 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)**
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
59,517.30
9,861.00
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)**
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
86,561.69
83,684.00
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per crore 
rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations)
7.87
5.55
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per crore 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*
180.18
127.04
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output (Crore units)#
5,342.82
3,719.48
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the 
external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above other than total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emission intensity per crore rupee of turnover and optional emission intensity. Please find 
the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
We have considered DEFRA version 1.1 dated 28th June,2023 as a base for the emission factor.
	
*For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @22.88 `/USD as per World Bank 
website (Source: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/PA.NUS.PPP) has been considered.
	
#For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
**Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission numbers for certain leased branches and warehouses, outsourced canteens and leased equipment 
(being forklifts and hydra cranes) have been estimated by calculating the actual per unit emissions reported in other leased branches and 
warehouses, company owned canteens and equipments which were multiplied with sitting capacity, areas under lease, total headcount of 
the location and actual lease hours in case of leased branches, leased warehouses, outsourced canteens and leased equipment respectively, 
in the absence of actual data for these locations/sources. We are in the process of putting in place a mechanism to capture the actual 
numbers of all these locations/sources in the upcoming year
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details. 
	
Yes, Havells considers energy saving through various improvement projects to be a way of life. We explore every opportunity 
to optimize operations, and asset utilization, and strive for higher productivity and efficiency, ultimately reducing energy 
requirements across all manufacturing plants. We have accomplished this by implementing one of the best Energy Management 
Systems (ISO 50001-EnMs), utilizing cutting-edge technology, and pursuing innovation. Havells has successfully completed 
39 energy conservation projects, including replacing inefficient motors and pumps with energy-efficient alternatives and using 
variable speed drives to optimize energy usage. We have also taken initiatives to control the idle running of machines, improve 
operating efficiency, and limit the use of conveyors to further save energy. Our efforts have resulted in mitigation of 902 tons 
of CO2 emissions, significantly contributing to the fight against climate change.
	
In addition to these initiatives, we are continuously driving the use of solar energy to conserve resources. At present, Havells’ 
solar power generation capacity is 11.26 MW, which accounts for approximately 8.4% of our total electricity consumption. 
Through our solar initiatives alone, we have offset 7,971 tons of CO2 emissions. We have identified new projects to further 
enhance our solar generation system, and we are committed to pursuing these initiatives year after year.
Havells India Limited
136
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2024
FY 2023
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
1,947.52
2,001.66
E-waste (B)
604.29
793.59
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.04
0.04
Construction and demolition waste (D)**
26,875.97
-
Battery waste (E)
76.54
90.10
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
821.95
366.92
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
23,631.99
17,868.82
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
53,958.30
21,121.13
Waste intensity per crore rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
2.91
1.25
Waste intensity per crore rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)* (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)*.
66.55
28.68
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Crore units)# 
1,973.52
839.81
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Recycled
26,500.73
2,956.72
(ii) 	 Re-used
3,682.11
13.15
(iii) 	 Other recovery operations
349.43
8.82
Total
30,532.27
2,978.69
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of 
disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Incineration
4.18
317.64
(ii) 	 Landfilling
2.68
8.10
(iii) 	 Other disposal operations
23,419.17
-
Total
23,426.03
325.74
	
Waste Intensities (MT of Waste Recovered /Total Waste generated) and (MT of Waste Disposed /Total Waste generated) are 0.57 and 0.43 respectively.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes, an independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in the 
table above other than waste intensity per crore of rupees and optional waste intensity. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
*For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted Purchasing power parity (PPP), conversion factor @22.88 `/USD as per World Bank 
website (Source: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/PA.NUS.PPP) has been considered.
	
# For the purpose of Output of Products, number of units of various products manufactured by Havells have been considered. For calculation 
of number of units with respect to power cables and flexible cables, the conversion factor of one drum equivalent to one unit and 90 metres 
equivalent to one unit have been considered for power cables and flexible cables respectively.
	
** Waste is accounted for at the time of disposal and therefore waste disposed has been considered as waste generated. 
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. 
	
Please refer to Natural capital section of the IAR pages 75 and 77 for detailed description of our waste management practices.
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
	
No, we do not have any office or plant location around ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year: 
	
Not applicable
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
137
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format: 
	
Yes, we are compliant with the applicable laws and there were no material fines paid in FY 2024.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the Area : Haridwar, Sahibabad, Faridabad, Alwar, Neemrana, Ghiloth, Noida
	
(ii)	
Name of operations : Manufacturing location and Head Office & Plant
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024
FY 2023
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Surface water
-
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
1,81,883.08
82,869.00
(iii) 	 Third party water
49,394.76
56,430.00
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
2,31,277.84
1,39,299.00
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
2,18,539.84
1,39,299.00
Water intensity per crore rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
11.78
8.26
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
-
(i)	
Into Surface water
-
-
	
- No treatment
4,628.00
	
- With treatment – Secondary treatment
8,110.00
8,088.00
(ii) 	 Into Groundwater
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
(iii) 	 Into Seawater
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
(iv) 	 Sent to third-parties
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
	
- No treatment
-
-
	
- With treatment 
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
12,738.00
8,088.00
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency.
	
	
No independent assurance has been carried out on these indicators.
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
	
We have Initiated the inventorization of Scope 3 emissions within our organization by doing so we are expanding the scope 
of our reporting boundary and will start reporting it from FY 2025. We are proactively addressing the broader impact of 
our operations beyond our direct control. By increasing the scope of our reporting boundary, we aim to capture a more 
complete picture of our environmental footprint and identify areas where we can reduce them. This initiative is a part of our 
Net-Zero journey.
Havells India Limited
138
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, 
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with 
prevention and remediation activities. 
	
We at Havells ensures that none of our business activities have a negative or irreversible impact on biodiversity. All our 
operational sites are not located in or near areas of high biodiversity value or protected areas.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
S. 
No.
Initiative Undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
1.
Carbon Emission 
Reduction using light 
weight material
In the consumer lighting segment in FY 2024, the bulb 
holder has been made using 23% lighter weight material 
with reduced pre-drying step during moulding of the 
product. This initiative is set to reduce the carbon emission 
drastically.
Resource reduction  
by 23% 
2.
Resource Reduction
In EWA range, we have reduced the weight of inner plates 
in all Havells and Crabtree products by 12%, including the 
painted plates, during FY 2024
Resource Reduction 
by 12%
3
Polybag Weight Reduction
Air Conditioners weight reduced by 89% 
Overall, 4,474 kg of 
polybag reduced
Polybag Weight Reduction
Air Conditioners weight reduced by 89% 
Overall, 1,944 kg of 
polybag reduced
Reduction of R32 
Consumption
Reduced the consumption of R32 refrigerant in various Air 
Conditioners models
Overall, 7,985 Kg of 
R32 consumption 
reduced
4
Induction Heating in Water 
Heaters
The induction heating in water heaters helps to keep the 
performance of the product unaffected due to scaling. 
Low energy 
consumption 
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web 
link. 
	
Havells’ IT Continuity Policy ensures the uninterrupted provision of its IT services and aims to achieve the following objectives:
	
a. 	
Ensuring the business contingency of critical IT processes and allocating appropriate resources for this purpose.
	
b. 	 Providing training to IT personnel on effectively managing disaster recovery scenarios.
	
c. 	
Informing all stakeholders about the organization’s ability to maintain IT operations in the event of a disaster.
	
We have also obtained ISO 27001 certification for our Information Security Management System (ISMS) for the continual 
improvement, development, and protection of information assets and sensitive data. This certification validates our 
implementation of appropriate risk assessments, policies, and controls. Additionally, we regularly conduct cybersecurity 
awareness training sessions for our employees and have established a clear escalation process to report any suspicious 
activities.
	
Furthermore, our business continuity and contingency plans, along with our incident response procedures, undergo periodic 
testing to enhance the resilience of our digital infrastructure. The risk management committee oversees the management and 
strategy of our Information Technology function, ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of computer systems, 
networks, and data by safeguarding against cyber-attacks and unauthorized access.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard. 
	
NA
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts. 
	
100%
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
139
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 7 
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
(a) 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations 
	
	
17
	
(b) 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Electric Lamp and Component Manufacturers Association of India
National
2
Indian Fan Manufacturers Association
National
3
The Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India
National
4
Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufactures Association
National
5
Refrigeration and Airconditioning Manufacturers Association
National
6
PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
7
Confederation of Indian Industry
National
8
Indian Electrical and Electronics Mfrs' Association
National
9
Water Quality India Association
National
10
National Safety Council
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	
There were no legal actions against the entity for issues related to anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
S. 
No.
Public Policy advocated
Method resorted for such 
advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain yes/no
Frequency of 
review by board 
( annually/half 
yearly/quarterly/
other)
Weblink
1
We have promoted the 
implementation of environmental 
standards related to its supply in 
matters related to the management 
of electronic waste, plastic waste 
and battery waste, renewable 
energy, business ethics and 
competence development. We 
constantly strives to increase its 
impact on certain sustainable 
business activities.
We actively participates in 
the activities of trade and 
industry associations to share 
comments on related topics, as 
in the adjacent box. In addition, 
whenever government requests 
feedback from industry, we 
provide feedback through 
industry associations.
This is part of 
Stakeholder 
consultation by the 
respective Industry 
Associations.
Reviewed by 
relevant business 
management on as 
and when basis 
Not 
applicable 
Havells India Limited
140
PRINCIPLE 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Essential Indicators 
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year. 
	
Not Applicable.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format: 
	
Not Applicable.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community. 
	
Havells has established multiple modes of communication for the community to raise their concerns and express their needs 
and requirements. For more information regarding our CSR activities and community interactions, please refer to the Social 
Capital section in the IAR on page 67.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 
FY 2024
FY 2023
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
12.17%
10.00%
Directly from within India
83.05%
83.73%
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost 
FY 2024
FY 2023
Rural
20.27%
8.76%
Semi-Urban
-
-
Urban
60.53%
69.22%
Metropolitan
19.20%
22.02%
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP on the FY 2024 indicators in 
the table above. Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
	
For the purpose of categorisation of people employed at locations into Rural / Semi-Urban / Urban / Metropolitan the following mechanism 
has been adopted along with RBI Classification System:
	
(a)	
Metropolitan cities considered are the nine cities, namely Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Surat, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, and 
Hyderabad.
	
(b) 	
All manufacturing locations (Plants) are mapped basis their respective actual addresses.
	
(c) 	
All branch office and in-shop demonstrator employees are mapped as metropolitan or urban, as the case may be, as all these locations 
are in major cities
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
141
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
	
Not applicable as per Question 1 in Essential indicators
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies: 
S. No. State 
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (In Cr)
1
Madhya Pradesh
Sagar
3.28
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) 
	
	
No
	
(b) 	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? 
	
	
Not applicable
	
(c) 	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
	
	
Not applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
	
Havells do not own or acquired intellectual property based on traditional knowledge
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
	
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
	
Refer to Annexure - 3 on page no. 100 to Annual report.
Havells India Limited
142
PRINCIPLE 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. 
	
We have established multiple channels of communication, including online service requests, a central helpline, WhatsApp 
support, app-based interaction, and email, to facilitate customer convenience in reaching us. We actively monitor and gather 
customer feedback on a real time basis through the social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. We have set up a 
structured data management system and Service Level Agreements (SLAs) to ensure addressing the customer query within 
the stipulated timeframe. Customers have the option to escalate the case to the nominated grievance officer, who takes up 
the case and communicates with the customer to provide the closure. 
	
‘Khushiyon Ki Guarantee (KKG)’ initiative has been in place for some time now to address the post sales issues and requests 
such as on Lloyd products wherein the KKG process kicks off as soon as the customer contacts our service center. The 
customer is provided with a unique KKG (Khushiyon Ki Guarantee) number which is then shared with the service engineer 
upon completion of the service. If the number is not provided, it alerts the Company immediately regarding further efforts 
required to ensure customer satisfaction. This triggers our special KKG Cell at Head Office to attempts every possible way to 
provide satisfactory closure on the service request, effectively closing the loop on the interaction.
HAVELLS SUPPORT
WhatsApp Support
9711773333
Email-ID
customercare@havells.com
Customer Care No.
08045 77 1313
Havells Sync App
Download: Android | iOS
Online 
Service Request 
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry 
information about: 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
48.00%
Safe and responsible usage
100.00%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100.00%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: 
	
We have received NIL complaints in FY2023-24 in the areas of Data privacy, Advertising, Cyber-security, Restrictive Trade 
Practices and Unfair Trade Practices. Our products and services do not fall under the category for delivery of essential 
services. Majority of the complaints received are related to the queries about product performance. 
	
For more details on our customer interactions, please refer to the page 72 of the IAR.
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
	
There has been no instance of product recall, whether voluntary or forced, on account of safety issues in FY 2024. Our 
products undergo rigorous testing and quality assurance to ensure safety in both usage and handling. Additionally, our 
product information such as manual, leaflet and product packaging carry instructions for safe usage.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy. 
	
Yes, our organization has implemented an Enterprise Risk Management Policy that encompasses the identification and 
mitigation of risks related to Cyber threats and data protection/privacy. To ensure comprehensive risk management, our 
Company’s Integrated Risk Management Framework adheres to the globally recognized COSO (Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission) Framework. In addition to this, users are granted roles-based access rights, 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
143
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Reporting
Financial Statements
and we have implemented various cutting-edge solutions such as Data Leakage Protection (DLP), Advanced Email Threat 
Protection, Data and End Point Encryption, Privileged Identity Management (PIM), SIEM, among others. To further emphasize 
our commitment to data privacy, our company’s website prominently displays the Data Privacy Policy. For more details, 
please visit our website at: https://havells.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-governance.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services. 
	
Not Applicable. 
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: Nil
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: Nil
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: Not Applicable
	
Note: An independent assurance has been carried out by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP.
	
Please find the assurance report on page no. 348.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available). 
	
Information on Havells products and services can be accessed at www.havells.com 
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. 
	
We offer instructional guides along with our products and installation services to educate customers on how to use the 
products correctly and what precautions to take. The operation of our products and services is demonstrated in user manuals 
and videos accessible on the Havells website (www.havells.com). Additionally, we include QR codes for product information 
on select items, as well as do-it-yourself installation videos to enhance the overall product servicing experience.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. 
	
Havells maintains continuous connect with its customers ensuring seamless operations through various touchpoints such as 
Havells Customer Care No. (08045771313), Email, WhatsApp, Havells Sync Mobile App.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with 
regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations 
of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
	
Yes, paying close attention to product information, labelling and consumer engagement by business is considered pivotal to 
Havells’ consumer satisfaction focus. We do provide consumers with manuals containing information about products and 
installation services to make them aware of the do’s and don’ts of the product. 
	
Havells Digital Marketing team consistently monitors the Online Reputation Management (ORM), tracking and responding to 
real time feedback, posts and complaints, etc., across major online platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Linked-
in, etc. We examine more than 1mn+ customer comments every year and ensure that every query is responded within a 
stipulated timeframe. 
Havells India Limited
144
Management Discussion and Analysis
Overview & Outlook
With GDP growth of 7.5% in FY24, India continues to be among 
the fastest-growing countries globally. Amidst global economic 
uncertainties, India showcased resilience and continued its 
growth trajectory. The growth was buoyed by policy initiatives 
aimed at strengthening the financial sector alongside focus on 
development of physical and digital infrastructure. Embracing 
the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, India emphasised indigenous 
manufacturing, supported by schemes like the Production 
Linked Incentive (PLI). With government’s enhanced focus 
on infrastructure and manufacturing, the electricals industry 
also witnessed strong demand for categories like industrial 
switchgears, professional lighting and power cables.
The year witnessed heightened activity in the residential real 
estate market. The demand for electrical goods is yet to fully 
benefit from these real estate projects. As construction on these 
projects progresses, the industry is expected to see demand 
pick up, starting with switchgears and flexible cables, followed 
by lighting and consumer durables.
Despite healthy GDP growth, consumer demand was weak 
largely due to persistent high inflation. At an overall level, a higher 
impact was observed on the affordable and rural segments as 
compared to premium and urban segments. Consequently, 
the B2C electrical category experienced subdued growth 
during FY24. However, the medium-to-long term consumption 
potential in India remains intact.
Favourable demographics, rising urbanisation and electrification, 
premiumisation and under-penetration remain key macro 
drivers for sustainable growth in the electricals and consumer 
durables categories. Brand power and aspirational shift towards 
the organised players are key themes which continue to play 
out in the market. Havells is well-positioned to capitalise on 
these opportunities, leveraging its diverse portfolio of innovative 
products.
Segment-wise overview including industry structure, 
developments and outlook
Switchgear
The Strategic Business Unit (SBU) comprises Building Circuit 
Protection (BCP) equipment, switches and automation 
solutions, also called Electrical Wiring Accessories (EWA) and 
industrial switchgear.
In the switches and automation category, Havells’ focus 
remains on customer-centric solutions, with automation 
solutions leading the way. With the launch of new innovative 
products like i-Sense, we aim to make home automation 
solutions more accessible and affordable to a larger 
customer base.
i-Sense
These solutions are also relevant for home renovation projects, 
enabling more users to prospectively upgrade their manual 
switches to automation solutions easily.
In the premium segment, we further enriched our Signia Smart 
range by introducing Grey Finish, enabling a seamless blend 
with home décor and in turn elevating interior ambience. 
In the switches category, we made significant strides by 
launching two new ranges – Adiva and Magnus. The Adiva 
switches set new standards in terms of operational feel and 
sound within its category. The new Magnus range ensures 
easier compatibility with existing switches in customers’ homes, 
allowing a seamless upgrade to the Magnus’ range.
With these new offerings, we aim to drive stronger growth in 
the mid-market segment, while maintaining our focus on the 
premium segment.
In residential switchgear, alongside a growing existing portfolio, 
the introduction of new products remains a key focus area. 
Recognising the emerging need to protect against electrical 
fires resulting from overloaded old infrastructure and the risk 
of electrocution, during the year, Havells launched its range of 
AFDD (Arc Fault Detection Devices). 
Adiva Range
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
145
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
The Switchgear segment registered net revenues of ` 2,245 
crores during FY24 with contribution margins at 40.2% 
compared with net revenues of ` 2,120 crores with contribution 
margins at 38.4% during FY23.
Cable
The Strategic Business Unit (SBU) comprises power cables and 
flexible cables. The category witnessed growth on the back 
of rapidly-growing investment by the government towards 
the development of infrastructural projects as well as private 
manufacturing capex.
The robust demand in the residential real estate sector, coupled 
with key government initiatives like Housing for All, Pradhan 
Mantri Awas Yojana and PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan, 
Multimodal Logistics Parks are expected to be significant drivers 
for the growth of the cables segment. Furthermore, the growing 
deployment of renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, 
and hydropower, aimed at addressing climate change and 
enhancing energy security, represents a crucial trend in the 
Indian power cables and flexible cables market.
While the demand for power cables continues to be on the 
rise, Havells’ growth was limited given the capacity constraints 
during the year. Addressing that, the Company is working 
towards a greenfield expansion of its power cables capacity 
in Tumkur, Karnataka and expects the commissioning in 
early FY25.
In flexible cables, during the year, the Company’s focus was 
on going deeper with an enhanced presence in semi-urban 
and rural markets and expanding existing channels. Multi-
brand strategy with Havells, Standard and REO was leveraged 
to play in different customer segments and establish a clear 
product ladder.
The cables division registered net revenues of ` 6,318 crores 
during FY24 with contribution margins at 15.0% compared with 
net revenues of ` 5,533 crores with contribution margins at 
12.9% during FY23. 
Lighting
Havells’ Lighting business comprises two business units (BUs) 
– consumer lighting and professional lighting. In FY24, while 
the lighting industry faced challenges in form of significant 
price erosion in LEDs, Havells continued its focus on customer 
centricity and product innovation to strengthen its market 
position even further and remain resilient.
The professional Lighting business registered strong overall 
growth and established Havells as a brand of choice for varied 
customers that includes leading Industries, renowned modern 
workspaces and diverse Government segments including the 
Railways, NHAI, MES, Smart Cities, many more. With a strong 
customer segment strategy, Havells successfully executed 
projects in areas of Public & Infrastructure, Industry and Office 
Lighting. During the year, Havells delivered its lighting solutions 
to several prestigious projects such as Shri Ram Mandir, 
Ayodhya and Central Vista projects. Havells became a premier 
brand of choice for many National Highways projects which 
required superior products and optical performance. In Industry 
segment, Havells solved customer problems with custom 
designed products such as Highbays, Cleanroom luminaires 
and weather-proof industrial lighting solutions.
In the consumer lighting business, Havells has established 
itself as a leading innovative lighting brand through a series of 
differentiated product launches. 
Today’s consumers, embracing their own uniqueness, have 
a choice of designs that reflect their personalities and match 
their décor, whether at home or work. Lighting designs play a 
vital role in enhancing the living spaces. The consumer lighting 
business launched a variety of products and categories focussed 
towards emerging consumer trends and lifestyles. Starting with 
the thematic product lines under Johari, Rangmanch, Aakrati 
and Adaa collections which blend light rays with elegant designs 
inspired by royal touch, heritage art and minimalism creating 
unique masterpieces, with each having an enticing tale to it. 
AFDD
Havells
Standard
REO
Havells India Limited
146
Harnessing the power of the Sun, we launched SunLit Series – 
Our consumer solar range, blending the finest form factors with 
high-performance chips. With the emerging Ceiling category, we 
also reimagined and launched an extension to our bezel glow 
Nimbus range with ‘L & I’ shaped panels. Lastly, focussing on 
consumer journeys, we redesigned our Smart Range products 
to meet the evolving needs of our consumers.
The demand for premium lighting is on the rise. Havells’ Home 
Art Light is a one-stop shop for all things lighting – from basic 
to high-end, from minimalistic to opulent or ornate, as well as 
luxury lighting solutions. We have ~50 Home Art Light Brand 
stores with experiential zones that provide consumers an 
opportunity for the real light experience.
The Lighting division registered net revenues of ` 1,627 crores 
during FY24 with contribution margins at 30.1% compared with 
net revenues of ` 1,602 crores with contribution margins at 
29.8% during FY23.
Electrical consumer durables (ECDs)
This SBU comprises fans, small domestic appliances and water 
heaters. Beginning of FY24, the industry faced headwinds due 
to unseasonal rains disrupting summer season consumer 
offtake leading to higher channel inventories which were built 
up during the BEE transition. Amidst lower consumer demand, 
the fan industry witnessed heightened competition. However, 
by the second half of the year, we witness offshoots of growth 
with summer picking up.
At Havells, with our philosophy of premiumisation in all segments, 
we focussed on the continued enhancement of our BLDC and 
Super premium BLDC+ range. BLDC+ offers BLDC technology 
but in addition to this, it provides superior aesthetics and 
features to consumers with design and technology at its core. 
With exclusive technologies like “Smart Sense AI” and “Direct 
Voice command”, Havells provides tech which enhances the 
consumer’s comfort, convenience and well-being and features 
like premium under-light and unique designs add to the décor of 
the house. With the enhancement of the BLDC range to almost 
40 models, Havells has the largest range of BLDC fans with 
differentiated offerings and has consistently increased BLDC 
share to 20%+. Our new advertising campaign also focusses 
on communicating these features to our consumers.
BLDC+ Fans
Gema
Wish LED Strings
Guardapelo Purple
Spanishe Bluebells
Zambra Purple
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
147
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
Amidst lower consumer demand, small domestic appliances 
witnessed muted performance during the year. However, 
premium offerings and emerging channels such as modern 
format retail, e-commerce and quick commerce did relatively 
well. As consumer preferences gravitate towards premium 
products, ensuring an optimal consumer experience remains 
key. Factors such as store ambience, product displays, ease 
of installation and after-sales support are gaining importance 
in today’s consumer landscape. Consumers are increasingly 
seeking products from trusted brands that offer innovative 
features and a compelling blend of affordability and premium 
proposition.
Havells further reinforced its market position by introducing 
consumer-centric appliances featuring the latest technologies 
and innovative features. The year marked the launch of several 
ground-breaking products, including India’s first 6000V 
surge protection in the new Evo Cook Induction range, the 
2 kg heavy-weight dry iron Blaze and the Foodo (MG + Food 
Processor), etc.
During the year, entry into Kitchen Appliances such as Cooktops, 
Hobs, Chimneys and other built-in appliances was announced. 
The foray is expected to leverage business synergies with the 
existing range of small domestic appliances.
The electrical consumer durables (ECDs) division registered net revenues of ` 3,482 crores during FY24 with contribution margins at 
23.5% compared with net revenues of ` 3,296 crores with contribution margins at 23.3% during FY23.
Lloyd
Lloyd continues to strengthen its position as a consumer durable 
player offering a range of products – Air Conditioners, Washing 
Machines, Refrigerators and Televisions. While maintaining 
healthy revenue growth, Lloyd expanded its margins during 
the year. 
Since the acquisition, Lloyd has worked towards premiumisation 
through in-house manufacturing, an innovative product portfolio, 
accelerated brand investments and foray into modern format 
retail. We have set up manufacturing facilities for air conditioners 
and washing machines. Backed by strong R&D, Lloyd has 
expanded its portfolio with the introduction of unique feature 
and design-led products such as Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and 
Intelli-Logic Air Conditioners. We began the 2024 summer 
season with the launch of the industry-first designer Lloyd 
Stellar & Stylus air conditioner range, along with Rapid Cool 
Technology refrigerators and the latest Novante Fully Automatic 
Washing Machines. Lloyd’s designer air conditioner range not 
only complements the interior décor but also delivers a top-
notch cooling performance with unique features such as mood 
lighting, direct voice command, an in-built air purifier and door 
open alert. 
Brand investments remained a key tool for establishing premium 
brand imagery. Supported by a robust product portfolio, the 
brand investments consistently yield positive outcomes in 
terms of brand recall and consideration. Lloyd leverages its 
strong association with celebrities such as Deepika Padukone, 
Ranveer Singh, Sourav Ganguly, Mahesh Babu, Tamannaah 
Bhatia and Mohanlal, enabling a balanced mix for national and 
regional communication.
Evo Cook Induction
Blaze Dry Iron
Foodo (MG & Food Processor)
Lloyd - Mohanlal
Havells India Limited
148
Lloyd - Sourav Ganguly
Lloyd increased its penetration in general trade and expanded into 
emerging channels such as organised retail and e-commerce. 
In organised retail, the emphasis was on expanding the counter 
share through investments in in-store demonstrators (ISDs). 
We also added the Sales & Service Dealership (SSD) channel 
through the establishment of ‘Lloyd Gallery’ exclusive stores 
across India.
Lloyd progressed on its journey to be a profitable full-stack 
consumer durable player over the coming years. We continue 
to be excited about the opportunity Lloyd unlocks in a largely 
under-penetrated consumer durables industry and the space it 
has created for itself in the market. 
The Lloyd consumer division registered net revenues of 
` 3,785 crores during FY24 with contribution margins at 7.9% 
compared with net revenues of ` 3,369 crores with contribution 
margins at 4.4% during FY23.
Opportunities
A.	
Presence in growing and under-penetrated product 
categories: Electricals and consumer durables categories 
continue to provide strong growth opportunities on the 
back of under-penetration, increasing urbanisation and 
higher personal disposable income.
B.	
Increasing electrification: Enhanced electricity availability 
in semi-urban and rural areas and stability of electricity in 
urban areas is translating into higher demand for electrical 
and consumer durable products across the country.
C.	
Infrastructure expansion: The government’s continued 
thrust towards infrastructure building including highway 
construction, railway modernisation and airport additions 
is leading to a healthy demand for electrical goods such 
as power cables, professional lighting and industrial 
switchgears.
D.	
Favourable demographics: India’s population is among 
the youngest globally. With a median age of less than 
29 years and ~67% of the population in the working age 
group of 15-64 years, this is a key demographic dividend 
for India.
E.	
Exports: With geopolitical challenges and supply chain 
disruptions in particular regions, India continues to emerge 
as a lucrative player for exports. The government’s focus 
on domestic manufacturing with policies around Make 
in India and PLI, created India as a strong competitor to 
other Asian countries, unlocking export opportunities for 
the players.
F.	
Large product portfolio: Over the years, Havells has 
nurtured multiple categories in FMEG and consumer 
durables to position itself as a strong player to capitalise 
on opportunities across different segments. Equally, a 
bouquet of 6 consumer brands allows it to cater to multiple 
consumer segments across multiple price points.
G.	
Premiumisation: Over the years, the demand for smart 
IoT products has increased with a focus on connected 
tech and ease of use. Consumers are looking for 
technologically-advanced appliances which also elevate 
their home décor, thus improving the market for innovative 
and premium products.
H.	
Accelerated shift from unorganised to organised: 
Increasing formalisation and brand consciousness along 
with the emergence of unguided e-commerce journey 
of consumers, beneficial to the organised brands. 
Opportunity to move consumers from unorganised players 
to organised branded players.
Risk and Threats
A.	
Economic slowdown: A reduction in GDP growth of the 
Indian economy, driven by global factors, may impede 
short-term growth prospects.
B.	
Commodity price fluctuations: Commodity price 
escalation could impact the cost of finished goods, 
potentially impacting affordability and consumer sentiment.
C.	
Competitive intensity: Heightened competitive dynamics, 
irrational market behaviour and any entry of disruptive 
players with access to low-cost capital, could lead to 
industry-wide value erosion.
D.	
Power disruptions: Any disruption in power distribution 
and electricity delivery may adversely affect the demand 
for electrical products.
E.	
Pandemic: Disruptions such as the Covid-19 pandemic 
pose significant risks to supply chains and demand 
dynamics, potentially disrupting business operations.
F.	
Geopolitical crisis: Increased volatility in commodity and 
foreign currency markets, stemming from geopolitical 
tensions in various global regions, may disrupt raw material 
availability and supply chains.
	
Also, kindly refer to the section Risk Management of this 
Integrated Report.
Lloyd - Mahesh Babu & Tamannaah Bhatia
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
149
Integrated Report 
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion  
and Analysis
Financial Statements 
Awards and Accolades
Havells received the following awards during the Financial Year 
ended 31st March, 2024:
•	 Best Annual Report in the Electrical Equipment category at 
India’s Best Annual Report Awards 2023, organised by The 
Free Press Journal along with its knowledge partner CareEdge 
• 	 Red Dot Brand & Communication 2023 Award for Meditate 
(Air Purifier)
•	 Good Design Award (Japan) 2023 to Elante Washing 
Machine, Bianca Water Heater and Zella Immersion Rod
•	 IF Award 2023 to Meditate (Air Purifier) UX
•	 CII Design Excellence Award 2023 for Otto Storage Water 
Heater
•	 German Design Award 2023 for Meditate, Amaya Fan, 
Qtron MCCB and Essence Wet & Dry Grinder
•	 German Design Award 2024 for Nutrigrind Wet & Dry Grinder
•	 CII Industrial Innovation Award 2023 for Centre for Research 
& Innovation
•	 Golden Peacock Award 2023 – Innovative Product - 
Meditate
•	 Mice Affairs - Corporate Excellence Award (2022-23)
•	 MTM Star Award 2023 - Best Incentive Programme for 
Distributors/Dealers
•	 MILT Excellence Awards 2023
•	 Acetech Grand Stand Award, Platinum Winner – Oct ’23
•	 Acetech Grand Stand Award, Silver Winner – Nov ’23
•	 Acetech Grand Stand Award, Platinum Winner – Dec ’23
•	 Acetech Design Conclave Award, Bronze Winner – 
Dec ’23
Key Ratios
Ratio
As at
31 March 2024
As at
31 March 2023
 Change  Explanation for change 
in the ratio by more 
than 25% as compared 
to the previous year 
(a)	
Current Ratio (times) = Current assets/ Current 
liabilities
1.84
1.84
0.03%
 Not Applicable 
(b) 	 Debt-Equity Ratio (times) = Total Borrowings/ 
Shareholder's equity*
0.00
0.00
-
 Not Applicable 
(c) 	 Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Earnings 
available for debt service/ Debt service 
19.18
3.00 540.05%
 Full debt repaid 
in previous year 
(d) 	 Return on Equity Ratio % = Net Profits after 
taxes/ Average shareholder's equity
18.12%
17.06%
1.06%
 Not Applicable 
(e) 	 Inventory turnover ratio (times) = Revenue from 
operations/ Average inventory
5.21
5.05
3.15%
 Not Applicable 
(f) 	
Trade receivables turnover ratio (times)  = Net 
revenue from operations/ Average trade receivables
17.40
19.37
-10.17%
 Not Applicable 
(g) 	 Trade payables turnover ratio (times) = Net 
purchases/ Average trade payables
5.57
5.82
-4.35%
 Not Applicable 
(h) 	 Net capital turnover ratio (times) = Revenue from 
operations/ Working capital
5.17
5.25
-1.58%
 Not Applicable 
(i) 	
Net profit ratio % = Net profit/ Revenue from operations
6.87%
6.38%
0.49%
 Not Applicable 
(j) 	
Return on capital employed % = EBIT/ Capital 
employed {refer note ii}
19.33%
18.73%
0.59%
 Not Applicable 
(k) 	 Return on investment % = EBIT/ Average total assets
12.79%
12.07%
0.72%
 Not Applicable 
Notes:
(i)	 Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments
(ii)	 Capital Employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Borrowings + Deferred Tax Liability
(iii)	Tangible Net worth is computed as Total Assets - Total Liabilities.
*Borrowings does not includes Lease liabilities
Human Resources
Kindly refer to the section Human Capital of this Integrated Report page no. 46
Internal Control Mechanism
Kindly refer to the section Risk Management of this Integrated Report page no. 22
Disclaimer Clause
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report describing the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates, and 
expectations may be ’forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results 
could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Company’s operations 
include economic conditions affecting demand/supply and price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the 
Company operates, changes in the Government regulations, tax laws and other statutes and incidental factors.
Havells India Limited
150
Report on Corporate Governance
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Section C of SCHEDULE V to SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended, a Report on Corporate Governance for the year ended 31st March, 2024 is presented 
below:
(1)	 A Brief Statement on Listed Entity’s Philosophy 
on Code of Governance
	
Who we are is defined by what we do and how we 
do 
	
This simple philosophy underlines our approach to 
Corporate Governance. So, if growth is our intention, 
how we achieve this growth is a part of our Corporate 
Governance. For us, Corporate Governance goes beyond 
philanthropy and compliance but actually deals with how 
we manage our triple bottom lines – economic, social and 
environmental. It monitors our role as well as the quality 
of our relationships in key spheres of influence including 
the workplace, the market place, the supply chain, the 
community and the public policy realm.
	
As a Company, we distinguish ourselves in the market 
by offering a portfolio of ecologically responsible electrical 
products and services that deliver powerful, sustainable 
and energy efficient solutions that do not compromise on 
capacity or security.
	
Our eco-friendly approach is evident in our efforts to 
develop an alternate energy strategy so as to reduce the 
environmental impact from our business. We are equally 
committed to managing a responsible supply chain in a 
manner that is consistent and compliant with our high 
standards for environment and business practices.
	
We recognise that there are barriers that constrain 
innovation, both, in individuals and communities and 
we work to overcome them. We build communities 
and promote the exchange of ideas through assistive 
technologies; participative programs and standardization 
that transforms the way people experience our products. 
Our energy efficient solutions enable people to save money 
and protect their capital investment while also lowering 
their energy usage and protecting the environment.
	
This contributes to our social responsibility of sustenance 
of depleting environmental resources.
	
Corporate Governance and Ethics
	
As a Company we have always worked on the side of 
ethics and have shunned expediency in any form. We 
believe that if something is important enough to be done, 
it is important that we do it ethically. We supplement our 
traditionally held values of ethical behaviour and moral 
conduct with explicit rules and regulations that guide our 
efforts in financial, propriety, customer care and business 
excellence.
	
We uphold the policy of “Leadership with trust” that has 
come to play a vital role in how our customers perceive us. 
This is important, given the climate of unparalleled public 
distrust of people in positions of power and authority in 
contemporary business and politics.
(2)	 Board of Directors
	
The Board of Directors has an optimum combination of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors with One Woman 
Director while fifty per cent of the Board of Directors 
comprises of Independent Directors (IDs). The Chairperson 
of the Board is an Executive Director. The profiles of 
Directors can be accessed on the Company’s website at 
https://www.havells.com/en/aboutus/directors.html
	
The Board meets at least 4 (Four) times a year and more 
often if Company needs merit additional oversight and 
guidance. During the financial year 2023-24, the time gap 
between any two Board Meetings did not exceed 120 
(One Hundred and Twenty) days. None of the Directors 
on the Board hold the office of Director in more than 20 
companies, including 10 public companies, as disclosed 
under Section 184 of the Act read with Rules framed 
thereunder. None of the IDs serve as IDs in more than 
7 listed entities and none of the IDs who are Whole-time 
Directors/ Managing Directors in a Listed Entity serves 
as ID in more than 3 listed entity. Furthermore, none of 
the Whole-time Directors of the Company serve as IDs 
in any listed entities. In accordance with Regulation 26 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, none of the Directors 
are members in more than 10 committees or act as 
chairperson of more than 5 committees (the committees 
being, Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee) across all public limited companies in which 
he/ she is a Director. All Non Independent Directors are 
liable to retire by rotation.
	
The Board of Directors periodically reviews compliance 
reports pertaining to all laws applicable to the Company. 
All statutory and other matters of significance including 
information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II to the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 are informed to the Board to enable it 
to discharge its responsibility of strategic supervision of 
the Company. 
	
Tenure of Independent Directors
	
The Board has adopted the provisions with respect 
to appointment and tenure of Independent Directors 
consistent with the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
151
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
Regulations. As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, the Independent Directors shall be appointed for not 
more than two terms of maximum of five years each and shall 
not be liable to retire by rotation. At the time of appointment 
of an Independent Director, the Company issues a formal 
letter of appointment outlining his/ her role, function, duties 
and responsibilities as a Director. The template of the letter 
of appointment is available on our website.
	
Lead Independent Director
	
The Independent Directors of the Board had nominated 
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha as the Lead Independent 
Director of the Company. The role of the Lead Independent 
Director is to provide leadership to the Independent 
Directors, liaise on their behalf and ensure effective 
functioning of the Board.
(a)	 Composition and category of Directors (e.g. Promoter, Executive, Non-Executive, Independent 
Non-Executive, Nominee Director - institution represented and whether as lender or as equity investor)
	
As at 31st March, 2024, the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company was as follows: 
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Category
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Promoters
Executive Chairman and Managing Director & CEO
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Executive Whole-time Director
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Non-Promoters
Executive Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Executive Whole-time Director
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Independent Director
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
Independent Director
10
Shri Subhash S Mundra
Independent Director
11
Shri B Prasada Rao
Independent Director
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Independent Director
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Independent Director
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Independent Director
(b)	 Attendance of each Director at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and the last Annual General Meeting 
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Attendance in Board Meetings
AGM 27 June 23
3 May 23
20 July 23
19 Oct 23
23 Jan 24
26 & 27 Mar 24
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta






2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta






3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta






4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta






5
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai






6
Shri Puneet Bhatia






7
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani






8
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha






9
Shri Siddhartha Pandit






10
Shri Subhash S Mundra






11
Shri B Prasada Rao






12
Shri Vivek Mehra






13
Smt. Namrata Kaul






14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram






Havells India Limited
152
(c)	 Number of other Board of Directors or Committees in which a Director is a member or chairperson as on 
31st March, 2024
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Directorships in Other 
Board of Directors*
Membership of Committees 
of Other Boards**
Chairmanship of Committees 
of Other Boards**
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
3
1
0
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
3
1
0
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
3
1
0
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
1
0
0
5
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
1
0
0
6
Shri Puneet Bhatia
5
0
0
7
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
5
3
1
8
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
8
9
4
9
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
1
0
0
10
Shri Subhash S Mundra
4
3
3
11
Shri B Prasada Rao
4
3
0
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
7
5
2
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
5
7
4
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
7
2
1
	
Data presented above is after taking into account the disclosures furnished by the Directors till the first board meeting of the Company held 
during the Financial Year 2024-25. 
	
*	 Directorships are reported for listed and unlisted public companies (including Havells India Limited) but excludes private limited companies, 
foreign companies, section 8 companies and alternate directorships.
	
**	 Committee Memberships/ Chairmanships are reported for listed and unlisted public companies put together (including Havells India 
Limited) in terms of Regulation 26(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Committee 
Memberships include Chairmanship, if any. Committees considered for the purpose are those prescribed under SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 viz. Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
	
Names of the Listed entities where the person is a Director and the category of Directorship as on 
31st March, 2024
S.  
No.
Name of Director
Name of Listed Entity in  
which Director
Category of Directorship
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Havells India Limited
Chairman and Managing Director & CEO
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Havells India Limited
Whole-time Director
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Havells India Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Greenlam Industries Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
9
Shri Upendra Kumar 
Sinha
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Vedanta Limited
Independent Director
Nippon Life India Asset Management 
Limited
Independent Director
SIS Limited
Independent Director
New Delhi Television Limited (NDTV)
Independent Director
Cube Highways Fund Advisors Private 
Limited
Independent Director
10 
Shri Subhash S Mundra
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited
Independent Director
11
Shri B Prasada Rao
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Poonawala Fincorp Limited
Independent Director
Titagarh Rail Systems Limited
Independent Director
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
153
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
S.  
No.
Name of Director
Name of Listed Entity in  
which Director
Category of Directorship
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
HT Media Limited
Independent Director
Jubilant Pharmova Limited
Independent Director
Chambal Fertilisers and Chemicals Limited Independent Director
DLF Limited
Independent Director
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
Schneider Electric Infrastructure Limited
Independent Director
Fusion Micro Finance Limited
Independent Director
14 
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Havells India Limited
Independent Director
SRF Limited
Chairman and Managing Director
Kama Holdings Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Bharat Forge Limited
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
	
1.	 The count for the number of listed entities on which a person is a Director/ Independent Director is of only those whose equity shares are 
listed on a Stock Exchange.
	
2.	 Data presented above is after taking into account the disclosures furnished by the Directors till the first Board Meeting of the Company 
held during the Financial Year 2024-25.
(d)	 Number of Meetings of the Board of Directors 
held and dates on which held 
During the financial year 2023-24, 5 (Five) Board Meetings 
were held. The dates on which these Meetings were held 
are given in the Table provided in pt. no. (b) hereinabove.
(e)	 Disclosure of relationships between directors 
inter-se
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director on the 
Board of Directors is the son of Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta, 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director.
(f)	
Number of shares and convertible instruments 
held by Non-Executive Directors 
None of the Non-Executive Directors holds any share in 
the Company.
(g)	 Web 
link 
where 
details 
of 
familiarisation 
programmes imparted to Independent Directors 
is disclosed 
All Independent Directors are familiarized with the 
Company, their roles, rights, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry in which the Company 
operates, business model of the Company, etc. from 
time to time. The Company makes consistent efforts to 
acquaint the Board with the overall business performance 
covering all Business verticals, by way of presenting 
specific performance of each Plant, Product Category 
and Corporate Function from time to time. The entire 
Board including Independent Directors has access to 
Product Heads/ Factory Heads and other commercial/ 
technical staff, wherever required for informed decision 
making. Detailed agenda are sent well in advance to all 
the Directors in order for the Board to perform its function 
and fulfill its role effectively.
The details regarding Independent Directors’ Familiarisation 
Programmes are given under the 'Codes & Policies' in the 
“Corporate Governance” section on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at https://havells.com/
media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/Familiarisation_
Programmes_for_Independent_Directors_1.pdf
(h)	 Skills/ Expertise/ Competence of the Board of 
Directors including the areas as identified by the 
Board in the context of the Company’s Business 
The Company is a Fast Moving Electrical Goods (FMEG) 
Company with the individual Members of its Board of 
Directors bringing in knowledge and experience from a 
variety of sectors, demonstrating breadth and depth of 
management and leadership experience in the following 
competence areas:
•	
Financial and business acumen;
•	
Guiding and setting the pace for Company’s 
Operations and future development by aiding 
implementation of best systems and processes; 
•	
Building effective Sales & Marketing strategies, 
Corporate Branding and Advertising functions; 
•	
Overseeing the development and implementation of 
Risk Management/ GRC tools; 
•	
Management and strategy of the Information 
Technology Function; and
•	
Human Resources Management
•	
Corporate Governance and Sustainability
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of Directors, 
KMPs and Other Employees of the Company sets out the 
criteria which serve as guidelines in considering potential 
nominees to the Board of Directors to ensure the 
continuance of a dynamic and forward-thinking Board.
Havells India Limited
154
	
Expertise/ Skill of Directors
S. No. Name of the Director
Skill/ Expertise/ Competence
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Strategic Marketing, Brand transformation and Finance. 
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
Technical planning and foreign alliances.
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
Business development, spearheading new projects. 
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Finance and allied fields, standardization of systems and processes across the 
organization.
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
Contract 
Drafting 
& 
Negotiations, 
Litigation 
Management, 
Dispute 
Resolution, M&A Statutory Compliances, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) etc.
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
IT  reforms,  Human Resources,  Education & Research, Social Reforms 
and betterment of the nation in areas of Trade and Industry.
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Strategic private equity investment and Business Management.
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
Supply Chain, Human Resources, Corporate Quality and Sustainability (including 
Safety Functions), Advanced Management and Skill Development.
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
Asset Management, Securities Laws, Corporate Governance, Banking, Finance, 
Foreign Investment, Corporate Bond Management and Investor Protection. 
10
Shri Subhash S Mundra
Banking, Risk Management, Corporate Governance, Operations and Process 
Optimization.
11
Shri B Prasada Rao
Corporate Management, Planning & Development activity, Capacity & Capability 
building.
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
Tax and Regulatory reforms, Cross-border Investments and Transaction 
Structuring, Corporate Governance and Sustainability.
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
Banking & Finance, Treasury Operations, Debt Capital Market & Corporate 
Finance, Risk and Credit Management, Social Development.
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
Strategic Planning, Entrepreneurial and Commercial Acumen, Brand Building   
and M&A.
(i)	
Confirmation that in the opinion of the Board, 
the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions 
specified in these Regulations and are independent 
of the management 
	
Based on the declaration submitted by the Independent 
Directors of the Company provided at the beginning of 
the Financial Year 2024-25, the Board hereby certify that 
all the Independent Directors appointed by the Company 
fulfills the conditions specified in these regulations and are 
independent of the management.
(j)	
Detailed reasons for the resignation of the 
Independent Director who resigns before the 
expiry of his tenure along with a confirmation 
by such director that there are no other material 
reasons other than those provided
	
None.
	
Separate Meeting of the Independent Directors
	
Abiding the highest norms of Corporate Governance, 
separate Meeting of the Independent Directors of the 
Company are held every year in terms of the Schedule 
IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, whereat, inter-alia, the following 
prescribed items are discussed:
	
a)	
Review 
of 
performance 
of 
Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
	
b)	
Review of performance of the Chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
	
c)	
Assessment of the quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between the Company 
management and the Board that is necessary for 
the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their 
duties.
	
In respect of the financial year 2023-24, the Independent 
Directors met twice on 14th December, 2023 and 
27th March, 2024 without the presence of any Non-
Independent Director or representatives of management.
	
Company’s Code of Conduct to Regulate, 
Monitor, Report Trading by Designated Persons 
	
The Company has formulated a "Code of Conduct to 
Regulate, Monitor, Report Trading by Designated Persons" 
to deter the insider trading in the securities of the Company 
based on the unpublished price sensitive information. 
	
The Code envisages procedures to be followed and 
disclosures to be made while dealing in the securities 
of the Company. The said policy was last updated by 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
155
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
the Board of Directors on 21st July, 2021 pursuant to 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019.
	
The full text of the Code is available on the website of 
Company under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate 
Governance section and can be accessed at https://
havells.com/en/aboutus/corporate-governance.html
	
For the purpose of monitoring the Policy, the Company 
uses a system-based software through which reports 
and analytics are made available based on the criteria 
defined in the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
Subsidiary
	
The Company has 4 (Four) Subsidiary Companies which 
are incorporated outside India. 
	
Please refer to the Directors’ Report for further details 
regarding subsidiaries.
	
The Board has approved a “Policy for determining 
Material Subsidiaries” of the Company viz. Havells India 
Limited and the same is available on the website of the 
Company under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate 
Governance section and can be accessed at https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/
Policy-for-determining-material-subsidiaries.pdf.
	
The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the 
financial statements, in particular, the investments made 
by the unlisted foreign subsidiary companies.
	
The Minutes of the Board Meetings of the unlisted foreign 
subsidiary companies are placed at the Board Meeting(s) 
of the Company held at the end of every quarter for 
approval of financial results.
	
The Management periodically brings to the attention 
of the Board of Directors, a statement of all significant 
transactions and arrangements entered into by the 
unlisted foreign subsidiary companies.
	
Related Party Transactions
	
The Board of Directors has approved a Policy on “Related 
Party Transactions” and also on dealing with Related 
Party Transactions and the same was last reviewed by 
the Board of Directors on 20th January, 2022.
	
The Policy is available on the website of the Company 
under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate Governance 
section and can be accessed at https://havells.com/
media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/Related_Party_
Transactions_Policy.pdf.
	
The shareholders of the Company vide Special Resolution 
passed on 9th June, 2014 approved per annum limits 
(beginning 1st April, 2014) for certain Related Party 
Transactions of the Company.
	
Within the permissible limits under the Companies Act, 
2013 and/ or shareholder approved limits, the Audit 
Committee and Board approve the annual limits for related 
party transactions projected for the next financial year.
	
Further, a statement on all related party transactions is 
presented before the Audit Committee on a quarterly 
basis for its review. 
(3)	 Audit Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as 
per the governing provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (Section 177) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (specified in 
Part C of Schedule II). 
	
The Role of the Audit Committee includes the following:
	
(i)	
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial information 
to ensure that the financial statement is correct, 
sufficient and credible;
	
(ii)	
recommendation for appointment, remuneration 
and terms of appointment of auditors of the 
Company;
	
(iii)	
approval of payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors;
	
(iv)	 reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor's report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to: 
	
	
(a)	
matters required to be included in the director’s 
responsibility statement to be included in the 
Board’s Report in terms of clause (c) of sub-
section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies 
Act, 2013; 
	
	
(b)	
changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
	
	
(c)	
major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management; 
	
	
(d)	
significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings; 
	
	
(e)	
compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements; 
	
	
(f) 	
disclosure of any related party transactions; 
	
	
(g) 	 modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
	
(v)	
reviewing, with the management, the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the Board 
for approval;
	
(vi)	 reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/ application of funds raised through an issue 
Havells India Limited
156
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), 
the statement of funds utilized for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a 
public issue or rights issue or preferential issue 
or qualified institutions placement and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter;
	
(vii)	 reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence 
and performance and effectiveness of audit process;
	
(viii)	 approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related parties;
	
(ix)	 scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
	
(x)	
valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
	
(xi)	 evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
	
(xii)	 reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the 
internal control systems;
	
(xiii)	 reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading 
the 
department, 
reporting 
structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
	
(xiv)	 discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up thereon;
	
(xv)	 reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting 
the matter to the Board;
	
(xvi)	 discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area 
of concern;
	
(xvii)	to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors; 
	
(xviii)	to review the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism;
	
(xix)	 approval of appointment of chief financial officer 
after assessing the qualifications, experience and 
background, etc. of the candidate;
	
(xx)	 considering such other matters the Board may 
specify;
	
(xxi)	 reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/ investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of 
the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans/ advances/ investments 
existing as on the date of coming into force of this 
provision;
	
(xxii)	consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its 
shareholders;
	
(xxiii)	reviewing other areas that may be brought under the 
purview of role of Audit Committee as specified in 
SEBI Regulations and the Companies Act, from time 
to time.
	
The Audit Committee has been granted powers as 
prescribed under Regulation 18 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, to investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference, seek information from any employee, obtain 
outside legal or other professional advice and secure 
attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it 
considers necessary. The Committee also mandatorily 
reviews the information as specified in the SEBI 
Regulations – management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations, management 
letters/ letters of internal control weaknesses issued by 
the statutory auditors, if any, internal audit reports relating 
to internal control weaknesses, the appointment, removal 
and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor 
and statement of deviations.
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Audit Committee comprises of 4 (Four) Directors 
as Members. All Members are financially literate and 
possess sound knowledge of accounts, finance and 
audit matters. The Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee. The Internal/
Statutory Auditors of the Company attend the Meetings 
of the Audit Committee on invitation of the Chairman of 
the Committee. The Composition of Audit Committee as 
on 31st March, 2024, is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Upendra 
Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri B Prasada 
Rao
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Smt. Namrata 
Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
4
Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta
Executive
Member
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
157
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
S.  
No.
Name
Attendance in Audit 
Committee Meetings held on
2 May 23
20 Jul 23
21 Sep 23
19 Oct 23
23 Jan 24
 26 Mar 24
1
Shri Upendra 
Kumar Sinha






2
Smt. Namrata 
Kaul






3
Shri B Prasada 
Rao






4
Shri Ameet 
Kumar Gupta






(4)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
determines on behalf of the Board and on behalf of 
the Shareholders, the Company’s policy governing 
remuneration payable to the Managing Director and 
Whole-time Directors as well as the nomination and 
appointment of Directors.
	
The terms of reference of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee are as per the governing 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (Section 178) 
and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (specified in Part D of 
Schedule II).
	
Further, in terms of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee also supervises the various 
ESOP/ ESPS Plans of the Company. 
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises 
of 3 (Three) Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman being 
Non-Executive and Independent. The Company Secretary 
of the Company acts as Secretary to the Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee. 
The 
Composition 
of Nomination and Remuneration Committee as on 
31st March, 2024, is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Ashish 
Bharat Ram
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Smt. Namrata 
Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Puneet 
Bhatia
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Member
(c)	 Meeting and attendance during the year
S. 
No.
Name
Attendance in Nomination 
and Remuneration 
Committee Meeting held on
2 May 23
1
Shri Ashish Bharat 
Ram

2
Smt. Namrata Kaul

3
Shri Puneet Bhatia

(d)	 Performance evaluation criteria for Independent 
Directors
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has laid out the evaluation criteria for performance 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and all the 
individual directors, in adherence of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015.
	
Brief synopsis of the performance evaluation carried out 
for the financial year is provided in the Directors’ Report 
Section of this Report.
(5)	 Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal 
Committee
	
The terms of reference and the ambit of powers of 
Stakeholders 
Relationship/ 
Grievance 
Redressal 
Committee are as per the governing provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (Section 178) and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (specified in Part D of Schedule II). The status of 
shareholder correspondences, queries, grievances etc. 
are endeavoured to be addressed instantaneously by 
the secretarial department and status thereof is also 
placed before the Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee. 
(a)	 Name of Non-Executive Director heading the 
committee
	
The Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance Redressal 
Committee comprises of 3 (Three) members of which, 
2 (Two) are Non-Executive and Independent Directors, 
the Chairman being Non-Executive and Independent. 
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as 
Secretary to the Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee. The Composition of Stakeholders 
Havells India Limited
158
Relationship/ Grievance Redressal Committee as on 
31st March, 2024, is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Subhash 
S Mundra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Jalaj A 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Surjit 
Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Member
(b)	 Name and designation of compliance officer
	
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the 
Company.
(c)	 Number of shareholders’ complaints received 
during the financial year
	
The number of shareholders’ complaints received and 
resolved during the financial year 2023-24 is given below:
	
(i)	
Number of shareholders’ complaints received – 9
	
(ii)	
Number of shareholders’ complaints resolved – 9
(d)	 Number of complaints not solved to the 
satisfaction of shareholders
	
None. All complaints were resolved to the satisfaction of 
shareholders.
(e)	 Number of pending complaints
	
As at 31st March, 2024, no complaint was pending 
unresolved.
(f)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
S.  
No.
Name
Attendance in Stakeholders 
Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee 
Meetings held on
2 May 23
14 Dec 23
1
Shri Subhash S 
Mundra 


2
Shri Jalaj A Dani


3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta


(6)	 Enterprises Risk Management Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The role of the Enterprises Risk Management 
Committee is as per the Companies Act, 2013 and 
corresponding Rules framed thereunder and the 
applicable provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as may 
be in force from time to time. 
(b)	 Composition, Name of Members and Chairperson
	
The Committee comprises of 4 (Four) members out 
of which 3 (Three) are Non-Executive Directors. The 
Chairman being Non-Executive and Independent 
Director. The Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as Secretary to the Enterprises Risk Management 
Committee. The Composition of Enterprises Risk 
Management Committee as on 31st March, 2024 is 
given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Jalaj A 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri T.V. 
Mohandas Pai
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent
Member
3
Shri Subhash 
S Mundra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
4
Shri Anil Rai 
Gupta
Executive
Member
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
S.  
No.
Name
Attendance in Enterprises 
Risk Management 
Committee Meetings held on
4 Jul 23
14 Dec 23
1
Shri Jalaj A Dani


2
Shri T.V. 
Mohandas Pai


3
Shri Subash S 
Mundra


4
Shri Anil Rai 
Gupta


Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
159
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(7)	 Senior Management
	
Particulars of Senior Management including the changes therein during the Financial Year 2023-24:
S. 
No.
Name
Designation
Changes, if any,
1
Shri Alok Tickoo
Executive Vice President – Sales Lloyd
-
2
Shri Anil Kumar
Executive Vice President – Operations
Appointed on  
19th January, 2024
3
Shri Deepak Bansal
Executive Vice President – Electrical Consumer Durables
-
4
Shri Mukul Saxena
President – Center for Research & Innovation
-
5
Shri Pramod Mundra
Executive Vice President – Information Technology
-
6
Shri Prag Kumar Bhatnagar
President – Consumer Lighting
-
7
Smt. Preemita Singh
Executive Vice President & CHRO – Human Resource & 
Personnel
-
8
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
Executive Director*
-
9
Shri Rakesh Moza
Executive Vice President – Modern Retail
-
10
Shri Rakesh Rajput
Executive Vice President – Operations – Cables
-
11
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Chief Financial Officer (Whole-time Director)
-
12
Shri Rajesh Rathi
Executive Vice President – Sales Lloyd
-
13
Shri Rajiv Goel
Executive Director*
-
14
Shri Rajiv Kenue
Executive Vice President – Small Domestic Appliances
-
15
Shri Ravinder Zutshi
President - Business Development & Corporate Affairs
Resigned on  
1st May, 2023
16
Shri Rohit Kapoor
Executive Vice President – Marketing & Communication
-
17
Shri Sameer Kirit Anjaria
President – Standard
-
18
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Company Secretary
-
19
Shri Saurabh Goel
Executive President – Building Segment
-
20
Shri Saurabh Kumar
Executive Vice President – E-Commerce
-
21
Shri Shrikant Pandit
Executive Vice President – Operations
Promoted on  
1st April, 2023
22
Shri Vivek Yadav
Executive Vice President – Building Segment
-
23
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta
Executive Director*
-
	
*Not a Board position in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(8)	 Remuneration of Directors
(a)	 All pecuniary relationship or transactions of the 
Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the listed entity 
	
None, except for the Sitting Fee or the payment of 
Commission to Non-Executive Directors (except for 
promoter director).
(b)	 Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive 
Directors 
	
The Company has adopted a Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other Employees; regulated by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board. The Policy is also available on the website of the 
Company at https://havells.com/en/aboutus/corporate-
governance.html in the 'Code & Policies' section in 
Corporate Governance.
	
The Non-Executive Directors, except for promoter 
director, are entitled to Sitting fees for attending Meetings 
of the Board, its Committees and the Shareholders. The 
Non-Executive Directors, except promoter directors 
are also paid an annual commission of ` 20 lakhs 
per annum in addition to the fee payable to such 
Directors for attending the Board and other Meetings or 
reimbursement of expenses, if any. 
	
The remuneration to the Managing Director and Whole-
time Director(s) is paid on the scale determined by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the 
limits approved by the Shareholders at the General 
Meeting. 
Havells India Limited
160
(c)	 Disclosures with respect to Remuneration
	
(i)	
Details of remuneration/ sitting fees paid to Directors during the Financial Year 2023-24 are given below:
	
	
	
(` in lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of Director
Service 
Term 
No. of shares 
allotted/ 
transferred 
under ESPS
Sitting 
Fee (A)
Salary 
(B)
Perks
(C)
Commission 
(D)
Total 
(A+B+C+D)
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta*
(Chairman and Managing 
Director & CEO)
1-4-19 to
31-3-24
0
NA 860.16
0.40
2,192.05
3,052.61
2
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta**
(Whole-time Director)
1-1-20 to 
31-12-24
0
NA 342.72
0.40
876.82
1,219.94
3
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta**
(Whole-time Director &  
Group CFO)
1-4-20 to
31-3-25
90,000
NA 759.73
0.40#
876.82
1,636.95
4
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
-
0
NA
-
-
-
-
5
Shri Siddhartha Pandit  
(Whole-time Director)
29-5-22 to 
28-5-25
831#
NA 119.89
-#
-
119.89
6
Shri T. V. Mohandas Pai
-
0
8.00
-
-
20.00
28.00
7
Shri Puneet Bhatia
-
0
6.00
-
-
20.00
26.00
8
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
-
0
14.00
-
-
20.00
34.00
9
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
-
0
14.00
-
-
20.00
34.00
10
Shri Subhash S Mundra
-
0
12.00
-
-
20.00
32.00
11
Shri B Prasada Rao
-
0
14.00
-
-
20.00
34.00
12
Shri Vivek Mehra
-
0
10.00
-
-
20.00
30.00
13
Smt. Namrata Kaul
-
0
15.00
-
-
20.00
35.00
14
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
-
0
8.00
-
-
20.00
28.00
	
*	 Entitled to Commission @ 1.25% of the profit before tax.
	
**	Entitled to Commission @ 0.50% of the profit before tax.
	
#	 Excluding the value of shares i.e. ` 1,107.18 lakhs exercised by Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta and ` 4.08 lakhs exercised by Shri Siddhartha 
Pandit during the financial year 2023-24 under the Employees Stock Purchase Schemes of the Company.
	
(ii)	
Details of fixed component and performance linked 
incentives, along with the performance criteria:
	
	
The details of fixed component is as provided in the 
table above and there are no other incentives paid to 
any Director of the Company.
	
(iii)	
Service contracts, notice period, severance fees:
	
	
The appointment of the Executive Directors 
is governed by Resolutions passed by the 
Shareholders of the Company, which cover the terms 
and conditions of such appointment, read with the 
service rules of the Company. A separate Service 
Contract is not entered into by the Company with 
Executive Directors. No notice period or severance 
fee is payable to any Director.
	
(iv)	 Stock option details, if any and whether issued at a 
discount as well as the period over which accrued 
and over which exercisable:
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24, 90,000 Equity 
Shares of ` 1/- each were allotted to Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta and 831 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 
were allotted to Shri Siddhartha Pandit under various 
Employees Stock Purchase Schemes of the Company.
Besides the above, the Board of Directors has Corporate 
Social Responsibility & Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee, Share Allotment and Transfer Committee and an 
Executive Committee. In respect of these Committees brief 
details of the role, terms of reference, composition and No. of 
Meetings held etc. are given below:
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee
(a)	 Brief description of terms of reference
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee was formed pursuant 
to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 as amended 
read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, to 
formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy indicating the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII 
to the Act, to recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on such activities, action plan and to monitor the 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company 
from time to time.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
161
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company 
(“CSR Policy”) is available on the website of the Company 
under ‘Codes & Policies’ in the Corporate Governance 
section and can be accessed from https://havells.com/
media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/CSR_Policy.pdf.
	
The details of the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of 
the Company have also been disclosed in the Directors’ 
Report section of the Integrated Annual Report.
(b)	 Composition, 
Name 
of 
Members 
and 
Chairperson
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental, 
Social and Governance Committee comprises of 4 
(Four) members of which 2 (Two) are Non-Executive and 
Independent, the Chairman being Non-Executive and 
Independent. The Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as Secretary to the Corporate Social Responsibility 
& Environmental, Social and Governance Committee. 
The Composition of Corporate Social Responsibility & 
Environmental, Social and Governance Committee as on 
31st March, 2024, is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Vivek 
Mehra
Non-Executive 
Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Jalaj A 
Dani
Non-Executive 
Independent
Member
3
Shri Surjit 
Kumar Gupta
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent
Member
4
Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta
Executive
Member
(c)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
S.  
No.
Name
Attendance in Corporate 
Social Responsibility & 
Environmental, Social and 
Governance Committee 
Meetings held on
2 May 23
14 Dec 23
1
Shri Vivek Mehra


2
Shri Jalaj A Dani


3
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta


4
Shri Rajesh 
Kumar Gupta


Share Allotment and Transfer Committee
The Share Allotment and Transfer Committee meets regularly 
to consider requests of share transfer/ transmission/ 
transposition/ split/ consolidation/ sub-division/ duplicate 
share certificate/ IEPF/ Unclaimed Suspense etc. and also to 
take note of the investor grievances. The summary of number 
of requests/ grievances received and resolved in every quarter 
is also placed before the Stakeholders Relationship/ Grievance 
Redressal Committee for its information and review.
The Committee comprises of 1 (One) Non-Executive Director 
and 2 (Two) Executive Directors. Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta being 
Non-Executive Director is the Chairman of the Committee. The 
Company Secretary of the Company acts as Secretary to the 
Share Allotment and Transfer Committee. The Composition 
of Share Allotment and Transfer Committee as on 31st March, 
2024, is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Executive
Member
3
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta
Executive
Member
During the financial year 2023-24, the Share Allotment and 
Transfer Committee met 11 (Eleven) times. 
Executive Committee
The role of the Executive Committee is to expeditiously decide 
business matters of routine nature and implementation of 
strategic decisions of the Board. The Committee functions 
within the approved framework and directions of the Board. 
The Committee also performs other activities as per the terms 
of reference of the Board. The Committee comprises of 1 (One) 
Non-Executive Director and 3 (Three) Executive Directors. 
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta being Non-Executive Director is the 
Chairman of the Committee. The Company Secretary of the 
Company acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee. The 
Composition of Executive Committee as on 31st March, 2024, 
is given below:
S.  
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1
Shri Surjit Kumar 
Gupta
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Chairman
2
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
Executive
Member
3
Shri Ameet Kumar 
Gupta
Executive
Member
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar 
Gupta
Executive
Member
During the financial year 2023-24, the Executive Committee 
met 11 (Eleven) times. 
Havells India Limited
162
(9)	 General Body Meetings
(a)	 Location and time, where last three Annual 
General Meetings held:
Date of AGM
Location
Time
27th June, 2023
Through Video Conferencing 
(VC) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM)
10:00 
a.m.
8th July, 2022
Through Video Conferencing 
(VC) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM)
10:00 
a.m.
30th June, 2021
Through Video Conferencing 
(VC) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM)
10:00 
a.m.
(b)	 Whether any Special Resolutions passed in the 
previous three Annual General Meetings
Date of AGM
Details 
of 
Special 
Resolutions 
passed, if any
27th June, 2023 None
8th July, 2022
Approval of the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme 2022 and its 
implementation through Trust
Authorization for Havells Employees 
Welfare Trust to Subscribe to Shares 
for and under the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme 2022
Provisioning of money by the Company 
to the Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust/ Trustees for Subscription of 
Shares under the Havells Employees 
Stock Purchase Scheme, 2022
Amendment to the Part B – “Havells 
Employees Stock Purchase Plan 
2014” of Havells Employees Long 
Term Incentive Plan 2014 and related 
modifications thereto
30th June, 2021 Appointment 
of 
a 
Director 
in 
place of Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta 
(DIN:00002810), 
who 
retires 
by 
rotation and being eligible, offers 
himself for re-appointment
Re-appointment 
of 
Shri 
Jalaj 
Ashwin Dani (DIN: 00019080) as an 
Independent Director for a Second 
Term
Re-appointment of Shri Upendra 
Kumar Sinha (DIN: 00010336) as an 
Independent Director for a Second 
Term
(c)	 Special Resolution passed last year through 
postal ballot – details of voting pattern and 
procedure thereof
	
Nil
(d)	 Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise
	
Not Applicable
(e)	 Special Resolution proposed to be conducted 
through postal ballot
	
No Resolution requiring Postal Ballot as required by 
the Companies (Passing of Resolution by Postal Ballot) 
Rules, 2011, has been placed for Shareholder’s approval 
at this Annual General Meeting.
(10)	Means of Communication
(a)	 Quarterly Results
	
The Company publishes limited reviewed un-audited 
standalone & consolidated financial results on a quarterly 
basis. In respect of the fourth quarter, the Company 
publishes the audited financial results both standalone & 
consolidated for the complete financial year.
(b)	 Newspapers wherein results normally published 
	
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results are 
published in Economic Times in English and Jansatta 
Hindi Daily editions.
(c)	 Website, where displayed
	
The financial results and the official news releases are also 
placed on the Company’s website www.havells.com in 
the Investors section and can be accessed from https://
www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-relation/
financials/quarterly-results.html.
(d)	 Official news releases
	
Yes, the Company regularly publishes an information 
update on its financial results and also displays official 
news releases in the Investors section.
(e)	 Presentations made to institutional investors or to 
the analysts
	
The Company holds analysts calls in each quarter, to 
apprise and make public the information relating to the 
Company’s working and future outlook. 
(11)	General Shareholder Information
(a)	 Annual General Meeting - Date, Time and Venue
	
Day	 	 : 	 Friday	
	
Date		 : 	 28th June, 2024
	
Time	
: 	 02:00 pm	
	
Venue 	: 	 Through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other 
Audio Visual Means (OAVM) or as permitted by 
the relevant Statutory Authorities
	
	
	 	
Company’s Registered Office i.e. 904, 9th Floor, 
Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught 
Place, New Delhi – 110001 will be considered 
as Venue for the purpose of this Annual General 
Meeting 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
163
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(b)	 Financial year
	
The Financial year of the Company starts from 1st April of 
a year and ends on 31st March of the following year. The 
tentative calendar of Meeting of Board of Directors for 
consideration of quarterly financial results for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 are as follows:
First Quarter Results
: July 2024
Second Quarter and Half yearly Results : October 2024
Third Quarter Results
: January 2025
Fourth Quarter and Annual Results
: April 2025
(c)	 Dividend Payment Date
	
The Board of Directors of your Company declared an 
interim dividend of ` 3.00 per equity share of ` 1/- each 
i.e. @300% during the financial year 2023-24. Payment of 
dividend was done within 30 days from date of declaration 
i.e. 23rd January, 2024. 
	
The Board of Directors of your Company has also 
recommended a Final Dividend of ` 6.00 per equity share 
of ` 1/- each i.e. @600% for the financial year  2023-24. 
Date of payment of dividend would be within 30 days from 
the date of AGM.
(d)	 Name and address of each stock exchange(s) at 
which the listed entity’s securities are listed and a 
confirmation about payment of annual listing fee 
to each of such stock exchange(s)
	
The equity shares of the Company are listed at:
	
•	
The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE), 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai- 400 051
	
•	
BSE Limited (BSE), Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai- 400 001
	
The annual listing fee for the FY 2024-25 has been paid 
by the Company to both the stock exchanges within the 
stipulated time.
(e)	 Stock code
NSE
BSE
ISIN
HAVELLS
517354
INE176B01034  
(Shares)
(f)	
Market price data- high, low during each month in last financial year
	
Monthly high & low prices and volumes of the equity shares of the Company at the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
(Nifty) and BSE Limited (Sensex) during the financial year 2023-24 are as under:
(Amount in `)
Period
NSE
BSE
High
Low
Volume  
(No. of shares)
High
Low
Volume  
(No. of shares)
Apr 2023
1,237.75
1,158.15
1,05,18,679
1,237.40
1,158.50
3,63,625
May 2023
1,322.90
1,211.85
1,61,35,970
1,322.65
1,211.05
5,13,310
Jun 2023
1,373.70
1,276.00
1,80,61,748
1,390.00
1,276.15
6,11,036
Jul 2023
1,408.30
1,258.60
2,74,35,491
1,408.00
1,259.00
8,51,457
Aug 2023
1,399.00
1,262.95
1,48,77,782
1,393.00
1,263.30
5,04,903
Sep 2023
1,465.85
1,348.20
1,78,06,161
1,466.00
1,340.90
12,27,143
Oct 2023
1,425.00
1,240.25
1,83,31,039
1,425.35
1,240.05
5,19,923
Nov 2023
1,315.00
1,232.85
1,25,49,965
1,314.95
1,233.10
4,74,754
Dec 2023
1,395.00
1,305.00
1,23,14,275
1,395.00
1,299.95
4,61,302
Jan 2024
1,472.00
1,280.00
1,95,44,351
1,471.75
1,280.20
10,06,187
Feb 2024
1,550.00
1,292.90
2,48,87,522
1,549.95
1,292.50
9,00,842
Mar 2024
1,591.35
1,435.05
1,67,16,999
1,590.90
1,435.05
4,17,726
	
(Source: NSE and BSE website)
	
Note: High and low are in rupees per traded share. Volume is the total monthly volume of trade (in numbers) in the Company’s share on the 
respective Stock Exchanges.
Havells India Limited
164
(h)	 In case the securities are suspended from trading, 
the Directors' Report shall explain the reason thereof
	
Not applicable.
(i)	
Registrar to an issue and share transfer agents 
Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH 2, 
LSC, C-1 Block, Near Savitri Market,
Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058 
Telephone: 011-41410592,93, 011-49411000
Fax: 011-41410591
Email: delhi@linkintime.co.in
	
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
(j)	
Share transfer system
	
The Board has delegated the authority for approving 
transfer, transmission of shares etc. to the Share Allotment 
and Transfer Committee. The Company obtains an annual 
certificate from Practising Company Secretary as per the 
requirement of Regulation 40(9) of Listing Regulations 
and the same is filed with the Stock Exchanges and is 
available on the website of the Company. 
	
In terms of amended Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations w.e.f. 1st April, 2019, transfer of securities 
in physical form are not processed unless the securities 
are held in the dematerialised mode with a Depository 
Participant. Further, with effect from 24th January, 2022, 
SEBI has made it mandatory for listed companies to issue 
securities in dematerialised mode only while processing any 
investor service request viz. issue of duplicate securities 
certificates, claim from unclaimed suspense account, 
renewal/ exchange of securities certificate, endorsement, 
sub-division/ splitting of securities certificate, consolidation of 
securities certificates/ folios, transmission and transposition. 
Further, SEBI vide its Circular dated 25th January, 2022, 
clarified that the RTA/ listed company shall verify and 
process the service requests and thereafter issue a ‘Letter 
of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities certificate(s), to 
the securities holder/ claimant within 30 days of its receipt 
of such request after removing objections, if any. The ‘Letter 
of Confirmation’ shall be valid for a period of 120 days from 
the date of its issuance, within which the securities holder/ 
claimant shall make a request to the Depository Participant 
for dematerializing the said securities. 
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Mar-23
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Prices (Indexed to 100)
Months
BSE Sensex
Havells' share 
price at BSE
(g)	 Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex, CRISIL Index etc.
	
Havells share price vis-à-vis BSE Sensex
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Mar-23
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Prices (Indexed to 100)
Months
NSE Nifty
Havells' share 
price at NSE
	
Note: The graph indicates monthly closing positions. Share prices and BSE Sensex are indexed to 100 as on 31st March, 2023. 
	
Havells Share Price vis-à-vis NSE Nifty
	
Note: The graph indicates monthly closing positions. Share prices and NSE Nifty are indexed to 100 as on 31st March, 2023.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
165
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(k)	 Distribution of shareholding as on 31st March, 2024
Shareholding of Nominal 
Value of ` 1/- each
Shareholders 
(Numbers)
% of Total 
Share Holders
No. of Shares
Nominal Value
(in `)
% of 
Nominal Value
Upto 5,000
2,27,940
99.24
1,75,72,753
1,75,72,753
2.81
5,001 - 10,000
713
0.31
52,89,206
52,89,206
0.84
10,001 - 20,000
310
0.14
44,90,281
44,90,281
0.72
20,001 - 30,000
148
0.07
36,29,297
36,29,297
0.58
30,001 - 40,000
74
0.03
25,90,372
25,90,372
0.41
40,001 - 50,000
54
0.02
23,89,206
23,89,206
0.38
50,001 - 1,00,000
145
0.06
1,06,67,289
1,06,67,289
1.70
1,00,001 & Above
302
0.13
58,00,54,626
58,00,54,626
92.56
Grand Total
2,29,686
100.00
62,66,83,030
62,66,83,030
100.00
	
Ownership Pattern as on 31st March, 2024
Category
No. of Shareholders No. of Shares Held
% of Total Holding
Promoters
Indian Promoters
3
37,24,57,920
59.43
Non Promoters
Institutional Investors
 
 
 
Mutual Fund and Alternative Investment Funds
39
2,36,68,795
3.78
Foreign Portfolio Investors
754
15,56,30,031
24.84
Bank, Financial Institutions and Insurance Companies
27
2,89,45,501
4.62
Central Government/ State Government(s)
2
2,037
0.00
Sovereign Wealth Funds
2
7,08,983
0.11
Provident Funds/ Pension Funds
1
85,97,570
1.37
Non-Institutions
 
 
 
Indian Public*
2,16,941
3,06,67,848
4.89
NRI & FN
5,530
21,43,842
0.34
Bodies Corporate 
1,129
38,60,503
0.62
Grand Total
2,24,428
62,66,83,030
100.00
	
*Indian Public shareholding includes shareholdings of individuals, Directors & their relatives, KMP, shares with IEPF Authority, Trusts, HUF, 
Unclaimed Suspense A/c and Clearing Members.
	
Details of Ownership Pattern given above are based on the Shareholding Pattern filed with the Stock Exchanges as at 
31st March, 2024, wherein the Shareholding is consolidated on the basis of PAN. 
	
Ownership Pattern as on 31st March 2024 (%)
Promoters, 59.43%
Mutual Funds and AIF, 3.78%
Banks, FIs and Insurance Companies, 4.62%
Foreign Portfolio Investors, 24.84%
Central/ State Government(s), 0%
Private Corporate Bodies, 0.62%
Indian Public, 4.89%
NRI/ Foreign Bodies, 0.34%
Sovereign Wealth Funds, 0.11%
Provident Funds, 1.37%
Havells India Limited
166
	
List of Shareholders other than Promoters holding more than 1% as on 31st March, 2024
S. 
No.
Name of Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Shareholding
1
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
3,30,44,930
5.27
2
Life Insurance Corporation of India
1,87,46,432
2.99
3
Government Pension Fund Global
1,50,41,615
2.40
4
Invesco Developing Markets Fund
71,27,075
1.14
5
Life Insurance Corporation of India - P & Gs Fund
63,31,226
1.01
(l)	
Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
	
The shares of the Company are in compulsory demat segment and are available for trading in the depository systems of both 
the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). As at 31st March, 
2024, 62,58,42,372 Equity shares out of 62,66,83,030 Equity Shares of the Company, forming 99.87% of the Company’s 
paid-up capital is held in the dematerialized form. Majority of demat shares are with National Securities Depository Limited. 
The status of shares held in demat and physical format is given below. The Company’s shares are liquid and actively traded 
on the NSE and BSE.
Particulars
As on 31stMarch, 2024
As on 31stMarch, 2023
Number of Shares
Percentage
Number of Shares
Percentage
Shares in Demat Form
62,58,42,372
99.87
62,54,59,660
99.83
NSDL
61,62,48,122
98.34
61,47,23,107
98.12
CDSL
95,94,250
1.53
1,07,36,553
1.71
Shares in Physical Form
8,40,658
0.13
10,50,078
0.17
Total
62,66,83,030
100.00
62,65,09,738
100.00
NSDL 98.34%
CDSL 1.53%
Physical 0.13%
Ownership in Demat and Physical Mode (%)
(m)	 Outstanding 
global 
depository 
receipts 
or 
American depository receipts or warrants or any 
convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity
	
There are no GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants outstanding as on 
31st March 2024.
(n)	 Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk 
and hedging activities
	
In order to manage the Company’s Foreign Exchange 
exposure, the Company has in place a Board approved 
Policy on Foreign Exchange for the management of 
corporate foreign exchange risk by defining its exposures, 
measuring them and defining appropriate actions to 
control the risk. The intent of this Policy is to minimise the 
financial statement impact of fluctuating foreign currency 
exchange rates.
(o)	 Plant locations
S. 
No.
Unit/ Plant
Products
1
Distt. Solan, Baddi, Himachal 
Pradesh
Electrical 
Wire 
Accessories and 
Switchgears
2
Plot No. 2 and 2A, Sector - 
12, SIDCUL Industrial Area, 
Haridwar, Uttarakhand
Water Purifier and 
Appliances
3
14/3, 
Mathura 
Road, 
Faridabad, Haryana
Switchgears
4
Plot No.6, Site - IV, Sahibabad 
Industrial 
Area, 
Sahibabad 
(U.P.)
Switchgears and 
Capacitors
5
SP-181 – 189 & 191(A) 
Industrial 
Area, 
Phase 
II, 
Neemrana, Alwar, Rajasthan
Motor and Pump
Lighting & Fixture, 
Water Heater and 
Water Cooler 
6
A/461-462, & SP – 215, 204 & 
204(A) Matsya Industrial Area, 
Alwar, Rajasthan
Industrial 
& 
Domestic Cable
7
Sector-10, Plot No 2A & 
2D, Sidcul Industrial Area, 
Haridwar, Uttrakhand-243249
Fan
8
SP1-133, 
Rico 
Industrial 
Area, Behror, Ghiloth, Alwar, 
Rajasthan-301706
Air Conditioner & 
Washing Machine
9
10050, Central Expressway, 
Sri City- 517646
Air Conditioner
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
167
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
(p)	 Address for correspondence
The Company Secretary
Havells India Limited
(Secretarial Department)
QRG Towers, 2D, Sector-126,
Expressway, Noida (U.P.) Pin-201304
Telephone No.: 0120-3331000
Fax No.: 0120-3332000
Email: investors@havells.com 
	
Address for Correspondence with the Registrar and 
Transfer Agents
Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH 2, 
LSC, C-1 Block, Near Savitri Market, 
Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058 
Telephone: 011-41410592,93, 011-49411000
Fax: 011-41410591
Email: delhi@linkintime.co.in
(q)	 List of all credit ratings obtained by the entity along 
with any revisions thereto during the relevant 
financial year, for all debt instruments of entity or 
any fixed deposit programme or any scheme or 
proposal of the listed entity involving mobilization 
of funds, whether in India or abroad 
	
The Company has obtained the following Credit Ratings 
from CARE:
Long-term Bank Facilities
:
CARE AAA (Triple A)
Short-term Bank Facilities
:
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
Commercial Paper
:
CARE A1+ (A One Plus)
Corporate Governance
:
CareEdge CG 2+
	
The details on credit ratings are provided in the Directors' 
Report and are also available on the website of the 
Company in the Investors section and can be accessed 
at https://www.havells.com/en/discover-havells/investor-
relation/credit-rating.html
	
During the year ended 31st March, 2024, there was no 
change in the above ratings by CARE. 
(12)	Other Disclosures
(a)	 Disclosures on materially significant related party 
transactions that may have potential conflict with 
the interests of listed entity at large:
	
During the financial year 2023-24, there was no 
materially significant related party transaction that 
may have potential conflict with the interests of the 
Company at large. For reference, the details of related 
party transactions in accordance with IND AS–24 are 
given in Note No. 6 of Other Notes on Accounts of the 
Integrated Annual Report. 
(b)	 Details of non-compliance by the listed entity, 
penalties, strictures imposed on the listed entity 
by stock exchange(s) or the board or any statutory 
authority, on any matter related to capital markets, 
during the last three years:
	
The Company has not been penalized, nor have the stock 
exchanges, SEBI or any statutory authority imposed any 
strictures, during the last three years, on any matter 
relating to capital markets.
(c)	 Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ 
whistle blower policy and affirmation that no 
personnel has been denied access to the audit 
committee:
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy 
called ‘Satark’ which means alert/ vigilant empowering 
any person associated with the organization to file a 
grievance if he/ she notices any irregularity. ‘Satark’ Policy 
is available on the website of the Company at https://
havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/Code-and-policies/
VigilMechanism_SatarkPolicy.pdf.
	
No person has been denied access to the Audit 
Committee for any grievance.
	
The Company has in addition to Whistle Blower Policy 
also adopted a policy named ‘Idea’ to promote a 
culture of innovative thinking, creativity and vigilance 
in all areas of its business. The ideas may be related 
to technical aspects of business, non-technical 
aspects, commercial aspects, administrative aspects, 
processes, cost saving or any such other aspect that 
may benefit the Company.
(d)	 Details 
of 
compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements:
	
The Company has fully complied with the mandatory 
requirements of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(e)	 Web link where policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiaries is disclosed:
	
The policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is 
available on the website of the Company under 'Codes 
& Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and 
can be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/
PDF/Code-and-policies/Policy-for-determining-material-
subsidiaries.pdf.
(f)	
Web link where policy on dealing with related 
party transactions is disclosed:
	
The policy on dealing with related party transactions is 
available on the website of the Company under 'Codes 
& Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and can 
be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy.pdf.
Havells India Limited
168
(g)	 Disclosure 
of 
commodity 
price 
risks 
and 
commodity hedging activities:
	
In order to manage the Company’s Foreign Exchange 
exposure, the Company has in place a Board approved 
Policy on Foreign Exchange Management for the 
management of corporate foreign exchange risk by 
defining its exposures, measuring them and defining 
appropriate actions to control the risk. The intent of this 
Policy is to minimise the financial statement impact of 
fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. 
	
Policy on Foreign Exchange Risk and Commodity Price 
Risk alongwith Foreign Currency exposure is given under 
Note No. 10 of Other Notes on Accounts of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
(h)	 Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 
32(7A): 
	
The Company did not raise any funds through 
preferential 
allotment 
or 
qualified 
institutions 
placement during the year.
(i)	
Certificate from a company secretary in practice 
that none of the directors on the board of the 
company have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Directors 
of Companies by the Board/ Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority:
	
On the basis of written representations/ declaration 
received from the directors, as on March 31, 2024, 
M/s Balika Sharma & Associates, Company Secretaries 
(Membership No. FCS 4816, CP No. 3222), have issued a 
certificate, confirming that none of the Directors on Board 
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from 
being appointed or continuing as Director of companies 
by SEBI/ MCA or any such authority and the same also 
forms part of this Report.
(j) 	 Where the board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any committee of the board 
which is mandatorily required, in the relevant 
financial year, the same to be disclosed along 
with reasons thereof: 
	
The Board accepted the recommendations of its 
Committees, wherever made, during the year.
(k) 	 Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity 
and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to 
the statutory auditor and all entities in the network 
firm/ network entity of which the statutory auditor 
is a part:
	
The details of total fees for all services paid by the 
Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, 
to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/ 
network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part, are 
as follows:
Type of Service
Amount (` in crores)
Audit Fee
1.35
BRSR Core and Other Indicators 
Assurance Report
0.32
Certification Fee
0.15
Reimbursement of expenses
0.16
Total 
1.98
(l) 	 Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013: 
	
The Company is committed to providing and promoting a 
safe and healthy work environment for all its employees. 
A Nirbhaya policy which is in line with the statutory 
requirements is in place.
	
a.	
number of complaints filed during the financial 
year– 0 
	
b. 	 number of complaints disposed off during the 
financial year – 0
	
c. 	
number of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year – 0
(m) 	disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of 
'Loans and advances' in the nature of loans to 
firms/ companies in which directors are interested 
by name and amount:
	
None
(n) 	 Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity; 
including the date and place of incorporation and 
the name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiaries:
	
The Company does not have any material subsidiary.
(13)	Disclosure of the extent to which the Discretionary 
Requirements as Specified in Part E of Schedule 
II have been Adopted
	
(a)	
The Board: Chairman of the Company being on 
Executive position, the provision on entitlement of 
chairperson’s office at the expense of the Company in 
case of a non-executive chairperson is not applicable.
	
(b)	
Shareholder Rights: Quarterly financial statements 
are published in leading newspapers and uploaded 
on Company’s website https://www.havells.com/
en/discover-havells/investor-relation/financials/
quarterly-results.html
	
(c)	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: The Company 
already has a regime of un-qualified financial 
statements. Auditors have raised no qualification on 
the financial statements.
	
(d)	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the CEO: Presently, Shri Anil Rai Gupta 
is the Chairman and Managing Director of the 
Company. He is also the CEO of the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
169
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
	
(e)	
Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Company 
appointed E&Y as the Internal Auditors for 
conducting the internal audit for the FY 2023-24, 
representatives whereof report to the Head, Risk 
Management and Governance Department who 
reports to the Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
and has direct access to the Audit Committee.
(14)	Disclosures of the Compliance with Corporate 
Governance 
Requirements 
Specified 
in 
Regulations 17 to 27 and Clauses (B) to (I) of Sub-
Regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses 
(b) to (i) of sub – regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Declaration Signed by the Chief Executive Officer 
Stating that the Members of Board of Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel have Affirmed 
Compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board of 
Directors and Senior Management
The Company is committed to conduct its business in 
accordance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations 
and with the highest standards of business ethics. Havells’ 
Code of Ethics is intended to provide guidance and help in 
recognizing and dealing with ethical issues, mechanisms to 
report unethical conduct and to help foster a culture of honesty 
and accountability.
The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics for Directors, Senior 
Management and other Employees of the Company. 
The Code is available on the website of the Company under 
'Codes & Policies' in the Corporate Governance section and 
can be accessed at https://havells.com/media/wysiwyg/PDF/
Code-and-policies/Code-of-Conduct.pdf.
	
Declaration pursuant to SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
All Board Members and Senior Management Personnel 
have affirmed compliance with the code of ethics for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2024.
	
	
Anil Rai Gupta
 	
Chairman and Managing Director 
Noida, April 30, 2024
Compliance Certificate from Either the Auditors 
or 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
Regarding 
Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance
The Certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company 
regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance 
is annexed with the Directors' Report and forms an integral 
part of the Integrated Annual Report.
Disclosures with Respect to Demat Suspense 
Account/ Unclaimed Suspense Account
The Company has 1,60,100 Equity Shares of ` 1/- each in 
respect of 22 Shareholders, lying into the Unclaimed Suspense 
A/c of the demat account held with NSDL (IN30045014669162). 
Further, the dividend accruing on such Shares was also 
credited to Unpaid Dividend Account.
The requisite disclosures as per Schedule V (F) of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
in this regard are given below:
(a)	
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the beginning 
of the Year – 24 (No. of shareholders) 1,72,100 (No. of 
shares) respectively.
(b) 	 Number of shareholders who approached listed entity 
for transfer of shares from suspense account during the 
year – 2 (No. of shareholders) 12,000 (No. of shares).
(c) 	 Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred 
from suspense account during the year – 2 (No. of 
shareholders) 12,000 (No. of shares).
(d) 	 Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the end of 
year – 22 (No. of shareholders) 1,60,100 (No. of shares) 
respectively.
(e) 	 that the voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen 
till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding 
Listed Entities
There is no such agreement which is required to be disclosed 
under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Other useful Information for Shareholders 
Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details and Nomination 
by holders of physical securities
Pursuant to SEBI mandate, it is mandatory for all holders 
of physical securities in listed companies to furnish PAN, 
Nomination, Contact details, Bank A/c details and Specimen 
signature for their corresponding folio numbers.
In case of non-updation of PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact 
Details including Mobile Number, Bank Account Details and 
Specimen Signatures in respect of the physical folios, no 
dividend shall be paid to the investor until all of the aforesaid 
KYC details are updated by the investor.
Once updated, all the unclaimed dividend previously 
declared by the Company shall be paid to the shareholder 
electronically.
Havells India Limited
170
Forms for availing various Investor services
Investors holding securities in physical mode interface with 
the RTAs, inter-alia, for registering/ updating the KYC details 
and for the processing of various service requests. The service 
requests along with requisite forms, as prescribed by SEBI 
are available on the website of the Company in the Investors 
section.
Unclaimed Dividend and shares
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
dividends remaining unpaid/ unclaimed for a period of 
seven years have to be statutorily transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) and such shares in 
respect of which dividend entitlements remained unclaimed 
for seven consecutive years or more are also required to be 
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund, administered by the Central Government. 
To ensure maximum disbursement of unclaimed dividend, the 
Company regularly sends reminder to the relevant investors.
Unclaimed Dividend in respect of the financial year 2016-17 
(Final) and the shares in respect of which dividend entitlements 
remain unclaimed for seven consecutive years will be due for 
transfer to the IEPF on 14th August, 2024 in terms of Section 124 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016. Members who have not encashed 
their Final Dividends in respect of the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2017 or any subsequent year(s) are requested to lodge 
their claims with the Company. 
A separate communication in this regard has already been 
sent to the Shareholders of the Company who have not 
encashed their dividend warrants, providing them details of the 
unencashed warrants and requesting them to comply with the 
procedure for seeking payment of the same.
In respect of Final Dividend for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2017, it will not be possible to entertain claims which 
are received by the Company after 14th August, 2024. 
Members are advised that in terms of the provisions of Section 
124 of the Companies Act, 2013, once unclaimed dividend 
and shares are transferred to IEPF, no claim shall lie against the 
Company in respect thereof. However members may apply for 
the same with the IEPF authority by making an application in 
the prescribed web Form No. IEPF-5.
Financial Year
Dividend Type
Dividend Per Share (`)
Date of Declaration
Due date of transfer to IEPF
2016-17
Final
3.50
07.07.2017
14.08.2024
2017-18
Final
4.00
20.07.2018
26.08.2025
2018-19
Final
4.50
27.07.2019
31.08.2026
2019-20
Interim
4.00
06.03.2020
10.04.2027
2020-21
Interim
3.00
20.01.2021
24.02.2028
2020-21
Final
3.50
30.06.2021
06.08.2028
2021-22
Interim
3.00
20.10.2021
26.11.2028
2021-22
Final
4.50
08.07.2022
14.08.2029
2022-23
Interim
3.00
19.01.2023
25.02.2030
2022-23
Final
4.50
27.06.2023
03.08.2030
2023-24
Interim
3.00
23.01.2024
28.02.2031
For and on behalf of
 Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
	
	
	
	
 Anil Rai Gupta
Noida, April 30, 2024 	
 Chairman and Managing Director 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
171
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
CEO’S/ CFO’S CERTIFICATE
We, Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director & CEO and Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & Group CFO of 
Havells India Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief, certify that:
a.	
We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended 31st March, 2024 and that to the 
best of our knowledge and belief:
	
i.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
ii.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed, to the 
auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if 
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable,
	
i.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
ii.	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and
	
iii.	
instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Havells India Limited 	
	
	
 	
	
 For Havells India Limited
(Anil Rai Gupta) 	
	
	
	
 	
	
 (Rajesh Kumar Gupta)
Chairman and Managing Director & CEO 	
	
 Whole-time Director & Group CFO
Noida, April 30, 2024
Havells India Limited
172
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
Havells India Limited
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Havells India 
Limited having CIN L31900DL1983PLC016304 and having Registered Office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K G Marg, 
Connaught Place, New Delhi Central Delhi-110001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company 
for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, 
We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31st 
March, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta
00011892
30/09/1992
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
00002810
08/08/1983
3
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta
00002838
22/12/2014
4
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta
00002842
21/03/1992
5
Shri Upendra Kumar Sinha
00010336
01/03/2018
6
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani
00019080
16/08/2017
7
Shri Bontha Prasada Rao
01705080
12/05/2020
8
Shri Subhash Sheoratan Mundra
00979731
12/05/2020
9
Shri Vivek Mehra
00101328
12/05/2020
10
Smt Namrata Kaul
00994532
20/01/2021
11
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
00671567
20/05/2021
12
Shri Mohandas Tellicheery Venkataraman Pai 
00042167
22/12/2014
13
Shri Puneet Bhatia
00143973
22/12/2014
14
Shri Siddhartha Pandit
03562264
29/05/2019
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company.
For Balika Sharma & Associates
Company Secretaries
Balika Sharma
Proprietor
FCS No: 4816
C P No: 3222
UDIN: F004816F000236003
Place: New Delhi
Date: April 25, 2024
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
173
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS LLP
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Auditor’s Certificate on compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance
1.	
This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated April 23, 2024.
2.	
The accompanying Statement containing the details of compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance of Havells 
India Limited (the “Company") for the year ended March 31, 2024 (the “Statement”) has been prepared by the Management 
of the Company in connection with the requirements for the Company’s compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance set out in Regulations 17, 17A, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 24A, 25, 26, 26A, 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and para C, D and E of Schedule V (“the Conditions of Corporate Governance") in the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended) 
(“the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015”) as communicated to us by the Management vide its email dated March 11, 2024 
(“the Management’s communication”). We have initialled the Statement for identification purposes only.
Management’s Responsibility for the Statement
3.	
The preparation of the Statement is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including the creation and 
maintenance of all accounting and other records supporting its contents. This responsibility includes the design, implementation 
and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the Company’s compliance with the Conditions of Corporate 
Governance listed in SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015.
4.	
The Management is also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the Conditions of Corporate Governance 
in the SEBI Listing Regulations 2015 and that it provides complete and accurate information as requested.
Auditors’ Responsibility
5.	
Pursuant to the Management’s communication, it is our responsibility to examine the Statement and the underlying audited 
books of account and records of the Company and certify whether the Company has complied with the Conditions of 
Corporate Governance as stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, as set out in the Statement.
6.	
The financial statements relating to the books of account and records referred to in paragraph 5 above have been audited 
by us pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, on which we issued an unmodified audit opinion vide our 
report dated April 30,2024. Our audit of these financial statements has been conducted in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing referred to in Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable authoritative pronouncements 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
7.	
We conducted our examination in accordance with the ‘Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes’ and, 
to the extent considered applicable, the ‘Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance’ both issued by the ICAI. 
The ‘Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes’ requires that we comply with the ethical requirements 
of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
8.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1 ‘Quality Control 
for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and Other Assurance and Related Services 
Engagements’.
9.	
Our examination, as referred to in paragraph 7 above, is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
Conclusion
10.	 Based on our examination as set out in paragraphs 7 and 9 above and the information and explanations given to us, 
we certify that the Company has complied with the Conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015, as set out in the Statement.
Havells India Limited
174
11.	 We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restrictions on Use
12.	 Our work was performed solely to assist you in meeting your responsibilities in relation to your compliance with the obligations 
under SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015. Our Deliverable to be annexed with the Director’s Report should not be used by 
any other person or for any other purpose. Our obligations in respect of this certificate are entirely separate from and our 
responsibility and liability is in no way changed by, any other role we may have as auditors of the Company or otherwise. 
Nothing in this certificate, nor anything said or done in the course of or in connection with the services that are the subject of 
this certificate, will extend any duty of care we may have in our capacity as auditors of the Company.
13.	 This certificate has been issued solely at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company to whom it is addressed and 
shall be used only to be annexed with the Director’s Report and should not be used by any other person or for any other 
purpose. We do not accept or assume any liability or duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida 	
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024 	
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAY5338
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
175
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements 
Opinion 
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Havells India Limited (“the Company”), 
which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2024, and the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information. 
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information required 
by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024, and 
total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other 
comprehensive income), changes in equity and its cash 
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Financial Statements” section of our report. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with 
the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key audit matters 
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the standalone financial statements as a whole and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matter to be 
communicated in our report.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives and other non-financial assets of Lloyd 
Consumer business (Refer Note 4 to the standalone financial 
statements)
As at March 31, 2024, the standalone financial statements 
include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
and other non-financial assets pertaining to Lloyd Consumer 
business amounting to ` 310.47 crores, ` 1,029 crores and 
` 882.08 crores respectively. 
As the Lloyd Consumer business has incurred losses, 
considering the requirements of Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) - 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, the management 
tested the above-mentioned assets for impairment using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. Based on such test, the 
recoverable amount of the CGU is higher than the carrying 
amount of the said assets and, accordingly, no adjustment 
for impairment is necessary.
We considered this as a key audit matter because of the 
significant carrying amount of the above-mentioned assets 
and high estimation uncertainty in assumptions used such as 
discount rate, rate of growth over the estimation period and 
terminal growth rate which are affected by future market and 
economic conditions and, hence, are inherently uncertain.
Our audit procedures among others, included the 
following:
a.	 Understanding and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the impairment 
assessment process, including preparation of the DCF model; 
b.	 Evaluating the Company’s accounting policy in respect 
of impairment assessment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial assets;
c.	 Understanding the cash flow projections and assumptions 
used in the DCF model, testing the mathematical accuracy 
and reviewing the report of the management expert; 
d.	 Together with auditor’s valuation experts, testing the 
appropriateness of the DCF model and key assumptions 
therein and performing sensitivity analysis over key 
assumptions within a reasonable and foreseeable range 
to corroborate that the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
not materially different to the Company’s valuation; and
e.	 Testing related presentation and disclosures in the 
standalone financial statements.
Based on the above procedures performed, the management’s 
impairment assessment of the goodwill, intangible assets 
and other non-financial assets of Lloyd Consumer Business 
was found to be reasonable.
Havells India Limited
176
Other Information
5.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual report, but does not 
include the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with 
our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is 
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, 
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of management and those charged 
with governance for the financial statements
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, 
financial performance, changes in equity and cash flows 
of the Company in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of 
the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
7.	
In preparing the financial statements, management 
is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those Board 
of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements
8.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements. 
9.	
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 
143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by 
management. 
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern. 
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
177
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
10.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
11.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
12.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
13.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of 
the Act, we give in the Annexure B a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to 
the extent applicable. 
14.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit. 
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as 
it appears from our examination of those books, 
except for the matters stated in paragraph 14(h)
(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended) (“the Rules”). 
	
(c)	
The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the Standalone Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account. 
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2024, taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2024, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
	
(f)	
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and 
other matters connected therewith, reference is 
made to our remarks in paragraph 14(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Rules.
	
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”. 
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended) in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
financial statements – Refer Note 32A to the 
standalone financial statements; 
	
	
ii.	
The Company was not required to recognise 
a provision as at March 31, 2024 under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, as it 
does not have any material foreseeable losses 
on long-term contract. The Company did not 
have any derivative contracts as at March 31, 
2024.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company during the year. 
	
	
iv.	
(a) 	 The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in Note 33(19)(ii) 
to the standalone financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
	
	
	
(b)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed in the Note 33(19)(ii) to the 
Havells India Limited
178
standalone financial statements, no funds 
have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries); and
	
	
	
(c)	
Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to 
our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the representations under sub-
clause (a) and (b) contain any material 
misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid during the year 
by the Company is in compliance with Section 
123 of the Act.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Company has used accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and that have operated 
throughout the financial year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software except: 
(a) for modification, if any, made by certain 
users having specific access; and (b) that the 
audit trail, which was enabled at database level 
in the last month of the financial year, contains 
only the modified values. During the course 
of performing our procedures, we did not 
notice any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with for the period the audit trail was 
enabled. Also, refer note 33(21) to the financial 
statements.
15.	 The Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAW9462
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
179
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 14(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of 
Havells India Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Financial Statements under clause (i) of sub-section 
3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements of Havells India Limited 
(“the Company”) as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction 
with our audit of the standalone financial statements of 
the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the 
ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements was established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial statements and 
their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk 
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to financial statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls system with reference 
to financial statements and such internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAW9462
Havells India Limited
180
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 13 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members 
of Havells India Limited on the standalone financial statements as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2024
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and furnished by the Company, and the books of account and records 
examined by us during the course of our audit, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
i. (a)	 (A)	
The Company is maintaining proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation, of 
Property, Plant and Equipment.
	
(B)	 The Company is maintaining proper records showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
 (b)	 The Property, Plant and Equipment of the Company have been physically verified by the Management during the year. The 
discrepancies noticed on such verification were not material and have been properly dealt with in the books of account. In 
our opinion, the frequency of verification is reasonable.
 (c)	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the standalone financial statements, are held 
in the name of the Company, except for the following:
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying value 
(` crores)
Held in the name of 
Whether promoter, 
director or their 
relative or employee
Period 
held 
Reason for not being 
held in the name of the 
Company
Freehold land in 
Delhi
15.89
Late Shri Qimat Rai 
Gupta, on behalf of M/s 
Guptajee & Company
Erstwhile Promoter/ 
Director
From 
March 31, 
2011
Refer Note 3(viii) to the 
standalone 
financial 
statements.
Building in 
Bengaluru
0.04
Mrs. Shakereh 
Shraddhanand
No
From April 
01, 2012
Further, the Company has taken the following immovable properties on lease, but the lease agreement has not been duly executed 
in favour of the Company:
Description of 
property
Gross carrying 
value (right-of-use 
asset) (` crores)
Held in the 
name of
Whether promoter, 
director or their 
relative or employee
Period held 
Reason 
for 
lease 
agreement not executed 
with the Company
Building in 
Sahibabad
43.20
QRG Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter 
From August 
01, 2007
Refer Note 3(ix) to the 
standalone 
financial 
statements.
Building in Noida
96.79
QRG Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter
From July 01, 
2008
(d)	
The Company has chosen cost model for its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and intangible 
assets. Consequently, the question of our commenting on whether the revaluation is based on the valuation by a Registered 
Valuer, or specifying the amount of change, if the change is 10% or more in the aggregate of the net carrying value of each 
class of Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets does not arise. 
(e)	
Based on the information and explanations furnished to us, no proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the 
Company for holding benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 
2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made thereunder, and therefore the 
question of our commenting on whether the Company has appropriately disclosed the details in the financial statements does 
not arise. 
ii. 	
(a)	
The physical verification of inventory excluding stocks with third parties has been conducted at reasonable intervals by 
the Management during the year and, in our opinion, the coverage and procedure of such verification by Management 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
181
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
is appropriate. In respect of inventory lying with third parties, these have substantially been confirmed by them. The 
discrepancies noticed on physical verification of inventory as compared to book records were not 10% or more in 
aggregate for each class of inventory. 
	
(b)	
During the year, the Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of ` 5 crores, in aggregate 
from banks and financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets and accordingly, the question of our 
commenting on whether the quarterly returns or statements are in agreement with the unaudited books of account of 
the Company does not arise. 
iii.	
(a)	
The Company has made an investment in one company during the year. The Company has not granted secured/ unsecured 
loans/advances in nature of loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security to any parties. Therefore, the reporting under 
clause 3(iii), (iii)(a), (iii)(c), (iii)(d), (iii)(e) and (iii)(f) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.	
	
(b)	
In respect of the aforesaid investment, the terms and conditions under which such investment were made are not 
prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
iv.	
The Company has not granted any loans or provided any guarantees or security to the parties covered under Section 185. 
Further, in our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the investment made by it and the Company has not 
provided any loans, guarantees or security to the parties covered under Section 186 of the Act. 
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits referred in Sections 73, 74, 75 
and 76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under.
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of India, the Company is required to maintain cost records as specified 
under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its products. We have broadly reviewed the same and are of the opinion that, 
prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. We have not, however, made a detailed 
examination of the records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete. 
vii.	
(a)	
In our opinion, the Company is regular in depositing the undisputed statutory dues, including goods and services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value 
added tax, cess, and other material statutory dues, as applicable, with the appropriate authorities. 
	
(b)	
There are no statutory dues of provident fund, employees’ state insurance and cess, service tax which have not been 
deposited on account of any dispute. The particulars of other statutory dues referred to in sub-clause (a) as at March 
31, 2024 which have not been deposited on account of a dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount of demand 
without netting-off 
amount paid under 
protest (` crores)
Amount 
paid under 
protest 
(` crores)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates 
(Financial Year)
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
10.17
0.36 
2008-09, 2010-
11, to 2014-15, 
2016-17
High Court of Delhi, 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
6.52
-
2010-11
Income 
Tax 
Appellate 
Tribunal, New Delhi 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
13.89 
- 
2009-10
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeal), New Delhi
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
0.01 
0.01 
2018-19
Assessing Officer, New Delhi
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise duty 
0.23 
- 
2007-08 to 
2009-10
CESTAT, Chandigarh
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise duty 
15.96 
0.60 
2015-16 to 
2017-18
CESTAT, (Karnataka)
Havells India Limited
182
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount of demand 
without netting-off 
amount paid under 
protest (` crores)
Amount 
paid under 
protest 
(` crores)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates 
(Financial Year)
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise duty 
0.39 
 0.01 
1994-95 to 
1996-97
Central Excise and Service 
Tax, 
Add. 
Commissioner 
CGST Delhi
The Customs
Act, 1962
Custom duty
0.13
-
2017-18 and 
2019-20
Commissioner of Customs
(Appeals), New Delhi
The Customs Act, 1962
Custom duty 
3.85 
0.06 
2017-18
Central Excise and Service 
Tax 
Appellate 
Tribunal 
(CESTAT), Allahabad
The Customs Act, 1962
Custom duty 
5.98 
2.40 
2018-19 to 
2020-21
Central Excise and Service 
Tax 
Appellate 
Tribunal 
(CESTAT), Delhi*
Bihar Value Added Tax 
Act, 2005
Sales tax
0.62 
 0.41 
2016-17
Commissioner (Appeal) Patna
Haryana Value Added 
Tax Act, 2003
Sales tax 
0.25 
 0.15 2003-04, 2005-
06 to 2006-07
High 
Court 
(Punjab 
and 
Haryana)
Kerala Value Added Tax 
Act, 2003
Sales tax
0.33 
0.28 
2005-06
Appellate 
Tribunal, 
Commercial Tax, Ernakulam, 
(Kerala)
Tamil Nadu Value Added 
Tax Act, 2006
Sales tax
0.05 
0.03 
2007-08
Appellate 
Tribunal, 
Commercial Tax, (Tamil Nadu)
Orissa Entry Tax Act, 
1999
Entry Tax 
0.77 
0.30 
2008-09 to 
2011-12
High Court, Orissa
Haryana Local Area 
Development Tax Act, 
2000
Local Area 
Development 
Tax 
0.12 
- 
2001-02
Joint Commissioner (Appeal), 
Faridabad
State Tax Act (Octroi Tax 
Act, Maharashtra)
Octroi
0.03 
0.03 
2010-11
Nagpur Municipal Corporation
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.58 
0.06 
2017-18
High Court (Uttar Pradesh)
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.11 
- 
2019-20
Additional Commissioner (A), 
Dehradun, UK
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
2.38 
0.05 2022-23, 2017-
18
Joint Commissioner of State 
tax, Alwar, Rajasthan
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.08 
- 
2017-18
Joint 
Commissioner 
(A), 
SGST, Kerala
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.01 
0.00 
2017-18
Commissioner 
(A), 
CGST, 
Ranchi, Jharkhand
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
0.44 
0.02 
2017-18
Joint 
Commissioner 
(A), 
CGST, Hyderabad, Telangana
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
52.73 
4.79 2019-20, 2022-
23
Joint 
Commissioner 
(A), 
SGST, Chennai, Tamilnadu
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
 0.24 
0.02 
2017-18
Commissioner 
(A) 
CGST, 
Guwahati
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
 0.02 
0.00 
2017-18
Commissioner (A) CGST, J&K
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
 0.06 
- 
2017-18
Commissioner 
(A) 
CGST, 
Vijaywada* 
*Pending appeal filling 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
183
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where 
included in the order issued by the taxation authority to the 
Company. 
viii.	 There are no transactions previously unrecorded in the 
books of account that have been surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961. 
ix.	
(a)	
As the Company did not have any loans or other 
borrowings from any lender during the year, the 
reporting under clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
On the basis of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared Wilful Defaulter 
by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
	
(c)	
The Company has not obtained any term loans. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on 
an overall examination of the financial statements of 
the Company, the Company has not raised funds 
on short-term basis. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company. 
	
(e)	
On an overall examination of the financial statements 
of the Company, we report that the Company has 
not taken any funds from any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries. The Company did not have any joint 
venture or associate company during the year. 
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, we 
report that the Company has not raised loans 
during the year on the pledge of securities held in 
its subsidiaries. The Company did not have any joint 
venture or associate company during the year.
x. 	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any money by way 
of initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully or 
partially or optionally convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(x)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi. 	 (a)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, we have neither come across any 
instance of material fraud by the Company or on 
the Company, noticed or reported during the year, 
nor have we been informed of any such case by the 
Management. 
	
(b)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, a report under Section 143(12) of 
the Act, in Form ADT-4, as prescribed under rule 13 
of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 was 
not required to be filed with the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xi)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, the Company has received 
whistle-blower complaints during the year, which 
have been considered by us for any bearing on our 
audit and reporting under this clause. 
xii.	 As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the reporting under 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 The Company has entered into transactions with related 
parties in compliance with the provisions of Sections 177 
and 188 of the Act. The details of related party transactions 
have been disclosed in the financial statements as 
required under Indian Accounting Standard 24 “Related 
Party Disclosures” specified under Section 133 of the Act.
xiv.	 (a)	
In our opinion, the Company has an internal audit 
system commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business.
	
(b)	
The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period 
under audit have been considered by us.
xv.	 In our opinion, the Company has not entered into any non-
cash transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with him. Accordingly, the reporting on compliance with 
the provisions of Section 192 of the Act under clause 
3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xvi)
(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not conducted non-banking 
financial / housing finance activities during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xvi)(b) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
Havells India Limited
184
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	
Based on the information and explanations provided 
by the management of the Company, the Group 
(as defined in the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have 
any CICs, which are part of the Group. We have 
not, however, separately evaluated whether the 
information provided by the management is 
accurate and complete. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xvii.	 The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the 
financial year or in the immediately preceding financial 
year.
xviii. 	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year and accordingly the reporting under 
clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
xix.	 On the basis of the financial ratios (Also refer Note 
33(17)) to the standalone financial statements, ageing 
and expected dates of realisation of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the standalone financial statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that 
the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities 
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they 
fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	 As at balance sheet date, the Company does not have 
any amount remaining unspent under Section 135(5) of 
the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) of the 
Order is not applicable. 
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said clause has been included in this report.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAW9462
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
185
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
2,606.18 
2,227.77 
Capital work in progress
3
296.91 
 163.42 
Goodwill 
4
310.47 
 310.47 
Other intangible assets
4
1,071.16 
1,082.33 
Intangible assets under development 
4
1.79 
 2.99 
Investment in subsidiaries
5
21.18 
 0.45 
Financial assets
7
(i) Investments
7(A)
20.00 
20.00 
(ii) Trade receivables
7(B)
0.25 
 1.59 
(iii) Other financial assets
7(C)
32.86 
 148.86 
Contract assets 
6(B)
11.55 
25.57 
Other non-current assets
8
146.62 
78.94 
Non Current tax assets (net)
9
34.92 
29.03 
Total non current assets
4,553.89 
4,091.42 
2
Current assets
Inventories
10
3,408.52 
3,708.47 
Financial assets
11
(i)	 Investments
11(A)
-
 180.87 
(ii) 	Trade receivables
11(B)
1,157.20 
 971.33 
(iii)	Cash and cash equivalents
11(C)
243.35 
 456.86 
(iv)	Bank balances other than (iii) above
11(D)
2,772.07 
1,405.01 
(v) Other financial assets
11(E)
20.99 
 116.89 
Contract assets
6(B)
27.54 
26.67 
Other current assets
12
234.09 
 175.15 
Total current assets
7,863.76 
7,041.25 
Assets classified as held for sale
13
2.18 
10.53 
7,865.94 
7,051.78 
Total assets
12,419.83 
 11,143.20 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
14
Equity share capital
14(A)
62.67 
62.65 
Other equity
14(B)
7,375.78 
6,551.83 
Total equity
7,438.45 
6,614.48 
2
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
15
(i)	 Lease liabilities
15(A)
242.44 
 186.91 
(ii)	 Other financial liabilities
15(B)
4.05 
 7.21 
Contract liabilities
6(C)
4.64 
 4.10 
Provisions
16
87.72 
 136.72 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
17
357.52 
 361.51 
Other non-current liabilities
18
6.48 
-
Total non current liabilities
702.85 
 696.45 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
19
(i)	 Lease liabilities
19(A)
60.72 
36.19 
(ii)	 Trade payables
19(B)
	
a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
203.70 
 154.96 
	
b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
2,487.00 
2,487.58 
(iii)	Other financial liabilities
19(C)
787.68 
 624.85 
Contract liabilities
6(C)
98.73 
82.53 
Provisions
20
277.67 
 274.91 
Current tax liabilities (net)
21
85.20 
32.26 
Other current liabilities
22
277.83 
 138.99 
Total current liabilities
4,278.53 
3,832.27 
Total liabilities
4,981.38 
4,528.72 
Total equity and liabilities
12,419.83 
 11,143.20 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
32
Other notes to accounts
33
The above standalone balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304)
Havells India Limited
186
The above standalone statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta	
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary	
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I
INCOME
Revenue from operations
23
18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
Other income
24
248.73 
 177.02 
Total Income
18,798.63 
 17,045.40 
II
EXPENSES
Cost of raw materials and components consumed
25
 9,873.77 
9,317.92 
Purchase of traded goods
26
 2,420.02 
2,994.58 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, traded goods and work in progress
27
242.73 
(641.20)
Employee benefits expense
28
 1,541.06 
1,274.98 
Finance costs
29
 45.71 
33.62 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
30
338.48 
 296.11 
Other expenses
31
 2,609.41 
2,300.71 
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets
31A
 17.62 
18.43 
Total expenses
17,088.80 
 15,595.15 
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 1,709.83 
1,450.25 
IV
Exceptional Items 
33(15)
Loss due to fire
 -
 112.52 
Insurance claim receivable
 -
(112.52)
Profit before tax 
 1,709.83 
1,450.25 
V
Income tax expense
17
Current tax 
440.61 
 364.41 
Deferred tax {(refer note 17(d)}
 (3.99)
10.89 
Total tax expense
436.62 
 375.30 
VI
Profit for the year
 1,273.21 
1,074.95 
VII
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
i) Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans {refer note 33(4)}
 (6.43)
 (10.25)
ii) Income tax effect on above {refer note no 17(b)}
1.62 
 2.58 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
 (4.81)
(7.67)
VIII
Total comprehensive income for the year
 1,268.40 
1,067.28 
IX
Earnings per equity share (EPS) {refer note no. 33 (12)}
(nominal value of share `1/-)
Basic EPS (`)
 20.32 
17.16 
Diluted EPS (`)
 20.32 
17.16 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
32
Other notes to accounts
33
HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED
(CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
187
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2024
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` in crores)
Particulars
Notes
Numbers 
Amount
As at April 1, 2022
14(A)
62,63,03,067 
62.63 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
2,06,671 
0.02 
As at March 31, 2023
62,65,09,738 
62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
1,73,292 
0.02 
As at March 31, 2024
62,66,83,030 
62.67 
B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Reserves and surplus 
Notes Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Share options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings
 Total 
As at April 1, 2022 
14(B)
7.63 
121.50 
722.72 
0.53 
 5,073.63 
 5,926.01 
Profit for the year 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 1,074.95 
 1,074.95 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit 
plans net of tax 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (7.67)
 (7.67)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
- 
 - 
- 
- 
 1,067.28 
 1,067.28 
Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid during the year 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (469.88)
 (469.88)
Equity shares issued under employee stock purchase plan 
- 
 26.65 
- 
 3.23 
 - 
 29.88 
Options vested and exercised during the year 
- 
- 
- 
 (1.46)
 - 
 (1.46)
As at March 31, 2023 
7.63 
148.15 
722.72 
2.30 
 5,671.03 
 6,551.83 
Profit for the year 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 1,273.21 
 1,273.21 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit 
plans net of tax 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (4.81)
 (4.81)
Total Comprehensive income for the year 
- 
 - 
- 
- 
 1,268.40 
 1,268.40 
Transaction with owners in their capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid during the year 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 (470.01)
 (470.01)
Equity shares issued under employee stock purchase plan 
- 
 21.30 
- 
 7.67 
 - 
 28.97 
Options vested and exercised during the year 
- 
- 
- 
 (3.41)
 - 
 (3.41)
As at March 31, 2024 
7.63 
169.45 
722.72 
6.56 
 6,469.42 
 7,375.78 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
32
Other notes to accounts
33
The above standalone statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Havells India Limited
188
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
A.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
1,709.83 
1,450.25 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
 338.48 
 296.11 
Loss /(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net) 
(10.27)
0.14 
Unrealized foreign exchange loss /(gain) (net) 
(0.31)
(6.25)
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets 
17.62 
18.43 
Impairment/ (reversal of impairment) on investment in subsidiary 
-
(2.85)
Employee stock purchase plan expense 
 4.26 
1.77 
Lease rent concession 
-
(0.12)
Interest income on bank deposits and investment 
 (184.88)
(123.23)
Finance cost 
45.55 
33.44 
Operating Profit 
1,920.28 
1,667.69 
Change in operating assets and liabilities 
(Increase)/ Decrease in trade receivables 
 (200.65)
(223.47)
(Increase)/ Decrease in contract assets 
12.39 
13.14 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other financial assets 
63.07 
 (88.11)
(Increase)/ Decrease in non current assets 
10.92 
4.47 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other current assets 
(58.94)
 (67.26)
(Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 
 299.95 
(740.39)
Increase/ (Decrease) in trade payables 
52.27 
 272.72 
Increase/ (Decrease) in financial liabilities 
 161.00 
74.50 
Increase/ (Decrease) in other current liabilities 
 138.84 
 (50.06)
Increase/ (Decrease) in contract liabilities 
16.74 
27.34 
Increase/ (Decrease) in provisions 
(64.78)
66.11 
Cash generated from operations
2,351.09 
 956.68 
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
 (391.94)
(391.94)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (A)
1,959.15 
 564.74 
B.
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
 (786.05)
(587.77)
Receipt of grant related to assets 
 3.21 
-
Proceeds from liquidation of subsidiary 
-
4.03 
Investment in subsidiary 
(20.73)
-
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
23.80 
2.27 
Investment in fixed deposits with bank and financial institution 
 (1,037.08)
 520.43 
Receipt of insurance claim related to assets 
31.27 
-
Payment for investments 
-
 (20.00)
Interest on fixed deposit and investment received 
 151.01 
 120.12 
Net Cash inflow /(outflow) from Investing Activities (B)
 (1,634.57)
39.08 
C.
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock purchase plan - share capital 
and securities premium received 
21.32 
26.67 
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities 
(51.33)
 (44.28)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities 
(25.82)
 (18.35)
Repayment of long term borrowings 
-
(393.69)
Interest paid 
(7.62)
(6.98)
Dividends paid to Company's shareholders 
 (470.10)
(470.30)
Net cash inflow /(outflow) from Financing Activities (C)
 (533.55)
(906.93)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
189
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
(` in crores)
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 (208.97)
(303.11)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 456.86 
 763.70 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
(4.54)
(3.73)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
243.35 
 456.86 
Non Cash financing and investing activities
Acquisition of right-of-use assets
 133.72 
51.86 
Notes :
1	
The above statement of cash flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Indian Accounting Standard-7, 
“Statement of Cash Flows”.
2	
Components of cash and cash equivalents :-
(` in crores)
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents 
Balances with banks: 
Current accounts 
33.92 
63.24 
Cash credit accounts 
69.94 
29.92 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months 
139.36 
 363.57 
Cash on hand 
 0.13 
0.13 
243.35 
 456.86 
The above standalone statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta	
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary	
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Havells India Limited
190
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Havells India Limited (‘the Company’) is a public limited 
Company domiciled in India and incorporated on August 
08, 1983 under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
1956 having its registered office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya 
Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New 
Delhi-110001. The Company is listed on BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of the 
Company is L31900DL1983PLC016304.
	
The Company is consumer electrical/electronics and 
power distribution equipment manufacturer with products 
ranging from Industrial and Domestic Circuit Protection 
Switchgears, Cables, Motors, Pumps, Solar Products, 
Fans, Power Capacitors, LED Lamps and Luminaries 
for Domestic, Commercial and Industrial applications, 
Modular Switches, Water Heaters, Coolers and Domestic 
Appliances, 
Personal 
Grooming, 
Air 
Purifier,Water 
Purifier, Air conditioner, Television, Washing machine 
and Refrigerator covering the entire range of household, 
commercial and industrial electrical needs. 
	
The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located at 
Faridabad in Haryana, Alwar, Ghiloth and Neemrana in 
Rajasthan, Haridwar in Uttarakhand, Sahibabad in Uttar 
Pradesh, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, Sri City in Andhra 
Pradesh. The research and development facilities are 
located at Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Bangalore and Ghiloth 
(Rajasthan).
2.	
Summary of material accounting policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) Standalone financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years except where newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted.
	
These standalone financial statement are separate 
financial statements including Havells Employees Welfare 
Trust prepared in accordance with Ind AS-27 “Separate 
Financial Statements”.
	
2.01	 Basis of preparation of Standalone Financial 
Statements
	
	
These standalone financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to 
time) and presentation requirements of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III). 
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost convention, except for the following 
assets and liabilities:
	
	
i)	
Certain financial assets and liabilities that is 
measured at fair value
	
	
ii)	
Assets held for sale-measured at fair value 
less cost to sell
	
	
iii)	
Defined benefit plans-plan assets measured 
at fair value
	
	
iv)	
Share based payments.
	
2.02	 Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All 
other items of Property, Plant and equipment are 
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
	
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
calculated on prorata basis on straight-line method 
using the useful lives of the assets estimated by 
management. The useful life is as follows:
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Building
30 and 60
Plant and Equipment
15
Moulds and Dies
6
Furniture and Fixtures
10
Vehicles
8 and 10
R &D Equipment
5 and15 
Office Equipment
3 and 5
Mobile Phones
3
Electric Fans and 
Installations
10 
Computers
3
Laptops
4
	
	
The useful lives of all the assets except moulds 
and dies, mobile phones and laptops have been 
determined as those specified by part ‘C’ of 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. In respect 
of moulds and dies and mobile phones, useful 
lives are lower than those specified by schedule II 
to the Companies Act 2013 and are depreciated 
over the estimated useful lives of 6 years and 
3 years respectively, in respect of laptop useful life 
is more than those specified by schedule II to the 
Company Act 2013 and are depreciated over the 
estimated useful life of 4 years, in order to reflect 
the actual usage of assets. The residual values are 
not more than 5% of the original cost of the assets. 
The asset’s residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
191
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Lease hold improvements are depreciated on 
straight line basis over shorter of the asset’s useful 
life and their lease term unless the entity expects to 
use the asset beyond the lease term.
	
	
Leasehold land is amortized on a straight line basis 
over the unexpired period of their respective lease 
ranging from 90-99 years.
	
2.03	 Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful 
life as under
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Computer Software
6
R&D Software
6
Distributor/ Dealer 
Network
8
Non-Compete Fee
7
Brand and Trademarks
Indefinite
	
	
Brand and Trademarks 
	
	
Brand and Trademarks acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
brand and trademark are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. These 
Brand and trademarks have been in existence 
for considerable period and Company intends to 
continue use this intangible assets. Consequently 
it is believed that they have an indefinite life and 
are not amortised. Instead impairment testing 
is performed annually and whenever a triggering 
event has occurred to determine whether the 
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
Distributor/ Dealer Network are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. They 
are amortised on a straight line basis over their 
estimated useful life of 8 years assessed by the 
management.
	
	
Goodwill 
	
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair 
value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the 
aggregate consideration transferred, the Company 
re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of 
the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed 
and reviews the procedures used to measure 
the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition 
date. If the reassessment still results in an excess 
of the fair value of net assets acquired over the 
aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, 
if there is no clear evidence of bargain purchase, 
the entity recognizes the gain directly in equity as 
capital reserve, without routing the same through 
other comprehensive income.
	
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill acquired in a business combination 
is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each 
of the Company’s cash-generating units that 
are expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of 
the acquire are assigned to those units. 
	
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has 
been allocated is tested for impairment annually or 
earlier, when there is an indication that the unit may 
be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata 
based on the carrying amount of each asset in the 
unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised 
in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
	
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that 
unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with 
the disposed operation is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the gain 
or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these 
circumstances is measured based on the relative 
values of the disposed operation and the portion 
of the cash-generating unit retained.
	
2.04	 Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
Havells India Limited
192
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, 
the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s 
(CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value 
in use. The recoverable amount is determined 
for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets or groups of assets. 
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation model 
is used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded companies or other available fair value 
indicators.
	
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which 
are prepared separately for each of the Company’s 
CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. 
These budgets and forecast calculations generally 
cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a 
long-term growth rate is calculated and applied 
to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To 
estimate cash flow projections beyond periods 
covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the 
Company extrapolates cash flow projections in the 
budget using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can 
be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
products, industries, or country or countries in 
which the Company operates, or for the market in 
which the asset is used.
	
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, 
including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, except for 
properties previously revalued with the revaluation 
surplus taken to OCI. For such properties, the 
impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount 
of any previous revaluation surplus.
	
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill 
by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU 
(or group of CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. 
When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less 
than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill 
cannot be reversed in future periods.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are 
tested for impairment annually as at March 31 
at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired.
	
2.05	 Financial instruments 
	
(i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
-	
Those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value through profit or loss
	
	
-	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition depends on the financial asset’s 
contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
Company’s business model for managing them.
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do 
not contain a material financing component or 
for which the Company has applied the practical 
expedient, the Company initially measures a 
financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of 
a financial asset not at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs. 
	
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a material 
financing component or for which the Company 
has applied the practical expedient are measured 
at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 
115. Refer to the accounting policies in section 
‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.
	
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
amortised 
cost 
(debt 
instruments)
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
a)	
Business Model Test : The objective is 
to hold the financial asset to collect the 
contractual cash flows (rather than to sell the 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
193
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
instrument prior to its contractual maturity to 
realize its fair value changes) and;
	
	
b)	
Cash flow characteristics test: The 
contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specific dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
This category is most relevant to the 
Company. 
	
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair 
value with net changes in fair value recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
	
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For 
credit exposures for which there has not 
been a material increase in credit risk 
since initial recognition, ECLs are provided 
for credit losses that result from default 
events that are possible within the next 
12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those 
credit exposures for which there has been 
a material increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition, a loss allowance is required for 
credit losses expected over the remaining 
life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing 
of the default (a lifetime ECL).
	
	
	
The Company follows “simplified approach” for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on:
	
	
	
•	
Trade receivables or contract revenue 
receivables; Trade receivables which 
are held to collect and sale basis 
accounted for as FVTPL.
	
	
	
Under the simplified approach, the Company 
does not track changes in credit risk. Rather, 
it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting 
date, right from its initial recognition. 
The Company uses a provision matrix to 
determine impairment loss allowance on the 
portfolio of trade receivables. The provision 
matrix is based on its historically observed 
default rates over the expected life of trade 
receivable and is adjusted for forward 
looking estimates. At every reporting date, 
the historical observed default rates are 
updated and changes in the forward looking 
estimates are analysed.
	
2.06	 Inventories
	
	
The costs of individual items of inventory are 
determined on a moving weightage average 
basis. Volume rebates or discounts are taken into 
account when estimating the cost of inventory if it is 
probable that they have been earned and will take 
effect. See note 2.12(i) for the other accounting 
policies for inventories.
	
2.07	 Revenue from contract with customers
	
	
The Company manufactures/ trades and sells 
a range of consumer electrical and electronic 
products. Revenue from contracts with customers 
involving sale of these products is recognized at a 
point in time when control of the product has been 
transferred, and there are no unfulfilled obligation 
that could affect the customer’s acceptance of 
the products which usually happen on delivery/ 
despatch of the goods as applicable. The Company 
also provides installation, annual maintenance and 
warranty services that are either sold separately 
or bundled together with the sale of goods. The 
Company recognizes these service revenue from 
sales of services over a period of time, because the 
customer simultaneously receives and consumes 
the benefits provided by the Company. The 
Company has objective evidence that all criterion 
for acceptance has been satisfied. A receivable 
is recognised when the control of the product is 
transferred as the consideration is unconditional 
and payment becomes due upon passage of time 
as per the terms of contract with customers.
	
	
(a)	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at 
the point in time when control of the goods 
is transferred to the customer, generally 
on delivery of the goods and there are no 
unfulfilled obligations.
	
	
	
The Company considers, whether there are 
other promises in the contract in which their 
are separate performance obligations, to 
which a portion of the transaction price needs 
to be allocated. In determining the transaction 
price for the sale of goods, the Company 
allocates a portion of the transaction price 
to different performance obligations goods 
bases on its relative standalone prices and 
also considers the following:-
	
	
(i)	
Variable consideration
	
	
	
The Company recognizes revenue from 
the sale of goods measured at the 
Havells India Limited
194
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
standalone selling price of the consideration 
received or receivable, net of returns and 
allowances, trade discounts and volume 
rebates. If the consideration in a contract 
includes a variable amount, the Company 
estimates the amount of consideration 
to which it will be entitled in exchange for 
transferring the goods to the customer. 
The variable consideration is estimated at 
contract inception and constrained until it 
is highly probable that a material revenue 
reversal in the amount of cumulative 
revenue recognised will not occur when 
the associated uncertainty with the variable 
consideration is subsequently resolved. The 
Company operates several sales incentive 
programmes wherein the customers are 
eligible for several benefits on achievement 
of underlying conditions as prescribed in the 
scheme programme such as credit notes, 
reimbursement, investments etc. Revenue 
from contract with customer is presented 
after deducting cost of all these schemes.
	
	
(ii)	
Warranty obligations
	
	
	
The 
Company 
generally 
provides 
for 
warranties for general repair of defects. These 
warranties are assurance-type warranties 
under Ind AS 115, which are accounted 
for under Ind AS 37 (Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets). However, 
in certain non-standard contracts in respect 
of sale of consumer durable goods, the 
Company provides extended warranties 
and such warranties are termed as service-
type warranties and therefore, accounted 
for as separate performance obligations 
to which the Company allocates a portion 
of the transaction price. Revenue from 
service-type warranties is recognised over 
the period in which the service is provided 
based on the time elapsed.
	
	
(iii)	
Singificant Financing Components
	
	
	
In respect of short-term advances from its 
customers, using the practical expedient in 
Ind AS 115, the Company does not adjust 
the promised amount of consideration for 
the effects of a material financing component 
if it expects, at contract inception, that the 
period between the transfer of the promised 
good or service to the customer and when 
the customer pays for that good or service 
will be within normal operating cycle.
	
	
In respect of long term contracts, the transaction 
price for these contracts is discounted, using the 
interest rate implicit in the contract (i.e., the interest 
rate that discounts the cash selling price of the 
equipment to the amount paid in advance).
	
	
No material element of financing is deemed present 
as the sales are made with a credit term of 21 to 90 
days, which is consistent with market practice.
	
	
(b)	
Sale of services
	
	
	
The Company provides installation, annual 
maintenance 
and 
extended 
warranty 
services that are sold separately. The 
Company recognizes revenue from sales of 
services over time, because the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the 
benefits provided by the Company. Revenue 
from services related activities is recognised 
as and when services are rendered and 
on the basis of contractual terms with the 
parties.
	
	
(c)	
Contract balances
	
	
	
A 
contract 
asset 
is 
the 
right 
to 
consideration in exchange for goods or 
services transferred to the customer. 
Contract assets are in the nature of unbilled 
receivables, which arises when Company 
satisfies a performance obligation but 
does not have an unconditional rights to 
consideration. A receivables represents 
the Company’s right to an amount of 
consideration 
that 
is 
unconditional. 
Contract assets are subject to impairment 
assessment. Refer to accounting policies 
on impairment of financial assets in section 
(Financial instruments – initial recognition 
and subsequent measurement).
	
	
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer 
goods or services to a customer for which 
the Company has received consideration (or 
an amount of consideration is due) from the 
customer. If a customer pays consideration 
before the Company transfers goods 
or services to the customer, a contract 
liability is recognised when the payment is 
made or the payment is due (whichever is 
earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised 
as revenue when the Company performs 
under the contract (i.e., transfers control 
of the related goods or services to the 
customer).
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
195
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
A trade receivable is recognised if an amount 
of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., 
only the passage of time is required before 
payment of the consideration is due). Refer 
to accounting policies of financial assets 
in section (Financial instruments – initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement).
	
	
(d)	
Income 
from 
Service 
Concession 
Arrangement
	
	
	
Revenue related to Street Lights Upgrade 
services provided under service concession 
arrangement is recognized as per the 
agreement with the grantor. The Company 
recognizes a financial asset arising from the 
service concession agreement when it has 
an unconditional contractual right to receive 
cash or another financial asset from or at the 
direction of the grantor of the concession 
for the upgrade services provided. Such 
financial assets are measured at fair value 
upon initial recognition.
	
2.08	 Other Income
	
(a)	
Interest Income 
	
	
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive 
income, 
interest 
income 
is 
recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR 
is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated 
future cash payments or receipts over the expected 
life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, 
where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of 
a financial liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, the Company estimates the expected 
cash flows by considering all the contractual 
terms of the financial instrument (for example, 
prepayment, extension, call and similar options) 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
Interest income is included in other income in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
2.09	 Leases
	
	
Company as a lessee
	
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily 
comprise of lease for land and building. The 
Company applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except 
for short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities 
to make lease payments and right-of-use assets 
representing the right to use the underlying assets.
	
	
(i)	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
	
The Company classifies ROU assets as part 
of Property plant and equipment in Balance 
Sheet and lease liability in “Financial 
Liability”.
	
	
(ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Company uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable. 
	
	
(iii)	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets
	
	
	
The Company applies the short-term 
lease recognition exemption to its short-
term leases (i.e., those leases that have a 
lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of 
low-value assets recognition exemption to 
leases that are considered to be low value. 
Lease payments on short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets are recognised 
as expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
	
2.10	 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Warranty Provisions
	
	
Provision for warranty-related costs are recognized 
when the product is sold or service is provided to 
customer. Initial recognition is based on historical 
experience. the Company periodically reviews 
the adequacy of product warranties and adjust 
warranty percentage and warranty provisions 
for actual experience, if necessary. The timing of 
outflow is expected to be with in one to seven 
years.
	
	
Provision for E-Waste/Plastic-Waste
	
	
Provision for E-Waste/Plastic-Waste management 
costs are recognized when the liability in respect 
of products sold to customer is established in 
accordance with E- Waste (Management) Rules, 
2022 as notified by Government of India. Initial 
recognition is based on liability computed based on 
Extended Producer Responsibility as promulgated 
in said Rules including cost to comply the said 
regulation and as reduced by expected realisation 
of collectable waste. The Company has assessed 
the liability to arise on year to year basis.
Havells India Limited
196
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
2.11	 Material accounting judgments, estimates 
and assumptions
	
	
The preparation of these standalone financial 
statements requires the management to make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these judgements, assumptions 
and estimates could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the 
asset or liability affected in future periods.
	
a)	
Leases
	
	
The Company determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable term of the lease, together with 
any periods covered by an option to extend the 
lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or 
any periods covered by an option to terminate the 
lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
	
	
The Company has several lease contracts that 
include extension and termination options. The 
Company applies judgement in evaluating whether 
it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise 
the option to renew or terminate the lease. That 
is, it considers all relevant factors that create an 
economic incentive for it to exercise either the 
renewal or termination. After the commencement 
date, the Company reassesses the lease term if 
there is a material event or change in circumstances 
that is within its control and affects its ability to 
exercise or not to exercise the option to renew 
or to terminate (e.g., construction of material 
leasehold improvements or material customisation 
to the leased asset).
	
b)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation 
of tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the 
amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships 
differences arising between the actual results 
and the assumptions made, or future changes 
to such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense already 
recorded. The Company establishes provisions, 
based on reasonable estimates. The amount of 
such provisions is based on various factors, such 
as experience of previous tax assessments and 
differing interpretations of tax regulations by the 
taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. 
(Refer Note 17)
	
c)	
Gratuity benefit and Leave obligation
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. Gratuity 
benefit) and other long term employee obligations 
(i.e Leave obligation) is determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making 
various assumptions which may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the 
determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, 
the underlying assumptions and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation and leave 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed 
at each reporting date. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, management considers 
the interest rates of long term government bonds 
with extrapolated maturity corresponding to the 
expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. 
The mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for India. Future salary increases 
and pension increases are based on expected 
future inflation rates for India. Further details about 
the assumptions used, including a sensitivity 
analysis, are given in Note 33(4).
	
d)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset 
including intangible assets having indefinite useful 
life and goodwill may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an 
asset is required, the Company estimates the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An assets recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s CGU’S fair value 
less cost of disposal and its value in use. Where 
the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are estimated based on past rend 
and discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account. If no such 
transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, or other fair 
value indicators. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
197
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
e)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provisions is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to 
sales for the same types of goods for which the 
warranty is currently being determined. The same 
percentage to the sales is applied for the current 
accounting period to derive the warranty expense 
to be accrued. It is adjusted to account for unusual 
factors related to the goods that were sold, 
such as defective inventory lying at the depots. 
The warranty claims may not exactly match the 
historical warranty percentage, so such estimates 
are reviewed annually for any material changes in 
assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The 
assumptions are consistent with prior years. (Refer 
Note 20)
	
f)	
Provision for expected credit losses (ECL) of trade 
receivables and contract assets 
	
	
The Company uses a provision matrix to calculate 
ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets. 
The provision rates are based on days past due for 
groupings of various customer segments that have 
similar loss patterns (i.e., by geography, product 
type, customer type and rating, and coverage 
by letters of credit and other forms of credit 
insurance). The provision matrix is initially based on 
the Company’s historical observed default rates. 
The Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust 
the historical credit loss experience with forward-
looking information. At every reporting date, the 
historical observed default rates are updated and 
changes in the forward-looking estimates are 
analysed. 
	
	
The assessment of the correlation between 
historical observed default rates, forecast economic 
conditions and ECLs is a material estimate. 
The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes 
in circumstances and of forecast economic 
conditions. The Company’s historical credit loss 
experience and forecast of economic conditions 
may also not be representative of customer’s 
actual default in the future. The information about 
the ECLs on the Company’s trade receivables and 
contract assets is disclosed in Note 33(10).
	
g)	
Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible 
assets
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment represent material 
portion of the asset base of the Company. The 
charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived 
after determining an estimate of assets expected 
useful life and expected value at the end of its useful 
life. The useful life and residual value of Company’s 
assets are determined by Management at the 
time asset is acquired and reviewed periodically 
including at the end of each year. The useful life is 
based on historical experience with similar assets, 
in anticipation of future events, which may have 
impact on their life such as change in technology.
	
	
Other accounting policy
	
	
This note provides a list of other accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these standlone/
financial statements to the extent they have not 
already been disclosed in the other notes above. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all 
the years presented, unless otherwise stated. The 
financial statements are for the group/Company 
consisting of Havells India Limited (the ‘Company’) 
and its subsidiaries.
	
2.12	 Description
	
a)	
Rounding Off
	
	
These 
standalone 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented in INR and all values are rounded to 
the nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when 
otherwise indicated.
	
b)	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current/non- current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when it is:
	
	
-	 Expected to be realized or intended to be sold 
or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
	
-	 Held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	 Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	 cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
	
-	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle
	
	
-	 It is held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
	
	
-	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
Havells India Limited
198
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
All other liabilities are classified as non current.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
classified as non- current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realization in cash and 
cash equivalents. the Company has identified twelve 
months as its operating cycle.
	
c)	
Property Plant and Equipment
	
	
The historical cost comprises of purchase 
price, taxes, duties, freight and other incidental 
expenses directly attributable and related to 
acquisition and installation of the concerned 
assets and are further adjusted by the amount of 
input tax credit availed wherever applicable. Such 
cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant 
and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term 
construction projects if the recognition criteria are 
met. When material parts of plant and equipment 
are required to be replaced at intervals, the 
Company depreciates them separately based on 
their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major 
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in 
the carrying amount of the plant and equipment 
as a replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs 
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. 
The present value of the expected cost for the 
decommissioning of an asset after its use is 
included in the cost of the respective asset if the 
recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as separate assets, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefit associated with the item will 
flow to the Company and the cost of item can be 
measured reliably. 
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
material part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement when 
the asset is derecognised.
	
	
Capital work- in- progress includes cost of 
property, plant and equipment under installation / 
under development as at the balance sheet date. 
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of 
accumulated impairment loss, if any.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
d)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Cost of intangible 
assets acquired in business combination is their 
fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any attributable cost of bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use.
	
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful lives 
and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and the 
amortization method for an intangible asset with 
a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end 
of each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate, and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. The 
amortization expense on intangible assets with 
finite lives is recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a 
prospective basis. The Company has assessed 
indefinite life for such brand considering the 
expected usage, expected investment on brand, 
business forecast and challenges to establish a 
premium electronic segment. These are carried 
at historical cost and tested for impairment 
annually.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
199
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Research and development cost
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual 
project is recognized as an intangible asset when 
the Company can demonstrate all the following:
	
	
i)	
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale;
	
	
ii)	
Its intention to complete the asset;
	
	
iii)	
Its ability to use or sale the asset;
	
	
iv)	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits;
	
	
v)	
The availability of adequate resources to 
complete the development and to use or 
sale the asset; and
	
	
vi)	
The 
ability 
to 
measure 
reliably 
the 
expenditure attributable to the intangible 
asset during development.
	
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated 
amortization 
and 
accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of the asset 
begins when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. It is amortized on straight 
line basis over the estimated useful life and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
During the period of development, the asset is 
tested for impairment annually.
	
e)	
Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
For assets excluding goodwill and intangible assets 
having indefinite life, an assessment is made at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is 
an indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Company estimates the 
asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there 
has been a change in the assumptions used to 
determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of 
the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, 
nor exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless the asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the 
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
	
f)	
Financial instruments 
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ 
on the principal amount outstanding. This 
assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is 
performed at an instrument level. Financial assets 
with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified 
and measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
irrespective of the business model.
	
	
The Company’s business model for managing 
financial assets refers to how it manages its 
financial assets in order to generate cash flows. 
The business model determines whether cash 
flows will result from collecting contractual cash 
flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
	
	
Financial assets classified and measured at 
amortised cost are held within a business model 
with the objective to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows while financial 
assets classified and measured at fair value 
through OCI are held within a business model with 
the objective of both holding to collect contractual 
cash flows and selling.
	
	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are 
an integral part of EIR. EIR is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash receipts over 
the expected life of the financial instrument or a 
shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Company 
estimates the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial instrument 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
The EIR amortization is included in other income in 
profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognized in the profit or loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
Havells India Limited
200
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI 
(FVTOCI) (debt instruments)
	
	
Debt instrument included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognized in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI), except for the recognition of interest income, 
impairment gains or losses and foreign exchange 
gains or losses which are recognized in statement 
of profit and loss and computed in the same manner 
as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The remaining fair value changes are recognised in 
OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value 
changes recognised in OCI is reclassified from the 
equity to profit or loss.
	
	
Financial assets designated at fair value through 
OCI (equity instruments)
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Company can elect 
to classify irrevocably its equity investments as 
equity instruments designated at fair value through 
OCI when they meet the definition of equity under 
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and are not held for trading. The classification is 
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Equity instruments which are held for trading 
and contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which Ind 
AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial assets are 
never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit and loss when the right of payment has been 
established, except when the Company benefits 
from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the 
cost of the financial asset, in which case, such 
gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments 
designated at fair value through OCI are not subject 
to impairment assessment. 
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or,where applicable, a part of 
a financial asset or part of a Company of similar 
financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. 
removed from the Company’s statement of 
financial position) when:
	
	
-	 The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or 
	
	
-	 the Company has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
“pass through” arrangement and either;
	
	
(a)	
the Company has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
	
(b)	
the Company has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates 
if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Company continues to 
recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the 
Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, 
the Group also recognises an associated liability. 
The transferred asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured 
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of consideration 
that the group could be required to repay.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Company 
applies expected credit losses (ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment loss on 
the following financial asset and credit risk exposure
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at amortized cost;
	
	
-	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income(FVTOCI);
	
	
ECLs are based on the difference between the 
contractual cash flows due in accordance with 
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at an approximation 
of the original effective interest rate. The expected 
cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of 
collateral held or other credit enhancements that 
are integral to the contractual terms.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the statement of profit and 
loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other 
expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The 
balance sheet presentation for various financial 
instruments is described below:
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
201
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(a)	
Financial assets measured as at amortised 
cost: ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The 
allowance reduces the net carrying amount. 
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, 
the group does not reduce impairment 
allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
	
(b)	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts: ECL is presented as a provision 
in the balance sheet, i.e. as a liability. 
	
	
(c)	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: For 
debt instruments measured at FVTOCI, the 
expected credit losses do not reduce the 
carrying amount in the balance sheet, which 
remains at fair value. Instead, an amount 
equal to the allowance that would arise if the 
asset was measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in other comprehensive income 
as the accumulated impairment amount.
	
g)	
Financial liabilities:
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. All financial 
liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in 
the case of loans and borrowings and payables, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs. The 
Company financial liabilities include loans and 
borrowings, trade payables, trade deposits, 
retention money, liabilities towards services, sales 
incentive and other payables.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial liabilities are classified in two categories: 
	
	
(i)	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss 
	
	
(ii)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (loans 
and borrowings)
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Company 
that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationship as defined by Ind AS 109. The 
separated embedded derivate are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial 
liabilities 
designated 
upon 
initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses attributable to changes in 
own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These gains/ 
loss are not subsequently transferred to profit 
and loss. However, the Company may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other 
changes in fair value of such liability are recognized 
in the statement of profit or loss. the Company has 
not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (Loans and 
borrowings)
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
the Effective interest rate method. Gains and losses 
are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities 
are derecognised as well as through the Effective 
interest rate amortization process. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the Effective interest rate. 
The Effective interest rate amortization is included 
as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
Trade Payables
	
	
These amounts represents liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Company prior to the end 
of financial year which are unpaid. The amounts 
are unsecured and are usually paid per the term of 
contract with suppliers. Trade and other payables 
are presented as current liabilities unless payment 
is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognized initially at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using Effective interest rate method.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are those contracts that require a 
Havells India Limited
202
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
payment to be made to reimburse the holder for 
a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails 
to make a payment when due in accordance with 
the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee 
contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair 
value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. 
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher 
of the amount of loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of IND AS 109 and the 
amount recognized less cumulative amortization.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financials assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognized amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets/ financial 
liabilities
	
	
The Company determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model for managing 
those assets. Changes to the business model 
are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s 
senior management determines change in the 
business model as a result of external or internal 
changes which are material to the Company’s 
operations. Such changes are evident to external 
parties. A change in the business model occurs 
when the Company either begins or ceases to 
perform an activity that is material to its operations. 
If the Company reclassifies financial assets, it 
applies the reclassification prospectively from the 
reclassification date which is the first day of the 
immediately next reporting period following the 
change in business model. The Company does 
not restate any previously recognised gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
	
h)	
Investment in Subsidiaries
	
	
The investment in subsidiary are carried at cost 
as per IND AS 27. The Company regardless 
of the nature of its involvement with an entity 
(the investee), determines whether it is a parent 
by assessing whether it controls the investee. 
The Company controls an investee when it is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Thus, the Company controls an investee 
if and only if it has all the following:
	
	
(a)	
power over the investee;
	
	
(b)	
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and
	
	
(c)	
the ability to use its power over the investee 
to affect the amount of the returns.
	
	
Investments are accounted in accordance with IND 
AS 105 when they are classified as held for sale. 
On disposal of investment, the difference between 
its carrying amount and net disposal proceeds 
is charged or credited to the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
i)	
Inventory
	
	
Basis of valuation:
	
	
Inventories other than scrap materials are valued 
at lower of cost and net realizable value after 
providing cost of obsolescence, if any. However, 
materials and other items held for use in the 
production of inventories are not written down 
below cost if the finished products in which they 
will be incorporated are expected to be sold 
at or above cost. The comparison of cost and 
net realizable value is made on an item-by-item 
basis.
	
	
Inventory of scrap materials have been valued at 
net realizable value.
	
	
Method of Valuation:
	
	
Cost of raw materials has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
203
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
	
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress 
includes direct labour and an appropriate share 
of fixed and variable production overheads. Fixed 
production overheads are allocated on the basis 
of normal capacity of production facilities. Cost is 
determined on moving weighted average basis.
	
	
Cost of traded goods has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
j)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
	
The Company classifies non-current assets as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than through 
continuing use and the sale is considered highly 
probable. Such non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Any expected loss is recognized immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the assets is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition, subject 
only to terms that are usual and customary for 
sales of such assets, its sale is highly probable; 
and it will genuinely be sold. The Company treats 
sale of the asset to be highly probable when:
	
	
i)	
The appropriate level of management is 
committed to a plan to sell the asset
	
	
ii)	
An active programme to locate a buyer 
and complete the plan has been initiated (if 
applicable)
	
	
iii)	
The asset is being actively marketed for sale 
at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value
	
	
iv)	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from 
the date of classification, and
	
	
v)	
Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that material 
changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition and the assets must 
have actively marketed for sale at a price that is 
reasonable in relation to its current fair value. Actions 
required to complete the sale should indicate that it 
is unlikely that material changes to the plan to sale 
these assets will be made. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected 
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets once classified as held for sale are not 
depreciated or amortized. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented separately 
as current items in the balance sheet.
	
k)	
Income Tax
	
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period 
is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable 
income based on the applicable income tax rate 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 
to unused tax losses. Income Tax expense for the 
year comprises of current tax and deferred tax.
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax, assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
to or recovered from the taxation authorities in 
accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the 
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards 
(ICDS) enacted in India by using tax rates and the 
tax laws that are enacted at the reporting date. 
	
	
The current income tax charge is calculated on 
the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the end of the reporting period in 
the countries where the company operate and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will accept an 
uncertain tax treatment. The group measures its tax 
balances either based on the most likely amount or 
the expected value, depending on which method 
provides a better prediction of the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
	
	
Current income tax relating to item recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss is 
Havells India Limited
204
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
recognized outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or equity).Current tax items 
are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transactions either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred Tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance 
sheet method on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
	
i)	
When the deferred tax liability arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
	
ii)	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, 
when the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and the 
carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor 
taxable profit or loss.
	
	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated 
with 
investments 
in 
subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that the temporary differences will reverse 
in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized. 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed 
at each reporting date and are recognized to the 
extent that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year 
when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
the statement of profit and loss is recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or direct in 
equity.
	
	
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business 
combination, but not satisfying the criteria for 
separate recognition at that date, are recognised 
subsequently if new information about facts and 
circumstances change. Acquired deferred tax 
benefits recognised within the measurement period 
reduce goodwill related to that acquisition if they 
result from new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances existing at the acquisition date. If the 
carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any remaining 
deferred tax benefits are recognised in OCI/ capital 
reserve depending on the principle explained for 
bargain purchase gains. All other acquired tax 
benefits realized are recognised in profit or loss.
	
l)	
Other Operating Revenues
	
(a)	
Export benefit
	
	
Revenue from export benefits arising from duty 
drawback scheme, merchandise export incentive 
scheme, Remission of duties and taxes on 
exported product scheme are recognised on 
export of goods in accordance with their respective 
underlying scheme at fair value of consideration 
received or receivable.
	
(b)	
Government Grants 
	
	
Government Grants are recognized at their fair 
value when there is reasonable assurance that 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
205
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
the grant will be received and all the attached 
conditions will be complied with.
	
	
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is 
recognized as income on a systematic basis 
over the periods that the related costs, for which 
it is intended to compensate, are expensed. 
Government grant related to the non-monetary 
asset are recognised at nominal value and 
presented by deducting the same from carrying 
amount of related asset and the grant is then 
recognised in profit or loss over the useful life of the 
depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation 
charge.
	
m)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non 
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognized in respect of employee 
service upto the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations 
in the balance sheet.
	
(ii)	
Post employment
	
	
a)	
Gratuity
	
	
	
The Employee’s Gratuity Fund Scheme, 
which is defined benefit plan, is managed 
by Trust with its investments maintained 
with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.Ltd. 
The liabilities with respect to Gratuity Plan 
are determined by actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method on the balance 
sheet date, based upon which the Company 
contributes to the Gratuity Scheme. The 
difference, if any, between the actuarial 
valuation of the gratuity of employees at 
the year end and the balance of funds 
is provided for as assets/ (liability) in the 
books. Net interest is calculated by applying 
the discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. The Company recognizes 
the following changes in the net defined 
benefit obligation under Employee benefit 
expense in statement of profit or loss:
	
	
	
a) Service costs comprising current service 
costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on 
curtailments and non-routine settlements
	
	
b) Net interest expense or income
	
	
Remeasurements, 
comprising 
of 
actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, 
excluding amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and the return on 
plan assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability), are 
recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through other comprehensive income in 
the period in which they occur. Remeasurements 
are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
periods.
	
	
b)	
Provident fund
	
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident 
fund is a defined contribution scheme. the 
Company has no obligation, other than the 
contribution payable to the provident fund. 
The Company recognizes contribution 
payable through provident fund scheme 
as an expense, when an employee renders 
the related services. If the contribution 
payable to scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable 
to the scheme is recognized as liability after 
deducting the contribution already paid. If 
the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before 
the balance sheet date, then excesses 
recognized as an asset to the extent that 
the prepayment will lead to, for example, 
a reduction in future payment or a cash 
refund. 
	
(iii)	
Other employee benefits
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Company receive remuneration in the form of share 
based payment transactions, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity 
instruments. In accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and the Ind-AS 102 
Share based payments, the fair value of options 
granted under the Havells Long Term cumulative 
expense recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects 
the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
expense or credit recognized in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense recognized as 
Havells India Limited
206
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognized in employee benefits expense.
	
	
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction 
award are modified, the minimum expense 
recognized is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are 
met. An additional expense is recognized for any 
modification that increases the total intrinsic value 
of the share-based payment transaction, or is 
otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured 
at the date of modification. The Employee stock 
option scheme is administered through Havells 
Employee Welfare Trust.
	
	
The Company provides long term incentive plan 
to employees via equity settled share based 
payments as enumerated below:
	
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan:   
The fair value of options granted under this 
option plan is recognised as an employee 
benefit 
expense 
with 
corresponding 
increase in equity in accordance with 
recognition and measurement principles 
as prescribed in Ind AS 102 Share Based 
Payments when grant is made. The total 
expense is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all 
of the specified vesting conditions are to be 
satisfied. At end of the reporting period, the 
entity revises its estimates of the number 
of options that are expected to vest based 
on the non-market vesting and service 
conditions. It recognizes the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in profit 
or loss, with corresponding adjustment to 
equity.
	
	
(b)	
Havells Employees Long term Incentive 
plan : These are in nature of employee 
benefit wherein employees (including senior 
executives) of the Company purchase shares 
of the Company at fair value on the grant cum 
allotment date and receives remuneration 
in the form of ex-gratia equivalent to 
predefined percentage of purchase price 
paid by designated employee subject to 
serving of relevant period of service after 
the grant cum allotment date. These are 
recognised at fair value of shares granted 
and allotted as employee benefit expense 
over the period of employee serving relevant 
period.
	
	
c)	
Leave Obligation
	
	
	
Leave obligations: The Company has 
liabilities for earned leave that are not 
expected to be settled wholly within 12 
months after the end of the period in which 
the employees render the related service. 
These obligations are therefore measured 
as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services 
provided by employees up to the end of the 
reporting period using the projected unit 
credit method. The benefits are discounted 
using the appropriate market yields at the 
end of the reporting period that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation. Remeasurements as a result 
of experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
	
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an 
unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period, regardless 
of when the actual settlement is expected to occur.
	
n)	
Leases
	
	
The Company assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That 
is, if the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
	
	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at 
the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the 
date the underlying asset is available for use). 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, 
and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease 
liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial 
direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at 
or before the commencement date less any lease 
incentives received.
	
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Company at the end of the lease term or the 
cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, 
depreciation is calculated using the estimated 
useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets are 
also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policies in section ‘Impairment of non-financial 
assets’.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
207
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Company recognises lease liabilities measured at 
the present value of lease payments to be made 
over the lease term. The lease payments include 
fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, 
variable lease payments that depend on an index 
or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under 
residual value guarantees. The lease payments 
also include the exercise price of a purchase 
option reasonably certain to be exercised by 
the Company and payments of penalties for 
terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects 
the Company exercising the option to terminate. 
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an 
index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless 
they are incurred to produce inventories) in the 
period in which the event or condition that triggers 
the payment occurs.
	
	
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal 
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged 
to profit or loss over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are 
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which 
the condition that triggers those payments occurs.
	
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
	
o)	
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the decision making authority. The Board of 
directors monitors the operating results of all 
product segments separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. 
	
p)	
Earnings Per Share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) if any that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effect of all potentially dilutive 
equity shares. 
	
q)	
Borrowing Costs
	
	
Borrowing cost includes interest and other costs 
incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds 
and charged to Statement of Profit & Loss on 
the basis of effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences 
to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the 
borrowing cost.
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an 
asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale 
are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective 
asset. All other borrowing costs are recognized as 
expense in the period in which they occur.
	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, that are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash and subject to an inmaterial 
risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents 
includes cash on hand, deposit held at call with 
financial institutions, other short - term, highly 
liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to 
an inmaterial risk of changes in value, and bank 
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
Havells India Limited
208
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
borrowings in current liabilities in the balance 
sheet.
	
s)	
Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
Items included in the financial statements are 
measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The Company’s financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR) 
which is also the Company’s functional and 
presentation currency.
	
(ii)	
Transactions and balances 
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rate 
prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transaction and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at year end 
exchange rate are generally recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial 
transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value is 
determined.
	
(iii)	
Exchange differences
	
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement or 
translation of monetary items are recognized as 
income or expense in the period in which they arise 
with the exception of exchange differences on gain 
or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in line with 
the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in 
fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on 
items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in 
OCI or profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
	
t)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Provisions (including reimbursement)
	
	
A provision is recognized when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognized as a 
finance cost.
	
	
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis 
of claims admitted / expected to be admitted and 
to the extent that the amount recoverable can be 
measured reliably and realisation in respect thereof 
is virtually certain.
	
	
Contingent liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of 
one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Company or a present obligation 
that is not recognized because it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also 
arises in extremely rare cases, where there is 
a liability that cannot be recognized because it 
cannot be measured reliably. the Company does 
not recognize a contingent liability but discloses 
its existence in the financial statements unless the 
probability of outflow of resources is remote.
	
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
	
u)	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Company measures financial instruments at 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
	
(i)	
In the principal market for asset or liability, or
	
	
(ii)	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Company.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
209
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non- financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level 
input that is material to the fair value measurement 
as a whole:
	
	
Level 1- Quoted(unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
	
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Company determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is material to fair value measurement as 
a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the 
Company has determined classes of assets and 
liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the 
fair value hierarchy as explained above.
	
v)	
Exceptional items
	
	
The Company recognises exceptional item when 
items of income and expenses within Statement 
of Profit and Loss from ordinary activities are of 
such size, nature or incidence that their disclosure 
is relevant to explain the performance of the 
enterprise for the period.
	
w)	
Dividend Distributions
	
	
The Company recognizes a liability to make the 
payment of dividend to owners of equity, when the 
distribution is authorised and the distribution is no 
longer at the discretion of the Company. As per the 
corporate laws in India, a distribution is authorised when 
it is approved by the shareholders. A corresponding 
amount is recognised directly in equity.
Havells India Limited
210
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
3.	
Property, plant and equipment
(` in crores)
Particulars
Freehold 
Land
Buildings 
Leasehold 
Improvements
Plant and 
Machinery
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and fixtures
Vehicles
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Right of use asset 
Total 
Capital Work 
in progress
 Grand Total
Leasehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Buildings
Gross carrying  
amount (at cost)
At April 01, 2022
27.77 
789.89 
 15.12 
975.91 
372.18 
73.38 
 16.18 
46.33 
 119.25 
50.75 
 230.15 
302.06  3,018.97 
56.75
 3,075.72 
Additions
-
95.11 
 0.03 
200.51 
97.65 
11.28 
5.87 
9.97 
26.83 
6.56 
1.34 
51.86 
 507.01 
514.87
 1,021.88
Disposals/Adjustments 
-
(9.50)
(1.10)
(28.77)
(13.41)
(4.37)
 (0.72)
 (1.66)
 (5.01)
(1.64)
-
(8.85)
(75.03)
(408.20)
(483.23) 
At March 31, 2023
27.77 
875.50 
 14.05 
1,147.65 
456.42 
80.29 
 21.33 
54.64 
 141.07 
55.67 
 231.49 
345.07  3,450.95 
163.42
 3,614.37 
Additions
-
158.93 
 0.04 
184.66 
92.11 
32.39 
1.95 
20.18 
54.47 
19.98 
0.30 
133.72 
 698.73 
660.85
 1,359.59
Recognition of grant related to 
assets {Refer note 3 (iv)}
-
(0.02)
-
(1.98)
 (0.82)
(0.26)
 -
-
 (0.13)
-
-
-
(3.21)
-
(3.21)
Disposals/adjustments*
-
-
-
(11.35)
 (3.40)
(1.13)
 (2.38)
 (0.32)
(10.13)
(0.85)
(0.18)
 -
(29.74)
(527.36)
(557.10) 
At March 31, 2024
27.77 1,034.41 
 14.09 
1,318.98 
544.31 
111.29 
 20.90 
74.50 
 185.28 
74.80 
 231.61 
478.79  4,116.73 
296.91
 4,413.65 
Accumulated Depreciation
At April 01, 2022
-
177.69 
 8.42 
379.52 
167.62 
25.96 
6.56 
22.44 
86.13 
24.74 
6.24 
92.31 
 997.63 
-
997.63
Charge for the year
-
30.88 
 1.81 
 90.18 
61.37 
 7.22 
1.66 
7.07 
15.20 
3.98 
2.54 
48.07 
 269.98 
-
269.98
Disposals/adjustments 
-
(2.75)
(0.95)
(14.54)
(11.33)
(2.48)
 (0.64)
 (1.55)
 (4.47)
(1.09)
-
(4.63)
(44.43)
-
(44.43)
At March 31, 2023
-
205.82 
 9.28 
455.16 
217.66 
30.70 
7.58 
27.96 
96.86 
27.63 
8.78 
135.75  1,223.18 
-
 1,223.18
Charge for the year
-
35.30 
 1.39 
 97.72 
62.86 
 9.03 
2.24 
9.94 
20.43 
4.75 
2.54 
65.73 
 311.93 
-
311.93
Disposals/adjustments*
-
-
-
(8.63)
 (2.30)
(0.96)
 (2.15)
 (0.24)
 (9.47)
(0.78)
(0.03)
-
(24.56)
-
(24.56)
At March 31, 2024
-
241.12 
 10.67 
544.25 
278.22 
38.77 
7.67 
37.66 
 107.82 
31.60 
11.29 
201.48  1,510.55 
-
 1,510.55
Net carrying amount
At April 01, 2022
27.77 
612.20 
 6.70 
596.39 
204.56 
47.42 
9.62 
23.89 
33.12 
26.01 
 223.91 
209.75  2,021.34 
56.75
 2,078.09
At March 31, 2023
27.77 
669.68 
 4.77 
692.49 
238.76 
49.59 
 13.75 
26.68 
44.21 
28.04 
 222.71 
209.32  2,227.77 
163.42
 2,391.19 
At March 31, 2024
27.77 
793.29 
 3.42 
774.73 
266.09 
72.52 
 13.23 
36.84 
77.46 
43.20 
 220.32 
277.31  2,606.18 
296.91
 2,903.10 
	
* Disposal includes assets held for sale amounting to ` 2.18 crores (March 31,2023 `10.53 Crores), and includes transfers in relation to Capital work in progress.
Notes: - 
(i)	
Right of Use Asset includes :-
	
(a)	
“Leasehold Land” represents land obtained on long term lease from various Government authorities. 
	
(b)	
Leasehold Buildings represent properties taken on lease for its offices and warehouses accounted for in accordance with principle of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’. Refer Note 33(3) 
(ii)	
Capital work in progress as at March 31, 2024 consists of assets under construction mainly related to plant & machinery, buildings etc. at various plants of the Company. Adjustment in relation to capital work 
in progress relates to addition in property, plant and equipment made during the year. 
(iii)	 Disclosure of Contractual commitment for the acquisition of property plant and equipment has been provided in note 32B.
(iv)	 The grant related to assets incudes: Subsidy of ` 3.21 crores for the year ended March 31, 2024(March 31,2023 Nil) is on account of Modified Special Incentive Package (MSIP) scheme for making capital 
investment at Ghiloth District, General Zone Industrial Area RIICO in the state of Rajasthan.
(v)	 The Company has not revalued its Property Plant and Equipment (Including Right of use assets) or Intangible assets during the year 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
211
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(vi)	
The following has been recognised as Exceptional Items in the previous year towards loss on account of fire at Neemrana plant on July 27 2022 of the Company 
(Refer note33(15)).
(` in crores)
Particulars
Plant and 
machinery
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and fixtures
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Capital Work 
in progress
Grand Total
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
17.90 
0.58 
 3.05 
0.04 
2.13 
 1.32 
0.55
25.58 
Accumulated 
Depreciation
(6.72)
(0.46)
(1.56)
(0.02)
(1.77)
(0.89)
-
(11.42)
Net Block -  
July 27,2022
 11.18 
 0.12 
 1.49 
0.02 
0.37 
0.43 
0.55 
 14.16 
(vii)	 Capital work-in-progress (“CWIP”) Ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2023
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
163.42
- 
- 
- 
163.42
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
294.94
1.97
- 
- 
296.91
Completion Schedule for capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue as at March 31, 2024
To be completed In
Total 
Less than 1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Cables plant at Tumkur, 
Karnataka
184.82
-
-
-
184.82
Note: There are no projects under capital work in progress where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan in previous year. In 
current year there are no projects which have exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
(viii)	 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet 
 Description 
of item of 
property 
Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
 Title deeds held 
in the name of 
 Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative 
of promoter/director 
or employee of 
promoter/director 
Property 
held since 
which date 
 Reason for not being held in the 
name of the company 
Property, plant 
and equipment 
Freehold 
land in Delhi 
15.89 
 Late Shri Qimat Rai 
Gupta, on behalf 
of M/s Guptajee & 
Company 
Erstwhile Promoter/ 
Director 
March 31, 
2011
The possession and the original 
agreement to sell of the property is 
in the name of Company. Further, 
title deeds will be registered in 
the name of the Company once 
the state government's policy on 
registry is changed. 
Property, plant 
and equipment 
Building In 
Bengaluru 
0.04 
 Shakereh 
Shraddhanand 
 No 
April 01, 
2012
The possession and the original 
agreement to sell, of the property 
is in the name of Company. 
Further, the Company is taking 
adequate legal steps to get the title 
deeds registered with appropriate 
authority.
Havells India Limited
212
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ix)	
Property where the Company is a lessee but agreements are not executed
(` in crores)
Relevant line item 
in the Balance 
Sheet
Description 
of item of 
property
 Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
 Net 
carrying 
value 
Net 
lease 
liability
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held 
since 
which 
date 
Reason for lease 
agreement not 
executed with the 
company
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Building in 
Sahibabad 
43.20
37.77
41.11 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter {refer note 33(6)}
August 
01, 2007
Rent 
is 
being 
paid 
based on the mutual 
understanding and the 
monthly invoice for usage 
charges is raised by QRG 
Enterprises {refer note 
33(6)}
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Building in 
Noida 
96.79 
72.58 
79.64 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited 
Promoter {refer note 33(6)}
July 01, 
2008
4.	
Goodwill and other Intangible assets
(` in crores)
Particulars
Computer 
Software 
R & D 
Software 
Trademarks Distributor/ 
Dealer 
Network 
Non-
compete 
Fee 
 Total
Other 
Intangible 
Assets 
 Goodwill 
 Intangibles 
assets under 
development 
 Total 
Intangible 
Assets 
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
At April 01, 2022
52.67 
11.51 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,234.08 
310.47 
0.46 
1,545.01 
Additions 
 2.88 
 3.89 
 -
 -
-
 6.77 
-
 2.99 
9.76 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
-
 -
 -
-
 -
-
 (0.46)
 (0.46)
At March 31, 2023
55.55 
15.40 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,240.85 
310.47 
2.99 
1,554.31 
Additions 
12.26 
3.12 
 -
 -
-
15.38 
-
 5.12 
 20.50 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
 -
 -
-
(0.19)
-
 (6.32)
 (6.51)
At March 31, 2024
67.62 
18.52 
1,029.00 
82.40 
58.50 
 1,256.04 
310.47 
1.79 
 1,568.30 
Accumulated 
amortization 
At April 01, 2022
34.00 
6.95 
 -
50.50 
40.94 
 132.39 
 -
-
132.39 
Charge for the year 
 5.75 
1.72 
 -
 10.30 
 8.36 
26.13 
-
-
 26.13 
Disposals/adjustments 
-
-
 -
 -
-
 -
-
-
-
At March 31, 2023
39.75 
8.67 
 -
60.80 
49.30 
 158.52 
 -
-
158.52 
Charge for the year 
 5.64 
 2.26 
 -
 10.30 
 8.35 
 26.55 
-
-
 26.55 
Disposals/adjustments 
(0.19)
-
 -
 -
-
(0.19)
-
-
 (0.19)
At March 31, 2024
45.20 
10.93 
 -
 71.10 
57.65 
 184.88 
 -
-
184.88 
Net carrying amount 
At April 01, 2022
18.67 
4.56 
1,029.00 
31.90 
 17.56 
 1,101.69 
310.47 
0.46 
1,412.62 
At March 31, 2023
15.80 
6.73 
1,029.00 
21.60 
 9.20 
 1,082.33 
310.47 
2.99 
 1,395.79 
At March 31, 2024
22.42 
7.59 
1,029.00 
 11.30 
 0.85 
 1,071.16 
310.47 
1.79 
 1,383.42 
Note:-
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 
Lloyd Consumer business is a single Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) engaged in the business of manufacturing, trading and distribution of consumer 
electronics products under the ‘Lloyd’ brand. Goodwill and Trademarks having indefinite useful lives, pertains to the acquisition of Lloyd Consumer business, 
and have accordingly been allocated to the said business. As the Lloyd Consumer business has incurred losses, considering the requirements of Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) - 36 ‘Impairment of Assets, the Company has performed an impairment test to ascertain the recoverable amount of goodwill, 
intangible assets as well as other non-financial assets, viz., property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress etc. of Lloyd Consumer business. The 
recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculation. This calculation uses management assumptions and pre-tax cash flow projections, 
based on financial budgets approved by management, covering a 5 year period. Cash flow projections beyond 5 years’ time period are extrapolated using 
the estimated growth rate which is consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports specific to the industry in which the CGU operates.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
213
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Management has considered the following assumptions for impairment testing of the CGU:-
Assumption
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Approach used in determining value
Weighted average Cost of capital % 
(WACC) after tax (discount rate)
15.24%
15.30%
It has been determined basis risk free rate of return 
adjusted for equity risk premium.
Long Term Growth Rate
5.00%
5.00%
Long term growth rate has been taken basis on overall 
economic growth rate, industry trend & expected long-
term inflation in India.
The management has determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of the future market 
scenario. The revenue and profit growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. Management 
has performed a sensitivity analysis on the above mentioned key assumptions, based on which the management believes that 
the recoverable amount of the above-mentioned assets of the CGU is more than the carrying amount and a reasonably possible 
change in the assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Intangible assets under development
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under  
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.79 
As at March 31, 2023
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under 
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 2.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.99 
Note: There are no projects under Intangible assets under development where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan.
5.	
Investments in Subsidiaries - Financial Assets
(` in crores)
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2023
Investments in equity instruments of subsidiary companies (non-traded 
unquoted)
(valued at cost, unless stated otherwise)  
{refer note 33(1)}
Havells International Inc.*
 20.73 
-
2,500 equity shares of face value $ 1,000 each  
(March 31, 2023: nil)
Havells Guangzhou International Limited 
(100% contribution fully paid in capital) (March 31, 2023: 100% contribution fully paid 
in capital)
 0.45 
0.45
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 21.18 
 0.45 
* Havells International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, situated in United States of America was incorporated on 
October 19, 2023.
Havells India Limited
214
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6.	
Contract Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)	 Trade Receivables {refer note (a) below and note 11(B) }
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
(B)	 Contract Assets {refer note (b)}
	
Unsecured, considered good
 39.85 
 52.24 
	
Less : Ioss allowance
 0.76 
 - 
 39.09 
 52.24 
	
Non-current portion
 11.55 
 25.57 
	
Current portion
 27.54 
 26.67 
(C)	 Contract Liability {refer note (c) and note 23(v)}
 103.37 
 86.63 
 103.37 
 86.63 
	
Non-current portion
 4.64 
 4.10 
	
Current portion
 98.73 
 82.53 
Note:
(a)	
Trade Receivables represent the amount of consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customers that is unconditional.
(b)	
During the earlier years, the Company had entered into agreements with customers wherein the Company had identified multiple performance 
obligations as per Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. The Company’s right to receive consideration is conditional upon 
satisfaction of all performance obligations. Accordingly, the Company has recognised contract assets in respect of performance obligations 
satisfied during the year. The contract asset arises when the Company satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional 
right to consideration. Contract assets have decreased in the current year due to change in the time frame for a right to consideration to 
become unconditional (i e. for a contract asset to be reclassified to trade receivable). 
(c)	
The Company has entered into the agreements with customer for sale of goods and services. The Company has identified these performance 
obligations and recognised the contract liabilities in respect of contracts, where the Company has obligation to deliver the goods and perform 
specified services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration. There has been no significant change in the contract liabilities.
7.	
Non-Current Financial Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENT (valued at fair value through profit and loss)
Investment in preference shares (fully paid-up)
Unquoted
1,72,563 compulsorily convertible cumulative participative preference shares 
in Singularity Furniture Pvt Ltd. (March 31, 2023 1,72,563)
20.00 
20.00 
20.00 
20.00 
(B)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
Unsecured {refer note 11(B)}
Trade receivables from contracts with customers - considered good
 0.25 
 1.59 
 0.25 
 1.59 
(C)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
Unsecured, considered good
Earnest money and Security Deposits
32.86 
33.62 
Others
Bank deposits with original and remaining maturity of more than twelve months
 - 
 115.24 
 32.86 
 148.86 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
215
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
8.	
Other Non-Current Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital advances
 126.30 
 47.70 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 4.58 
 4.71 
Deposits with Statutory and Government authorities 
 15.74 
 26.53 
 146.62 
 78.94 
Note: 
(a)	
Capital advances include an amount of ` 96.45 crores given to Noida Authority (U.P.) towards acquisition of land.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include an amount of ` 0.65 crores representing excess spent of Corporate Social Responsibility
9.	
Non Current Tax Assets (Net)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current tax assets, net of current tax payable
 34.92 
 29.03 
 34.92 
 29.03 
10.	 Inventories
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value unless otherwise stated)
Raw materials and components
 770.97 
 836.69 
Work-in-progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
Traded goods
 611.21 
 851.64 
Stores and spares
 57.06 
 46.19 
Loose tools
 3.26 
 4.21 
Packing materials
 22.45 
 23.87 
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 3,408.52 
 3,708.47 
Notes:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 The above includes goods in transit as under:
	
Raw materials
 99.60 
 148.92 
	
Finished goods
 197.59 
 201.21 
	
Traded goods
 29.72 
 73.05 
(b)	 The stock of scrap materials have been taken at net realisable value.
(c)	 During the year ` 35.83 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 15.06 crores) was 
recognised as an expense for inventory carried at net realisable value.
Havells India Limited
216
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
11.	 Current Financial Assets
(A)	 CURRENT INVESTMENT (valued at amortised cost)	
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deposits account with financial institution with original maturity of more than 
twelve months but remaining maturity less than 12 months
-
180.87
-
180.87
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
-
180.87 
Note:
(a) The deposits maintained by the Company with financial institution comprise of the time deposits and are made for varying 
periods between one year to two years depending on the cash requirements of the Company and earn interest at the respective 
deposit rates.
(B)	 Trade Receivables (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
Trade receivables from contract with customers - considered good
 1,216.87 
 1,031.69 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 37.12 
 28.89 
Trade receivables (gross)
 1,253.99 
 1,060.58 
Less : Ioss allowance 
 96.54 
 87.66 
Trade receivables (net)
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
Current portion
 1,157.20 
 971.33 
Non - current portion {refer note 7(B)}
 0.25 
 1.59 
Note:
Trade receivables includes from related parties ` 0.03 crores (March 31, 2023 Nil) refer note 33(6)(D)
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not due  Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
641.89
418.87
29.96
45.19
 30.06 
 50.90 1216.87
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - 
credit impaired
 - 
 0.00 
2.51
1.74
6.33
4.94
21.60
37.12
Total
 - 
641.89
421.38
31.70
51.52
35.00
72.50
1253.99
Less : Allowance for trade 
receivables
 - 
 (0.00)
 (2.51)
 (2.24)
 (10.28)
 (19.21)
 (62.30)
 (96.54)
Total
 - 
641.89
418.87
29.46
41.24
15.79
10.20
1157.45
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
217
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables 
- considered good
 - 266.47
597.93
44.39
47.29
 24.05 
 51.56 
 1,031.69 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade 
receivables - which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables 
- credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables 
- considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables 
- which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables 
- credit impaired
 - 
 - 
0.18
1.59
5.03
1.53
20.56
 28.89 
Total
 -  266.47 
 598.11 
 45.98 
 52.31 
 25.58 
 72.12 
 1,060.58 
Less : Allowance for trade 
receivables
 - 
 (0.01)
 (0.21)
 (5.03)
 (4.47)  (13.13)
 (64.81)
 (87.66)
Total
 -  266.46 
 597.91 
 40.95 
 47.84 
 12.45 
 7.31 
 972.92 
Notes: 
(a)	
Trade receivables are usually on trade terms based on credit worthiness of customers as per the terms of contract with customers.
(b)	
Trade receivables includes from related parties ` 0.03 crores (March 31, 2023 Nil) refer note 33(6)(D)
(C)	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks:
Current accounts (net) {refer note (c)}
 33.92 
 63.24 
Cash credit accounts 
 69.94 
 29.92 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months  
{refer notes (b) and (d)}
 139.36 
 363.57 
Cash on hand
 0.13 
 0.13 
243.35
456.86
Note:
(a)	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
(b)	
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between one day to three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Company and earn interest at the respective short-term deposits rates.
(c)	
Includes amount of ` Nil (March 31, 2023 ` 0.47 cr) related to Unspent CSR amount kept in separate bank account as per provision in 
section 135(6) of Companies Act, 2013.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.53 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 1.03 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
Havells India Limited
218
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(e)	
Net debts reconciliation
Particulars
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Long Term Borrowing
Lease Liabilities
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
456.86 
763.70 
- 
395.53 
 223.10 
220.87 
Addition on account of 
new leases during the 
year {refer note 33(3)}
-
-
- 
- 
 131.39 
 50.73 
Deletion on account of 
termination of leases 
during the year {refer 
note 33(3)}
-
-
- 
- 
- 
(4.10)
Lease rent concession
-
-
-
-
- 
(0.12)
Effect of foreign exchange 
rate changes on cash and 
cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
 (4.54)
 (3.73)
-
-
-
-
Cash flows
(208.97)
(303.11)
- 
(393.69)
 (51.33)
 (44.28)
Interest expense
-
-
- 
5.14 
 25.82 
 18.35 
Interest paid
-
-
- 
(6.98)
 (25.82)
 (18.35)
Closing balance 
243.35 
456.86 
- 
- 
 303.16 
223.10 
Non-current lease liability 
{refer note 15 (A)}
- 
- 
- 
- 
 242.44 
186.91 
Current maturity of long 
term lease liability  
{refer note 19 (A)}
- 
- 
- 
- 
 60.72 
 36.19 
(D)	 Other Bank Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deposits account with original maturity of more than three months but expiring less 
than twelve months {refer notes (a) and (e)}
 1,228.72 
 551.59 
Deposits account with original maturity of more than twelve months {refer notes 
(b),(d) and (f)}
 1,541.18 
 851.16 
Unpaid dividend account {refer note (c)}
 2.17 
 2.26 
 2,772.07 
 1,405.01 
Notes:
(a)	
The deposits maintained by the Company with banks comprise of the time deposits, which may be withdrawn by the Company at any 
point of time without prior notice and are made for varying periods between one day to twelve months depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the Company and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
(b)	
Fixed deposit with original maturity of more than twelve months but remaining maturity of less than twelve months have been disclosed under 
other bank balances.
(c)	
The Company can utilise the balance towards settlement of unclaimed dividend.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` Nil (March 31, 2023 ` 4.34 crores) related to Unspent CSR amount kept in separate bank account as 
per provision in section 135(6) of Companies Act, 2013.
(e)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 12.31 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 5.93 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(f)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.69 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 0.52 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
219
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(E)	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Earnest money and security deposits
 4.30 
 3.71 
Contractual claims and other receivables {refer note (a)}
 16.69 
 113.18 
 20.99 
 116.89 
Notes:
(a)	
Contractual claims and other receivables includes claims in accordance with contract with vendors and insurance company 
{refer note 33(15)}
12.	 Other Current Assets 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advances other than capital advances
Advances for materials and services
 99.76 
 27.22 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 44.64 
 46.37 
Duty free licenses in hand
 0.47 
 4.19 
Right to returned goods (refer note 22)
 30.13 
 - 
Government grant receivable
 13.58 
 4.98 
Balance with Statutory and Government authorities/Others
 45.51 
 92.39 
 234.09 
 175.15 
Movement of Government grant receivable
Opening balance
 4.98 
 9.34 
Accrual of grant related to income (credited to statement of profit and loss 
account) (refer note 3,23 and 24)
 25.72 
 10.13 
Grant related to asset realised 
 (3.21)
 - 
Grant related to income realised 
 (13.91)
 (14.49)
Closing Balance 
 13.58 
 4.98 
Note:
(a)	
Government grant receivable includes export incentives, budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax, Production linked incentive 
scheme and Modified special incentive package scheme.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include excess expenditure incurred under Corporate Social Responsibility
13.	 Assets Classified as Held for Sale
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Assets retired from active use
 2.18 
 10.53 
 2.18 
 10.53 
Note:
Assets retired from active use consists of property plant & equipment, dies and tools, furniture and fixtures, office equipments and electrical 
installations.
Havells India Limited
220
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
14.	 Equity
(A)	 Share capital
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a)	 Authorized Share Capital 
	
1,03,20,00,000 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31, 2023: 1,03,20,00,000 
equity shares of `1/- each)
 103.20 
 103.20 
	
5,50,000 preference shares of `10/- each (March 31, 2023: 5,50,000 preference 
shares of `10/- each)
 0.55 
 0.55 
 103.75 
 103.75 
b)	 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
	
62,66,83,030 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31, 2023: 62,65,09,738 equity 
shares of `1/- each) 
62.67 
62.65
c)	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of shares
` in crores
No. of shares
` in crores
At the beginning of the year
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
 62,63,03,067 
 62.63 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan  
{refer note 33(7)}
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
 2,06,671 
 0.02 
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
d)	
Shareholding of promoters
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the end 
of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the 
beginning of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 As at  
March 31, 2022 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.36%
-
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
-
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
 6,87,41,660 
10.98%
276.19%
4
QRG Enterprises Limited
 - 
0.00%
 18,98,58,880 
30.31%
-100.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
 37,24,57,920 
59.47%
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
221
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
e)	
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of issued share capital i.e. equity shares having a par value of `1/- per share (March 
31,2023 : `1/- per share). Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays 
dividend in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the 
Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity 
shares held by the shareholders.
f)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company is set out below (representing legal 
and beneficial ownership):
Name of Shareholders
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
No. of shares
% holding No. of shares
% holding 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta as Managing Trustee of ARG Family Trust
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta as Trustee of SKG Family Trust
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
 3,30,44,930 
5.27%
 3,30,44,930 
5.28%
g)	
Shares reserved for issue under Employee stock purchase plan
	
Information relating to Employee stock purchase plan, including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the 
financial year and options outstanding as at the end of the reporting period are set out in note 33 (7).
(B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital reserve
 7.63 
 7.63 
Securities premium
 169.45 
 148.15 
Share option outstanding account
 6.56 
 2.30 
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
Retained earnings
 6,469.42 
 5,671.03 
Total other equity
 7,375.78 
 6,551.83 
a)
Capital reserve
7.63 
7.63 
b)
Securities premium
Opening balance
 148.15 
 121.50 
Add: Exercise of Employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received
 21.30 
 26.65 
Closing balance
 169.45 
 148.15 
c)
Stock options outstanding account
Opening balance
 2.30 
 0.53 
Add : Options recognised during the year
 7.67 
 3.23 
Less : Options vested and exercised during the year
 (3.41)
 (1.46)
Closing balance
 6.56 
 2.30 
d)
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
Havells India Limited
222
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
e)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
 5,671.03 
 5,073.63 
Net profit for the year
 1,273.21 
 1,074.95 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained 
earnings
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax)
 (4.81)
 (7.67)
Dividends
Final Dividend of ` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23 (` 4.50 per share for  
FY 2021-22)
 (282.01)
 (281.93)
Interim dividend of ` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 3.00 per share for  
FY 2022-23)
 (188.00)
 (187.95)
Closing balance
 6,469.42 
 5,671.03 
(C)	 Nature and Purpose of Reserves
	
(a)	
Capital reserve
	
	
During amalgamation/ merger approved by honourable court, the excess of net assets taken over the consideration 
paid, if any, is treated as capital reserve. This capital reserve has arisen as a result of scheme of amalgamation in the 
past periods.
	
(b)	 Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(c)	
General reserve
	
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a 
specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations adjusted by utilisation of reserve in accordance with 
scheme of Amalgamation in earlier years. The requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net 
profit to general reserve before declaration of dividend has been withdrawn. However, the amount previously transferred 
to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
	
(d)	 Share options outstanding account
	
	
The share option outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Employee stock purchase plan.
	
	
Nil number of share (March 31, 2023: 41,960 shares) is held by employee welfare trust included in the financial statements
	
(e)	
Retained earnings
	
	
Retained Earnings are profits that the Company has earned till date less transfer to General Reserve, dividend or other 
distribution or transaction with shareholders.
15.	 Non Current Financial Liabilities
(A)	 Lease Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lease Liabilities {refer note 33(3)} 
 242.44 
 186.91 
 242.44 
 186.91 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
223
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(B)	 Other Financial Liabilities (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Employees payable pursuant to employee stock purchase plan
 0.67 
 0.54 
Long term employee retention scheme
 0.45 
 0.67 
Employees ownership plan
 - 
 3.23 
Other Liabilities (retention money)
 2.93 
 2.77 
 4.05 
 7.21 
16.	 Non Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Gratuity 
 5.98 
 4.15 
Provision for other employee benefit plans* 
 11.34 
 - 
Product warranties and E-waste {Refer note 20(a)}
 70.40 
 132.57 
 87.72 
 136.72 
* Other employee benefit represents compensated absences
17.	 Income Taxes
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 Income tax expense in the statement of profit and loss comprises :
Current tax charge
 440.84 
 361.17 
Adjustment in respect of current tax of previous year
 (0.23)
 3.24 
Total current income tax
 440.61 
 364.41 
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 
 (3.99)
 10.89 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss
 436.62 
 375.30 
(b)	 Other Comprehensive Income 
Current income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Current income tax on re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans
 1.62 
 2.58 
Income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year
 1.62 
 2.58 
(c)	 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by 
India’s domestic tax rate :
Accounting Profit before tax
 1,709.83 
 1,450.25 
Applicable tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Computed Tax Expense
 430.33 
 365.00 
Expenses not allowed for tax purpose
 9.80 
 8.53 
Additional allowances for tax 
 (0.17)
 (0.08)
Provisons for litigation
 - 
 2.97 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
 - 
 - 
Others
 (3.34)
 (1.12)
Income tax charged to Statement of Profit and Loss at effective rate of 25.54% 
(March 31, 2023: 25.88%) {Refer Note (ii) below}
 436.62 
 375.30 
Havells India Limited
224
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(d)	 Deferred tax liabilities comprises :
(` in crores)
Balance Sheet 
Statement of profit and loss 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 404.63 
 393.84 
 10.79 
 11.12 
Right of Use as per Ind AS 116
 69.79 
 52.68 
 17.11 
 (0.11)
Lease liability as per Ind AS 116
 (76.30)
 (56.15)
 (20.15)
 (0.56)
Expenses allowable on payment basis
 (17.97)
 (9.82)
 (8.15)
 2.87 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (24.48)
 (22.06)
 (2.42)
 (4.02)
Other Items giving rise to temporary 
differences
 1.85 
 3.02 
 (1.17)
 1.59 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 357.52 
 361.51 
 (3.99)
 10.89 
(e)	 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening balance as per last balance sheet
 361.51 
 350.62 
Deferred tax charged/(credited) to profit and loss account during the year
 (2.62)
 3.17 
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous year
 (1.37)
 7.72 
Closing balance
 357.52 
 361.51 
Notes:
(i)	
The Company has unabsorbed capital loss of ` 171.09 crores as on March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: ` 390.84 crores) out of which capital 
loss of ` 122.30 crores will expire in financial year 2025-26, capital loss of ` 27.51 crores will expire in financial year 2029-30 and capital 
loss of ` 21.28 crores will expire in financial year 2030-31, on which no deferred tax asset has been created by the management due to 
lack of probability of future capital gain against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. If the Company were able to recognise all 
unrecognised deferred tax assets, the profit after tax would have increased by ` 39.15 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 89.28 Crore). The capital 
losses of `211 crores has been expired during the year.
(ii)	
Effective tax rate has been calculated on profit before tax.
18.	 Other Non-Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other non-current liabilities (pertain advance discount received)
 6.48 
 - 
 6.48 
 - 
19.	 Current Financial Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)
Lease Liabilities
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 33 (3)} 
 60.72 
 36.19 
 60.72 
 36.19 
(B)
Trade Payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
 203.70 
 154.96 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2,487.00 
 2,487.58 
 2,690.70 
 2,642.54 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
225
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes:
(i)	
Trade Payables include due to related parties ` 24.87 crores (March 31, 2023 : `16.00 crores) {refer note 33(6)(D)}
(ii)	
The amounts are unsecured and non interest-bearing and are usually on varying trade term.
(iii)	
For terms and conditions with related parties. {refer to note 33(6)}
(iv)	
The amounts falling in the category of more than 1 year are related to pending obligations on the part of the supplier as per agreed terms 
and conditions mentioned in respective contracts.
a)	
Information as required to be furnished as per section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED Act) 
for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below. This information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on 
the basis of information available with the Company.
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i)	
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered 
under MSMED Act, 2006 as at the end of each accounting year
	
Principal 
 203.70 
 154.96 
	
Interest
- 
 - 
ii)	
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
- 
 - 
iii)	
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
- 
 - 
iv)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
- 
 - 
v)	
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise 
for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006.
- 
 - 
The total dues of Micro and Small Enterprises which were outstanding for more than stipulated 
period are ` Nil (March 31, 2023 : ` Nil)
- 
 - 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Not due 
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 195.80 
 7.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203.70 
(ii)
Others
 125.09  2,002.58 
 349.39 
 7.61 
 0.84 
 -  2,485.51 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
 125.09  2,198.38 
 357.29 
 7.71 
 0.84 
 1.39  2,690.70 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Not due 
Less than 
1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 150.32 
 4.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 154.96 
(ii)
Others
 120.11  2,167.69 
 188.62 
 9.77 
 - 
 - 
 2,486.19 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.39 
 1.39 
Total
 120.11  2,318.01 
 193.26 
 9.77 
 - 
 1.39 
 2,642.54 
Havells India Limited
226
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(C)	 Other Financial Liabilities (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unpaid dividend {refer note (a)}
 2.17 
 2.26 
Other payables
ESPP compensation payable
 2.25 
 2.04 
Creditors for capital goods
 50.54 
 45.30 
Deposits from customers
 55.18 
 48.48 
Retention Money
 39.40 
 18.62 
Other liabilities
Employee benefit obligations
 162.53 
 121.54 
Sales incentives payable 
 468.34 
 381.23 
Others 
 7.27 
 5.38 
 787.68 
 624.85 
Notes:
(a)	Investor Education and Protection Fund is being credited by the amount of unclaimed dividend after seven years from the due date. The 
Company has transferred ` 0.24 crores (March 31,2023 : `0.26 crores) out of unclaimed dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund 
of Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013.
20.	 Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i) Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity employee benefit plans {refer note no. 33(4)}
 30.56 
 31.21 
Other employee benefit plans
 1.48 
 - 
(A)
 32.04 
 31.21 
ii) Other provisions
Product warranties {refer note (a)}
 236.53 
 237.00 
Litigations {refer note (b)}
 9.10 
 6.70 
(B)
 245.63 
 243.70 
(A) + (B)
 277.67 
 274.91 
a)	
Provision for warranties
(i)	
Warranties
	
A provision is recognized for expected warranty claims and after sales services on products sold during the last one 
to seven years, based on past experience of the level of repairs and defective returns. It is expected that significant 
portion of these costs will be incurred in the next financial year and all will be incurred within seven years after the 
reporting date. Assumptions used to calculate the provisions for warranties are based on current sales levels and 
current information available about defective returns based on one to seven years warranty period for all products 
sold and are consistent with those in the prior years. The assumptions made in relation to the current year are 
consistent with those in the prior year.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
227
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ii)	
The table below gives information about movement in Warranty and E-waste provision
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
At the beginning of the year
 369.57 
 313.55 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
- additional provisions recognized (refer note 31)
 235.53 
 292.44 
- unwinding of discount {refer note no. 29 }
 12.11 
 5.78 
Amounts used during the period
 (310.28)
 (242.20)
At the end of year
 306.93 
 369.57 
Current portion
 236.53 
 237.00 
Non-current portion {refer note no. 16}
 70.40 
 132.57 
b)	
Provision for litigations
	
Provision for litigation amounting to ` 9.10 Crores (March 31, 2023: `6.70 Crores) is created against demands raised in various 
ongoing litigations in ordinary course of business. Based on the facts of the case and legal precedents, the management 
believes there would be a probable outflow of resources and accordingly, has created a provision in books of account.
	
The table below gives information about movement in litigation provisions:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
At the beginning of the year
 6.70 
 7.28 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
 2.40 
 2.97 
Amounts used during the period
 - 
 (3.55)
At the end of year
 9.10 
 6.70 
Current portion
 9.10 
 6.70 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
21.	 Current Tax Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current tax liabilities (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source amounting to 
` 354.06 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 334.38 crores)
 85.20 
 32.26 
 85.20 
 32.26 
22.	 Other Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance against Land
-
 0.50 
Others
Refund Liability*
 42.59 
 - 
Goods and Services Tax Payable
 156.98 
 55.69 
Other statutory dues payable
 76.09 
 82.80 
Others
 2.17 
 - 
 277.83 
 138.99 
* The Company has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to ` 42.59 crores, which is in the normal course 
of business. The Company has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods ` 30.13 crores. The costs to recover the products are not 
material because the customers usually return the product in a saleable condition.
Havells India Limited
228
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
23.	 Revenue From Operations:
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from contract with customers:
Sale of products 
 18,358.88 
 16,694.74 
Sales of services
 74.32 
 68.63 
 (A) 
 18,433.20 
 16,763.37 
Other operating revenues
Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Scrap sales
 103.20 
 94.88 
 (B) 
 116.70 
 105.01 
Total revenue from operations
(A) + (B) 
 18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
(i)
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 18,462.08 
 16,789.62 
Services transferred over the time
 74.32 
 68.63 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,536.40 
 16,858.25 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
(ii)
Disaggregation of revenue based on product or service
Switchgears
 2,239.19 
 2,114.89 
Cables
 6,312.11 
 5,529.16 
Lighting and fixtures
 1,626.65 
 1,601.42 
Electrical consumer durables
 3,480.18 
 3,294.21 
Lloyd Consumer* 
 3,784.83 
 3,368.43 
Others
 1,093.44 
 950.14 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,536.40 
 16,858.25 
(iii)
Revenue by location of customers
India 
 17,933.17 
 16,372.67 
Outside India
 603.23 
 485.58 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,536.40 
 16,858.25 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
(iv) Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit 
and loss with contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price
 18,644.50 
 16,967.20 
Less: Cash discount
 (108.10)
 (108.95)
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,536.40 
 16,858.25 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
* Includes revenue from installation services and service-type warranties.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
229
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(v)	
Performance obligation
	
Sale of products: Performance obligation in respect of sale of goods is satisfied when control of the goods is transferred to 
the customer, generally on delivery/ despatch of the goods as applicable and payment is generally due as per the terms of 
contract with customers.
	
Sales of services: The performance obligation in respect of maintenance services is satisfied over a period of time and 
acceptance of the customer. In respect of these services, payment is generally due upon completion of maintenance period 
based on time elapsed and acceptance of the customer. In certain non-standard contracts, where the Company provides 
warranties in service of consumer durable goods, the same is accounted for as a separate performance obligation and 
a portion of the transaction price is allocated based on its relative standalone prices. The performance obligation for the 
warranty service is satisfied over a period of time based on time elapsed.
	
The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied performance obligation) pertaining to sales 
of goods and services as at March 31, 2024 and expected time to recognise the same as revenue is as follows:-
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Within one year
 98.73 
 82.53 
More than one year
 4.64 
 4.10 
 103.37 
 86.63 
Note: The remaining performance obligation expected to be recognised in more than one year relates to amounts received from customers against 
which performance obligation is to be satisfied over a period of one to four years. All other remaining performance obligations are expected to be 
recognised within one year. During the year ended March 31, 2024, revenue recognised from amount included in contract liability at the beginning 
of year is ` 82.53 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 54.30 crores).
(vi)	 Disclosure pursuant to Appendix C of Ind AS 115
	
The Company was awarded a contract for replacement of existing conventional street/ park lights with LED street/ park lights 
by a Municipal Corporation in April 2017. As per the agreement, the Company shall also be responsible for the operation and 
maintenance of LED street/ park lights for a period of 7 years after installation. The consideration received by the Company 
under the contract is based on the energy savings resulting from the LED street/ park lights. The revenue recognised during 
the year and the contract assets balance as at year-end from such contract amounts to ` 46.02 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 
45.89 crores) and ` 30.32 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 43.57 crores) respectively.
24.	 Other Income
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest received on financial assets carried at amortised cost:
Deposits with banks
 173.87 
 104.17 
Investment
 2.25 
 12.99 
Others - Finance Income and Interest 
 8.76 
 6.07 
Other non-operating income 
Exchange fluctuations (net)
 33.45 
 21.58 
Lease rent concession {refer note 33(3)}
 - 
 0.12 
Profit on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 10.27 
 - 
Discount on License utilised
 0.34 
 9.43 
Government Grant*
 9.01 
 2.36 
Miscellaneous income
 10.78 
 20.30 
 248.73 
 177.02 
* Government grant includes export incentives, Budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax, Production linked incentive scheme and 
Modified special incentive package scheme.
Havells India Limited
230
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
25.	 Cost Of Raw Materials and Components Consumed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Copper
 3,660.53 
 3,361.20 
Aluminium
 1,134.00 
 1,009.60 
General plastic and Engineering Plastic
 463.58 
 438.02 
Paints and chemicals
 477.60 
 509.45 
Steel
 323.43 
 275.73 
Packing materials
 390.52 
 374.42 
Other material
 3,424.11 
 3,349.50 
 9,873.77 
 9,317.92 
26.	 Purchase of Traded Goods
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Switchgears
 129.02 
 175.23 
Lighting and fixtures
 410.79 
 523.90 
Electrical consumer durables
 659.27 
 506.07 
Lloyd Consumer
 792.61 
 1,427.53 
Cables
 0.59 
 1.02 
Others
 427.74 
 360.83 
 2,420.02 
 2,994.58 
27.	 Change in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods and Work-in-Progress
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the end of the year
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
 3.29 
Traded goods
 611.21 
 851.64 
 240.43 
Work in progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
 (0.06)
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 (0.93)
 2,554.78 
 2,797.51 
 242.73 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31,2022
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods
 1,764.20 
 1,359.07 
 (405.13)
Traded goods
 851.64 
 581.31 
 (270.33)
Work in progress
 165.56 
 202.06 
 36.50 
Scrap materials
 16.11 
 13.87 
 (2.24)
 2,797.51 
 2,156.31 
 (641.20)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
231
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
28.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 1,415.31 
 1,161.61 
Contribution towards Provident Fund, Family Pension and ESI
 55.72 
 47.72 
Employee stock purchase plan expense {refer note no. 33(7)}
 27.00 
 25.33 
Gratuity expense {refer note no. 33(4)}
 24.78 
 25.11 
Staff welfare expenses
 18.25 
 15.21 
 1,541.06 
 1,274.98 
Note: 
The company has reclassified medical insurance expenses amounting to ` 20.38 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 13.32 crores) related to its employees 
from “Insurance” (other expenses) to “Employee benefits expenses”.
29.	 Finance Costs
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest expense on Security Deposits and others
 1.44 
 5.14 
Interest on Income tax
 6.18 
 4.17 
Interest on lease liability {refer note no. 33(3)}
 25.82 
 18.35 
Miscellaneous financial expenses
 0.16 
 0.18 
Total interest expense
 33.60 
 27.84 
Unwinding of discount on long term provisions {refer note no. 20(a)(ii)}
 12.11 
 5.78 
Total Finance cost
 45.71 
 33.62 
30.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment {refer note 3}
 243.66 
 219.37 
Amortization of intangible assets {refer note 4}
 26.55 
 26.13 
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 3)
 68.27 
 50.61 
 338.48 
 296.11 
31.	 Other Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Consumption of stores and spares
 59.92 
 53.25 
Power and fuel
 135.33 
 119.27 
Job work and service charges
 377.14 
 332.96 
Rent
 48.47 
 31.57 
Repairs and maintenance:
	
Plant and machinery
 40.57 
 41.04 
	
Buildings
 4.60 
 4.63 
	
Others
 29.87 
 19.65 
Havells India Limited
232
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Information technology expenses
 84.41 
 48.97 
Rates and taxes
 8.73 
 2.41 
Insurance
 32.42 
 15.00 
Trade mark fee and royalty
 0.63 
 0.42 
Travelling and conveyance
 145.76 
 123.87 
Communication expenses
 5.42 
 5.95 
Legal and professional charges
 30.56 
 23.12 
Payment to Auditors
Audit fee
 1.35 
 1.35 
Certification and other service fee
 0.47 
 0.03 
Reimbursement of expenses
 0.16 
 0.16 
Payment to Tax Auditors
Tax audit fee
 0.04 
 0.04 
Contribution towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) {refer note no. 33(8)} 
 30.21 
 26.68 
Directors sitting fees
 1.01 
 0.90 
Freight and forwarding expense
 605.66 
 547.07 
Advertisement and sales promotion
 527.36 
 437.40 
Commission on sales
 130.34 
 120.66 
Product warranties and after sales services 
 235.53 
 292.44 
Bank Charges
 38.43 
 21.34 
Loss on sale/ discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
 - 
 0.14 
Impairment/ (reversal of impairment) on investment in subsidiary
 - 
 (2.85)
Miscellaneous expenses
 35.02 
 33.24 
 2,609.41 
 2,300.71 
31A.	Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
 17.62 
 18.43 
 17.62 
 18.43 
32.	 Commitments and Contingencies
(` in crores)
As At 
March 31, 2024
As At 
March 31, 2023
A Contingent liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
a Claims / Suits filed against the Company not acknowledged as debts (Refer point (i))
 6.67 
 6.83 
b Disputed tax liabilities in respect of pending litigations before appellate authorities
 110.25 
 54.74 
{Amount deposited under protest ` 10.20 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 13.04 
crores), included in “Deposit with Statutory and Government authorities” in note 
no. 8) {refer point (ii)}
Notes:
i) Claims / suits filed against the Company not acknowledged as debts which represents various legal cases filed against the company. The 
Company has disclaimed the liability and defending the action. The Company has been advised by its legal counsel that its position is likely to be 
upheld in the litigation process and accordingly no provision for any liability has been made in the financial statement.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
233
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
ii) The various disputed tax litigations are as under :
(` in crores)
Sl. Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2023
a)
Excise / Customs / Service Tax
Demands raised by Excise and 
Custom department.
1994-97, 2007-08 to 
2009-10, 2015-16 to 
2020-21
24.13  2007-08 to 2009-10, 
2015-16 to 2017-18 
and 2019-20 
16.32
b)
Income Tax*
Disallowances / additions made by 
the income tax department.
 2008-09 
to  
2014-15 and  
2016-17
27.52
2005-06, 2008-09 
to  
2014-15, 2016-17 to 
2017-18 and 2019-20
35.17
c)
Goods and Service Tax
Demands raised by GST 
Department
2017-18,  
2019-20 and  
2022-23
56.58
2017-18 
and  
2019-20
1.23
d)
Sales Tax / VAT
Demands raised by Sales tax / VAT 
department
 2003-04, 2005-06 
to 2011-12 and 
2016-17 
1.87  2003-04, 2005-06 to 
2011-12 and 2016-17 
1.87
e)
Others
Demand of local area development 
tax by the concerned authorities
2001-02
0.12
2001-02
0.12
Demand of octroi along with 
penalty in the state of Maharashtra 
by the concerned authorities
2010-11 
0.03
2010-11 
0.03
110.25
54.74
Notes:
The above figures are net of provisions made by the Company. The Company is contesting these demands and the management believe that 
its position is likely to be upheld in the appellate process. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 
* Based on favourable decisions in similar cases, the Company does not expect any liability against these matters in accordance with principles 
of Ind AS -12 ‘Income taxes’ read with Ind AS -37; Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and hence no provision has been 
considered in the books of accounts except for provision created in respect of few years {refer note 20(ii)}.
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where included in the order issued by the department to the Company.
B.	
Commitments 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Estimated amount of capital contracts remaining to be executed and not provided for 
(Net of Advances amounting to ` 131.98 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 52.52 crores))
 268.86 
 476.73 
 268.86 
 476.73 
Havells India Limited
234
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
C	
Undrawn committed borrowing facility
	
During the Year, the company has availed fund and non fund based unsecured working capital limit amounting to 
` 1,142.50 Crores (March 31, 2023: 1,382.50 Crores) under multiple banking arrangements from IDBI Bank Limited, Yes 
Bank Limited, Standard Chartered Bank Limited, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank Limited, IndusInd Bank Limited, HDFC Bank 
Limited, DBS Bank Limited and CITI Bank N.A. An amount of ` 836.75 crores (March 31, 2023: 1,102.86 Crores) remain 
undrawn as at March 31, 2024. Drawn amount is related to non fund based bank guarantee and letter of credit.
D	
Other Litigations
	
The company has taken provisions amounting ` 9.10 Cr (March 31, 2023 : ` 6.70 Cr) against the income tax and other 
sales tax related litigations. These provisions represent estimates made where liability has been assessed as probable. The 
probability and the timing of the outflow with regard to these matters depend on the final outcome of the litigations/disputes. 
Hence, the Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
E	
The Company has outstanding obligation amounting to ` 0.72 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 0.51 crores) in respect of bonds 
given to central tax department against import of goods at concessional rate of basic custom duty. The Company expects to 
fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
F	
The Company has export obligation of ` 236.44 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 158.68 crores) on account of import duty 
exemption of ` 12.56 crores (March 31, 2023: `8.72 crore) on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods 
(EPCG) and ` 0.79 crores (` 0.15 crores March 31, 2023) Advance Authorisation scheme laid down by the Government of 
India. The Company expects to fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
33.	 Other Notes on Accounts
1	
Investment in subsidiaries
	
The Company‘s investments in subsidiaries are as under:
Name of the subsidiaries
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of ownership 
interest as at  
March 31, 2024
Portion of ownership 
interest as at  
March 31, 2023
Method used to 
account for the 
investment 
Havells International Inc.*
United States of 
America
100%
-
At cost
Havells Guangzhou International 
Limited
China
100%
100%
At cost
* Incorporated on Oct,19th 2023
2	
During the year, the Company has capitalised the following expenses directly relatable to the cost of property, plant and 
equipment and capital work-in progress, being expenses related to projects and development of Dies and Fixtures. 
Consequently, expenses disclosed under the respective notes are net of amounts capitalised by the Company.
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cost of material consumed
 14.48 
 13.33 
Employee benefits expense*
 4.39 
 11.76 
Other expenses
 5.31 
 4.83 
 24.18 
 29.92 
*Employee benefits expense includes overheads
3	
Leases
i	
The Company’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land and buildings for branch offices and warehouses having the 
various lease terms. The Company also has certain leases of with lease terms of 12 months or less. The Company applies 
the ‘short-term lease’ recognition exemption for these leases. Payment made towards leases of low value assets (lease of 
assets worth less than ` 2 Lakhs) other than building and warehouse are recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss as 
rental expenses over the tenure of such leases.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
235
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
ii	
Following is carrying value of right of use assets and the movements thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Right of Use Asset
Total
Leasehold Land
Leasehold Building
Balance as at April 1, 2022
223.91
209.75
 433.66 
Additions during the year
 1.34 
51.86
 53.20 
Deletion during the year
 - 
 (4.22)
 (4.22)
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 30)
 (2.54)
 (48.07)
 (50.61)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 222.71 
209.32
 432.03 
Additions during the year
 0.30 
133.72
 134.02 
Deletion during the year
 (0.15)
 - 
 (0.15)
Depreciation on Right of use assets (refer note 30)
 (2.54)
 (65.73)
 (68.27)
 Balance as at March 31, 2024 
 220.32 
277.31
 497.63 
iii	
The following is the carrying value of lease liability and movement thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2022
220.87
Additions during the year
 50.73 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 18.35 
Deletion during the year
 (4.10)
Lease rent concession
 (0.12)
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (62.63)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 223.10 
Additions during the year
 131.39 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 25.82 
Deletion during the year
 - 
Lease rent concession
 - 
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (77.15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 303.16 
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 19 (A)} 
 60.72 
Non-Current Lease Liability {refer note 15 (A)} 
 242.44 
 303.16 
iv	
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 33(10).
v	
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities as at April 1, 2019 is 8.5%
vi	
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss during the year
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold building
 65.73 
 48.07 
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold land
 2.54 
 2.54 
Finance cost accrued during the year (included in finance cost) (refer note 29)
 25.82 
 18.35 
Expense related to short term leases (included in other expense) (refer note 31)
 48.47 
 31.57 
vii	
The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient to 
meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
Havells India Limited
236
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
viii	 The Company has applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of a similar assets in similar economic environment 
with similar end date.
ix	
Non-cash investing activities during the year:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Acquisition of right of use assets 
 134.02 
 53.20 
Recognition of grant related to assets 
 3.21 
 - 
Disposals of right of use assets 
 (0.15)
 (4.22)
4	
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Disclosures pursuant to Ind AS - 19 “Employee Benefits” (notified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision 
of the Act) are given below :
	
Contribution to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year is as under:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Employer’s Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
55.43
47.40
Employer’s Contribution towards Employee State Insurance (ESI)
0.29
0.32
55.72
47.72
	
Defined Benefit Plan
	
The employees’ Gratuity Fund Scheme, which is a defined benefit plan, is managed by the trust which maintains its 
investments with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Under the gratuity plan, every employee who has completed at least five years of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 
days of last drawn basic salary for each completed year of service. The present value of obligation is determined based on 
actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method, which recognises each period of service as giving rise to additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss, the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit 
obligation
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
177.81
140.29
Interest Expense
 12.67 
9.90 
Current Service Cost
 23.88 
 24.80 
Benefit paid
 (10.95)
(6.64)
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 1.86 
 3.62 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 3.91 
 5.84 
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at year end
209.18
177.81
b) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan 
assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
142.45
131.64
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
237
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Expected return on plan assets
11.77
9.59
Employer contribution
29.07 
8.65 
Remeasurement of Gain/(loss) in other comprehensive income
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
(0.66)
(0.79)
Benefits paid
(9.99)
(6.64)
Fair value of plan assets at year end
172.64
142.45
c)
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
172.64 
142.45 
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(209.18)
(177.81)
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet- Asset / (Liability)
(36.54)
(35.36)
Current portion {refer note 20(i)} 
(30.56)
(31.21)
Non-current portion 
(5.98)
(4.15)
d) Net defined benefit expense (recognised in the Statement of profit and 
loss for the year)
Current service cost
 23.88 
24.80
Interest cost (net)
 0.90 
 0.31 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit and loss 
24.78
25.11
e)
Remeasurement (gain)/ loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 1.86 
 3.62 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 3.91 
 5.84 
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
 0.66 
 0.79 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
 6.43 
 10.25 
f)
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total assets
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
g)	
Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Mortality Table (LIC)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
Discount rate (per annum)
7.24%
7.37%
Salary Escalation 
9.50%
9.50%
Attrition Rate 
7.00%
7.00%
h)	
Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations at the end of the year
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
 (13.41)
 (11.77)
Decrease by 1%
 15.30 
 13.42 
Salary increase
Increase by 1%
 14.96 
 13.16 
Decrease by 1%
 (13.38)
 (11.78)
Attrition rate
Increase by 1%
 (1.94)
 (1.50)
Decrease by 1%
 2.18 
 (1.71)
Havells India Limited
238
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
i)	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 13.23 
 12.75 
Between 2 and 5 years 
 87.31 
 75.71 
More than 5 years
 283.80 
 248.85 
Total expected payments
 384.34 
 337.31 
j)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21.80 years for on-roll 
employees (March 31, 2023: 21.87 years).
k)	
The Company expects to contribute ` 28.14 crores (March 31,2023 : ` 29.08 crores) to the plan during the next financial year.
l)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The above information is as 
certified by the Actuary. 
m)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
n)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in an assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period while holding all 
other assumption constraint. In practice it is unlikely to occur and change in some of the assumption may be correlated. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value 
of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been 
applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
o)	
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior 
period.
5	
Segment Reporting 
	
The segment reporting of the Company has been prepared in accordance with Ind AS-108, “Operating Segment” (specified 
under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 
2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision of the Act). For management purposes, the Company is 
organized into business units based on its products and services and has six reportable segments as follows:
a)
Operating Segments
Switchgears
: Domestic and Industrial switchgears, electrical wiring accessories and capacitors. 
Cables
: Domestic cables and Industrial underground cables. 
Lighting and Fixtures
: Energy Saving Lamps (LED, Fixtures) and luminaries. 
Electrical Consumer Durables
: Fans, Water Heaters, Coolers, and Domestic Appliances 
Lloyd Consumer
: Air Conditioner, Television, Refrigerator and Washing Machine 
Others
: Industrial motors, Pump, Water purifier, Solar, Personal Grooming 
	
b)	
Identification of Segments:
	
	
Operating segments have been identified on the basis of the nature of product / services and have been identified 
as per the quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of 
its business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or 
loss in the financial statements.
	
c)	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue and expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
239
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
d)	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax related 
assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities that can not be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have 
been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
e)	
There is no transfer of products between operating segments.
	
f)	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues
	
g)	
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
A.
Revenue from operations
Segment Revenue (Sales and other operating revenue)
Switchgears
2,244.96 
 2,119.63 
Cables
6,317.57 
 5,532.60 
Lighting and fixtures
1,626.79 
 1,601.53 
Electrical consumer durables
3,481.76 
 3,295.80 
Lloyd Consumer
3,785.22 
 3,368.55 
Others
1,093.60 
950.27 
18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
Inter Segment Sale
-
-
Total segment revenue
18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
B. 
Results
Segment results
Switchgears
596.03 
552.97 
Cables 
716.05 
522.85 
Lighting and fixtures
247.41 
244.71 
Electrical consumer durables
387.15 
416.03 
Lloyd Consumer
 (164.39)
(222.69)
Others
24.55 
 33.73 
Segment profit
1,806.80 
 1,547.60 
Reconciliation of segment operating profit to operating profit
Unallocated:
Other unallocable expenses net off 
 (339.52)
(240.75)
Provision no longer required written back (non-recurring)
39.53 
-
Other unallocable income
248.73 
177.02 
Operating Profit
1,755.54 
 1,483.87 
Finance Costs {refer note 29}
(45.71)
(33.62)
Profit before exceptional items and tax
1,709.83 
 1,450.25 
Exceptional Items:
a) Loss due to fire
 -
112.52 
b) Insurance claim receivable
 -
(112.52)
Net Profit/ (Loss) for the year before tax and after exceptional items
1,709.83 
 1,450.25 
Income tax expense {refer note 17}
 (436.62)
(375.30)
Profit after tax 
1,273.21 
 1,074.95 
Havells India Limited
240
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
C.
Reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements
Segment Assets
Switchgears
621.91 
580.76 
Cables
1,568.61 
 1,309.14 
Lighting and fixtures
660.57 
694.29 
Electrical consumer durables
1,195.05 
 1,143.17 
Lloyd Consumer
4,126.90 
 4,262.91 
Others
325.06 
285.57 
Segment operating assets
8,498.10 
 8,275.84 
Reconciliation of segment operating assets to total assets
Cash and bank balance {refer note, 7(C), 11(C) and (D)}
3,015.42 
 1,977.11 
Investment and Fixed deposits with financial institutions {refer note 7(A) and 
11(A)}
20.00 
200.87 
Investment in Subsidiaries{refer note 5}
21.18 
0.45 
Other unallocable assets
865.13 
688.93 
Total assets
12,419.83 
 11,143.20 
Segment Liabilities
Switchgears
469.64 
387.87 
Cables
1,177.92 
859.26 
Lighting and fixtures
375.09 
345.74 
Electrical consumer durables
656.50 
621.87 
Lloyd Consumer
992.80 
 1,105.28 
Others
229.64 
201.92 
Segment operating liabilities
3,901.59 
 3,521.94 
Reconciliation of segment operating liabilities to total liabilities
Lease Liabilities{refer note 15(A) and 19(A)}
303.16 
223.10 
Deferred tax liability {refer note 17(d)}
357.52 
361.51 
Current tax liabilities (net){refer note 21}
85.20 
 32.26 
Other unallocable liabilities
333.91 
389.91 
Total liabilities
4,981.38 
 4,528.72 
Other non-current assets 
Switchgears
 6.91 
1.24 
Cables 
10.58 
 27.78 
Lighting and fixtures
 0.30 
7.15 
Electrical consumer durables
 4.65 
2.08 
Lloyd Consumer
 5.00 
5.10 
Others
 0.30 
2.64 
27.74 
 45.99 
Unallocable assets
118.88 
 32.95 
146.62 
 78.94 
Capital Expenditure
Switchgears
54.26 
 27.28 
Cables 
251.39 
 19.67 
Lighting and fixtures
109.40 
 22.28 
Electrical consumer durables
65.12 
 41.91 
Lloyd Consumer
161.77 
404.36 
Others
28.78 
6.88 
670.72 
522.38 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
241
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Unallocable capital expenditure
41.97 
 48.74 
712.69 
571.12 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
Switchgears
52.92 
 49.83 
Cables
75.30 
 64.38 
Lighting and fixtures
21.31 
 18.92 
Electrical consumer durables
60.82 
 54.30 
Lloyd Consumer
115.23 
 95.58 
Others
12.90 
 13.10 
338.48 
296.11 
Non-cash expenses (net) other than depreciation
Switchgears
 1.11 
2.82 
Cables
 3.42 
6.47 
Lighting and fixtures
 7.28 
1.48 
Electrical consumer durables
 2.17 
3.45 
Lloyd Consumer
 3.11 
3.46 
Others
 0.53 
0.89 
17.62 
 18.57 
Impairment/ (reversal of impairment) on investment in subsidiary
 -
(2.85)
17.62 
 15.72 
Note: Non cash expenses other than depreciation includes loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, bad debts 
and Impairment allowance for trade receivables and other assets considered doubtful
Segment Revenue by location of customers
The following is the distribution of Company's revenue by geographical 
market, regardless of where the goods were produced.
Revenue-Domestic Market
17,946.67 
 16,382.80 
Revenue-Overseas Market
603.23 
485.58 
18,549.90 
 16,868.38 
Geographical Segment assets 
Within India
12,381.58 
 11,085.34 
Outside India
38.25 
 57.86 
12,419.83 
 11,143.20 
Geographical Non-current assets
Within India
4,422.30 
 3,858.58 
Outside India
10.83 
7.34 
4,433.13 
 3,865.92 
Note:- Non Current assets for this purpose excludes investment in subsidiaries, Contract assets, non current financial assets and non current tax assets
Notes:
(i)	
Finance income and costs on financial assets are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed at 
company level.
(ii)	
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also managed at 
company level
(iii)	
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, Capital work in progress and intangible assets
(iv)	
There is no single external customer accounting to 10 per cent or more of an Company’s revenues
Havells India Limited
242
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6	
Related party transactions
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,”Related Party Disclosures”, { under the section 133 of the Companies 
Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as 
disclosed below:-
(A)
Names of related parties and description of relationship :
Related party where control exists
Subsidiary Companies
Relationship
1	
Havells International Inc.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS), (incorporated on October 19, 2023)
2	
Havells Guangzhou International Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS)
Step-Down subsidiary companies
Havells Lighting LLC
Step-down subsidiary, (incorporated on December 11, 2023)
Havells HVAC LLC
Step-down subsidiary, (incorporated on March 19, 2024)
(B)
Names of other related parties :
(i)
Enterprises having significant influence over 
company
(iv) Key Management Personnel
QRG Enterprises Limited 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director 
QRG Investment and Holding Limited 
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director & Group CFO 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director 
(ii)
Enterprises in which directors are having 
significant influence
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Whole-time Director 
QRG Foundation 
 Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary 
Guptajee & Company 
SRF Limited 
Non Executive Directors
Manipal Health Enterprises Pvt. Ltd 
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited 
Shri T V Mohandas Pai
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
(iii)
Employee benefit trust for the benefited 
employees
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani 
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust 
Shri U K Sinha
Havells Employees Welfare Trust 
Shri B P Rao
Shri S S Mundra
Shri Vivek Mehra 
Smt Namrata Kaul
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
(v) Other Related Parties
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
- Associate Director
- HKHR Ventures LLP (Partner)
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta
- Associate Director
- Eastern Distributors (Partner)
- Gupta Enterprise (Partner)
- YKG Enterprises (Partner)
- OP Gupta and Company (Partner)
- OPG Travels (Partner)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
243
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2023 
(C)
Transactions during the year
(i)
Subscription of investments
Subsidiaries 
Havells International Inc.
20.73 
- 
20.73 
- 
(ii)
Service Income (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises having significant influence over company
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 0.10 
- 
 0.10 
- 
(iii)
Purchase of goods and stores & spares
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
18.95 
 17.87 
18.95 
 17.87 
(iv)
Sale of products (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
 3.70 
7.21 
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited
 0.22 
- 
Other Related Parties
OP Gupta and Company
 5.12 
1.63 
 9.04 
8.84 
(v)
Commission on sales (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee and Company
20.13 
 20.65 
Other Related Parties
 Eastern Distributors 
21.78 
 19.07 
 Gupta Enterprise
 2.05 
2.01 
 YKG Enterprises 
 2.95 
2.95 
 HKHR Ventures LLP 
43.86 
 38.10 
90.77 
 82.78 
(vi)
Rent / Usage Charges Paid
Enterprises having significant influence over company
QRG Enterprises Limited 
28.82
29.52
28.82 
 29.52 
(vii)
Reimbursement of expenses paid
Other Related Parties
OPG Travels
 0.95 
1.15 
 0.95 
1.15 
(viii)
CSR Contribution
Enterprises having significant influence
QRG Foundation 
 9.08 
9.70 
 9.08 
9.70 
(ix)
Contribution to post employee benefit plan
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust
29.08
8.65
29.08 
8.65 
(x)
Managerial remuneration
Key Management Personnel
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
59.17 
 51.44 
Contribution towards PF, Family Pension and ESI
 2.21 
2.01 
Post-employment benefits 
 1.45 
1.15 
ESPP expense 
11.23 
 13.01 
Havells India Limited
244
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2023 
Non-Executive Directors
Director sitting fees
 1.01 
0.90 
Commission
 1.80 
1.80 
(xi)
Remuneration to other Related Parties
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 3.00 
3.00 
79.87 
 73.31 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(D)
Balances at the year end 
(i) Amount Receivable
Enterprises in which directors are interested
SRF Limited
 0.03 
- 
0.03
-
(ii) Amount Payables
Enterprises in which directors are interested
Guptajee & Company
 5.34 
5.26 
SRF Limited
 2.20 
1.39 
Other Related Parties
Eastern Distributors 
 6.27 
5.28 
Gupta Enterprise
 0.65 
0.24 
OP Gupta and Company
 0.00 
- 
HKHR Ventures LLP
10.31 
3.80 
OPG Travels
 0.10 
0.03 
24.87
16.00
a)	
The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free. The settlement for these balances occurs through 
payment. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year 
ended March 31, 2024, the Company has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related 
parties (March 31, 2023: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of 
the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
b)	
As at March 31, 2024, the Company has not granted any loans to the promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties (as 
defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person (March 31, 2023: Nil).
c)	
Transactions with related parties are reported gross of Goods and Service Tax.
7	
Share based payments
	
The Company has in place following employee stock purchase plan approved by shareholders of the Company in compliance 
with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) regulations, 2021 :
	
(a)	
Havells Employee Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 : In accordance with this scheme, 51,376 (March 31, 2023 : 41,817) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted, out of which 50,945 (March 31, 2023: 41,415) share options of ` 1 each were 
vested and allotted on June 08, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : June 03, 2022) to eligible employees at ` 1,230.20 (March 31, 
2022: ` 1,289.85) per share as contributed by these employees. As per the scheme, 50% of the shares are under lock 
in period of 13 months and balance 50% for 2 years. Also as per the scheme, the Company is obliged to pay 50% of the 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
245
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
contribution made by eligible employees as retention bonus over a period of two years in equal instalments. Accordingly, 
a sum of ` 2.53 crores (March 31, 2023 : ` 2.23 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense 
(refer note 28).
	
(b)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2015 : In accordance with this scheme, 93,040, which will be transferred to 
eligible employees together with the 41,960 Shares lying in the Trust, against the Exercise of 1,35,000 share options 
(March 31, 2023: 150,000) of ` 1 each were granted, vested and allotted on June 08,2023 (March 31, 2023: June 03, 
2022) at ` 1,230.20 (March 31, 2023: ` 1289.85) per share to eligible employees as contributed by the Company. As 
per the scheme, 78% of the shares are under lock in period of 13 months and remaining 22% are under lock in period 
for 2 years. Accordingly, a sum of ` 16.61 crores (March 2023 :` 19.35 crores) has been recognised as employee stock 
purchase plan expenses (refer note 28).
	
(c)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2016 : In accordance with the said scheme, 34,303 (March 31, 2023: 24,942) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in three years starting from 2022. 
During the year, 20,627 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2023 : 13534 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,230.20 
(March 31, 2023 : `1,289.85) per share on June 08, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : June 03, 2022). Accordingly, a sum of 
`3.88 crores (March 31,2023: 2.69 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense refer note 
28 and balance outstanding of ` 2.81 crores (March 31, 2023 : 1.48 crores) (refer note 14).
	
(d)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2022 : In accordance with the said scheme, 65,628 (March 31, 2023: 17,733) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in five years starting from 2022. During 
the year, 8680 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2023 : 1722 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,230.20 (March 31, 
2023 : 1348.55) per share on November 01, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : November 03, 2022). Accordingly, a sum of `3.98 
crores (March 31,2023: 1.06 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense refer note 28 and 
balance outstanding of ` 3.75 crores (March 31, 2023 : 0.82) (refer note 14).
	
(i)	
Set out below is a summary of options granted and vested during the year under the plan
2023-24
2022-23
Summary of Stock Options
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 34,691 
 - 
 10,023 
 - 
Options granted during the year
 2,86,307 
 1,230.20 
 2,34,492 
 1,290.34 
Options vested and exercised during the year (refer 
note below)
 (2,15,252)
 1,230.20 
 (2,06,671)
 1,290.34 
Options lapsed during the year
 (9,005)
 - 
 (3,153)
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 96,741 
 - 
 34,691 
 - 
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended March 31, 2024 was 
` 1,230.20 per share (March 31, 2023 : ` 1,290.34) per share. For share options outstanding at the end of the year, exercise 
price ranges from ` 1,152.55 to ` 1,188.50.
	
Note: Includes 41,960 equity shares of ` 1 each already lying with the Havells Employee Welfare Trust transferred to the eligible employees 
against exercise of 2,15,252 shares under the ESPS scheme
	
(ii)	
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
ESPP Scheme
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
Grant date
May 02, 2023
May 02, 2023
Oct 03, 2022
May 05, 2022
Expiry date
2024-25 to 
2027-28
2024-25 and 
2025-26
2023-24 to 
2026-27
2023-24 and 
2024-25
Outstanding share options
67,262
29,479
16,011
18,680
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options 
outstanding at the end of the year
4 years
2 year
4 years
2 year
Havells India Limited
246
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
The fair value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1,211.83 to 
` 1,222.64 per share (March 31, 2023 was within range of ` 1,271.53 to ` 1,348.16 per share). The fair value at the grant date 
is determined using Black Scholes valuation model which takes into account the exercise price, the terms of the options, the 
share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, the expected dividend yield and the risk free 
interest rate for the term of the option.
	
(iii)	 The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2016) :
(a)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Expected Price volatility of the company's share
9.87% to 27.31%
10.10% to 15.29%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.59%
0.70%
Share price at the grant date
` 1,230.20
R` 1,289.85
Risk free interest rate
7.12%
7.15%
The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2022) :
(b)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Expected Price volatility of the company's share
9.87% to 31.53%
7.78% to 15.30%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.59%
0.70%
Share price at the grant date
` 1,230.20
` 1,348.55
Risk free interest rate
7.12%
7.41%
	
(iv)	 The expected price volatility is based on the historical volatility (based on remaining life of the options), adjusted for any 
expected change to future volatility due to publically available information.
	
(v)	
Expense arising from shared based payment transactions
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Havells Employees Long Term Incentive Plan 2014
2.53
2.23
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2015
16.61
19.35
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2016
3.88
2.69
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2022
3.98
1.06
Total expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss account as a 
part of employee benefit expense
27.00
25.33
8	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
As per provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has to incur at least 2% of average net profits of 
the preceding three financial years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). Accordingly, a CSR committee has been 
formed for carrying out CSR activities as per the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. Details are as under:
	
Details of CSR Expenditure:
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Contribution to Reimagining Higher Education Foundation for building educational 
infrastructure
 11.00 
 13.00 
Contribution to QRG Foundation for providing mid day meal, promotion of 
sanitation & hygiene and free coaching
 9.08 
 9.70 
Others: for development of healthcare infrastructure, tree plantation, promoting 
education, etc.
 9.85 
 4.19 
Accrual towards unspent obligation in relation to 
	
Ongoing Project
 - 
 - 
	
Other than ongoing Project
 - 
 - 
Total
 29.93 
 26.89 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
247
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Add : Carried forward from previous year
 0.93 
 0.72 
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carry forward to next year
 0.65 
 0.93 
Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 30.21 
 26.68 
Amount required to be spent as per section 135 of the Act
 30.21 
26.68
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 30.21 
26.68
Amount spent during the year on 
(i)	
Construction/ acquisition of assets
 14.72 
 14.55 
(ii)	
Contribution to Trust/Universities/Society
 9.12 
 8.30 
(iii)	
On purpose other than above
 6.09 
 4.04 
Total Amount Spent
 29.93 
 26.89 
Excess spent from previous year utilised during the current year
 0.93 
 0.72 
Amount yet to be spent
 - 
 - 
Total 
 30.86 
 27.61 
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carry forward to next year (refer note 12)
 0.65 
 0.93 
Total
 30.21 
 26.68 
	
Details of ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With the 
Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
A/c
From 
Company’s 
bank account
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
With the 
Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
FY2022-23
-
 8.00 
-
-
 4.00 
-
 4.00 
FY2023-24
-
 4.00 
 -
-
 4.00 
 -
 - 
Note: The company had earned an interest of INR 0.16 crores (0.41 crores in March 2023) on the funds in CSR unspent bank account during the 
year.Further, the company has made an additional payment of ` 0.79 crores to Ashoka University, on account of interest earned (net of taxes) on 
amount deposited in separate CSR Bank account.including the 0.16 crores interest earned during the year. 
	
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013 in respect of unspent amount other than 
ongoing projects
Year
Opening Balance 
unspent
Amount deposited in Specified 
Fund of Schedule VII of the 
Act within 6 months
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year
Amount 
spent during 
the year
Closing 
Balance 
unspent
FY2022-23
-
 - 
 26.68 
 26.68 
-
FY2023-24
-
 - 
 30.21 
 30.21 
-
	
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013
Year
Opening balance 
excess spent
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing balance 
excess spent
FY2022-23
 0.72 
26.68
26.89
0.93
FY2023-24
 0.93 
30.21
29.93
0.65
Havells India Limited
248
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9	
Fair value measurements
	
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments:
(` in crores)
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Financial instruments by category
Financial assets valued at amortized cost
Investments with financial institution
 - 
 180.87 
 - 
 180.87 
Cash and bank balances (Current)
 3,015.42 
 1,861.87 
 3,015.42 
 1,861.87 
Trade Receivables
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 20.99 
 116.89 
 20.99 
 116.89 
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 32.86 
 148.86 
 32.86 
 148.86 
 4,226.72 
 3,281.41 
 4,226.72 
 3,281.41 
Financial Liabilities valued at amortized cost
Trade Payables
 2,690.70 
 2,642.54 
 2,690.70 
 2,642.54 
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 223.10 
 303.16 
 223.10 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 7.21 
 4.05 
 7.21 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 624.85 
 787.68 
 624.85 
 3,785.59 
 3,497.70 
 3,785.59 
 3,497.70 
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and 
other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of the other financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions 
were used to estimate the fair values:
1)	
The fair value of unquoted instruments, other non-current financial assets and non-current financial liabilities is estimated by 
discounting future cash flows (DCF model) using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining 
maturities. The valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant unobservable 
inputs are disclosed in the tables below. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those 
significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
2)	
The fair values of the Company’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using DCF method using discount rate that 
reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk as at March 31, 2024 
was assessed to be insignificant.
3)	
Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
4)	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
	
Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted (unadjusted) market prices at the 
end of the reporting period for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. 
This is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
249
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
There are no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
	
This section explains the judgement and estimates made in determining the fair value of financial assets that are:
	
a)	
Recognised and measured at Fair value
	
b)	
Measured at amortised cost and for which fair value is disclosed in financial statements
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2024
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 32.86 
 - 
 - 
 32.86 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 20.99 
 - 
 - 
 20.99 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 - 
 - 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 - 
 - 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2023
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2023
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (non-current)
 148.86 
 - 
 - 
 148.86 
Other Financial assets (current)
 116.89 
 - 
 - 
 116.89 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 223.10 
 - 
 - 
 223.10 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 7.21 
 - 
 - 
 7.21 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 624.85 
 - 
 - 
 624.85 
10	
Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of 
these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include trade and 
other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations. 
	
The Company’s financial risk management is an integral part of how to plan and execute its business strategies. The Company 
is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the 
management of these risks. The senior professionals working to manage the financial risks and the appropriate financial 
risk governance framework for the Company are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee. This process 
provides assurance to Company’s senior management that the Company’s financial risk-taking activities are governed 
by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risk are identified, measured and managed in accordance with 
Company policies and Company risk objective.
Havells India Limited
250
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarized as below:
	
(a)	
Market Risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market prices. Market prices comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and other price risks, such 
as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risks include loans and borrowings, 
deposits, investments, and foreign currency receivables and payables. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections 
relate to the position as at reporting date. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the 
carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The 
sensitivity of the relevant Profit and Loss item and equity is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market 
risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023
	
	
(i)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in foreign 
currency). Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods from the respective 
countries. The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows 
established risk management policies.
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk sensitivity
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD,EUR,CNY and other currencies 
including JPY,KES,NPR, CHF, LKR, MWK,AED,SLL and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The 
impact on the Company profit before tax and equity is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. 
Foreign currency exposures recognised by the Company that have not been hedged by a derivative instrument or 
otherwise are as under:
Gain/ (loss)
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.40)
 (283.09)
 (14.15)
14.15
EURO 
 €  (0.07)
 (6.29)
 (0.31)
0.31
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.78)
 (66.57)
 (3.33)
3.33
Other currencies 
(0.40)
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
0.02
March 31, 2023
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
 Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.16)
 (259.58)
 (12.98)
12.98
EURO 
 €  (0.04)
 (3.77)
 (0.19)
0.19
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.88)
 (70.17)
 (3.51)
3.51
Other currencies 
(8.54)
 (5.33)
 (0.27)
0.27
Note:
Figures in bracket represents payables
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
251
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(ii)	
Interest Rate Risk
	
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s long term debt obligation at floating interest rates. The Company’s borrowings outstanding as at March 31, 
2024 and March 31,2023 comprise of long term loans.
	
(iii)	 Commodity Price Risk
	
	
The Company is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
manufacture of industrial and domestic cable and other electronic items and therefore require a continuous supply 
of copper and aluminium being the major input used in the manufacturing. To mitigate the risk of supply and price 
fluctuations, Domestic and overseas sources are bench-marked to Optimize the allocation of business share among 
various sources. The Company’s Board of Directors has developed and enacted a risk management strategy regarding 
commodity price risk and its mitigation. The Company mitigated the risk of price volatility by entering Long Term & Short 
term contracts for the Purchase of these commodities basis estimated annual requirements.
	
(b)	 Credit Risk
	
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer contract, 
leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) 
and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial 
instruments.
	
(i)	
Trade Receivables and Contract Assets
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and 
control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive 
credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer 
receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Trade Receivable 
buyout facility without recourse, letters of credit and other forms of security. 
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on trade receivables by lifetime expected credit loss method 
based on provision matrix. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the concentration 
of risk with respect to trade receivables and contract assets as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions 
and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
	
The group assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, inputs and 
factors specific to the class of the financial assets. The group provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Internal 
Rating
Category
Description of category 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss provision 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss
Trade receivables and 
contract assets 
Loans & Deposits
VL 1 
High quality assets, 
negligible credit risk 
Assets where the counterparty has strong 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where the risk of default is negligible or nil 
Lifetime expected credit 
losses (simplified approach)
12 months expected 
credit losses
VL 2
Quality assets, low 
credit risk 
Assets where there is low risk of default 
and where the counterparty has sufficient 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where there has been low frequency of 
defaults in the past 
VL 3
Doubtful assets, 
credit-impaired 
Assets where there is high risk of default 
and there is no reasonable expectation of 
recovery,the group continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover 
the receivable due. Where recoveries are 
made, these are recognised in profit or loss.
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
Havells India Limited
252
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 - 
 641.89 
 421.38 
 31.70 
 51.52 
 35.00 
 72.50  1,253.99 
(ii)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
– 
contract assets 
 - 
 39.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.85 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.11%
0.60%
7.05%
19.96%
54.89%
85.93%
7.52%
(iv)
Expected credit losses– trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.00 
 2.51 
 2.24 
 10.28 
 19.21 
 62.30 
 96.54 
(v)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
contract assets 
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
(vi)
Carrying 
amount 
of 
trade 
receivables (net of impairment) 
 - 
 641.89 
 418.87 
 29.46 
 41.24 
 15.79 
 10.20  1,157.45 
Carrying amount of contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 - 
 39.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.09 
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
Not 
due 
Less than 
6 months 
6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 -
266.47 
 598.11 
 45.98  52.31 
 25.58 
 72.12  1,060.58 
(ii)
Gross carrying amount – contract assets 
 - 
 52.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52.24 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.00%
0.03%
10.94%
8.54%
51.33%
89.86%
8.26%
(iv)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.21 
 5.03 
 4.47 
 13.13 
 64.81 
 87.66 
(v)
Expected credit losses– contract assets 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Carrying amount of trade receivables 
(net of impairment) 
 - 266.46 
 597.91 
 40.95  47.84 
 12.45 
 7.31 
 972.92 
Carrying amount of contract assets 
(net of impairment) 
- 
 52.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52.24 
(ii)	
Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities. 
The limits are set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential 
failure to make payments. 
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2024 is the carrying 
amounts. The Company’s maximum exposure relating to financial instrument is noted in liquidity table below.
	
Trade Receivables and other financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as 
debtor failing to engage in the repayment plan with the Company. 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
253
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using 12 months Expected Credit Loss Method (ECL)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investment with financial institution
 - 
 180.87 
Cash and cash equivalents (Current)
243.35
 456.86 
Bank balances other than above (Current)
2772.07
 1,405.01 
Other bank balances (Non-current)
Others Non Current financial assets
 32.86 
 148.86 
Others Current financial assets
 20.99 
 116.89 
 3,069.27 
 2,309.49 
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using Life time Expected 
Credit Loss Method (ECL)
Trade Receivables
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
Balances with banks is subject to low credit risks due to good credit ratings assigned to these banks
The ageing analysis of trade receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Particulars
Trade Receivables
Not past due 
 641.89 
 266.46 
0 to 180 days due past due date
 418.87 
 597.91 
More than 180 days past due date
 96.69 
 108.55 
Total Trade Receivables 
 1,157.45 
 972.92 
The following table summarizes the change in loss allowance measured 
using the life time expected credit loss model:-
As at the beginning of year
 87.66 
 71.74 
Addition during the year
 17.62 
 18.43 
Utilization during the year
 (7.99)
 (2.52)
As at the end of year
 97.30 
 87.66 
(c)	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at reasonable 
price. The Company’s objective is to at all times maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and liquidity requirements. 
The Company closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash management system. It maintains adequate 
source of financing through the use of short term bank deposits, short term loans, short term commercial papers and cash 
credit facility. Processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management. Management monitors the 
Company’s liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows. The Company assessed the 
concentration of risk with respect to its debt and concluded it to be low.
	
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
	
The table below provides the details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date 
based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Havells India Limited
254
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2024
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 4.05 
 - 
 4.05 
Trade payables
 2,690.70 
 - 
 - 
 2,690.70 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 93.36 
 200.73 
 93.12 
 387.21 
Other current financial liabilities
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
As at March 31, 2023
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 7.21 
 - 
 7.21 
Trade payables
 2,642.54 
 - 
 - 
 2,642.54 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 54.49 
 166.07 
 121.92 
 342.48 
Other current financial liabilities
 624.85 
 - 
 - 
 624.85 
11	
Capital Management
	
For the purposes of Company’s capital management, Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to safeguard its 
ability to continue as going concern and to ensure that it maintains an efficient capital structure and maximize shareholder 
value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and 
the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend 
payment to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2024 
and March 31, 2023.
(` in crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents {refer note 11(C)}
 (243.35)
 (456.86)
Loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
Net Debt
 - 
 - 
Equity / Net Worth
 7,438.45 
 6,614.48 
Total Capital
 7,438.45 
 6,614.48 
Gearing ratio (Net Debt/Capital and Net Debt)
NA*
NA*
Note: No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
March 31, 2023
* This ratio is not relevant for both year as there are no Loans and Borrowings.
12	
Earnings per share
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)
Basic Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation 
 (` in crores) 
1273.21
1074.95
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year
 (Numbers) 
 62,66,46,898 
 62,64,88,642 
Earnings per share-Basic (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
 20.32 
 17.16 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
255
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
b)
Diluted Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation
 (` in crores) 
1273.21
1074.95
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic 
earning per share
 (Numbers) 
 62,66,46,898 
 62,64,88,642 
Effect of dilution
Share options
 (Numbers) 
 72,890 
 44,860 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year adjusted for the effect of dilution 
 (Numbers) 
 62,67,19,788 
 62,65,33,502 
Earnings per share- Diluted (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
20.32
17.16
13	
Dividend Paid and Proposed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Dividend declared and paid during the year:
Final Dividend of ` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23 (` 4.50 per share for FY 2021-22)
 282.01 
 281.93 
Interim dividend of ` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 3.00 per share for FY 2022-23)
 188.00 
 187.95 
 470.01 
 469.88 
Proposed Dividends on equity shares:
Final Dividend recommended by the board of directors for the year ended March 31, 
2024 ` 6.00 per share of Re 1 each (March 31, 2023: ` 4.50 per share of Re 1 each) 
subject to approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
 376.01 
 281.93 
 376.01 
 281.93 
Note: Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as liability as at reporting date.
14	
Disclosure required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Particulars of Investments made:
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Sl. 
No
Name of the Investee
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
Investment made
Outstanding 
Balance
1
Havells International Inc.
 20.73 
 20.73 
 - 
 - 
2
Havells Guangzhou International 
Limited
 - 
 0.45 
 - 
 0.45 
3
Singularity Furniture Pvt. Ltd
 - 
 20.00 
 20.00 
 20.00 
4
Deposits account with financial 
instittion
 - 
 - 
 - 
 180.87 
15	
Fire Incident in Neemrana Plant
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, an amount aggregating to `112.52 crore has been accounted for in the 
books and disclosed as “Exceptional items” against the fire incident at Neemrana location in July, 2022. As of year ending 
March 31, 2024, balance claim amounting ` 15.79 crore is receivable towards Property Plant and Equipment from insurance 
company, which will be received in due course.
16	
The Company has not been declared as a Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
Havells India Limited
256
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
17	
Analytical ratio FY 2023-24
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator 
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Change
Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to 
the previous year
(a) Current Ratio 
(times) = Current 
assets/ Current 
liabilities
March 31, 2024: 
7863.76
(March 31, 2023: 
7041.25) 
March 31, 2024: 
4278.53
(March 31, 2023: 
3832.27) 
1.84
1.84
0.03%
Not Applicable
(b) Debt-Equity 
Ratio (times) = 
Total Borrowings/ 
Shareholder's equity*
March 31, 2024: NA
(March 31, 2023: 
NA) 
March 31, 2024: 
7438.45
(March 31, 2023: 
6614.48) 
0.00
0.00
-
Not Applicable 
(c) Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio = 
Earnings available 
for debt service/ 
Debt service 
March 31, 2024: 
1626.05
(March 31, 2023: 
1388.44) 
March 31, 2024: 84.77
(March 31, 2023: 
463.29) 
19.18
3.00 540.05%
Full debt repaid in 
previous year
(d) Return on 
Equity Ratio % = 
Net Profits after 
taxes/ Average 
shareholder's equity
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21
(March 31, 2023: 
1074.95) 
March 31, 2024: 
7026.47
(March 31, 2023: 
6301.56) 
18.12%
17.06%
1.06%
Not Applicable
(e) Inventory 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Revenue from 
operations/ Average 
inventory
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
(March 31, 2023: 
16858.25) 
March 31, 2024: 
3558.50
(March 31, 2023: 
3338.28) 
5.21
5.05
3.15%
Not Applicable
(f) Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net revenue from 
operations/ Average 
trade receivables
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
(March 31, 2023: 
16858.25) 
March 31, 2024: 
1065.18
(March 31, 2023: 
870.21) 
17.40
19.37
-10.17%
Not Applicable 
(g) Trade payables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net purchases/ 
Average trade 
payables
March 31, 2024: 
14856.53
(March 31, 2023: 
14625.01) 
March 31, 2024: 
2666.62
(March 31, 2023: 
2510.98) 
5.57
5.82
-4.35%
Not Applicable 
(h) Net capital 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Revenue from 
operations/ Working 
capital
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
(March 31, 2023: 
16858.25) 
March 31, 2024: 
3585.23
(March 31, 2023: 
3208.98) 
5.17
5.25
-1.58%
Not Applicable 
(i) Net profit ratio % = 
Net profit/ Revenue 
from operations
March 31, 2024: 
1273.21
(March 31, 2023: 
1074.95) 
March 31, 2024: 
18536.40
(March 31, 2023: 
16858.25) 
6.87%
6.38%
0.49%
Not Applicable
(j) Return on capital 
employed % = EBIT/ 
Capital employed 
{refer note ii}
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81
(March 31, 2023: 
1306.85) 
March 31, 2024: 
7795.97
(March 31, 2023: 
6975.99) 
19.33%
18.73%
0.59%
Not Applicable
(k) Return on 
investment % = EBIT/ 
Average total assets
March 31, 2024: 
1506.81
(March 31, 2023: 
1306.85) 
March 31, 2024: 
11781.51
(March 31, 2023: 
10824.18) 
12.79%
12.07%
0.72%
Not Applicable
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
257
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Analytical ratio FY 2022-23
Ratio
Numerator
 Denominator 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Change
Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to 
the previous year
(a) Current Ratio 
(times) = Current 
assets/ Current 
liabilities
March 31, 2023: 
7041.25
(March 31, 2022: 
6586.50) 
March 31, 2023: 
3832.27
(March 31, 2022: 
3629.31) 
1.84
1.81
1.24%
Not Applicable
(b) Debt-Equity 
Ratio (times) = 
Total Borrowings/ 
Shareholder's equity*
March 31, 2023: NA
(March 31, 2022: 
395.53) 
March 31, 2023: 
6614.48
(March 31, 2022: 
5988.64) 
0.00
0.07
-100.00%
Debt Repayment 
(c) Debt Service Coverage 
Ratio = Earnings available 
for debt service/ Debt 
service
March 31, 2023: 
1388.44
(March 31, 2022: 
1491.43) 
March 31, 2023: 
463.29
(March 31, 2022: 
171.24) 
3.00
8.71
-65.59%
Debt Repayment 
(d) Return on Equity 
Ratio % = Net Profits 
after taxes/ Average 
shareholder's equity
March 31, 2023: 
1074.95
(March 31, 2022: 
1194.73) 
March 31, 2023: 
6301.56
(March 31, 2022: 
5576.55) 
17.06%
21.42%
-4.37%
Not Applicable 
(e) Inventory turnover 
ratio (times) = Revenue 
from operations/ Average 
inventory
March 31, 2023: 
16858.25
(March 31, 2022: 
13877.87) 
March 31, 2023: 
3338.28
(March 31, 2022: 
2793.99) 
5.05
4.97
1.67%
Not Applicable
(f) Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net revenue from 
operations/ Average 
trade receivables
March 31, 2023: 
16858.25
(March 31, 2022: 
13877.87) 
March 31, 2023: 
870.21
(March 31, 2022: 
665.57) 
19.37
20.85
-7.09%
Not Applicable 
(g) Trade payables 
turnover ratio (times) 
= Net purchases/ 
Average trade payables
March 31, 2023: 
14625.01
(March 31, 2022: 
11397.95) 
March 31, 2023: 
2510.98
(March 31, 2022: 
1988.10) 
5.82
5.73
1.59%
Not Applicable
(h) Net capital turnover 
ratio (times) = Revenue 
from operations/ Working 
capital
March 31, 2023: 
16858.25
(March 31, 2022: 
13877.87) 
March 31, 2023: 
3208.98
(March 31, 2022: 
2957.19) 
5.25
4.69
11.94%
Not Applicable
(i) Net profit ratio % = 
Net profit/ Revenue 
from operations
March 31, 2023: 
1074.95
(March 31, 2022: 
1194.73) 
March 31, 2023: 
16858.25
(March 31, 2022: 
13877.87) 
6.38%
8.61%
-2.23%
Not Applicable 
(j) Return on capital 
employed % = EBIT/ 
Capital employed 
{refer note ii}
March 31, 2023: 
1306.85
(March 31, 2022: 
1496.78) 
March 31, 2023: 
6975.99
(March 31, 2022: 
6734.79) 
18.73%
22.22%
-3.49%
Not Applicable 
(k) Return on 
investment % = EBIT/ 
Average total assets
March 31, 2023: 1306.85
(March 31, 2022: 
1496.78) 
March 31, 2023: 10824.18
(March 31, 2022: 9662.69) 
12.07%
15.49%
-3.42%
Not Applicable 
Note:
(i) Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments
(ii) Capital Employed = Tangible Net Worth + Total Borrowings + Deferred Tax Liability
(iii) Tangible Net worth is computed as Total Assets - Total Liabilities.
* Borrowings does not includes Lease liabilities
Havells India Limited
258
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
18	
Struck off Companies: Details of relationship with Companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013 
or Section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
Name of the struck off Company
 Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
Company 
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 
(Nos.)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2023 
(Nos.)
 Relation with 
struck off 
Company 
Manilal Patel Private Limited 
(CIN: U17110MH1947PTC005911)
 Shares held by 
struck off company 
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
 Shareholder 
Multitech System Industrial Automation  
Private Limited  
(CIN: U28910TN2014PTC097924)
 Purchase 
` 0.01 crore
` 0.01 crore
 Vendor 
Naveli Decor Pvt. Ltd. 
(CIN: U52609UP2017PTC099523)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.04 crore
 Customer 
Apostle Solutions Private Limited 
(CIN: U74110UP2007PTC032990)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.00 crore
 Customer 
Samadhan Srbh Opc Private Limited 
(CIN: U74999UP2020OPC126709)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.00 crore
 Customer 
Extreme Automation Pvt Ltd 
(CIN: U29220PN2010PTC135444)
 Sales 
` 0.08 crore
` 0.08 crore
 Customer 
Ramesh Sales Corporation Pvt.Ltd. 
(CIN: U52390DL2014PTC266899)
 Sales 
` 0.21 crore
` 0.21 crore
 Customer 
19	
Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013 
	
(i)	
Details of Benami property: No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any 
Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
	
(ii)	
Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium: 
	
	
The Company, other than mentioned below, has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment
% age 
Sharholding
Investment 
made by
 Relationship 
with the 
Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, (Investment 
dated 29th Feb. 2024, File No. 2512890) 
USD 2,500,000
100%
Havells India 
Limited
 Wholly owned 
subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA (Investment dated 
21st Mar. 2024, File No. 2743679) 
USD 1,600,000
100%
Havells 
International Inc., 
USA
 Step Down 
subsidiary 
	
	
The relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and Companies Act has been 
complied with for such transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 
2002 (15 of 2003).
	
	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
259
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
	
(iii)	 Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(iv)	 Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Company has not entered into any scheme of 
arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous financial year.
	
(v)	
Undisclosed income: There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
	
(vi)	 Details of crypto currency or virtual currency: The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual 
currency during the current or previous year.
	
(vii)	 Valuation of PP&E and intangible asset: The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including 
right-of-use assets) or intangible assets or both during the current or previous year.
	
(viii)	The company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand.
20	
The figures have been rounded off to the nearest crore of rupees upto two decimal places. The figure 0.00 wherever stated 
represents value less than ` 50,000/-.
21	
The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility that have operated throughout the financial year for all relevant transactions, except: (a) for modification, if any, 
made by certain users having debug access for troubleshooting; and (b) that the audit trail, which was enabled at database 
level in the last month of the financial year, contains only the modified values. The audit trail feature was not tampered with for 
the aforesaid period. There was no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with for the period the audit trail was enabled.
22	
Note No.1 to 33 form integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet and Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss.
Havells India Limited
260
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Havells India Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Havells India Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”), (refer Note 32(1) to the attached 
consolidated financial statements), which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, and 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income), 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the consolidated financial statements, material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated 
financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group, as at March 31, 2024, and consolidated total 
comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other 
comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity 
and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group in accordance 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements in India in terms 
of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the 
Act, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit 
evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their 
reports referred to in sub-paragraph 15 of the Other 
Matters section below, other than the unaudited financial 
statements as certified by the management and referred to 
in sub-paragraph 14 of the Other Matters section below, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key Audit Matter
4.	
Key audit matter are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined 
the matter described below to be the key audit matter to 
be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial 
assets of Lloyd Consumer business (Refer Note 4 to the 
consolidated financial statements)
As at March 31, 2024, the consolidated financial statements 
include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
and other non-financial assets pertaining to Lloyd Consumer 
business amounting to ` 310.47 crores, ` 1,029 crores and 
` 882.08 crores respectively.
As the Lloyd Consumer business has incurred losses, 
considering the requirements of Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) - 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, the management 
tested the above-mentioned assets for impairment using a 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. Based on such test, the 
recoverable amount of the CGU is higher than the carrying 
amount of the said assets and, accordingly, no adjustment 
for impairment is necessary.
We considered this as a key audit matter because of the 
significant carrying amount of the above-mentioned assets 
and high estimation uncertainty in assumptions used such as 
discount rate, rate of growth over the estimation period and 
terminal growth rate which are affected by future market and 
economic conditions and, hence, are inherently uncertain.
Our audit procedures among others, included the 
following:
a.	 Understanding and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the impairment 
assessment process, including preparation of the DCF model; 
b.	 Evaluating the Group’s accounting policy in respect of 
impairment assessment of goodwill, intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives and other non-financial assets;
c.	 Understanding the cash flow projections and assumptions 
used in the DCF model, testing the mathematical accuracy 
and reviewing the report of the management expert; 
d.	 Together with auditor’s valuation experts, testing the 
appropriateness of the DCF model and key assumptions 
therein and performing sensitivity analysis over key 
assumptions within a reasonable and foreseeable range 
to corroborate that the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
not materially different to the Group’s valuation; and
e.	 Testing related presentation and disclosures in the 
standalone financial statements.
	
Based on the above procedures performed, the 
management’s impairment assessment of the goodwill, 
intangible assets and other non-financial assets of Lloyd 
Consumer Business was found to be reasonable.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
261
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Other Information
5.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Annual report but does 
not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed and the reports of 
the other auditors as furnished to us (Refer paragraph 15 
below), we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that 
fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements in terms of the requirements of the 
Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance 
and consolidated cash flows, and changes in equity of 
the Group in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act. The 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
which have been used for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of 
the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
7.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for assessing the ability of 
the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
8.	
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.
10.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgment 
and 
maintain 
professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding 
company has adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls.
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by 
management.
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Havells India Limited
262
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern 
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including 
the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation. 
	
•	
Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities or 
business activities within the Group to express an 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements 
of such entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have 
been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
11.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
12.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication. 
Other Matters
14.	 We did not audit the financial statements of three 
subsidiaries whose financial statements reflect total 
assets of ` 20.25 crores and net assets of ` 20.10 
crores as at March 31, 2024, total revenue of ` Nil, total 
comprehensive income (comprising of loss and other 
comprehensive income) of ` 0.63 crores and net cash 
inflows amounting to ` 20.23 crores for the year ended 
on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. These financial statements are unaudited 
and have been furnished to us by the Management, and 
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements in so 
far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries and our report in terms 
of sub-section (3) of Section 143, including Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 of the 
Act, including report on Other Information in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on 
such unaudited financial statements. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given to us 
by the Management, these financial statements are not 
material to the Group.
15.	 The financial statements of one subsidiary located outside 
India, included in the consolidated financial statements, 
which constitute total assets of ` 13.79 crores and net 
assets of ` 9.39 crores as at March 31, 2024, total 
revenue of ` 40.11 crores, total comprehensive income 
(comprising of loss and other comprehensive income) of 
` 2.03 crores and net cash outflows amounting to ` 5.78 
crores for the year then ended have been prepared in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted 
in its country and have been audited by other auditors 
under generally accepted auditing standards applicable 
in its country. The Holding Company’s management has 
converted the financial statements of such subsidiary 
located outside India from the accounting principles 
generally accepted in its country to the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. We have audited 
these conversion adjustments made by the Company’s 
management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the 
balances and affairs of such subsidiary located outside 
India, including other information, is based on the report of 
other auditors and the conversion adjustments prepared 
by the management of the Holding Company and audited 
by us.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the 
reports of the other auditors and the financial statements 
certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
16.	 As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO 2020”), issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of sub-section 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
263
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
(11) of Section 143 of the Act, we report that there are no 
qualifications or adverse remarks included by us in our 
CARO 2020 report issued in respect of the standalone 
financial statements of the Holding Company which are 
included in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, CARO 2020 is not applicable to 
the subsidiary companies included in these Consolidated 
Financial Statements, hence, this report does not contain 
a statement on the matter specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of 
CARO 2020 in relation to the subsidiary companies.
17.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements.
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the report of the other auditors, except 
for the matters stated in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) 
(“the Rules”). 
	
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive 
income), 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement 
of 
Changes 
in 
Equity 
and 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account and records maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
March 31, 2024 taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company none of the 
directors of the Holding Company is disqualified 
as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
(f)	
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and 
other matters connected therewith, reference is 
made to our remarks in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Rules.
	
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in Annexure A.
	
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact, if any, of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group – 
Refer Note 31A to the consolidated financial 
statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group was not required to recognise a 
provision as at March 31, 2024 under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, as it 
does not have any material foreseeable losses 
on long-term contract. The Group did not have 
any derivative contracts as at March 31, 2024.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company during the year.
	
	
iv.	
(a)	
The 
Management 
of 
the 
Holding 
Company has represented to us that, to 
the best of their knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in Note 32(17) 
to the consolidated financial statements, 
no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(b)	
The 
Management 
of 
the 
Holding 
Company has represented to us that, 
to the best of their knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the Note 32(17) 
to the consolidated financial statements, 
Havells India Limited
264
no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have 
been received by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures, that 
has been considered reasonable and 
appropriate 
in 
the 
circumstances, 
performed by us, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (i) 
and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any material 
misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid during the year 
by the Holding Company is in compliance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Holding Company, which is the only 
company in the Group which is incorporated 
in India, has used accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account which have 
a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and that have operated throughout the financial 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software except: (a) for modification, if any, 
made by certain users having specific access; 
and (b) that the audit trail, which was enabled at 
database level in the last month of the financial 
year, contains only the modified values. During 
the course of performing our procedures, we 
did not notice any instance of audit trail feature 
being tampered with for the period the audit 
trail was enabled. Also, refer note 32 (19) to the 
financial statements.
18.	 The Holding Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee 
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAX7103
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
265
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 17(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the 
members of Havells India Limited on the consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements under clause (i) 
of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Company as of and for the 
year ended March 31, 2024 we have audited the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
of Havells India Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Holding Company”) as of that date. Reporting under 
clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section 143 of the Act in 
respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements is not applicable 
to four subsidiaries as they are not incorporated in 
India namely Havells Guangzhou International Limited, 
Havells International Inc., Havells Lighting LLC and 
Havells HVAC LLC.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The Board of Directors of the Holding Company is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 
financial controls based on internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to the Holding Company’s policies, the safeguarding of 
its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and 
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing deemed to 
be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial 
controls system with reference to consolidated financial 
statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to financial statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
financial control with reference to financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company 
are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Havells India Limited
266
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Holding Company has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system 
with reference to financial statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024 based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/ E-300009
Sougata Mukherjee
Partner
Place: Noida
Membership Number: 057084
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24057084BKFOAX7103
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
267
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
1
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
2,606.26 
2,227.85 
Capital work in progress
3
296.91 
163.42 
Goodwill 
4
310.47 
310.47 
Other intangible assets
4
1,071.16 
1,082.33 
Intangible assets under development 
4
1.79 
2.99 
Financial assets
6
(i)	
Investments
6(A)
 20.00 
 20.00 
(ii)	 Trade receivables
6(B)
0.25 
1.59 
(iii)	 Other financial assets
6(C)
 33.15 
149.08 
Contract assets 
5(B)
 11.55 
 25.57 
Other non-current assets
7
146.62 
 78.94 
Non Current tax assets (net)
8
 34.92 
 29.03 
Total non current assets
4,533.08 
4,091.27 
2
Current assets
Inventories
9
3,408.63 
3,708.58 
Financial assets
10
(i)	
Investments
10(A)
-
180.87 
(ii)	 Trade receivables
10(B)
1,164.95 
973.94 
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
10(C)
266.10 
465.16 
(iv)	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
10(D)
2,772.07 
1,405.01 
(v)	 Other financial assets
10(E)
 20.99 
116.89 
Contract assets
5(B)
 27.54 
 26.67 
Other current assets
11
237.15 
178.52 
Total current assets
7,897.43 
7,055.64 
Assets classified as held for sale
12
2.18 
 10.53 
7,899.61 
7,066.17 
Total assets
 12,432.69 
 11,157.44 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
1
Equity
13
Equity share capital
13(A)
 62.67 
 62.65 
Other equity
13(B)
7,384.09 
6,562.80 
Total equity
7,446.76 
6,625.45 
2
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
14
(i)	
Lease liabilities
14(A)
242.44 
186.91 
(ii)	 Other financial liabilities
14(B)
4.05 
7.21 
Contract liabilities
5(C)
4.64 
4.10 
Provisions
15
 87.72 
136.72 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
16
357.52 
361.51 
Other non-current liabilities
17
6.48 
-
Total non current liabilities
702.85 
696.45 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
18
(i)	
Lease liabilities
18(A)
 60.72 
 36.19 
(ii)	 Trade payables
18(B)
	
a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
203.70 
154.96 
	
b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
2,488.20 
2,488.23 
(iii)	 Other financial liabilities
18(C)
787.68 
624.85 
Contract liabilities
5(C)
101.31 
 84.42 
Other current liabilities
21
278.60 
139.72 
Provisions
19
277.67 
274.91 
Current tax liabilities (net)
20
 85.20 
 32.26 
Total current liabilities
4,283.08 
3,835.54 
Total liabilities
4,985.93 
4,531.99 
Total equity and liabilities
 12,432.69 
 11,157.44 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
31
Other notes to accounts
32
The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta	
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary	
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Havells India Limited
268
The above consolidated statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta	
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary	
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Notes
 Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I
INCOME
Revenue from operations
22
18,590.01 
16,910.73 
Other income
23
248.96 
177.71 
Total Income
18,838.97 
17,088.44 
II
EXPENSES
Cost of raw materials and components consumed
24
 9,873.77 
 9,317.92 
Purchase of traded goods
25
 2,452.18 
 3,028.75 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, traded goods and work in progress
26
242.73 
(641.20)
Employee benefits expense
27
 1,548.51 
 1,281.63 
Finance costs
28
 45.71 
33.62 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
29
338.50 
296.17 
Other expenses
30
 2,612.54 
 2,306.06 
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets
30A
 17.66 
18.43 
Total expenses
17,131.60 
15,641.38 
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 1,707.37 
 1,447.06 
IV
Exceptional Items 
32(14)
Loss due to fire
 -
112.52 
Insurance claim receivable
 -
(112.52)
V
Profit before tax 
 1,707.37 
 1,447.06 
VI
Income tax expense
16
Current tax 
440.60 
364.44 
Deferred tax {(refer note 16(d)}
 (3.99)
10.89 
Total tax expense
436.61 
375.33 
VII
Profit for the year
 1,270.76 
 1,071.73 
VII
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
i)	
Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans {refer note 32(4)}
 (6.43)
 (10.25)
ii)	 Income tax effect on above {refer note no 16(b)}
1.62 
 2.58 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
 (4.81)
(7.67)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
i)	
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of foreign operations
 (0.21)
(0.06)
ii)	 Income tax effect on above 
 -
-
 (0.21)
(0.06)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
 (5.02)
(7.73)
VIII
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 1,265.74 
 1,064.00 
Profit for the year attributable to
Equity holders of the parent company
 1,270.76 
 1,071.73 
Non controlling interests
 -
-
Other comprehensive income attributable to
Equity holders of the parent company
 (5.02)
(7.73)
Non controlling interests
 -
-
Total comprehensive income attributable to
Equity holders of the parent company
 1,265.74 
 1,064.00 
Non controlling interests
 -
-
IX
Earnings per equity share (EPS) {refer note no. 32 (12)}
(nominal value of share `1/-)
Basic EPS (`)
 20.28 
17.11 
Diluted EPS (`)
 20.28 
17.11 
Summary of material accounting policies
2
Commitments and contingencies
31
Other notes to accounts
32
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
269
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2024
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` in crores)
Particulars
Notes
Numbers 
Amount
As at April 1, 2022
13(A)
 62,63,03,067 
 62.63 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
 2,06,671 
 0.02 
As at March 31, 2023
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - proceeds received 
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
As at March 31, 2024
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Reserves and surplus 
Items of 
OCI
Notes 
Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Share options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
 Total 
As at April 1, 2022 
13(B)
 7.63 
 121.50 
 722.72 
 0.53 
 5,086.98 
 0.90 
 5,940.26 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,071.73 
 1,071.73 
Other comprehensive income 
for the year 
Re-measurement gains / 
(losses) on defined benefit plans 
net of tax 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7.67)
 (7.67)
Exchange difference on 
translation of financial statements 
of foreign operations 
 (0.06)
 (0.06)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,064.06 
 (0.06)
 1,064.00 
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid 
during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (469.88)
 (469.88)
Equity shares issued under 
employee stock purchase plan 
 - 
 26.65 
 - 
 3.23 
 - 
 29.88 
Options recognised during the 
year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options vested and exercised 
during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.46)
 - 
 (1.46)
As at March 31, 2023 
 7.63 
 148.15 
 722.72 
 2.30 
 5,681.16 
 0.84 
 6,562.80 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,270.76 
 1,270.76 
Other comprehensive income 
for the year 
Re-measurement gains / 
(losses) on defined benefit plans 
net of tax 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.81)
 (4.81)
Exchange difference on 
translation of financial statements 
of foreign operations 
 (0.21)
 (0.21)
Havells India Limited
270
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Particulars 
Reserves and surplus 
Items of 
OCI
Notes 
Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Share options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
 Total 
Total Comprehensive income 
for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,265.95 
 (0.21)
 1,265.74 
Transaction with owners in their 
capacity as owners: 
Final and interim dividend paid 
during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (470.01)
 (470.01)
Equity shares issued under 
employee stock purchase plan 
 - 
 21.30 
 - 
 7.67 
 - 
 28.97 
Options vested and exercised 
during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3.41)
 - 
 (3.41)
As at March 31, 2024 
 7.63 
 169.45 
 722.72 
 6.56 
 6,477.10 
 0.63 
 7,384.09 
The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
271
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
A.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
1,707.37 
1,447.06 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
338.50 
296.17 
Loss /(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net) 
(10.27)
 0.14 
Unrealized foreign exchange loss /(gain) (net) 
 (0.31)
(6.25)
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of foreign 
operations 
 (0.21)
(0.06)
Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets 
 17.66 
18.43 
Employee stock purchase plan expense 
4.26 
 1.77 
Lease rent concession 
-
(0.12)
Interest income on bank deposits and investment 
(184.88)
 (123.24)
Finance cost 
 45.55 
33.44 
Operating Profit 
1,917.67 
1,667.34 
Change in operating assets and liabilities 
(Increase)/ Decrease in trade receivables 
(205.83)
 (224.65)
(Increase)/ Decrease in contract assets 
 12.39 
13.14 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other financial assets 
 63.00 
(88.11)
(Increase)/ Decrease in non current assets 
 10.92 
 4.47 
(Increase)/ Decrease in other current assets 
(58.63)
(64.87)
(Increase)/ Decrease in inventories 
299.95 
 (740.50)
Increase/ (Decrease) in trade payables 
 52.82 
272.74 
Increase/ (Decrease) in financial liabilities 
161.00 
74.50 
Increase/ (Decrease) in other current liabilities 
136.99 
(52.52)
Increase/ (Decrease) in contract liabilities 
 19.32 
29.23 
Increase/ (Decrease) in provisions 
(64.78)
66.11 
Cash generated from operations
2,344.82 
956.88 
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
(391.93)
 (391.94)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (A)
1,952.89 
564.94 
B.
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
(786.07)
 (587.79)
Receipt of grant related to assets 
3.21 
-
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 23.80 
 2.27 
Investment in fixed deposits with bank and financial institution 
 (1,037.08)
520.43 
Receipt of insurance claim related to assets 
 31.27 
-
Payment for investments 
-
(20.00)
Interest on fixed deposit and investment received 
151.01 
120.13 
Net Cash inflow /(outflow) from Investing Activities (B)
 (1,613.86)
35.04 
C.
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock purchase plan - share capital 
and securities premium
 21.32 
26.67 
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
(51.33)
(44.28)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities 
(25.82)
(18.35)
Repayment of long term borrowings 
-
 (393.69)
Interest paid 
 (7.62)
(6.98)
Dividends paid to Company's shareholders 
(470.10)
 (470.30)
Havells India Limited
272
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net cash inflow /(outflow) from Financing Activities (C)
(533.55)
 (906.93)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
(194.52)
 (306.95)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
465.16 
775.84 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
 (4.54)
(3.73)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
266.10 
465.16 
Non-cash financing and investing activities
Acquisition of right of use assets
133.72 
51.86 
Notes :
1	
The above statement of cash flows has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Indian Accounting Standard-7, 
“Statement of Cash Flows”.
2	
Components of cash and cash equivalents :-
(` in crores)
 As at 
March 31, 2024
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents 
Balances with banks: 
Current accounts 
 56.67 
 71.54 
Cash credit accounts 
 69.94 
 29.92 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 139.36 
 363.57 
Cash on hand 
 0.13 
 0.13 
 266.10 
 465.16 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended March 31, 2024
The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta	
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary	
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
273
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Havells India Limited (‘the Group’) is a public limited 
Company domiciled in India and incorporated on August 
08, 1983 under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
1956 having its registered office at 904, 9th Floor, Surya 
Kiran Building, K.G. Marg, Connaught Place, New 
Delhi-110001. The Company is listed on BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of the 
Company is L31900DL1983PLC016304
	
The Group is consumer electrical/electronics and power 
distribution equipment manufacturer with products 
ranging from Industrial and Domestic Circuit Protection 
Switchgears, Cables, Motors, Pumps, Solar Products, 
Fans, Power Capacitors, LED Lamps and Luminaries 
for Domestic, Commercial and Industrial applications, 
Modular Switches, Water Heaters, Coolers and Domestic 
Appliances, Personal Grooming, Air Purifier, Water 
Purifier, Air conditioner, Television, Washing machine 
and Refrigerator covering the entire range of household, 
commercial and industrial electrical needs. 
	
The Group’s manufacturing facilities are located at 
Faridabad in Haryana, Alwar, Ghiloth and Neemrana 
in Rajasthan, Haridwar in Uttarakhand, Sahibabad in 
Uttar Pradesh, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, Sri City in 
Andhra Pradesh. The research and development facilities 
are located at Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Bangalore and 
Ghiloth (Rajasthan).
2.	
Summary of material accounting policies
	
This note provides a list of the material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) consolidated financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years except where newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted.
	
These consolidated financial statement are separate 
financial statements are prepared in accordance with Ind 
AS-27 “Separate Financial Statements.
	
2.01	 Basis 
of 
preparation 
of 
consolidated 
Financial Statements
	
	
These consolidated financial statements of the 
Group have been prepared in accordance with 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified 
under 
the 
Companies 
(Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to 
time) and presentation requirements of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III). 
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost convention, except for the following 
assets and liabilities:
	
	
i)	
Certain financial assets and liabilities that is 
measured at fair value
	
	
ii)	
Assets held for sale-measured at fair value 
less cost to sell
	
	
iii)	
Defined benefit plans-plan assets measured 
at fair value
	
	
iv)	
Share based payments
	
2.02	 Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Freehold Land is carried at historical cost. All 
other items of Property, Plant and equipment are 
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
	
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
calculated on prorata basis on straight-line method 
using the useful lives of the assets estimated by 
management. The useful life is as follows:
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Building
30 and 60
Plant and Equipment
15
Moulds and Dies
6
Furniture and Fixtures
10
Vehicles
8 and 10
R &D Equipment
5 and15 
Office Equipment
3 and 5
Mobile Phones
3
Electric Fans and 
Installations
10 
Computers
3
Laptops
4
	
	
The useful lives of all the assets except moulds 
and dies, mobile phones and laptops have been 
determined as those specified by part ‘C’ of 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. In respect 
of moulds and dies and mobile phones, useful 
lives are lower than those specified by schedule II 
to the Companies Act 2013 and are depreciated 
over the estimated useful lives of 6 years and 
3 years respectively, in respect of laptop useful life 
is more than those specified by schedule II to the 
Companies Act 2013 and are depreciated over the 
estimated useful life of 4 years, in order to reflect the 
actual usage of assets. The residual values are not 
more than 5% of the original cost of the assets. The 
asset’s residual values and useful lives are reviewed, 
and adjusted if appropriate.
Havells India Limited
274
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Lease hold improvements are depreciated on 
straight line basis over shorter of the asset’s useful 
life and their lease term unless the entity expects to 
use the asset beyond the lease term.
	
	
Leasehold land is amortized on a straight line basis 
over the unexpired period of their respective lease 
ranging from 90-99 years.
	
2.03	 Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortized 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful 
life as under
Assets 
Useful life (in years)
Computer Software
6
R&D Software
6
Distributor/ Dealer 
Network
8
Non-Compete Fee
7
Brand and Trademarks
Indefinite
	
	
Brand and Trademarks
	
	
Brand and Trademarks acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
brand and trademark are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. These 
Brand and trademarks have been in existence 
for considerable period and Group intends to 
continue use this intangible assets. Consequently 
it is believed that they have an indefinite life and 
are not amortised. Instead impairment testing 
is performed annually and whenever a triggering 
event has occurred to determine whether the 
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network
	
	
Distributor/ Dealer Network acquired in business 
combination are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
Distributor/ Dealer Network are carried at the above 
recognised value less accumulated amortization 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. They 
are amortised on a straight line basis over their 
estimated useful life of 8 years assessed by the 
management.
	
	
Goodwill 
	
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair 
value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the 
aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-
assesses whether it has correctly identified all of 
the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed 
and reviews the procedures used to measure 
the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition 
date. If the reassessment still results in an excess 
of the fair value of net assets acquired over the 
aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, 
if there is no clear evidence of bargain purchase, 
the entity recognizes the gain directly in equity as 
capital reserve, without routing the same through 
other comprehensive income.
	
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, 
from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash-generating units that are expected 
to benefit from the combination, irrespective of 
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are 
assigned to those units. 
	
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has 
been allocated is tested for impairment annually or 
earlier, when there is an indication that the unit may 
be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata 
based on the carrying amount of each asset in the 
unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised 
in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
	
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that 
unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with 
the disposed operation is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the gain 
or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these 
circumstances is measured based on the relative 
values of the disposed operation and the portion 
of the cash-generating unit retained.
	
2.04	 Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is an indication that an asset may be 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
275
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the 
Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value 
less costs of disposal and its value in use. The 
recoverable amount is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets or groups of assets. When the 
carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation model 
is used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded companies or other available fair value 
indicators.
	
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which 
are prepared separately for each of the Group’s 
CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. 
These budgets and forecast calculations generally 
cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a 
long-term growth rate is calculated and applied 
to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To 
estimate cash flow projections beyond periods 
covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, 
the Group extrapolates cash flow projections in the 
budget using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can 
be justified. In any case, this growth rate does 
not exceed the long-term average growth rate for 
the products, industries, or country or countries 
in which the Group operates, or for the market in 
which the asset is used.
	
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, 
including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, except for 
properties previously revalued with the revaluation 
surplus taken to OCI. For such properties, the 
impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount 
of any previous revaluation surplus.
	
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and 
when circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired. Impairment is determined 
for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount 
of each CGU (or group of CGUs) to which the 
goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount 
of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future 
periods.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are 
tested for impairment annually as at March 31 
at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired.
	
2.05	 Financial instruments 
	
(i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
-	 Those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value through profit or loss	
	
	
	
-	 Those measured at amortized cost
	
	
The classification of financial assets at initial 
recognition depends on the financial asset’s 
contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
Group’s business model for managing them
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
With the exception of trade receivables that do not 
contain a material financing component or for which 
the Group has applied the practical expedient, the 
Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair 
value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair 
value through profit or loss, transaction costs. 
	
	
Trade receivables that do not contain a material 
financing component or for which the Group has 
applied the practical expedient are measured at 
the transaction price determined under Ind AS 
115. Refer to the accounting policies in section 
‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.
	
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
amortised 
cost 
(debt 
instruments)
	
	
A ‘financial asset’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
a)	
Business Model Test : The objective is 
to hold the financial asset to collect the 
Havells India Limited
276
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
contractual cash flows (rather than to sell the 
instrument prior to its contractual maturity to 
realize its fair value changes) and;
	
	
b)	
Cash flow characteristics test: The 
contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specific dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
principal amount outstanding.
	
	
This category is most relevant to the Group. 
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with net 
changes in fair value recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss. 
	
	
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit 
exposures for which there has not been a material 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs 
are provided for credit losses that result from 
default events that are possible within the next 
12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit 
exposures for which there has been a material 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss 
allowance is required for credit losses expected 
over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective 
of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
	
	
“The Group follows simplified approach” for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on:
	
	
Trade receivables or contract revenue receivables; 
Trade receivables which are held to collect and 
sale basis accounted for as FVTPL
	
	
Under the simplified approach, the Group does not 
track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime 
ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial 
recognition. The Group uses a provision matrix 
to determine impairment loss allowance on the 
portfolio of trade receivables. The provision matrix 
is based on its historically observed default rates 
over the expected life of trade receivable and is 
adjusted for forward looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed default rates 
are updated and changes in the forward looking 
estimates are analysed.
	
2.06	 Inventories
	
	
The costs of individual items of inventory are 
determined on a moving weightage average 
basis. Volume rebates or discounts are taken into 
account when estimating the cost of inventory if it is 
probable that they have been earned and will take 
effect. See note 2.12(i) for the other accounting 
policies for inventories.
	
2.07	 Revenue from contract with customers
	
	
The Group manufactures/ trades and sells a 
range of consumer electrical and electronic 
products. 
Revenue 
from 
contracts 
with 
customers involving sale of these products is 
recognized at a point in time when control of 
the product has been transferred, and there 
are no unfulfilled obligation that could affect 
the customer’s acceptance of the products 
which usually happen on delivery/ despatch 
of the goods as applicable. The Group also 
provides installation, annual maintenance and 
warranty services that are either sold separately 
or bundled together with the sale of goods. 
The Group recognizes these service revenue 
from sales of services over a period of time, 
because the customer simultaneously receives 
and consumes the benefits provided by the 
Group. The Group has objective evidence that 
all criterion for acceptance has been satisfied. 
A receivable is recognised when the control of 
the product is transferred as the consideration is 
unconditional and payment becomes due upon 
passage of time as per the terms of contract with 
customers.
	
	
(a)	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at 
the point in time when control of the goods 
is transferred to the customer, generally 
on delivery of the goods and there are no 
unfulfilled obligations.
	
	
	
The Group considers, whether there are 
other promises in the contract in which 
there are separate performance obligations, 
to which a portion of the transaction price 
needs to be allocated. In determining the 
transaction price for the sale of goods, the 
Group allocates a portion of the transaction 
price to different performance obligations 
goods bases on its relative standalone 
prices and also considers the following:-
	
	
(i)	
Variable consideration
	
	
	
The Group recognizes revenue from the sale of 
goods measured at the standalone selling price 
of the consideration received or receivable, 
net of returns and allowances, trade discounts 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
277
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
and volume rebates. If the consideration in 
a contract includes a variable amount, the 
Group estimates the amount of consideration 
to which it will be entitled in exchange for 
transferring the goods to the customer. The 
variable consideration is estimated at contract 
inception and constrained until it is highly 
probable that a material revenue reversal in 
the amount of cumulative revenue recognised 
will not occur when the associated uncertainty 
with the variable consideration is subsequently 
resolved. The Group operates several sales 
incentive programmes wherein the customers 
are eligible for several benefits on achievement 
of underlying conditions as prescribed in the 
scheme programme such as credit notes, 
reimbursement, investments etc. Revenue 
from contract with customer is presented after 
deducting cost of all these schemes.
	
	
(ii)	
Warranty obligations
	
	
	
The Group generally provides for warranties 
for general repair of defects. These 
warranties are assurance-type warranties 
under Ind AS 115, which are accounted 
for under Ind AS 37 (Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets). However, 
in certain non-standard contracts in respect 
of sale of consumer durable goods, the 
Group provides extended warranties and 
such warranties are termed as service-
type warranties and therefore, accounted 
for as separate performance obligations 
to which the Group allocates a portion 
of the transaction price. Revenue from 
service-type warranties is recognised over 
the period in which the service is provided 
based on the time elapsed
	
	
(iii)	
Significant Financing Components
	
	
	
In respect of short-term advances from its 
customers, using the practical expedient in 
Ind AS 115, the Group does not adjust the 
promised amount of consideration for the 
effects of a material financing component 
if it expects, at contract inception, that the 
period between the transfer of the promised 
good or service to the customer and when 
the customer pays for that good or service 
will be within normal operating cycle.
	
	
	
In respect of long term contracts, the 
transaction price for these contracts 
is discounted, using the interest rate 
implicit in the contract (i.e., the interest 
rate that discounts the cash selling price 
of the equipment to the amount paid in 
advance).
	
	
	
No material element of financing is deemed 
present as the sales are made with a credit 
term of 21 to 90 days, which is consistent 
with market practice.”
	
	
(b)	
Sale of services
	
	
	
The Group provides installation, annual 
maintenance 
and 
extended 
warranty 
services that are sold separately. The 
Group recognizes revenue from sales of 
services over time, because the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the 
benefits provided by the Group. Revenue 
from services related activities is recognised 
as and when services are rendered and 
on the basis of contractual terms with the 
parties.
	
	
(c)	
Contract balances
	
	
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration 
in exchange for goods or services transferred 
to the customer. Contract assets are in 
the nature of unbilled receivables, which 
arises when Group satisfies a performance 
obligation but does not have an unconditional 
rights to consideration. A receivables 
represents the Group’s right to an amount 
of consideration that is unconditional. 
Contract assets are subject to impairment 
assessment. Refer to accounting policies 
on impairment of financial assets in section 
(Financial instruments – initial recognition 
and subsequent measurement).
	
	
	
A contract liability is the obligation 
to transfer goods or services to a 
customer for which the Group has 
received consideration (or an amount of 
consideration is due) from the customer. If 
a customer pays consideration before the 
Group transfers goods or services to the 
customer, a contract liability is recognised 
when the payment is made or the payment 
is due (whichever is earlier). Contract 
liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Group performs under the contract 
(i.e., transfers control of the related goods 
or services to the customer).
Havells India Limited
278
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
A trade receivable is recognised if an amount 
of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., 
only the passage of time is required before 
payment of the consideration is due). Refer 
to accounting policies of financial assets 
in section (Financial instruments – initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement).
	
	
(d)	
Income 
from 
Service 
Concession 
Arrangement
	
	
	
Revenue related to Street Lights Upgrade 
services provided under service concession 
arrangement is recognized as per the 
agreement with the grantor. The Group 
recognizes a financial asset arising from the 
service concession agreement when it has 
an unconditional contractual right to receive 
cash or another financial asset from or at the 
direction of the grantor of the concession 
for the upgrade services provided. Such 
financial assets are measured at fair value 
upon initial recognition.
	
2.08	 Other Income
	
	
(a)	
Interest Income
	
	
	
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive income, interest income is 
recorded using the effective interest rate 
(EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
the estimated future cash payments or 
receipts over the expected life of the financial 
instrument or a shorter period, where 
appropriate, to the gross carrying amount of 
the financial asset or to the amortised cost 
of a financial liability. When calculating the 
effective interest rate, the Group estimates 
the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial 
instrument 
(for 
example, 
prepayment, 
extension, call and similar options) but does 
not consider the expected credit losses. 
Interest income is included in other income 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
2.09	 Leases
	
	
Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily comprise 
of lease for land and building. The Group applies a 
single recognition and measurement approach for 
all leases, except for short-term leases and leases 
of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease 
liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use 
assets representing the right to use the underlying 
assets.
	
	
(i)	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
	
The Group classifies ROU assets as part of 
Property plant and equipment in Balance 
Sheet and lease liability in “Financial 
Liability”.
	
	
(ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable. 
	
	
(iii)	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets
	
	
	
The Group applies the short-term lease 
recognition exemption to its short-term 
leases (i.e., those leases that have a 
lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of 
low-value assets recognition exemption to 
leases that are considered to be low value. 
Lease payments on short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets are recognised 
as expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
	
2.10	 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Warranty Provisions
	
	
Provision for warranty-related costs are recognized 
when the product is sold or service is provided to 
customer. Initial recognition is based on historical 
experience. the Group periodically reviews the 
adequacy of product warranties and adjust 
warranty percentage and warranty provisions 
for actual experience, if necessary. The timing of 
outflow is expected to be with in one to seven 
years.
	
	
Provision for E-Waste/Plastic-Waste
	
	
Provision for E-Waste/Plastic-Waste management 
costs are recognized when the liability in respect 
of products sold to customer is established in 
accordance with E- Waste (Management) Rules, 
2022 as notified by Government of India. Initial 
recognition is based on liability computed based on 
Extended Producer Responsibility as promulgated 
in said Rules including cost to comply the said 
regulation and as reduced by expected realisation 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
279
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
of collectable waste. The Group has assessed the 
liability to arise on year to year basis.
	
2.11	 Material accounting judgments, estimates 
and assumptions
	
	
The preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements requires the management to make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these judgements, 
assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in 
future periods.
	
a)	
Leases
	
	
The Group determines the lease term as the non-
cancellable term of the lease, together with any 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease 
if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any 
periods covered by an option to terminate the 
lease, if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
	
	
The Group has several lease contracts that 
include extension and termination options. The 
Group applies judgement in evaluating whether it 
is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise 
the option to renew or terminate the lease. That 
is, it considers all relevant factors that create an 
economic incentive for it to exercise either the 
renewal or termination. After the commencement 
date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there 
is a material event or change in circumstances that 
is within its control and affects its ability to exercise 
or not to exercise the option to renew or to 
terminate (e.g., construction of material leasehold 
improvements or material customisation to the 
leased asset).
	
b)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation 
of tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the 
amount and timing of future taxable income. 
Given the wide range of business relationships 
differences arising between the actual results and 
the assumptions made, or future changes to such 
assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments 
to tax income and expense already recorded. The 
Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable 
estimates. The amount of such provisions is based 
on various factors, such as experience of previous 
tax assessments and differing interpretations 
of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. (Refer Note 16)
	
c)	
Gratuity benefit and Leave obligation
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. Gratuity 
benefit) and other long term employee obligations 
(i.e Leave obligation) is determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making 
various assumptions which may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the 
determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, 
the underlying assumptions and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation and leave 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed 
at each reporting date. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, management considers 
the interest rates of long term government bonds 
with extrapolated maturity corresponding to the 
expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. 
The mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for India. Future salary increases 
and pension increases are based on expected 
future inflation rates for India. Further details about 
the assumptions used, including a sensitivity 
analysis, are given in Note 32(4).
	
d)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset 
including intangible assets having indefinite useful 
life and goodwill may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an 
asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An assets recoverable amount 
is the higher of an asset’s CGU’S fair value less cost 
of disposal and its value in use. Where the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount.
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are estimated based on past rend 
and discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation model 
is used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, or other fair value indicators. 
Havells India Limited
280
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
e)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provisions is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to 
sales for the same types of goods for which the 
warranty is currently being determined. The same 
percentage to the sales is applied for the current 
accounting period to derive the warranty expense 
to be accrued. It is adjusted to account for unusual 
factors related to the goods that were sold, 
such as defective inventory lying at the depots. 
The warranty claims may not exactly match the 
historical warranty percentage, so such estimates 
are reviewed annually for any material changes in 
assumptions and likelihood of occurrence. The 
assumptions are consistent with prior years. (Refer 
Note 19)
	
f)	
Provision for expected credit losses (ECL) of trade 
receivables and contract assets 
	
	
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate 
ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets. 
The provision rates are based on days past due 
for groupings of various customer segments that 
have similar loss patterns (i.e., by customer type 
and nature). The provision matrix is initially based 
on the Group’s historical observed default rates. 
The Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust the 
historical credit loss experience with forward-
looking information. At every reporting date, the 
historical observed default rates are updated and 
changes in the forward-looking estimates are 
analysed. 
	
	
The assessment of the correlation between 
historical observed default rates, forecast economic 
conditions and ECLs is a material estimate. 
The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes 
in circumstances and of forecast economic 
conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss 
experience and forecast of economic conditions 
may also not be representative of customer’s 
actual default in the future. The information about 
the ECLs on the Group’s trade receivables and 
contract assets is disclosed in Note 32(10)
	
g)	
Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible 
assets
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment represent material 
portion of the asset base of the Group. The charge 
in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of assets expected useful 
life and expected value at the end of its useful 
life. The useful life and residual value of Group’s 
assets are determined by Management at the 
time asset is acquired and reviewed periodically 
including at the end of each year. The useful life is 
based on historical experience with similar assets, 
in anticipation of future events, which may have 
impact on their life such as change in technology.
	
	
Other accounting policy
	
	
This note provides a list of other accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements to the extent they have not 
already been disclosed in the other notes above. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all 
the years presented, unless otherwise stated. The 
financial statements are for the group consisting 
of Havells India Limited (the ‘Company’) and its 
subsidiaries.
	
2.12	 Description
	
a)	
Rounding Off
	
	
These consolidated financial statements are 
presented in INR and all values are rounded to 
the nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when 
otherwise indicated.
	
b)	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet based on current/non- current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when 
it is:
	
	
-	 Expected to be realized or intended to be sold 
or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
	
-	 Held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	 Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
	
-	 cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is current when:
	
	
-	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle
	
	
-	 It is held primarily for purpose of trading
	
	
-	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
	
	
-	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
281
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non current.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
classified as non- current assets and liabilities.
	
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. the Group 
has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
c)	
Property Plant and Equipment
	
	
The historical cost comprises of purchase price, 
taxes, duties, freight and other incidental expenses 
directly attributable and related to acquisition and 
installation of the concerned assets and are further 
adjusted by the amount of input tax credit availed 
wherever applicable.Such cost includes the cost 
of replacing part of the plant and equipment 
and borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met. When 
material parts of plant and equipment are required 
to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates 
them separately based on their specific useful lives. 
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, 
its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the 
recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or 
loss as incurred. The present value of the expected 
cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its 
use is included in the cost of the respective asset if 
the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as separate assets, as 
appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefit associated with the item will flow 
to the Group and the cost of item can be measured 
reliably. 
	
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
material part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement when 
the asset is derecognised.
	
	
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of property, 
plant and equipment under installation / under 
development as at the balance sheet date. 
Capital work in progress is stated at cost, net of 
accumulated impairment loss, if any.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
d)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets
	
	
Intangible 
assets 
acquired 
separately 
are 
measured on initial recognition at cost. Cost 
of intangible assets acquired in business 
combination is their fair value at the date of 
acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and 
any attributable cost of bringing the asset to its 
working condition for its intended use.
	
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful lives and 
assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. 
The amortization period and the amortization 
method for an intangible asset with a finite useful 
life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting 
period. Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future economic 
benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for 
by changing the amortization period or method, 
as appropriate, and are treated as changes in 
accounting estimates. The amortization expense on 
intangible assets with finite lives is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on 
a prospective basis. The Group has assessed 
indefinite life for such brand considering the 
expected usage, expected investment on brand, 
business forecast and challenges to establish a 
premium electronic segment. These are carried at 
historical cost and tested for impairment annually.
	
	
Research and development cost
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual 
project is recognized as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate all the following:
Havells India Limited
282
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
i)	
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale;
	
	
ii)	
Its intention to complete the asset;
	
	
iii)	
Its ability to use or sale the asset;
	
	
iv)	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits;
	
	
v)	
The availability of adequate resources to 
complete the development and to use or 
sale the asset; and
	
	
vi)	
The 
ability 
to 
measure 
reliably 
the 
expenditure attributable to the intangible 
asset during development.
	
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated 
amortization 
and 
accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of the asset 
begins when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. It is amortized on straight 
line basis over the estimated useful life and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
During the period of development, the asset is 
tested for impairment annually.
	
e)	
Impairment of non- financial assets
	
	
For assets excluding goodwill and intangible assets 
having indefinite life, an assessment is made at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is 
an indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s 
or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if 
there has been a change in the assumptions used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of 
the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, 
nor exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless the asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the 
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
	
f)	
Financial instruments 
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
Initial recognition measurement
	
	
In order for a financial asset to be classified and 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through 
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are 
‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ 
on the principal amount outstanding. This 
assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is 
performed at an instrument level. Financial assets 
with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified 
and measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
irrespective of the business model.
	
	
The Group’s business model for managing financial 
assets refers to how it manages its financial assets 
in order to generate cash flows. The business 
model determines whether cash flows will result 
from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the 
financial assets, or both.
	
	
Financial assets classified and measured at 
amortised cost are held within a business model 
with the objective to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows while financial 
assets classified and measured at fair value 
through OCI are held within a business model with 
the objective of both holding to collect contractual 
cash flows and selling.
	
	
Financial assets at amortised cost (debt 
instruments)
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are 
an integral part of EIR. EIR is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash receipts over 
the expected life of the financial instrument or a 
shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Group 
estimates the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial instrument 
but does not consider the expected credit losses. 
The EIR amortization is included in other income in 
profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognized in the profit or loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI 
(FVTOCI) (debt instruments)
	
	
Debt instrument included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
283
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
are recognized in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI), except for the recognition of interest income, 
impairment gains or losses and foreign exchange 
gains or losses which are recognized in statement 
of profit and loss and computed in the same manner 
as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The remaining fair value changes are recognised in 
OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value 
changes recognised in OCI is reclassified from the 
equity to profit or loss.
	
	
Financial assets designated at fair value through 
OCI (equity instruments)
	
	
Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to 
classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity 
instruments designated at fair value through OCI 
when they meet the definition of equity under 
Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
and are not held for trading. The classification is 
determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Equity instruments which are held for trading 
and contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which Ind 
AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
Gains and losses on these financial assets are 
never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are 
recognised as other income in the statement of 
profit and loss when the right of payment has been 
established, except when the Group benefits from 
such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of 
the financial asset, in which case, such gains are 
recorded in OCI. Equity instruments designated at 
fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment 
assessment. 
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed 
from the Group’s statement of financial position) 
when:
	
	
-	 The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or 	
	
	
-	 the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
“pass through” arrangement and either;
	
	
(a)	
the Group has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
	
(b)	
the Group has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the 
asset.
	
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Group continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that the Group 
has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured 
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of consideration 
that the group could be required to repay.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Group 
applies expected credit losses(ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment loss 
on the following financial asset and credit risk 
exposure
	
	
-	 Financial assets measured at amortized cost;
	
	
-	 Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income(FVTOCI);
	
	
ECLs are based on the difference between the 
contractual cash flows due in accordance with 
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group 
expects to receive, discounted at an approximation 
of the original effective interest rate. The expected 
cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of 
collateral held or other credit enhancements that 
are integral to the contractual terms.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the statement of profit and 
loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other 
expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The 
balance sheet presentation for various financial 
instruments is described below:
Havells India Limited
284
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(a)	
Financial assets measured as at amortised 
cost: ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The 
allowance reduces the net carrying amount. 
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, 
the group does not reduce impairment 
allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
	
(b)	
Loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts: ECL is presented as a provision 
in the balance sheet, i.e. as a liability. 
	
	
(c)	
Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI: For 
debt instruments measured at FVTOCI, the 
expected credit losses do not reduce the 
carrying amount in the balance sheet, which 
remains at fair value. Instead, an amount 
equal to the allowance that would arise if the 
asset was measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in other comprehensive income 
as the accumulated impairment amount.
	
g)	
Financial liabilities:
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs. All 
financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs. The Group financial liabilities include loans 
and borrowings, trade payables, trade deposits, 
retention money, liabilities towards services, sales 
incentive and other payables.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial liabilities are classified in two categories: 
	
	
(i)	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss 
	
	
(ii)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (loans and 
borrowings)
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss
	
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Group 
that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationship as defined by Ind AS 109. The 
separated embedded derivate are also classified 
as held for trading unless they are designated as 
effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Financial 
liabilities 
designated 
upon 
initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses attributable to changes 
in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These 
gains/ loss are not subsequently transferred to 
profit and loss. However, the Group may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity. All other 
changes in fair value of such liability are recognized 
in the statement of profit or loss. the Group has 
not designated any financial liability as at fair value 
through profit and loss.
	
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (Loans and 
borrowings)
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the Effective interest rate method. Gains 
and losses are recognized in profit or loss when 
the liabilities are derecognised as well as through 
the Effective interest rate amortization process. 
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into 
account any discount or premium on acquisition 
and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
Effective interest rate. The Effective interest rate 
amortization is included as finance costs in the 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
Trade Payables
	
	
These amounts represents liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Group prior to the end of 
financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are 
unsecured and are usually paid per the term of 
contract with suppliers. Trade and other payables 
are presented as current liabilities unless payment 
is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognized initially at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using Effective interest rate method.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
285
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group 
are those contracts that require a payment to be 
made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because the specified debtor fails to make a 
payment when due in accordance with the terms 
of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts 
are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, 
adjusted for transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. 
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher 
of the amount of loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of IND AS 109 and the 
amount recognized less cumulative amortization.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financials assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognized amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
Reclassification of financial assets/ financial 
liabilities
	
	
The Group determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model for managing 
those assets. Changes to the business model are 
expected to be infrequent. The Group’s senior 
management determines change in the business 
model as a result of external or internal changes 
which are material to the Group’s operations. Such 
changes are evident to external parties. A change 
in the business model occurs when the Group 
either begins or ceases to perform an activity that 
is material to its operations. If the Group reclassifies 
financial assets, it applies the reclassification 
prospectively from the reclassification date which 
is the first day of the immediately next reporting 
period following the change in business model. The 
Group does not restate any previously recognised 
gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) 
or interest.
	
h)	
Investment in Subsidiaries
	
	
The investment in subsidiary are carried at cost 
as per IND AS 27. The Group regardless of the 
nature of its involvement with an entity (the 
investee), determines whether it is a parent by 
assessing whether it controls the investee. The 
Group controls an investee when it is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee. Thus, 
the Group controls an investee if and only if it has 
all the following:
	
	
(a)	
power over the investee;
	
	
(b)	
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and
	
	
(c)	
the ability to use its power over the investee 
to affect the amount of the returns.
	
	
Investments are accounted in accordance with 
IND AS 105 when they are classified as held for 
sale. On disposal of investment, the difference 
between its carrying amount and net disposal 
proceeds is charged or credited to the statement 
of profit and loss
	
i)	
Inventory
	
	
Basis of valuation:
	
	
Inventories other than scrap materials are valued 
at lower of cost and net realizable value after 
providing cost of obsolescence, if any. However, 
materials and other items held for use in the 
production of inventories are not written down 
below cost if the finished products in which they 
will be incorporated are expected to be sold at 
or above cost. The comparison of cost and net 
realizable value is made on an item-by-item basis.
	
	
Inventory of scrap materials have been valued at 
net realizable value.
	
	
Method of Valuation:
	
	
Cost of raw materials has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
Havells India Limited
286
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
	
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress 
includes direct labour and an appropriate share 
of fixed and variable production overheads. Fixed 
production overheads are allocated on the basis 
of normal capacity of production facilities. Cost is 
determined on moving weighted average basis.
	
	
Cost of traded goods has been determined by 
using moving weighted average cost method and 
comprises all costs of purchase, duties, taxes 
(other than those subsequently recoverable from 
tax authorities) and all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
	
j)	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
	
The Group classifies non-current assets as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than through 
continuing use and the sale is considered highly 
probable. Such non-current assets classified as 
held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Any expected loss is recognized immediately in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the assets is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition, subject 
only to terms that are usual and customary for 
sales of such assets, its sale is highly probable; 
and it will genuinely be sold. The Group treats sale 
of the asset to be highly probable when:
	
	
i)	
The appropriate level of management is 
committed to a plan to sell the asset
	
	
ii)	
An active programme to locate a buyer 
and complete the plan has been initiated (if 
applicable)
	
	
iii)	
The asset is being actively marketed for sale 
at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value
	
	
iv)	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from 
the date of classification, and
	
	
v)	
Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that material 
changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn.
	
	
The criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition and the assets must 
have actively marketed for sale at a price that is 
reasonable in relation to its current fair value. Actions 
required to complete the sale should indicate that it 
is unlikely that material changes to the plan to sale 
these assets will be made. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected 
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets once classified as held for sale are not 
depreciated or amortized. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented separately 
as current items in the balance sheet.
	
k)	
Income Tax
	
	
The income tax expense or credit for the period 
is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable 
income based on the applicable income tax rate 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities attributable to temporary differences and 
to unused tax losses. Income Tax expense for the 
year comprises of current tax and deferred tax.
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax, assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
to or recovered from the taxation authorities 
in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 
and the Income Computation and Disclosure 
Standards (ICDS) enacted in India by using tax 
rates and the tax laws that are enacted at the 
reporting date. 
	
	
The current income tax charge is calculated on 
the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the end of the reporting period in the 
countries where the Group operate and generate 
taxable 
income. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is 
subject to interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will accept an 
uncertain tax treatment. The group measures its tax 
balances either based on the most likely amount or 
the expected value, depending on which method 
provides a better prediction of the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
287
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Current income tax relating to item recognized 
outside the statement of profit and loss is 
recognized outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or equity).Current tax items 
are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transactions either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred Tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance 
sheet method on temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
	
i)	
When the deferred tax liability arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
	
ii)	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, 
when the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit 
will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized. 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed 
at each reporting date and are recognized to the 
extent that it has become probable that future 
taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year 
when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside the 
statement of profit and loss is recognized outside 
the statement of profit and loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax 
items are recognized in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or direct in equity.
	
	
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business 
combination, but not satisfying the criteria for 
separate recognition at that date, are recognised 
subsequently if new information about facts and 
circumstances change. Acquired deferred tax 
benefits recognised within the measurement 
period reduce goodwill related to that acquisition 
if they result from new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition 
date. If the carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any 
remaining deferred tax benefits are recognised in 
OCI/ capital reserve depending on the principle 
explained for bargain purchase gains. All other 
acquired tax benefits realized are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
l)	
Other Operating Revenues
	
(a)	
Export benefit
	
	
Revenue from export benefits arising from Duty 
entitlement pass book (DEPB scheme), duty 
drawback scheme, merchandise export incentive 
scheme, Remission of duties and taxes on 
exported product scheme are recognised on 
export of goods in accordance with their respective 
underlying scheme at fair value of consideration 
received or receivable.
Havells India Limited
288
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(b)	
Government Grants 
	
	
Government Grants are recognized at their fair 
value when there is reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and all the attached 
conditions will be complied with.
	
	
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is 
recognized as income on a systematic basis 
over the periods that the related costs, for which 
it is intended to compensate, are expensed. 
Government grant related to the non-monetary 
asset are recognised at nominal value and 
presented by deducting the same from carrying 
amount of related asset and the grant is then 
recognised in profit or loss over the useful life of the 
depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation 
charge.
	
m)	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
(i)	
Short-term obligations
	
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non 
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognized in respect of employee 
service upto the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations 
in the balance sheet.
	
(ii)	
Post employment
	
	
a)	
Gratuity
	
	
	
The Employee’s Gratuity Fund Scheme, 
which is defined benefit plan, is managed 
by Trust with its investments maintained 
with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.Ltd. 
The liabilities with respect to Gratuity Plan 
are determined by actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method on the balance 
sheet date, based upon which the Group 
contributes to the Gratuity Scheme. The 
difference, if any, between the actuarial 
valuation of the gratuity of employees at 
the year end and the balance of funds 
is provided for as assets/ (liability) in the 
books. Net interest is calculated by applying 
the discount rate to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. The Group recognizes the 
following changes in the net defined benefit 
obligation under Employee benefit expense 
in statement of profit or loss:
	
	
	
a)	
Service costs comprising current 
service costs, past-service costs, 
gains and losses on curtailments and 
non-routine settlements
	
	
	
b)	
Net interest expense or income
	
	
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset 
ceiling, excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability 
and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the 
net defined benefit liability), are recognized 
immediately in the Balance Sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through other comprehensive 
income in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurements are not reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
b)	
Provident fund
	
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident 
fund is a defined contribution scheme. 
the Group has no obligation, other than 
the contribution payable to the provident 
fund. The Group recognizes contribution 
payable through provident fund scheme 
as an expense, when an employee renders 
the related services. If the contribution 
payable to scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable 
to the scheme is recognized as liability after 
deducting the contribution already paid. If 
the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before 
the balance sheet date, then excesses 
recognized as an asset to the extent that 
the prepayment will lead to, for example, 
a reduction in future payment or a cash 
refund. 
	
(iii)	
Other employee benefits
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Group receive remuneration in the form of share 
based payment transactions, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity 
instruments. In accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and the Ind-AS 102 
Share based payments, the fair value of options 
granted under the Havells Long Term cumulative 
expense recognized for equity-settled transactions 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
289
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects 
the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
expense or credit recognized in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense recognized as 
at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognized in employee benefits expense.
	
	
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction 
award are modified, the minimum expense 
recognized is the expense as if the terms had not 
been modified, if the original terms of the award are 
met. An additional expense is recognized for any 
modification that increases the total intrinsic value 
of the share-based payment transaction, or is 
otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured 
at the date of modification. The Employee stock 
option scheme is administered through Havells 
Employee Welfare Trust.
	
	
The Group provides long term incentive plan 
to employees via equity settled share based 
payments as enumerated below:
	
	
(a) Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan:   
The fair value of options granted under this 
option plan is recognised as an employee benefit 
expense with corresponding increase in equity in 
accordance with recognition and measurement 
principles as prescribed in Ind AS 102 Share 
Based Payments when grant is made. The total 
expense is recognised over the vesting period, 
which is the period over which all of the specified 
vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At end of the 
reporting period, the entity revises its estimates of 
the number of options that are expected to vest 
based on the non-market vesting and service 
conditions. It recognizes the impact of the revision 
to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
	
	
(b) Havells Employees Long term Incentive 
plan: These are in nature of employee benefit 
wherein employees (including senior executives) 
of the Group purchase shares of the Group at fair 
value on the grant cum allotment date and receives 
remuneration in the form of ex-gratia equivalent to 
predefined percentage of purchase price paid by 
designated employee subject to serving of relevant 
period of service after the grant cum allotment 
date. These are recognised at fair value of shares 
granted and allotted as employee benefit expense 
over the period of employee serving relevant 
period.
	
c)	
Leave Obligation
	
	
Leave obligations: The Group has liabilities for 
earned leave that are not expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service. These obligations are therefore measured 
as the present value of expected future payments 
to be made in respect of services provided by 
employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The 
benefits are discounted using the appropriate 
market yields at the end of the reporting period 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. Remeasurements as a result of 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in profit or loss.
	
	
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an 
unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period, regardless 
of when the actual settlement is expected to occur.
	
n)	
Leases
	
	
The Group assesses at contract inception whether 
a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration.
	
	
Right-of-use assets (ROU)
	
	
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use 
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount 
of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs 
incurred, and lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentives 
received.
	
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to 
the Group at the end of the lease term or the 
cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, 
depreciation is calculated using the estimated 
useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets are 
also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policies in section ‘Impairment of non-financial 
assets’.
Havells India Limited
290
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the 
present value of lease payments to be made over 
the lease term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments (including in substance fixed payments) 
less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease 
payments that depend on an index or a rate, and 
amounts expected to be paid under residual value 
guarantees. The lease payments also include the 
exercise price of a purchase option reasonably 
certain to be exercised by the Group and payments 
of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease 
term reflects the Group exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that do not 
depend on an index or a rate are recognised as 
expenses (unless they are incurred to produce 
inventories) in the period in which the event or 
condition that triggers the payment occurs.
	
	
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
	
Lease payments are allocated between principal 
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged 
to profit or loss over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability for each period. 
Variable lease payments that depend on sales 
are recognised in profit or loss in the period in 
which the condition that triggers those payments 
occurs.
	
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale.
	
o)	
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the decision making authority. The Board of 
directors monitors the operating results of all 
product segments separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. 
	
p)	
Earnings Per Share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) if any that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effect of all potentially dilutive 
equity shares. 
	
q)	
Borrowing Costs
	
	
Borrowing cost includes interest and other costs 
incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds 
and charged to Statement of Profit & Loss on 
the basis of effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences 
to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the 
borrowing cost.
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an 
asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale 
are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective 
asset. All other borrowing costs are recognized as 
expense in the period in which they occur.
	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, that are readily convertible to a 
known amount of cash and subject to an inmaterial 
risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents 
includes cash on hand, deposit held at call with 
financial institutions, other short - term, highly 
liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to 
an inmaterial risk of changes in value, and bank 
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
291
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
borrowings in current liabilities in the balance 
sheet.
	
s)	
Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
Items included in the financial statements are 
measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity 
operates (‘the functional currency’). The Group’s 
financial statements are presented in Indian rupee 
(INR) which is also the Group’s functional and 
presentation currency.
	
(ii)	
Transactions and balances 
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rate 
prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transaction and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at year end 
exchange rate are generally recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial 
transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value is 
determined.
	
(iii)	
Exchange differences
	
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement or 
translation of monetary items are recognized as 
income or expense in the period in which they arise 
with the exception of exchange differences on gain 
or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in line with 
the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in 
fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on 
items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in 
OCI or profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
	
t)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
	
Provisions (including reimbursement)
	
	
A provision is recognized when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognized as a 
finance cost.
	
	
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis 
of claims admitted / expected to be admitted and 
to the extent that the amount recoverable can be 
measured reliably and realisation in respect thereof 
is virtually certain.
	
	
Contingent liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of 
one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Group or a present obligation that 
is not recognized because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognized because it cannot be 
measured reliably. the Group does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements unless the probability of 
outflow of resources is remote.
	
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
	
u)	
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Group measures financial instruments at fair 
value at each balance sheet date.
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an ordinary 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
(i)	
In the principal market for asset or liability, or
	
	
(ii)	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Group.
Havells India Limited
292
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non- financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable 
inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level 
input that is material to the fair value measurement 
as a whole:
	
	
Level 1- Quoted(unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
	
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is material to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is material to fair value measurement as a whole) at 
the end of each reporting period.
	
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
	
v)	
Exceptional items
	
	
The Group recognises exceptional item when items of 
income and expenses within Statement of Profit and 
Loss from ordinary activities are of such size, nature or 
incidence that their disclosure is relevant to explain the 
performance of the enterprise for the period.
	
w)	
Dividend Distributions
	
	
The Group recognizes a liability to make the payment 
of dividend to owners of equity, when the distribution 
is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the 
discretion of the Group. As per the corporate laws in 
India, a distribution is authorised when it is approved 
by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is 
recognised directly in equity.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
293
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
3.	
Property, plant and equipment
(` in crores)
Particulars
Freehold 
Land
Buildings 
Leasehold 
Improvements
Plant and 
Machinery
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and fixtures
Vehicles
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Right of use asset 
Total 
Capital Work 
in progress
 Grand Total
Leasehold 
Land
Leasehold 
Buildings
Gross carrying  
amount (at cost)
At April 01, 2022
 27.77 
 789.89 
 15.12 
 975.91  372.18 
 73.38 
 16.18 
 46.33 
 119.71 
 50.75 
 230.15 
 302.06  3,019.43 
 56.75 
 3,076.18 
Additions
 - 
 95.11 
 0.03 
 200.51 
 97.65 
 11.28 
 5.87 
 9.97 
 26.93 
 6.56 
 1.34 
 51.86 
 507.01 
 514.87 
 1,021.88 
Disposals/Adjustments 
 - 
 (9.50)
 (1.10)
 (28.77)
 (13.41)
 (4.37)
 (0.72)
 (1.66)
 (5.08)
 (1.64)
 - 
 (8.85)
 (75.03)
 (408.20)
 (483.23)
At March 31, 2023
 27.77 
 875.50 
 14.05  1,147.65  456.42 
 80.29 
 21.33 
 54.64 
 141.56 
 55.67 
 231.49 
 345.07  3,451.44 
 163.42 
 3,614.86 
Additions
 - 
 158.93 
 0.04 
 184.66 
 92.11 
 32.39 
 1.95 
 20.18 
 54.51 
 19.98 
 0.30 
 133.72 
 698.77 
 660.85 
 1,359.62 
Recognition of grant related to 
assets {Refer note 3 (iv)}
 - 
 (0.02)
 - 
 (1.98)
 (0.82)
 (0.26)
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 - 
 - 
-
 (3.21)
-
 (3.21)
Disposals/adjustments *
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (11.35)
 (3.40)
 (1.13)
 (2.38)
 (0.32)
 (10.13)
 (0.85)
 (0.18)
 - 
 (29.74)
 (527.36)
 (557.10)
At March 31, 2024
 27.77  1,034.41 
 14.09  1,318.98  544.31 
 111.29 
 20.90 
 74.50 
 185.81 
 74.80 
 231.61 
 478.79  4,117.26 
 296.91 
 4,414.17 
Accumulated Depreciation
At April 01, 2022
 - 
 177.69 
 8.42 
 379.52  167.62 
 25.96 
 6.56 
 22.44 
 86.48 
 24.74 
 6.24 
 92.31 
 997.98 
 - 
 997.98 
Charge for the year
 - 
 30.88 
 1.81 
 90.18 
 61.37 
 7.22 
 1.66 
 7.07 
 15.26 
 3.98 
 2.54 
 48.07 
 269.98 
 - 
 269.98 
Disposals/adjustments 
 - 
 (2.75)
 (0.95)
 (14.54)
 (11.33)
 (2.48)
 (0.64)
 (1.55)
 (4.47)
 (1.09)
 - 
 (4.63)
 (44.43)
 - 
 (44.43)
At March 31, 2023
 - 
 205.82 
 9.28 
 455.16  217.66 
 30.70 
 7.58 
 27.96 
 97.27 
 27.63 
 8.78 
 135.75  1,223.59 
 - 
 1,223.59 
Charge for the year
 - 
 35.30 
 1.39 
 97.72 
 62.86 
 9.03 
 2.24 
 9.94 
 20.45 
 4.75 
 2.54 
 65.73 
 311.95 
 - 
 311.95 
Disposals/adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8.63)
 (2.30)
 (0.96)
 (2.15)
 (0.24)
 (9.45)
 (0.78)
 (0.03)
-
 (24.54)
 - 
 (24.54)
At March 31, 2024
 - 
 241.12 
 10.67 
 544.25  278.22 
 38.77 
 7.67 
 37.66 
 108.27 
 31.60 
 11.29 
 201.48  1,511.00 
 - 
 1,511.00 
Net carrying amount
At April 01, 2022
 27.77 
 612.20 
 6.70 
 596.39  204.56 
 47.42 
 9.62 
 23.89 
 33.23 
 26.01 
 223.91 
 209.75  2,021.45 
 56.75 
 2,078.20 
At March 31, 2023
 27.77 
 669.68 
 4.77 
 692.49  238.76 
 49.59 
 13.75 
 26.68 
 44.29 
 28.04 
 222.71 
 209.32  2,227.85 
 163.42 
 2,391.27 
At March 31, 2024
 27.77 
 793.29 
 3.42 
 774.73  266.09 
 72.52 
 13.23 
 36.84 
 77.54 
 43.20 
 220.32 
 277.31  2,606.26 
 296.91 
 2,903.17 
	
* Disposal includes assets held for sale amounting to ` 2.18 crores (March 31,2023 ` 10.53 Crores), and includes transfers in relation to Capital work in progress.
Notes: - 
(i)	
Right of Use Asset includes :-
	
(a)	
“Leasehold Land” represents land obtained on long term lease from various Government authorities. 
	
(b)	
Leasehold Buildings represent properties taken on lease for its offices and warehouses accounted for in accordance with principle of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’. Refer Note 32(3) 
(ii)	
Capital work in progress as at March 31, 2024 consists of assets under construction mainly related to plant and machinery, buildings etc. at various plants of the company Adjustment in relation to capital 
work in progress relates to addition in property, plant and equipment made during the year. 
(iII)	 Disclosure of Contractual commitment for the acquisition of property plant and equipment has been provided in note 31B.
(iv)	 The grant related to assets incudes Subsidy of ` 3.21 crores for the year ended March 31, 2024(March 31,2023 Nil) is on account of Modified Special Incentive Package (MSIP) scheme for making capital 
investment at Ghiloth District, General Zone Industrial Area RIICO in the state of Rajasthan.
(v)	 The Group has not revalued its Property Plant and Equipment (Including Right of use assets) or Intangible assets during the year.
Havells India Limited
294
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(vi)	
The following has been recognised as Exceptional Items in the previous year towards loss on account of fire at Neemrana plant of the Group on July 27 2022. 
(Refer note 32 (14))
(` in crores)
Particulars
Plant and 
machinery
Moulds 
and Dies
Furniture 
and fixtures
R & D 
Equipment's
Office 
Equipment's
Electrical 
Installations
Capital Work 
in progress
Grand Total
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
 17.90 
 0.58 
 3.05 
 0.05 
 2.13 
 1.32 
0.55
 25.58 
Accumulated 
Depreciation
 (6.72)
 (0.46)
 (1.56)
 (0.02)
 (1.76)
 (0.89)
-
 (11.41)
Net Block -  
July 27,2022
 11.18 
 0.12 
 1.49 
 0.03 
 0.37 
 0.43 
 0.55 
 14.17 
(vii)	 Capital work-in-progress (“CWIP”) Ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 294.94 
 1.97 
 - 
 - 
 296.91 
As at March 31, 2023
(` in crores)
Capital Work in progress
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 163.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 163.42 
Completion Schedule for capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue as at March 31, 2024
To be completed In
Total 
Less than 1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Cables plant at Tumkur, 
Karnataka
 184.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 184.82 
Note: There are no projects under capital work in progress where the completion was overdue has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan in previous year. In 
current year there are no projects which have exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
(viii)	 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Group
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet 
 Description 
of item of 
property 
Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
 Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative 
of promoter/director 
or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held since 
which date
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Group
Property, plant 
and equipment
Freehold 
land in Delhi 
15.89 
Late Shri Qimat Rai 
Gupta, on behalf 
of M/s Guptajee & 
Company 
Erstwhile Promoter/ 
Director
March 31, 
2011
The possession and the original 
agreement to sell of the property 
is in the name of Group. Further, 
title deeds will be registered in the 
name of the Group once the state 
government’s policy on registry is 
changed.
Property, plant 
and equipment 
Building In 
Bengaluru 
0.04 
 Shakereh 
Shraddhanand 
 No 
April 01, 
2012
The possession and the original 
agreement to sell, of the property is 
in the name of Group. Further, the 
Group is taking adequate legal steps 
to get the title deeds registered with 
appropriate authority.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
295
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ix)	
Property where the Group is a lessee but agreements are not executed
(` in crores)
Relevant line item 
in the Balance 
Sheet
Description 
of item of 
property
 Gross 
carrying 
value (` in 
crores) 
 Net 
carrying 
value 
Net 
lease 
liability
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of 
Whether title deed holder 
is a promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee of 
promoter/director
Property 
held 
since 
which 
date
Reason for lease 
agreement not 
executed with the 
Group
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Building in 
Sahibabad 
43.20
37.77
41.11 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited
Promoter {refer note 32(6)}
August 
01, 2007
Rent 
is 
being 
paid 
based on the mutual 
understanding and the 
monthly invoice for usage 
charges is raised by QRG 
Enterprises {refer note 
32(6)}
Property, plant and 
equipment 
Building in 
Noida 
96.79 
72.58 
79.64 
QRG 
Enterprises 
Limited 
Promoter {refer note 32(6)}
July 01, 
2008
4.	
Goodwill and other Intangible assets
(` in crores)
Particulars
Computer 
Software 
R & D 
Software 
Trademarks Distributor/ 
Dealer 
Network 
Non-
compete 
Fee 
 Total
Other 
Intangible 
Assets 
 Goodwill 
 Intangibles 
assets under 
development 
 Total 
Intangible 
Assets 
Gross carrying amount 
(at cost)
At April 01, 2022
 52.67 
 11.51 
 1,029.00 
 82.40 
 58.50 
 1,234.08 
 310.47 
 0.46 
 1,545.01 
Additions 
 2.88 
 3.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.77 
 - 
 2.99 
 9.76 
Disposals/adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.46)
 (0.46)
At March 31, 2023
 55.55 
 15.40 
 1,029.00 
 82.40 
 58.50 
 1,240.85 
 310.47 
 2.99 
 1,554.31 
Additions 
 12.26 
 3.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.38 
 - 
 5.12 
 20.50 
Disposals/adjustments 
 (0.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.19)
 - 
 (6.32)
 (6.51)
At March 31, 2024
 67.62 
 18.52 
 1,029.00 
 82.40 
 58.50 
 1,256.04 
 310.47 
 1.79 
 1,568.30 
Accumulated 
amortization 
At April 01, 2022
 34.00 
 6.95 
 - 
 50.50 
 40.94 
 132.39 
 - 
 - 
 132.39 
Charge for the year 
 5.75 
 1.72 
 - 
 10.30 
 8.36 
 26.13 
 - 
 - 
 26.13 
Disposals/adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At March 31, 2023
 39.75 
 8.67 
 - 
 60.80 
 49.30 
 158.52 
 - 
 - 
 158.52 
Charge for the year 
 5.64 
 2.26 
 - 
 10.30 
 8.35 
 26.55 
 - 
 - 
 26.55 
Disposals/adjustments 
 (0.19)
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.19)
 - 
 - 
 (0.19)
At March 31, 2024
 45.20 
 10.93 
 - 
 71.10 
 57.65 
 184.88 
 - 
 - 
 184.88 
Net carrying amount 
At April 01, 2022
 18.67 
 4.56 
 1,029.00 
 31.90 
 17.56 
 1,101.69 
 310.47 
 0.46 
 1,412.62 
At March 31, 2023
 15.80 
 6.73 
 1,029.00 
 21.60 
 9.20 
 1,082.33 
 310.47 
 2.99 
 1,395.79 
At March 31, 2024
 22.42 
 7.59 
 1,029.00 
 11.30 
 0.85 
 1,071.16 
 310.47 
 1.79 
 1,383.42 
Note:-
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 
Lloyd Consumer business is a single Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) engaged in the business of manufacturing, trading and distribution of consumer 
electronics products under the ‘Lloyd’ brand. Goodwill and Trademarks having indefinite useful lives, pertains to the acquisition of Lloyd Consumer business, 
and have accordingly been allocated to the said business. As the Lloyd Consumer business has incurred losses, considering the requirements of Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) - 36 ‘Impairment of Assets, the Company has performed an impairment test to ascertain the recoverable amount of goodwill, 
intangible assets as well as other non-financial assets, viz., property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress etc. of Lloyd Consumer business. The 
recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculation. This calculation uses management assumptions and pre-tax cash flow projections, 
based on financial budgets approved by management, covering a 5 year period. Cash flow projections beyond 5 years’ time period are extrapolated using 
the estimated growth rate which is consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports specific to the industry in which the CGU operates.
Havells India Limited
296
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Management has considered the following assumptions for impairment testing of the CGU:-
Assumption
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Approach used in determining value
Weighted average Cost of capital % 
(WACC) after tax (discount rate)
15.20%
15.30%
It has been determined basis risk free rate of return 
adjusted for equity risk premium.
Long Term Growth Rate
5.00%
5.00%
Long term growth rate has been taken basis on overall 
economic growth rate, industry trend & expected long-
term inflation in India.
The management has determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of the future market 
scenario. The revenue and profit growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. Management 
has performed a sensitivity analysis on the above mentioned key assumptions, based on which the management believes that 
the recoverable amount of the above-mentioned assets of the CGU is more than the carrying amount and a reasonably possible 
change in the assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Intangible assets under development
As at March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under  
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 1.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.79 
As at March 31, 2023
(` in crores)
Intangible assets under 
development 
Amount in intangible assets under 
development for a period of
Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More Than 3 Year 
Projects in progress
 2.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.99 
Note: There are no projects under Intangible assets under development where the completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan.
5.	
Contract Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)	 Trade Receivables {refer note (a) below and note 10(B) }
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
(B)	 Contract Assets {refer note (b)}
	
Unsecured, considered good
 39.85 
 52.24 
	
Less : Ioss allowance
 0.76 
 - 
 39.09 
 52.24 
	
Non-current portion
 11.55 
 25.57 
	
Current portion
 27.54 
 26.67 
(C)	 Contract Liability {refer note (c) and note 22(v)}
 105.95 
 88.52 
 105.95 
 88.52 
	
Non-current portion
 4.64 
 4.10 
	
Current portion
 101.31 
 84.42 
Note:
(a)	
Trade Receivables represent the amount of consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customers that is unconditional.
(b)	
During the earlier years, the Group had entered into agreements with customers wherein the Group had identified multiple performance obligations 
as per Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. The Group’s right to receive consideration is conditional upon satisfaction of all 
performance obligations. Accordingly, the Group has recognised contract assets in respect of performance obligations satisfied during the year. The 
contract asset arises when the Group satisfies a performance obligation but does not have an unconditional right to consideration. Contract assets 
have decreased in the current year on account of the decrease in the time frame for a” right to consideration” being unconditional (i.e. for a contract 
asset to be reclassified to trade receivables) 
(c)	
The Group has entered into the agreements with customer for sale of goods and services. The Group has identified these performance obligations and 
recognised the contract liabilities in respect of contracts, where the Group has obligation to deliver the goods and perform specified services to a customer 
for which the Group has received consideration. There has been no significant change in the contract liabilities.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
297
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6.	
Non-Current Financial Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENT (valued at fair value through profit and loss)
Investment in preference shares (fully paid-up)
Unquoted
1,72,563 compulsorily convertible cumulative participative preference shares 
in Singularity Furniture Pvt Ltd. (March 31, 2023 1,72,563)
20.00 
20.00 
20.00 
20.00 
(B)
TRADE RECEIVABLES (valued at amortised cost)
Unsecured {refer note 10(B)}
Trade receivables from contracts with customers - considered good
 0.25 
 1.59 
 0.25 
 1.59 
(C)
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
Unsecured, considered good
Earnest money and Security Deposits
 33.15 
 33.84 
Others
Bank deposits with original and remaining maturity of more than twelve months
 - 
 115.24 
 33.15 
 149.08 
7.	
Other Non-Current Assets
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital advances
 126.30 
 47.70 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 4.58 
 4.71 
Deposits with Statutory and Government authorities 
 15.74 
 26.53 
 146.62 
 78.94 
Note: 
(a)	
Capital advances include an amount of ` 96.45 crores given to Noida Authority (U.P.) towards acquisition of land.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include an amount of ` 0.65 crores representing excess spent of Corporate Social Responsibility
8.	
Non Current Tax Assets (Net)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current tax assets net of current tax payable
 34.92 
 29.03 
 34.92 
 29.03 
Havells India Limited
298
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9.	
Inventories
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value unless otherwise stated)
Raw materials and components
 770.97 
 836.69 
Work-in-progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
Traded goods
 611.32 
 851.75 
Stores and spares
 57.06 
 46.19 
Loose tools
 3.26 
 4.21 
Packing materials
 22.45 
 23.87 
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 3,408.63 
 3,708.58 
Notes:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 The above includes goods in transit as under:
	
Raw materials
 99.60 
 148.92 
	
Finished goods
 197.59 
 201.21 
	
Traded goods
 29.72 
 73.05 
(b)	 The stock of scrap materials have been taken at net realisable value.
(c)	 During the year ` 35.83 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 15.06 crores) was 
recognised as an expense for inventory carried at net realisable value.
10.	 Current Financial Assets
(A)	 CURRENT INVESTMENT (valued at amortised cost)	
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deposits account with financial institution with original maturity of more than twelve 
months but remaining maturity less than 12 months
-
180.87
-
180.87
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
-
180.87 
Note:
(a) The deposits maintained by the Group with financial institution comprise of the time deposits and are made for varying 
periods between one year to two years depending on the cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective 
deposit rates.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
299
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(B)	 Trade Receivables (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
Trade receivables from contract with customers - considered good
 1,224.62 
 1,034.30 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 37.12 
 28.89 
Trade receivables (gross)
 1,261.74 
 1,063.19 
Less : Impairment allowance for trade receivables
 96.54 
 87.66 
Trade receivables (net)
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
Current portion
 1,164.95 
 973.94 
Non - current portion {refer note 5(B)}
 0.25 
 1.59 
Note:
Trade receivables includes from related parties ` 0.03 crores (March 31, 2023 Nil) refer note 32(6)(C)
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
 - 
649.64
418.87
29.96
45.19
 30.06 
 50.90 1224.62
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
2.51
1.74
6.33
4.94
21.60
37.12
Total
 - 
649.64
421.38
31.70
51.52
35.00
72.50
1261.74
Less : Allowance for trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 (2.51)
 (2.24) (10.28)
(19.21)
 (62.30)
 (96.54)
Total
 - 
649.64
418.87
29.46
41.24
15.79
10.20
1165.20
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31,2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not 
due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Undisputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
 - 269.08
601.83
69.77
51.13
 40.49 
 2.00  1,034.30 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed Trade receivables - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)
Disputed Trade receivables - which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
0.18
1.59
5.03
1.53
20.56
 28.89 
Total
 -  269.08 
 602.01 
 71.36  56.16 
 42.02 
 22.56  1,063.19 
Less : Allowance for trade receivables
 - 
 (0.01)
 (0.21)
 (5.03) (17.83)
(42.02)
 (22.56)
 (87.66)
Total
 -  269.07 
 601.80 
 66.33  38.33 
 - 
 - 
 975.53 
Notes: 
(a)	
Trade receivables are usually on trade terms based on credit worthiness of customers as per the terms of contract with customers.
(b)	
Trade receivables includes from related parties ` 0.03 crores (March 31, 2023 Nil) refer note 32(6)(C)
Havells India Limited
300
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(C)	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks:
Current accounts (net) {refer note (c)}
 56.67 
 71.54 
Cash credit accounts 
 69.94 
 29.92 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months {refer notes (b) and (d)}
 139.36 
 363.57 
Cash on hand
 0.13 
 0.13 
266.10
465.16
Note:
(a)	
There are no restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and prior period.
(b)	
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between one day to three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposits rates.
(c)	
Includes amount of ` Nil (March 31, 2023 ` 0.47 cr) related to Unspent CSR amount kept in separate bank account as per provision in 
section 135(6) of Companies Act, 2013.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.53 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 1.03 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(e)	
Net debts reconciliation
Particulars
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Long Term Borrowing
Lease Liabilities
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
 465.16 
 775.84 
 - 
 395.53 
 223.10 
 220.87 
Addition on account of 
new leases during the 
year {refer note 32(3)}
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 131.39 
 50.73 
Deletion on account of 
termination of leases 
during the year {refer 
note 32(3)}
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.10)
Lease rent concession
-
-
-
-
 - 
 (0.12)
Effect of foreign exchange 
rate changes on cash and 
cash equivalents held in 
foreign currency
 (4.54)
 (3.73)
 - 
 - 
 -  - 
Cash outflows
 (194.52)
 (306.95)
 - 
 (393.69)
 (51.33)
 (44.28)
Interest expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.14 
 25.82 
 18.35 
Interest paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6.98)
 (25.82)
 (18.35)
Closing balance 
 266.10 
 465.16 
 - 
 - 
 303.16 
 223.10 
Non-current lease liability 
{refer note 14 (A)}
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 242.44 
 186.91 
Current maturity of long 
term lease liability {refer 
note 18 (A)}
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.72 
 36.19 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
301
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(D)	 Other Bank Balances
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deposits account with original maturity of more than three months but expiring less 
than twelve months {refer notes (a) and (e)}
 1,228.72 
 551.59 
Deposits account with original maturity of more than twelve months {refer notes 
(b), (d) and (f)}
 1,541.18 
 851.16 
Unpaid dividend account {refer note (c)}
 2.17 
 2.26 
 2,772.07 
 1,405.01 
Notes:
(a)	
The deposits maintained by the Group with banks comprise of the time deposits, which may be withdrawn by the Group at any point of time 
without prior notice and are made for varying periods between one day to twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of 
the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
(b)	
Fixed deposit with original maturity of more than twelve months but remaining maturity of less than twelve months have been disclosed under 
other bank balances. 
(c)	
The Group can utilise the balance towards settlement of unclaimed dividend.
(d)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` Nil (March 31, 2023 ` 4.34 crores) related to Unspent CSR amount kept in separate bank account as 
per provision in section 135(6) of Companies Act, 2013.
(e)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 12.31 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 5.93 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(f)	
Includes Fixed Deposit amounting ` 0.69 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 0.52 crores) related to Havells Employees Welfare Trust.
(E)	 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (valued at amortised cost) 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Earnest money and security deposits
 4.30 
 3.71 
Contractual claims and other receivables {refer note (a)}
 16.69 
 113.18 
 20.99 
 116.89 
Notes:
(a)	
Contractual claims and other receivables includes claims in accordance with contract with vendors and insurance company {refer note 
32(14)}
11.	 Other Current Assets 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advances other than capital advances
Advances for materials and services
 101.91 
 29.46 
Others
Prepaid expenses
 45.55 
 47.50 
Duty free licenses in hand
 0.47 
 4.19 
Right to returned goods (refer note 21)
 30.13 
 - 
Government grant receivable
 13.58 
 4.98 
Balance with Statutory and Government authorities/Others
 45.51 
 92.39 
 237.15 
 178.52 
Havells India Limited
302
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Movement of Government grant receivable
Opening balance
 4.98 
 9.34 
Accrual of grant related to income (credited to statement of profit and loss 
account) (refer note 3,22 and 23)
 25.72 
 10.13 
Grant related to asset realised 
 (3.21)
 - 
Grant related to income realised 
 (13.91)
 (14.49)
Closing Balance 
 13.58 
 4.98 
Note:
(a)	
Government grant receivable includes export incentives, budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax, Production linked incentive 
scheme and Modified special incentive package scheme.
(b)	
Prepaid expenses include excess expenditure incurred under Corporate Social Responsibility
12.	 Assets Classified as Held for Sale
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Assets retired from active use 
 2.18 
 10.53 
 2.18 
 10.53 
Note:
Assets retired from active use consists of property plant & equipment, dies and tools, furniture and fixtures, office equipments and electrical 
installations.
13.	 Equity
(A)	 Share capital
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a)	 Authorized Share Capital 
	
1,03,20,00,000 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31, 2023: 1,03,20,00,000 
equity shares of `1/- each)
 103.20 
 103.20 
	
5,50,000 preference shares of `10/- each (March 31, 2023: 5,50,000 preference 
shares of `10/- each)
 0.55 
 0.55 
 103.75 
 103.75 
b)	 Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
	
62,66,83,030 equity shares of `1/- each (March 31, 2023: 62,65,09,738 equity 
shares of `1/- each) 
62.67 
62.65
c)	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of shares
` in crores
No. of shares
` in crores
At the beginning of the year
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
 62,63,03,067 
 62.63 
Add: Exercise of employee stock purchase plan - 
proceeds received {refer note 32(7)}
 1,73,292 
 0.02 
 2,06,671 
 0.02 
 62,66,83,030 
 62.67 
 62,65,09,738 
 62.65 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
303
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
d)	
Shareholding of promoters
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the end 
of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
0.00%
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
0.00%
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
0.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.42%
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
S. 
No
Shares held by promoters at the 
beginning of the year
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 As at  
March 31, 2022 
 % change 
during the year 
Promoter Name
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
 No. of equity 
shares 
 % of Total 
shares 
1
Shri Anil Rai Gupta (as Managing Trustee 
of ARG Family Trust)
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.36%
-
2
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta (as Trustee of 
SKG Family Trust)
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
-
3
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
 6,87,41,660 
10.98%
276.19%
4
QRG Enterprises Limited
 - 
0.00%
 18,98,58,880 
30.31%
-100.00%
Total
 37,24,57,920 
59.45%
 37,24,57,920 
59.47%
e)	
Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Group has only one class of issued share capital i.e. equity shares having a par value of `1/- per share (March 31,2023 : 
`1/- per share). Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Group declares and pays dividend in Indian 
rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Group, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Group 
after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by 
the shareholders.
f)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Group is set out below (representing legal 
and beneficial ownership):
Name of Shareholders
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
No. of shares
% holding No. of shares
% holding 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta as Managing Trustee of ARG  
Family Trust
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
 7,74,25,200 
12.35%
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta as Trustee of SKG Family Trust
 3,64,32,180 
5.81%
 3,64,32,180 
5.82%
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
 25,86,00,540 
41.26%
 25,86,00,540 
41.28%
Nalanda India Equity Fund Limited
 3,30,44,930 
5.27%
 3,30,44,930 
5.28%
g)	
Shares reserved for issue under Employee stock purchase plan
	
Information relating to Employee stock purchase plan, including details of options issued, exercised and lapsed during the 
financial year and options outstanding as at the end of the reporting period are set out in note 32 (7).
Havells India Limited
304
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(B)	 Other Equity
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital reserve
 7.63 
 7.63 
Securities premium
 169.45 
 148.15 
Share option outstanding account
 6.56 
 2.30 
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
Retained earnings
 6,477.10 
 5,681.16 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 0.63 
 0.84 
Total other equity
 7,384.09 
 6,562.80 
a)
Capital reserve
 7.63 
7.63 
b)
Securities premium
Opening balance
 148.15 
 121.50 
Add: Exercise of Employee stock purchase plan
 21.30 
 26.65 
Closing balance
 169.45 
 148.15 
c)
Stock options outstanding account
Opening balance
 2.30 
 0.53 
Add : Options recognised during the year
 7.67 
 3.23 
Less : Options vested and exercised during the year
 (3.41)
 (1.46)
Closing balance
 6.56 
 2.30 
d)
General reserve
 722.72 
 722.72 
e)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
 5,681.16 
 5,086.98 
Net profit for the year
 1,270.76 
 1,071.73 
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained 
earnings
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax)
 (4.81)
 (7.67)
Dividends
Final Dividend of ` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23 (` 4.50 per share for  
FY 2021-22)
 (282.01)
 (281.93)
Interim dividend of ` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 3.00 per share for  
FY 2022-23)
 (188.00)
 (187.95)
Closing balance
 6,477.10 
 5,681.16 
f)
Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance
 0.84 
 0.90 
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of foreign 
operations
 (0.21)
 (0.06)
Closing Balance
 0.63 
 0.84 
(C)	 Nature and Purpose of Reserves
	
(a)	
Capital reserve
	
	
During amalgamation/ merger approved by honourable court, the excess of net assets taken over the consideration 
paid, if any, is treated as capital reserve. This capital reserve has arisen as a result of scheme of amalgamation in the 
past periods.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
305
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(b)	 Securities premium
	
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(c)	
General reserve
	
	
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at 
a specified percentage in accordance with applicable regulations adjusted by utilisation of reserve in accordance 
with scheme of Amalgamation in earlier years. The requirement to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage 
of the net profit to general reserve before declaration of dividend has been withdrawn. However, the amount 
previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
(d)	 Share options outstanding account
	
	
The share option outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Employee stock purchase plan.
	
	
Nil no. of share (March 31, 2023: 41,960 shares) is held by employee welfare trust included in the financial 
statements
	
(e)	
Retained earnings
	
	
Retained Earnings are profits that the Group has earned till date less transfer to General Reserve, dividend or other 
distribution or transaction with shareholders.
	
(f)	
Foreign currency translation reserve
	
	
Exchange differences arising on translation of financial statements foreign operations are recognized in other 
comprehensive income as described in accounting policy and accumulated in a separate reserve within equity. The 
cumulative amount is reclassified to statement of profit and loss when net investment is disposed of/liquidated or 
classified as held for sale.
14.	 Non Current Financial Liabilities
(A)	 Lease Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lease Liabilities {refer note 32(3)} 
 242.44 
 186.91 
 242.44 
 186.91 
(B)	 Other Financial Liabilities (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Employees payable pursuant to employee stock purchase plan
 0.67 
 0.54 
Long term employee retention scheme
 0.45 
 0.67 
Employees ownership plan
 - 
 3.23 
Other Liabilities (retention money)
 2.93 
 2.77 
 4.05 
 7.21 
Havells India Limited
306
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
15.	 Non Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Gratuity 
 5.98 
 4.15 
Provision for other employee plans*
 11.34 
 - 
Product warranties and E-waste {Refer note 19(a)}
 70.40 
 132.57 
 87.72 
 136.72 
* Other employee benefit represents compensated absences
16.	 Income Taxes
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 Income tax expense in the statement of profit and loss comprises :
Current tax charge
 440.83 
 361.20 
Adjustment in respect of current tax of previous year
 (0.23)
 3.24 
Total current income tax
 440.60 
 364.44 
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 
 (3.99)
 10.89 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss
 436.61 
 375.33 
(b)	 Other Comprehensive Income 
Current income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
Current income tax on re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans
 1.62 
 2.58 
Income tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year
 1.62 
 2.58 
(c)	 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by 
India’s domestic tax rate :
Accounting Profit before tax
 1,707.37 
 1,447.06 
Applicable tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Computed Tax Expense
 429.71 
 364.20 
Expenses not allowed for tax purpose
 9.80 
 8.53 
Additional allowances for tax 
 (0.17)
 (0.08)
Provisons for litigation
 - 
 2.97 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
 - 
 - 
Others
 (2.73)
 (0.29)
Income tax charged to Statement of Profit and Loss at effective rate of 25.54% 
(March 31, 2023: 25.94%) {Refer Note (ii) below}
 436.61 
 375.33 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
307
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(d)	 Deferred tax liabilities comprises :
(` in crores)
Balance Sheet 
Statement of profit and loss 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 404.63 
 393.84 
 10.79 
 11.12 
Right of Use as per Ind AS 116
 69.79 
 52.68 
 17.11 
 (0.11)
Lease liability as per Ind AS 116
 (76.30)
 (56.15)
 (20.15)
 (0.56)
Expenses allowable on payment basis
 (17.97)
 (9.82)
 (8.15)
 2.87 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (24.48)
 (22.06)
 (2.42)
 (4.02)
Other Items giving rise to temporary 
differences
 1.85 
 3.02 
 (1.17)
 1.59 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 357.52 
 361.51 
 (3.99)
 10.89 
(e)	 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening balance as per last balance sheet
 361.51 
 350.62 
Deferred tax charged/(credited) to profit and loss account during the year
 (2.62)
 3.17 
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous year
 (1.37)
 7.72 
Closing balance
 357.52 
 361.51 
Notes:
(i)	
The Group has unabsorbed capital loss of ` 171.09 crores as on March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: ` 390.84 crores) out of which capital 
loss of ` 122.30 crores will expire in financial year 2025-26, capital loss of ` 27.51 crores will expire in financial year 2029-30 and capital loss 
of ` 21.28 crores will expire in financial year 2030-31, on which no deferred tax asset has been created by the management due to lack of 
probability of future capital gain against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. If the Group were able to recognise all unrecognised 
deferred tax assets, the profit after tax would have increased by ` 39.15 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 89.28 Crore). The capital losses of `211 
crores has been expired during the year.
(ii)	
Effective tax rate has been calculated on profit before tax.
17.	 Other Non-Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other non-current liabilities (Advance discount received)
 6.48 
 - 
 6.48 
 - 
18.	 Current Financial Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)
Lease Liabilities
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 32 (3)} 
 60.72 
 36.19 
 60.72 
 36.19 
(B)
Trade Payables
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
 203.70 
 154.96 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2,488.20 
 2,488.23 
 2,691.90 
 2,643.19 
Havells India Limited
308
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Notes:
(i)	
Trade Payables include due to related parties ` 24.87 crores (March 31, 2023 : `16.00 crores) {refer note 32(6)(C)}
(ii)	
The amounts are unsecured and non interest-bearing and are usually on varying trade term.
(iii)	
For terms and conditions with related parties. {refer to note 32(6)}
(iv)	
The amounts falling in the category of more than 1 year are related to pending obligations on the part of the supplier as per agreed terms 
and conditions mentioned in respective contracts.
a)	
Information as required to be furnished as per section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(MSMED Act) for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below. This information has been determined to the extent such 
parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Group.
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i)	
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered 
under MSMED Act, 2006 as at the end of each accounting year
	
Principal 
 203.70 
 154.96 
	
Interest
- 
 - 
ii)	
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
- 
 - 
iii)	
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
- 
 - 
iv)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
- 
 - 
v)	
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise 
for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006.
- 
 - 
The total dues of Micro and Small Enterprises which were outstanding for more than stipulated 
period are ` Nil (March 31, 2023 : ` Nil)
- 
 - 
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
Not due 
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 195.80 
 7.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203.70 
(ii)
Others
 125.09  2,003.78 
 349.39 
 7.61 
 0.84 
 -  2,486.71 
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 1.39 
 1.49 
Total
125.09
2199.58
357.29
7.71
 0.84 
1.39
2691.90
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Not due 
Less than 
1 year 
1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
MSME
 - 
 150.32 
 4.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
154.96
(ii)
Others
 120.11  2,167.69 
 188.62 
 9.77 
 - 
 - 
2486.19
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.39 
1.39
Total
 120.11  2,318.01 
 193.26 
 9.77 
 - 
 1.39 
2642.54
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
309
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(C)	 Other Financial Liabilities (valued at amortised cost)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unpaid dividend {refer note (a)}
 2.17 
 2.26 
Other payables
Long Term Employee Retention Scheme
 2.25 
 2.04 
Creditors for capital goods
 50.54 
 45.30 
Deposits from customers
 55.18 
 48.48 
Retention Money
 39.40 
 18.62 
Other liabilities
Employee benefit obligations
 162.53 
 121.54 
Sales incentives payable 
 468.34 
 381.23 
Others 
 7.27 
 5.38 
 787.68 
 624.85 
Notes:
(a) Investor Education and Protection Fund is being credited by the amount of unclaimed dividend after seven years from the due date. The Group 
has transferred ` 0.24 crores (March 31,2023 : `0.26 crores) out of unclaimed dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund of Central 
Government in accordance with the provisions of section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013.
19.	 Current Provisions
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i) Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity {refer note no. 32(4)}
 30.56 
 31.21 
Other employee benefit plans
 1.48 
 - 
(A)
 32.04 
 31.21 
ii) Other provisions
Product warranties {refer note (a)}
 236.53 
 237.00 
Litigations {refer note (b)}
 9.10 
 6.70 
(B)
 245.63 
 243.70 
(A) + (B)
 277.67 
 274.91 
a)	
Provision for warranties
(i)	
Warranties
	
A provision is recognized for expected warranty claims and after sales services on products sold during the last one 
to seven years, based on past experience of the level of repairs and defective returns. It is expected that significant 
portion of these costs will be incurred in the next financial year and all will be incurred within seven years after the 
reporting date. Assumptions used to calculate the provisions for warranties are based on current sales levels and 
current information available about defective returns based on one to seven years warranty period for all products 
sold and are consistent with those in the prior years. The assumptions made in relation to the current year are 
consistent with those in the prior year.
Havells India Limited
310
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ii)	
The table below gives information about movement in Warranty and E-waste provision
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
At the beginning of the year
 369.57 
 313.55 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
- additional provisions recognized (refer note 30)
 235.53 
 292.44 
- unwinding of discount {refer note no. 28 }
 12.11 
 5.78 
Amount used during the year
 (310.28)
 (242.20)
At the end of year
 306.93 
 369.57 
Current portion
 236.53 
 237.00 
Non-current portion {refer note no. 15}
 70.40 
 132.57 
b)	
Provision for litigations
	
Provision for litigation amounting to ` 9.10 Crores (March 31, 2023: `6.70 Crores) is created against demands raised in various 
ongoing litigations in ordinary course of business. Based on the facts of the case and legal precedents, the management 
believes there would be a probable outflow of resources and accordingly, has created a provision in books of account.
	
The table below gives information about movement in litigation provisions:
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
At the beginning of the year
 6.70 
 7.28 
Charged/(credited) to profit or loss
 2.40 
 2.97 
Amounts used during the period*
 - 
 (3.55)
At the end of year
 9.10 
 6.70 
Current portion
 9.10 
 6.70 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
20.	 Current Tax Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current tax liabilities (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source amounting to 
` 354.06 crores (March 31, 2023 ` 334.38 crores)
 85.20 
 32.26 
 85.20 
 32.26 
21.	 Other Current Liabilities
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance against Land
-
 0.50 
Others
Refund Liability*
 42.59 
 - 
Goods and Services Tax Payable
 156.98 
 55.69 
Other statutory dues payable
 76.71 
 83.53 
Others
 2.32 
 - 
 278.60 
 139.72 
* The Group has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to ` 42.59 crores, which is in the normal course of 
business. The Group has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods ` 30.13 crores. The costs to recover the products are not material 
because the customers usually return the product in a saleable condition.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
311
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
22.	 Revenue From Operations:
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue from contract with customers:
Sale of products 
 18,398.99 
 16,737.09 
Sales of services
 74.32 
 68.63 
 (A) 
 18,473.31 
 16,805.72 
Other operating revenues
Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Scrap sales
 103.20 
 94.88 
 (B) 
 116.70 
 105.01 
Total revenue from operations
(A) + (B) 
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
(i)
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods transferred at a point in time
 18,502.19 
 16,831.97 
Services transferred over the time
 74.32 
 68.63 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,576.51 
 16,900.60 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
(ii)
Disaggregation of revenue based on product or service
Switchgears
 2,240.54 
 2,115.45 
Cables
 6,312.11 
 5,529.16 
Lighting and fixtures
 1,639.61 
 1,614.43 
Electrical consumer durables
 3,480.90 
 3,296.62 
Lloyd Consumer* 
 3,809.91 
 3,394.80 
Others
 1,093.44 
 950.14 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,576.51 
 16,900.60 
(iii)
Revenue by location of customers
India 
 17,973.28 
 16,415.02 
Outside India
 603.23 
 485.58 
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,576.51 
 16,900.60 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
(iv) Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit 
and loss with contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price
 18,684.61 
 17,009.55 
Less: Cash discount
 (108.10)
 (108.95)
Total revenue from contract with customers
 18,576.51 
 16,900.60 
Add : Export Incentive
 13.50 
 10.13 
Total revenue from operations
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
* Includes revenue from installation services and service-type warranties.
Havells India Limited
312
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(v)	
Performance obligation
	
Sale of products: Performance obligation in respect of sale of goods is satisfied when control of the goods is transferred 
to the customer, generally on delivery/dispatch of the goods and payment is generally due as per the terms of contract with 
customers.
	
Sales of services: The performance obligation in respect of maintenance services is satisfied over a period of time and 
acceptance of the customer. In respect of these services, payment is generally due upon completion of maintenance period 
based on time elapsed and acceptance of the customer. In certain non-standard contracts, where the Group provides 
warranties in service of consumer durable goods, the same is accounted for as a separate performance obligation and 
a portion of the transaction price is allocated based on its relative standalone prices. The performance obligation for the 
warranty service is satisfied over a period of time based on time elapsed.
	
The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied performance obligation) pertaining to sales 
of goods and services as at March 31, 2024 and expected time to recognise the same as revenue is as follows:-
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Within one year
 101.31 
 84.42 
More than one year
 4.64 
 4.10 
 105.95 
 88.52 
Note: The remaining performance obligation expected to be recognised in more than one year relates to amounts received from customers against 
which performance obligation is to be satisfied over a period of one to four years. All other remaining performance obligations are expected to be 
recognised within one year. During the year ended March 31, 2024, revenue recognised from amount included in contract liability at the beginning 
of year is ` 82.53 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 57.03 crores).
(vi)	 Disclosure pursuant to Appendix C of Ind AS 115
	
The Group was awarded a contract for replacement of existing conventional street/ park lights with LED street/ park lights 
by a Municipal Corporation in April 2017. As per the agreement, the Group shall also be responsible for the operation and 
maintenance of LED street/ park lights for a period of 7 years after installation. The consideration received by the Group under 
the contract is based on the energy savings resulting from the LED street/ park lights. The revenue recognised during the 
year and the contract assets balance as at year-end from such contract amounts to ` 46.02 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 45.89 
crores) and ` 30.32 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 43.57 crores) respectively.
23.	 Other Income
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest received on financial assets carried at amortised cost:
Deposits with banks
 173.87 
 104.17 
Investment
 2.25 
 12.99 
Others - Finance Income and Interest 
 8.76 
 6.08 
Other non-operating income 
Exchange fluctuations (net)
 33.67 
 22.13 
Lease rent concession {refer note 32(3)}
 - 
 0.12 
Profit on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 10.27 
 - 
Discount on License utilised
 0.34 
 9.43 
Government Grant*
 9.01 
 2.36 
Miscellaneous income
 10.79 
 20.43 
 248.96 
 177.71 
* Government grant includes export incentives, Budgetary support for refund of Goods and Service Tax, Production linked incentive scheme and 
Modified special incentive package scheme.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
313
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
24.	 Cost of Raw Materials and Components Consumed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Copper
 3,660.53 
 3,361.20 
Aluminium
 1,134.00 
 1,009.60 
General plastic and Engineering Plastic
 463.58 
 438.02 
Paints and chemicals
 477.60 
 509.45 
Steel
 323.43 
 275.73 
Packing materials
 390.52 
 374.42 
Other material
 3,424.11 
 3,349.50 
 9,873.77 
 9,317.92 
25.	 Purchase of Traded Goods
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Switchgears
 129.77 
 175.52 
Lighting and fixtures
 420.14 
 532.96 
Electrical consumer durables
 659.86 
 507.83 
Lloyd Consumer
 814.08 
 1,450.59 
Cables
 0.59 
 1.02 
Others
 427.74 
 360.83 
 2,452.18 
 3,028.75 
26.	 Change in Inventories of Finished Goods, Traded Goods and Work-in-Progress
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the end of the year
Finished goods
 1,760.91 
 1,764.20 
 3.29 
Traded goods
 611.21 
 851.64 
 240.43 
Work in progress
 165.62 
 165.56 
 (0.06)
Scrap materials
 17.04 
 16.11 
 (0.93)
 2,554.78 
 2,797.51 
 242.73 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31,2022
(Increase)/ 
Decrease
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Finished goods
 1,764.20 
 1,359.07 
 (405.13)
Traded goods
 851.64 
 581.31 
 (270.33)
Work in progress
 165.56 
 202.06 
 36.50 
Scrap materials
 16.11 
 13.87 
 (2.24)
 2,797.51 
 2,156.31 
 (641.20)
Havells India Limited
314
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
27.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 1,422.76 
 1,168.26 
Contribution towards Provident Fund, Family Pension and ESI
 55.72 
 47.72 
Employee stock purchase plan expense {refer note no. 32(7)}
 27.00 
 25.33 
Gratuity expense {refer note no. 32(4)}
 24.78 
 25.11 
Staff welfare expenses
 18.25 
 15.21 
 1,548.51 
 1,281.63 
Note: 
The Group has reclassified medical insurance expenses amounting to ` 20.38 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 13.32 crores) related to its employees 
from “Insurance” (other expenses) to “Employee benefits expenses”.
28.	 Finance Costs
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest expense on Security Deposits and others
 1.44 
 5.14 
Interest on Income tax
 6.18 
 4.17 
Interest on lease liability {refer note no. 32(3)}
 25.82 
 18.35 
Miscellaneous financial expenses
 0.16 
 0.18 
Total interest expense
 33.60 
 27.84 
Unwinding of discount on long term provisions {refer note no. 19(a)(ii)}
 12.11 
 5.78 
Total Finance cost
 45.71 
 33.62 
29.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment {refer note 3}
 243.68 
 219.43 
Amortization of intangible assets {refer note 4}
 26.55 
 26.13 
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 3)
 68.27 
 50.61 
 338.50 
 296.17 
30.	 Other Expenses
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Consumption of stores and spares
 59.92 
 53.25 
Power and fuel
 135.33 
 119.27 
Job work and service charges
 377.14 
 332.96 
Rent
 49.41 
 32.44 
Repairs and maintenance:
Plant and machinery
 40.57 
 41.04 
Buildings
 4.60 
 4.63 
Others
 29.87 
 19.65 
Information technology expenses
 84.41 
 48.97 
Rates and taxes
 9.15 
 2.80 
Insurance
 32.42 
 15.01 
Trade mark fee and royalty
 0.63 
 0.42 
Travelling and conveyance
 146.39 
 124.21 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
315
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Communication expenses
 5.49 
 5.99 
Legal and professional charges
 30.86 
 23.39 
Payment to Auditors
Audit fee
 1.35 
 1.35 
Certification and other service fee
 0.47 
 0.03 
Reimbursement of expenses
 0.16 
 0.16 
Payment to Tax Auditors
Tax audit fee
 0.04 
 0.04 
Contribution towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) {refer note no. 32(8)} 
 30.21 
 26.68 
Directors sitting fees
 1.01 
 0.90 
Exchange fluctuations (net)
 - 
 - 
Freight and forwarding expense
 605.87 
 547.16 
Advertisement and sales promotion
 527.36 
 437.40 
Commission on sales
 130.34 
 120.66 
Product warranties and after sales services 
 235.53 
 292.44 
Bank Charges
 38.50 
 21.44 
Loss on sale/ discard of property, plant and equipment (net)
 - 
 0.14 
Miscellaneous expenses
 35.51 
 33.63 
 2,612.54 
 2,306.06 
30A.	Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net Impairment Losses on Financial and Contract Assets
 17.66 
 18.43 
 17.66 
 18.43 
31.	 Commitments and Contingencies
(` in crores)
As At 
March 31, 2024
As At 
March 31, 2023
A. Contingent liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
a Claims / Suits filed against the Group not acknowledged as debts (Refer point (i))
 6.67 
 6.83 
b Disputed tax liabilities in respect of pending litigations before appellate authorities
 110.25 
 54.74 
{Amount deposited under protest ` 10.20 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 13.04 crores), included 
in “Deposit with Statutory and Government authorities” in note no. 7) {refer point (ii)}
Notes:
i) Claims / suits filed against the Group not acknowledged as debts which represents various legal cases filed against the Group. The Group has 
disclaimed the liability and defending the action. The Group has been advised by its legal counsel that its position is likely to be upheld in the 
litigation process and accordingly no provision for any liability has been made in the financial statement.
ii) The various disputed tax litigations are as under :
(` in crores)
Sl.
Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2023
a)
Excise / Customs / Service Tax
Demands raised by Excise and Custom 
department.
1994-97, 2007-08 to 
2009-10, 2015-16 to 
2020-21 
24.13
 2007-08 to 2009-10, 
2015-16 to 2017-18 
and 2019-20 
16.32
Havells India Limited
316
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Sl.
Description {refer note below}
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2024
Period to which 
relates
Disputed amount 
As At 
March 31, 2023
b)
Income Tax*
Disallowances / additions made by the 
income tax department.
2008-09 to  
2014-15 and  
2016-17
27.52
2005-06, 2008-09 to  
2014-15, 2016-17 to 
2017-18 and 2019-20 
35.17
c)
Goods and Service Tax
Demands raised by GST Department
2017-18, 2019-20 
and 2022-23
56.58
2017-18 and  
2019-20
1.23
d)
Sales Tax / VAT
Demands raised by Sales tax / VAT 
department.
2003-04, 2005-06 
to 2011-12 and 
2016-17 
1.87
2003-04, 2005-06 to 
2011-12 and 2016-17 
1.87
e)
Others
Demand of local area development tax by 
the concerned authorities.
2001-02
0.12
2001-02
0.12
Demand of octroi along with penalty in the 
state of Maharashtra by the concerned 
authorities.
2010-11 
0.03
2010-11 
0.03
110.25
54.74
Notes:
The above figures are net off provisions made by the Group. The Group is contesting these demands and the management, believe that its position 
will likely to be upheld in the appellate process. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of this proceeding will not have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s financial position and results of operations.
* Based on favourable decisions in similar cases, the Group does not expect any liability against these matters in accordance with principles of 
Ind AS -12 ‘Income taxes’ read with Ind AS -37 ;Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and hence no provision has been 
considered in the books of accounts except for provision created in respect of few years {refer note 19(ii)}.
The above amounts contain interest and penalty where included in the order issued by the department to the Group
B.	
Commitments 
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Estimated amount of capital contracts remaining to be executed and not provided for 
(Net of Advances amounting to ` 131.98 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 52.52 crores))
 268.86 
 476.73 
 268.86 
 476.73 
C.	
Undrawn committed borrowing facility
	
During the Year, the Group has availed fund and non fund based unsecured working capital limit amounting to ` 1,142.50 Crores 
(March 31, 2023: ` 1,382.50 Crores) under multiple banking arrangements from IDBI Bank Limited, Yes Bank Limited, Standard 
Chartered Bank Limited, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank Limited, IndusInd Bank Limited, HDFC Bank Limited, DBS Bank Limited and 
CITI Bank N.A. An amount of ` 836.75 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 1,102.86 Crores) remain undrawn as at March 31, 2024. Drawn 
amount is related to non fund based bank guarantee and letter of credit.
D.	
Other Litigations
	
The group has taken provisions amounting ` 9.10 Cr (March 31, 2023 : ` 6.70 Cr) against the income tax and other sales tax 
related litigations. These provisions represent estimates made where liability has been assessed as probable. The probability 
and the timing of the outflow with regard to these matters depend on the final outcome of the litigations/disputes. Hence, the 
group is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
E.	
The Group has outstanding obligation amounting to ` 0.72 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 0.51 crores) in respect of bonds given 
to central tax department against import of goods at concessional rate of basic custom duty. The Group expects to fulfil the 
obligation in due course of time.
F.	
The Group has export obligation of ` 236.44 crores (March 31, 2023: ` 158.68 crores) on account of import duty exemption 
of ` 12.56 crores (March 31, 2023: `8.72 crore) on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) and 
` 0.79 crores (` 0.15 crores March 31, 2023) Advance Authorisation scheme laid down by the Government of India. The 
Group expects to fulfil the obligation in due course of time.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
317
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
32.	 Other Notes on Accounts
1.	
Group information
(i)	
The Consolidated financial statement of the Group includes subsidiaries and joint venture are mentioned below :-
S. N Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
Nature 
 Ownership 
interest held 
by the group 
Year Ended  Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities 
 Share in profit or loss 
Share in other  
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total  
Comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
Net Assets 
Amount 
(` In crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
Income 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
 As % of 
consolidated 
comprehensive 
Income 
 Amount 
(` In 
crores) 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
(I)
Parent
Havells India Limited
India
Parent Company
March 31, 2024
100%
 7,438.45 
100%
 1,273.21 
96%
 (4.81)
100%  1,268.40 
March 31, 2023
100%
 6,614.48 
100%
 1,074.95 
99%
 (7.67)
100%  1,067.28 
(II) Foreign Subsidiaries having no non-controlling interest
1
Havells Holdings Limited Isle of Man
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary (WOS), 
(dissolved on  
October 27, 2022)
0%
March 31, 2024
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
March 31, 2023
0%
 - 
0%
 (0.04)
0%
 - 
0%
 (0.04)
2
Havells Guangzhou 
International Limited 
China
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
100%
March 31, 2024
0%
 9.39 
0%
 (1.71)
6%
 (0.32)
0%
 (2.03)
100%
March 31, 2023
0%
 11.42 
0%
 (0.32)
1%
 (0.06)
0%
 (0.38)
3
Havells International Inc
USA
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary 
(Incorporated on 
October 19,2023)
100%
March 31, 2024
0%
 20.10 
0%
 (0.74)
-2%
 0.11 
0%
 (0.63)
NA
March 31, 2023
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Consolidation adjustment
March 31, 2024
0%
 (21.18)
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Consolidation adjustment
March 31, 2023
0%
 (0.45)
0%
 (2.85)
0%
 - 
0%
 (2.85)
Total - March 31, 2024
100%
 7,446.76 
100%
 1,270.76 
100%
 (5.02)
100%  1,265.74 
Total - March 31, 2023
100%
 6,625.45 
100%
 1,071.73 
100%
 (7.73)
100%  1,064.00 
Havells India Limited
318
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
2.	
During the year, the Group has capitalised the following expenses directly relatable to the cost of property, plant and equipment 
and capital work-in progress, being expenses related to projects and development of Dies and Fixtures. Consequently, 
expenses disclosed under the respective notes are net of amounts capitalised by the Group.
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cost of material consumed
 14.48 
 13.33 
Employee benefits expense*
 4.39 
 11.76 
Other expenses
 5.31 
 4.83 
 24.18 
 29.92 
*Employee benefits expense includes overheads
3.	
Leases
i	
The Group’s lease asset primarily consist of leases for land and buildings for branch offices and warehouses having the 
various lease terms. The Group also has certain leases of with lease terms of 12 months or less. The Group applies the ‘short-
term lease’ recognition exemption for these leases. Payment made towards leases of low value assets (lease of assets worth 
less than ` 2 Lakhs) other than building and warehouse are recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss as rental expenses 
over the tenure of such leases.
ii	
Following is carrying value of right of use assets and the movements thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Right of Use Asset
Total
Leasehold Land
Leasehold Building
Balance as at April 1, 2022
223.91
209.75
 433.66 
Additions during the year
 1.34 
51.86
 53.20 
Deletion during the year
 - 
 (4.22)
 (4.22)
Depreciation of Right of use assets (refer note 29)
 (2.54)
 (48.07)
 (50.61)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 222.71 
209.32
 432.03 
Additions during the year
 0.30 
133.72
 134.02 
Deletion during the year
 (0.15)
 - 
 (0.15)
Depreciation on Right of use assets (refer note 29)
 (2.54)
 (65.73)
 (68.27)
Balance as at March 31, 2024 
 220.32 
277.31
 497.63 
iii	
The following is the carrying value of lease liability and movement thereof :
(` in crores)
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2022
220.87
Additions during the year
 50.73 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 18.35 
Deletion during the year
 (4.10)
Lease rent concession
 (0.12)
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (62.63)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 223.10 
Additions during the year
 131.39 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 25.82 
Deletion during the year
 - 
Lease rent concession
 - 
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
 (77.15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 303.16 
Current maturities of Lease liability {refer note 18 (A)} 
 60.72 
Non-Current Lease Liability {refer note 14 (A)} 
 242.44 
 303.16 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
319
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
iv	
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 32(10).
v	
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities as at April 1, 2019 is 8.5%
vi	
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss during the year
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold building
 65.73 
 48.07 
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets - leasehold land
 2.54 
 2.54 
Finance cost accrued during the year (included in finance cost) (refer note 28)
 25.82 
 18.35 
Expense related to short term leases (included in other expense) (refer note 30)
 49.41 
 32.44 
vii	
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient to meet 
the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
viii	 The Group has applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases of a similar assets in similar economic environment with 
similar end date.
ix	
Non-cash investing activities during the year:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Acquisition of right of use assets 
 134.02 
 53.20 
Recognition of grant related to assets 
 (3.21)
 - 
Disposals of right of use assets 
 (0.15)
 (4.22)
4.	
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Disclosures pursuant to Ind AS - 19 “Employee Benefits” (notified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision 
of the Act) are given below :
	
Contribution to Defined Contribution Plan, recognised as expense for the year is as under:
(` in crores)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Employer’s Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
55.43
47.40
Employer’s Contribution towards Employee State Insurance (ESI)
0.29
0.32
55.72
47.72
	
Defined Benefit Plan
	
The employees’ Gratuity Fund Scheme, which is a defined benefit plan, is managed by the trust which maintains its 
investments with Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd. The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Under the gratuity plan, every employee who has completed at least five years of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 
days of last drawn basic salary for each completed year of service. The present value of obligation is determined based on 
actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method, which recognises each period of service as giving rise to additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss, the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
Havells India Limited
320
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of Defined Benefit 
obligation
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
177.81
140.29
Interest Expense
 12.67 
9.90 
Current Service Cost
 23.88 
 24.80 
Benefit paid
 (10.95)
(6.64)
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 1.86 
 3.62 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 3.91 
 5.84 
Present value of Defined Benefit obligation at year end
209.18
177.81
b) Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
142.45
131.64
Expected return on plan assets
11.77
9.59
Employer contribution
29.07 
8.65 
Remeasurement of Gain/(loss) in other comprehensive income
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
(0.66)
(0.79)
Benefits paid
(9.99)
(6.64)
Fair value of plan assets at year end
172.64
142.45
c)
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
172.64 
142.45 
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(209.18)
(177.81)
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet- Asset / (Liability)
(36.54)
(35.36)
Current portion {refer note 19(i)} 
(30.56)
(31.21)
Non-current portion 
(5.98)
(4.15)
d) Net defined benefit expense (recognised in the Statement of profit and 
loss for the year)
Current service cost
 23.88 
24.80
Interest cost (net)
 0.90 
 0.31 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit and loss 
24.78
25.11
e)
Remeasurement (gain)/ loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 1.86 
 3.62 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 3.91 
 5.84 
Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense
 0.66 
 0.79 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
 6.43 
 10.25 
f)
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total assets
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
g)	
Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Mortality Table (LIC)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
2012-14 
(Ultimate)
Discount rate (per annum)
7.24%
7.37%
Salary Escalation 
9.50%
9.50%
Attrition Rate 
7.00%
7.00%
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
321
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
h)	
Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
	
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations at the end of the year
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
Increase by 1%
 (13.41)
 (11.77)
Decrease by 1%
 15.30 
 13.42 
Salary increase
Increase by 1%
 14.96 
 13.16 
Decrease by 1%
 (13.38)
 (11.78)
Attrition rate
Increase by 1%
 (1.94)
 (1.50)
Decrease by 1%
 2.18 
 (1.71)
i)	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 13.23 
 12.75 
Between 2 and 5 years 
 87.31 
 75.71 
More than 5 years
 283.80 
 248.85 
Total expected payments
 384.34 
 337.31 
j)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21.80 years for on-roll 
employees (March 31, 2023: 21.87 years).
k)	
The Group expects to contribute ` 28.14 crores (March 31,2023 : ` 29.08 crores) to the plan during the next financial year.
l)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The above information is as 
certified by the Actuary. 
m)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
n)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in an assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period while holding all 
other assumption constraint. In practice it is unlikely to occur and change in some of the assumption may be correlated. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value 
of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been 
applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
o)	
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior 
period.
5.	
Segment Reporting 
	
The segment reporting of the Group has been prepared in accordance with Ind AS-108, “Operating Segment” (specified 
under the section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 2015 
(as amended from time to time) and other relevant provision of the Act). For management purposes, the Group is organized 
into business units based on its products and services and has six reportable segments as follows:
a)
Operating Segments
Switchgears
: Domestic and Industrial switchgears, electrical wiring accessories and capacitors. 
Cables
: Domestic cables and Industrial underground cables. 
Lighting and Fixtures
: Energy Saving Lamps (LED, Fixtures) and luminaries. 
Electrical Consumer Durables
: Fans, Water Heaters, Coolers, and Domestic Appliances 
Lloyd Consumer
: Air Conditioner, Television, Refrigerator and Washing Machine 
Others
: Industrial motors, Pump, Water purifier, Solar, Personal Grooming 
Havells India Limited
322
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
b)	
Identification of Segments:
	
	
Operating segments have been identified on the basis of the nature of product / services and have been identified 
as per the quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of its 
operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or 
loss in the financial statements.
	
c)	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue and expenses which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
d)	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax related 
assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities that can not be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have 
been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
e)	
There is no transfer of products between operating segments.
	
f)	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues
	
g)	
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
A.
Revenue from operations
Segment Revenue (Sales and other operating revenue)
Switchgears
 2,246.31 
 2,120.19 
Cables
 6,317.57 
 5,532.60 
Lighting and fixtures
 1,639.75 
 1,614.54 
Electrical consumer durables
 3,482.48 
 3,298.21 
Lloyd Consumer
 3,810.30 
 3,394.92 
Others
 1,093.60 
 950.27 
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
Inter Segment Sale
 - 
 - 
Total segment revenue
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
B. 
Results
Segment results
Switchgears
 596.30 
 553.12 
Cables 
 716.05 
 522.85 
Lighting and fixtures
 247.82 
 245.85 
Electrical consumer durables
 387.10 
 416.16 
Lloyd Consumer
 (166.96)
 (225.07)
Others
 24.55 
 33.73 
Segment profit
 1,804.86 
 1,546.64 
Reconciliation of segment operating profit to operating profit
Unallocated:
Other unallocable expenses net off 
 (340.27)
 (243.67)
Provision no longer required written back (non-recurring)
 39.53 
 - 
Other unallocable income
 248.96 
 177.71 
Operating Profit
 1,753.08 
 1,480.68 
Finance Costs {refer note 28}
 (45.71)
 (33.62)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
323
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 1,707.37 
 1,447.06 
Exceptional Items:
a) Loss due to fire
 - 
 112.52 
b) Insurance claim receivable
 - 
 (112.52)
Net Profit/ (Loss) for the year before tax and after exceptional items
 1,707.37 
 1,447.06 
Income tax expense {refer note 16}
 (436.61)
 (375.33)
Profit after tax 
 1,270.76 
 1,071.73 
C.
Reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements
Segment Assets
Switchgears
621.91 
580.76 
Cables
1,568.61 
 1,309.14 
Lighting and fixtures
660.57 
694.29 
Electrical consumer durables
1,195.05 
 1,143.17 
Lloyd Consumer
4,126.90 
 4,262.91 
Others
325.06 
285.57 
Segment operating assets
8,498.10 
 8,275.84 
Reconciliation of segment operating assets to total assets
Cash and bank balance {refer note, 6(C), 10(C) and (D)}
3,015.42 
 1,977.11 
Investment and Fixed deposits with financial institutions {refer note 6(A) and 10(A)}
20.00 
200.87 
Other unallocable assets
865.13 
688.93 
Total assets
12,419.83 
 11,143.20 
Segment Liabilities
Switchgears
469.64 
387.87 
Cables
1,177.92 
859.26 
Lighting and fixtures
375.09 
345.74 
Electrical consumer durables
656.50 
621.87 
Lloyd Consumer
992.80 
 1,105.28 
Others
229.64 
201.92 
Segment operating liabilities
3,901.59 
 3,521.94 
Reconciliation of segment operating liabilities to total liabilities
Lease Liabilities{refer note 14(A) and 18(A)}
303.16 
223.10 
Deferred tax liability {refer note 16(d)}
357.52 
361.51 
Current tax liabilities (net){refer note 20}
85.20 
 32.26 
Other unallocable liabilities
333.91 
389.91 
Total liabilities
4,981.38 
 4,528.72 
Other non-current assets 
Switchgears
 6.91 
1.24 
Cables 
10.58 
 27.78 
Lighting and fixtures
 0.30 
7.15 
Electrical consumer durables
 4.65 
2.08 
Lloyd Consumer
 5.00 
5.10 
Others
 0.30 
2.64 
27.74 
 45.99 
Unallocable assets
118.88 
 32.95 
146.62 
 78.94 
Capital Expenditure
Switchgears
 54.26 
 27.28 
Havells India Limited
324
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Summary of Segmental Information
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cables 
 251.39 
 19.67 
Lighting and fixtures
 109.40 
 22.28 
Electrical consumer durables
 65.12 
 41.91 
Lloyd Consumer
 161.77 
 404.36 
Others
 28.78 
 6.88 
 670.72 
 522.38 
Unallocable capital expenditure
 41.97 
 48.74 
 712.69 
 571.12 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
Switchgears
 52.92 
 49.83 
Cables
 75.30 
 64.38 
Lighting and fixtures
 21.31 
 18.94 
Electrical consumer durables
 60.82 
 54.30 
Lloyd Consumer
 115.24 
 95.58 
Others
 12.91 
 13.10 
 338.50 
 296.13 
Non-cash expenses (net) other than depreciation
Switchgears
 1.11 
 2.82 
Cables
 3.42 
 6.47 
Lighting and fixtures
 2.20 
 1.48 
Electrical consumer durables
 1.72 
 3.45 
Lloyd Consumer
 2.36 
 3.46 
Others
 0.53 
 0.89 
 11.34 
 18.57 
Note: Non cash expenses other than depreciation includes loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, bad debts 
and Impairment allowance for trade receivables and other assets considered doubtful
Segment Revenue by location of customers
The following is the distribution of Group’s revenue by geographical market, 
regardless of where the goods were produced.
Revenue-Domestic Market
 17,986.78 
 16,425.15 
Revenue-Overseas Market
 603.23 
 485.58 
 18,590.01 
 16,910.73 
Geographical Segment assets 
Within India
 12,394.44 
 11,099.58 
Outside India
 38.25 
 57.86 
 12,432.69 
 11,157.44 
Geographical Non-current assets
Within India
 4,422.38 
 3,858.66 
Outside India
 10.83 
 7.34 
 4,433.21 
 3,866.00 
Note:- Non-current assets for this purpose excludes contract assets, non-current financial assets and non-current tax assets.
Notes:
(i)	
Finance income and costs on financial assets are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed at Group level.
(ii)	
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also managed at 
Group level
(iii)	
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, Capital work in progress and intangible assets
(iv)	
There is no single external customer accounting to 10 per cent or more of an Group’s revenues
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
325
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6.	
Related party transactions
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,”Related Party Disclosures”, { under the section 133 of the Companies Act 
2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as disclosed 
below:-
(A)
Names of related parties :
(i)
Enterprises having significant influence over Group
(iv) Key Management Personnel
QRG Enterprises Limited 
Shri Anil Rai Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director 
QRG Investment and Holding Limited 
Shri Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Whole-time director and 
Group CFO 
Shri Ameet Kumar Gupta, Whole-time Director 
(ii)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant 
influence
Shri Siddhartha Pandit, Whole-time Director 
QRG Foundation 
Shri Sanjay Kumar Gupta, Company Secretary 
Guptajee & Company 
SRF Limited 
Non Executive Directors
Manipal Health Enterprises Pvt. Ltd 
Shri Puneet Bhatia
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited 
Shri T V Mohandas Pai
Shri Surjit Kumar Gupta
(iii)
Employee benefit trust for the benefited employees
Shri Jalaj Ashwin Dani 
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust 
Shri U K Sinha
Havells Employees Welfare Trust 
Shri B P Rao
Shri S S Mundra
Shri Vivek Mehra 
Smt Namrata Kaul
Shri Ashish Bharat Ram
(v)
Other Related Parties
Shri Rakesh Mehrotra
- Associate Director
- HKHR Ventures LLP (Partner)
Shri Yogesh Kumar Gupta
- Associate Director
- Eastern Distributors (Partner)
- Gupta Enterprise (Partner)
- YKG Enterprises (Partner)
- OP Gupta and Company (Partner)
- OPG Travels (Partner)
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2023 
(B)
Transactions during the year
(i)
Service Income (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises having significant influence over Group
QRG Investments and Holdings Limited
0.10 
-
0.10 
-
(ii)
Purchase of goods and stores & spares
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
 18.95 
17.87 
 18.95 
17.87 
Havells India Limited
326
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
 Year ended
 March 31, 2024 
 Year ended
 March 31, 2023 
(iii)
Sale of products (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
SRF Limited
3.70 
 7.21 
Ayana Renewable Power Private Limited
0.22 
-
Other Related Parties
OP Gupta and Company
5.12 
 1.63 
9.04 
 8.84 
(iv)
Commission on sales (refer note (c) below)
Enterprises in which directors are having significant influence
Guptajee and Company
 20.13 
20.65 
Other Related Parties
 Eastern Distributors 
 21.78 
19.07 
 Gupta Enterprise
2.05 
 2.01 
 YKG Enterprises 
2.95 
 2.95 
 HKHR Ventures LLP 
 43.86 
38.10 
 90.77 
82.78 
(v)
Rent / Usage Charges Paid
Enterprises having significant influence over Group
QRG Enterprises Limited 
28.82
29.52
 28.82 
29.52 
(vi)
Reimbursement of expenses paid
Other Related Parties
OPG Travels
0.95 
 1.15 
0.95 
 1.15 
(vii)
CSR Contribution
Enterprises having significant influence
QRG Foundation 
9.08 
 9.70 
9.08 
 9.70 
(viii) Contribution to post employee benefit plan
Havells India Limited Employees Gratuity Trust
29.08
8.65
 29.08 
 8.65 
(ix)
Managerial remuneration
Key Management Personnel
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
 59.17 
51.44 
Contribution towards PF, Family Pension and ESI
2.21 
 2.01 
Post-employment benefits 
1.45 
 1.15 
ESPP expense 
 11.23 
13.01 
Non-Executive Directors
Director sitting fees
1.01 
 0.90 
Commission
1.80 
 1.80 
(x)
Remuneration to other Related Parties
Salaries, wages, bonus, commission and other benefits
3.00 
 3.00 
 79.87 
73.31 
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
327
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(C)
Balances at the year end 
(i)
Amount Receivable
Enterprises in which directors are interested
SRF Limited
0.03 
-
0.03
-
(ii)
Amount Payables
Enterprises in which directors are interested
Guptajee & Company
5.34 
 5.26 
SRF Limited
2.20 
 1.39 
Other Related Parties
Eastern Distributors 
6.27 
 5.28 
Gupta Enterprise
0.65 
 0.24 
OP Gupta and Company
-
-
HKHR Ventures LLP
 10.31 
 3.80 
OPG Travels
0.10 
 0.03 
24.87
16.00
a)	
The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free. The settlement for these balances occurs through 
payment. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year 
ended March 31, 2024, the Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related 
parties (March 31, 2023: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of 
the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
b)	
As at March 31, 2024, the Group has not granted any loans to the promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties (as 
defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person (March 31, 2023: Nil),
c)	
Transactions with related parties are reported gross of Goods and Service Tax.
7.	
Share based payments
	
The Group has in place following employee stock purchase plan approved by shareholders of the Group in compliance with 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) regulations, 2021:
(a)	
Havells Employee Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 : In accordance with this scheme, 51,376 (March 31, 2023 : 41,817) share 
options of ` 1 each were granted, out of which 50,945 (March 31, 2023: 41,415) share options of ` 1 each were vested and 
allotted on June 08, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : June 03, 2022) to eligible employees at ` 1,230.20 (March 31, 2022: ` 1,289.85) 
per share as contributed by these employees. As per the scheme, 50% of the shares are under lock in period of 13 months 
and balance 50% for 2 years. Also as per the scheme, the Group is obliged to pay 50% of the contribution made by eligible 
employees as retention bonus over a period of two years in equal instalments. Accordingly, a sum of ` 2.53 crores (March 
31, 2023 : ` 2.23 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 27).
(b)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2015 : In accordance with this scheme, 93,040, which will be transferred to eligible 
employees together with the 41,960 Shares lying in the Trust, against the Exercise of 1,35,000 share options (March 31, 
2023: 150,000) of ` 1 each were granted, vested and allotted on June 08,2023 (March 31, 2023: June 03, 2022) at ` 
1,230.20 (March 31, 2023: ` 1289.85) per share to eligible employees as contributed by the Group. As per the scheme, 78% 
of the shares are under lock in period of 13 months and remaining 22% are under lock in period for 2 years. Accordingly, a 
sum of ` 16.61 crores (March 2023 :` 19.35 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expenses (refer 
note 27).
Havells India Limited
328
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(c)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2016 : In accordance with the said scheme, 34,303 (March 31, 2023: 24,942) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in three years starting from 2022. During 
the year, 20,627 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2023 : 13534 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,230.20 (March 
31, 2023 : `1,289.85) per share on June 08, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : June 03, 2022). Accordingly, a sum of `3.88 crores 
(March 31,2023: 2.69 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 27) and balance 
outstanding of ` 2.81 crores (March 31, 2023 : 1.48 crores) (refer note 13).
(d)	
Havells Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2022 : In accordance with the said scheme, 65,628 (March 31, 2023: 17,733) 
share options of ` 1 each were granted to eligible employees with graded vesting in five years starting from 2022. During 
the year, 8680 equity shares of ` 1 each (March 31, 2023 : 1722 equity shares) were allotted at ` 1,230.20 (March 31, 2023 
: 1348.55) per share on November 01, 2023 (March 31, 2023 : November 03, 2022). Accordingly, a sum of `3.98 crores 
(March 31,2023: 1.06 crores) has been recognised as employee stock purchase plan expense (refer note 27) and balance 
outstanding of ` 3.75 crores (March 31, 2023 : 0.82) (refer note 13).
	
(i)	
Set out below is a summary of options granted and vested during the year under the plan
2023-24
2022-23
Summary of Stock Options
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Number of 
Stock Options
Weighted average 
exercise price per 
share option
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 34,691 
 - 
 10,023 
 - 
Options granted during the year
 2,86,307 
 1,230.20 
 2,34,492 
 1,290.34 
Options vested and exercised during the year (refer 
note below)
 (2,15,252)
 1,230.20 
 (2,06,671)
 1,290.34 
Options lapsed during the year
 (9,005)
 - 
 (3,153)
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 96,741 
 - 
 34,691 
 - 
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options exercised during the year ended March 31, 2024 was 
` 1,230.20 per share (March 31, 2023 : ` 1,290.34) per share. For share options outstanding at the end of the year, exercise 
price ranges from ` 1,152.55 to ` 1,188.50.
	
Note: Includes 41,960 equity shares of ` 1 each already lying with the Havells Employee Welfare Trust transferred to the eligible employees 
against exercise of 2,15,252 shares under the ESPS scheme
	
(ii)	
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
ESPP Scheme
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
ESPP 2022
ESPP 2016
Grant date
May 02, 2023
May 02, 2023
Oct 03, 2022
May 05, 2022
Expiry date
2024-25 to 
2027-28
2024-25 and 
2025-26
2023-24 to 
2026-27
2023-24 and 
2024-25
Outstanding share options
67,262
29,479
16,011
18,680
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options 
outstanding at the end of the year
4 years
2 year
4 years
2 year
	
The fair value at grant date of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 was within range of ` 1211.83 to 
` 1222.64 per share (March 31, 2023 was within range of ` 1,271.53 to ` 1,348.16 per share). The fair value at the grant date 
is determined using Black Scholes valuation model which takes into account the exercise price, the terms of the options, the 
share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying shares, the expected dividend yield and the risk free 
interest rate for the term of the option.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
329
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iii)	 The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2016) :
(a)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Expected Price volatility of the Group's share
9.87% to 27.31%
10.10% to 15.29%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.59%
0.70%
Share price at the grant date
` 1,230.20
` 1,289.85
Risk free interest rate
7.12%
7.15%
The Model inputs for options granted (ESPP 2022) :
(b)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Expected Price volatility of the Group's share
9.87% to 31.53%
7.78% to 15.30%
Expected Dividend Yield
0.59%
0.70%
Share price at the grant date
` 1,230.20
` 1,348.55
Risk free interest rate
7.12%
7.41%
	
(iv)	 The expected price volatility is based on the historical volatility (based on remaining life of the options), adjusted for any 
expected change to future volatility due to publically available information.
	
(v)	
Expense arising from shared based payment transactions
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Havells Employees Long Term Incentive Plan 2014
2.53
2.23
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2015
16.61
19.35
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2016
3.88
2.69
Havells Employees Stock Purchase Plan 2022
3.98
1.06
Total expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss account as a 
part of employee benefit expense
27.00
25.33
8.	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
As per provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Group has to incur at least 2% of average net profits of 
the preceding three financial years towards Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”). Accordingly, a CSR committee has been 
formed for carrying out CSR activities as per the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. Details are as under:
	
Details of CSR Expenditure:
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Contribution to Reimagining Higher Education Foundation for building educational 
infrastructure
 11.00 
 13.00 
Contribution to QRG Foundation for providing mid day meal, promotion of 
sanitation & hygiene and free coaching
 9.08 
 9.70 
Others: for development of healthcare infrastructure, tree plantation, promoting 
education, etc.
 9.85 
 4.19 
Accrual towards unspent obligation in relation to 
	
Ongoing Project
 - 
 - 
	
Other than ongoing Project
 - 
 - 
Total
 29.93 
 26.89 
Add : Carried forward from previous year
 0.93 
 0.72 
Havells India Limited
330
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carry forward to next year
 0.65 
 0.93 
Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 30.21 
 26.68 
Amount required to be spent as per section 135 of the Act
 30.21 
26.68
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 30.21 
26.68
Amount spent during the year on 
(i)	
Construction/ acquisition of assets
 14.72 
 14.55 
(ii)	
Contribution to Trust/Universities/Society
 9.12 
 8.30 
(iii)	
On purpose other than above
 6.09 
 4.04 
Total Amount Spent
 29.93 
 26.89 
Excess spent from previous year utilised during the current year
 0.93 
 0.72 
Amount yet to be spent
 - 
 - 
Total 
 30.86 
 27.61 
Less: Excess spent during the year to be carry forward to next year (refer note 11)
 0.65 
 0.93 
Total
 30.21 
 26.68 
	
Details of ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
Year
Opening Balance
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during the year
Closing Balance
With the 
Group
In Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
From Group’s 
bank account
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
With the 
Group
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
FY2022-23
-
 8.00 
 - 
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 4.00 
FY2023-24
-
 4.00 
 - 
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 - 
Note: The Group had earned an interest of INR 0.16 crores (0.41 crores in March 2023) on the funds in CSR unspent bank account during the year.
Further, the Group has made an additional payment of ` 0.79 crores to Ashoka University, on account of interest earned (net of taxes) on amount 
deposited in separate CSR Bank account.including the 0.16 crores interest earned during the year. 
	
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of unspent amount other 
than ongoing projects
Year
Opening Balance 
unspent
Amount deposited in Specified 
Fund of Schedule VII of the 
Act within 6 months
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing 
balance 
unspent
FY2022-23
-
 - 
 26.68 
 26.68 
-
FY2023-24
-
 - 
 30.21 
 30.21 
-
	
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013
Year
Opening balance 
excess spent
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent 
during the year
Closing balance 
excess spent
FY2022-23
 0.72 
26.68
26.89
0.93
FY2023-24
 0.93 
30.21
29.93
0.65
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
331
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9.	
Fair value measurements
	
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments:
(` in crores)
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Financial instruments by category
Financial assets valued at amortized cost
Investments with financial institution
 - 
 180.87 
 - 
 180.87 
Cash and bank balances (Current)
 3,038.17 
 1,870.17 
 3,038.17 
 1,870.17 
Trade Receivables
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 20.99 
 116.89 
 20.99 
 116.89 
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 33.15 
 149.08 
 33.15 
 149.08 
 4,257.51 
 3,292.54 
 4,257.51 
 3,292.54 
Financial Liabilities valued at amortized cost
Trade Payables
 2,691.90 
 2,643.19 
 2,691.90 
 2,643.19 
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 223.10 
 303.16 
 223.10 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 7.21 
 4.05 
 7.21 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 624.85 
 787.68 
 624.85 
 3,786.79 
 3,498.35 
 3,786.79 
 3,498.35 
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and 
other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The fair value of the other financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions 
were used to estimate the fair values:
1)	
The fair value of unquoted instruments, other non-current financial assets and non-current financial liabilities is estimated by 
discounting future cash flows (DCF model) using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining 
maturities. The valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant unobservable 
inputs are disclosed in the tables below. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those 
significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
2)	
The fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using DCF method using discount rate that 
reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk as at March 31, 2024 
was assessed to be insignificant.
3)	
Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
4)	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation 
technique:
	
Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted (unadjusted) market prices at the 
end of the reporting period for identical assets or liabilities	
	
	
	
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. 
This is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Havells India Limited
332
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
There are no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
	
This section explains the judgement and estimates made in determining the fair value of financial assets that are:
	
a)	
Recognised and measured at Fair value
	
b)	
Measured at amortised cost and for which fair value is disclosed in financial statements
	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2024
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (Non-current)
 33.15 
 - 
 - 
 33.15 
Other Financial assets (Current)
 20.99 
 - 
 - 
 20.99 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 303.16 
 - 
 - 
 303.16 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 4.05 
 - 
 - 
 4.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as on March 31, 2023
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2023
Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3
Assets carried at amortized cost for which fair value 
are disclosed
Other Financial assets (non-current)
 149.08 
 - 
 - 
 149.08 
Other Financial assets (current)
 116.89 
 - 
 - 
 116.89 
Assets carried at fair value though profit and loss
Investment in preference shares
 20.00 
 - 
 20.00 
 - 
Liabilities carried at amortized cost for which fair 
value are disclosed
Lease Liability (current and non current)
 223.10 
 - 
 - 
 223.10 
Other financial liabilities (non-current)
 7.21 
 - 
 - 
 7.21 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 624.85 
 - 
 - 
 624.85 
10.	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of 
these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other 
receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that are derived directly from its operations. 
	
The Group’s financial risk management is an integral part of how to plan and execute its business strategies. The Group is 
exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The senior professionals working to manage the financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance 
framework for the Group are accountable to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee. This process provides assurance 
to Group’s senior management that the Group’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and 
procedures and that financial risk are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk 
objective.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
333
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarized as below:
	
(a)	
Market Risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market prices. Market prices comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and other price risks, such 
as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risks include loans and borrowings, 
deposits, investments, and foreign currency receivables and payables. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections 
relate to the position as at reporting date. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the 
carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. 
The sensitivity of the relevant Profit and Loss item and equity is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market 
risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
	
	
(i)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in foreign currency). Foreign 
currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods from the respective countries. The 
Group evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk 
management policies
	
	
	
Foreign currency risk sensitivity
	
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD,EUR,CNY and other 
currencies including JPY,KES,NPR, CHF, LKR, MWK,AED,SLL and GBP exchange rates, with all other variables 
held constant. The impact on the Group profit before tax and equity is due to changes in the fair value of 
monetary assets and liabilities. Foreign currency exposures recognised by the Group that have not been hedged 
by a derivative instrument or otherwise are as under:
Gain/ (loss)
March 31, 2024
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.40)
 (283.09)
 (14.15)
14.15
EURO 
 €  (0.07)
 (6.29)
 (0.31)
0.31
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.78)
 (66.57)
 (3.33)
3.33
Other currencies 
(0.40)
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
0.02
March 31, 2023
Impact on profit before tax and equity
Currency 
 Foreign Currency 
 Indian Rupees 
5% increase
5% decrease
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
 in Crores 
United States Dollar 
 $  (3.16)
 (259.58)
 (12.98)
12.98
EURO 
 €  (0.04)
 (3.77)
 (0.19)
0.19
Chinese RMB\CNY 
 CNY  (5.88)
 (70.17)
 (3.51)
3.51
Other currencies 
(8.54)
 (5.33)
 (0.27)
0.27
Note:
Figures in bracket represents payables
Havells India Limited
334
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(ii)	
Interest Rate Risk
	
	
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s long term debt obligation at floating interest rates. The Group’s borrowings outstanding as 
at March 31, 2024 and March 31,2023 comprise of long term loans.
	
	
(iii)	 Commodity Price Risk
	
	
	
The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
manufacture of industrial and domestic cable and other electronic items and therefore require a continuous supply 
of copper and aluminium being the major input used in the manufacturing. To mitigate the risk of supply and price 
fluctuations, Domestic and overseas sources are bench-marked to Optimize the allocation of business share 
among various sources. The Group’s Board of Directors has developed and enacted a risk management strategy 
regarding commodity price risk and its mitigation. The Group mitigated the risk of price volatility by entering Long 
Term & Short term contracts for the Purchase of these commodities basis estimated annual requirements.
	
	
(b)	 Credit Risk
	
	
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade 
receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and 
other financial instruments.
	
	
	
(i)	
Trade Receivables and Contract Assets
	
	
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures 
and control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an 
extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. 
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally 
covered by Trade Receivable buyout facility without recourse, letters of credit and other forms of security. 
	
	
	
	
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on trade receivables by lifetime expected credit 
loss method based on provision matrix. The Group does not hold collateral as security. The Group evaluates 
the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables and contract assets as low, as its customers are 
located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
	
The group assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, inputs and 
factors specific to the class of the financial assets. The group provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Internal 
Rating
Category
Description of category 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss provision 
Basis for recognition of 
expected credit loss 
Trade receivables and 
contract assets 
Loans & Deposits
VL 1 
High quality assets, 
negligible credit risk 
Assets where the counterparty has strong 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where the risk of default is negligible or nil 
Lifetime expected credit 
losses (simplified approach) 
12 months expected 
credit losses
VL 2
Quality assets, low 
credit risk 
Assets where there is low risk of default 
and where the counterparty has sufficient 
capacity to meet the obligations and 
where there has been low frequency of 
defaults in the past 
VL 3
Doubtful assets, 
credit-impaired 
Assets where there is high risk of default 
and there is no reasonable expectation of 
recovery,the group continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover 
the receivable due. Where recoveries are 
made, these are recognised in profit or loss.
100 % provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
100% provision is 
considered for doubtful 
assets, credit impaired
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
335
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(I)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
 Not due 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 - 
 649.64 
 421.38 
 31.70 
 51.52 
 35.00 
 72.50  1,261.74 
(ii)
Gross 
carrying 
amount 
– 
contract assets 
 - 
 39.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.85 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.11%
0.60%
7.05%
19.96%
54.89%
85.93%
7.48%
(iv)
Expected credit losses– trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.00 
 2.51 
 2.24 
 10.28 
 19.21 
 62.30 
 96.54 
(v)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
contract assets 
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.76 
(vi)
Carrying 
amount 
of 
trade 
receivables (net of impairment) 
 - 
 649.64 
 418.87 
 29.46 
 41.23 
 15.79 
 10.20  1,165.20 
Carrying amount of contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 - 
 39.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.09 
(II)	
Trade receivables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues 
Not 
due 
Less than 
6 months 
6 months - 
1 year 
 1 - 2 
years 
 2 - 3 
years 
More than 
3 years 
Total 
(i)
Gross carrying amount – trade 
receivables 
 - 266.47 
 602.01 
 71.36  56.16 
 42.02 
 22.56  1,060.58 
(ii)
Gross carrying amount – contract assets 
 -  52.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52.24 
(iii)
Expected loss rate 
 - 
0.00%
0.03%
7.05% 31.75%
100.00%
100.00%
8.27%
(iv)
Expected 
credit 
losses– 
trade 
receivables 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.21 
 5.03  17.83 
 42.02 
 22.56 
 87.66 
(v)
Expected credit losses– contract assets 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Carrying amount of trade receivables 
(net of impairment) 
 - 266.46 
 601.80 
 66.33  38.33 
 - 
 - 
 972.92 
Carrying 
amount 
of 
contract 
assets (net of impairment) 
 -  52.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52.24 
(ii)	
Financial instruments and cash deposits
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance 
with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities. The limits are 
set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make 
payments. 
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2024 is the carrying 
amounts. The Group’s maximum exposure relating to financial instrument is noted in liquidity table below. 
	
Trade Receivables and other financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as 
debtor failing to engage in the repayment plan with the Group. 
Havells India Limited
336
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using 12 months Expected Credit Loss Method (ECL)
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investment with financial institution
 - 
 180.87 
Cash and cash equivalents (Current)
266.10
 465.16 
Bank balances other than above (Current)
2772.07
 1,405.01 
Other bank balances (Non-current)
Others Non Current financial assets
 33.15 
 149.08 
Others Current financial assets
 20.99 
 116.89 
 3,092.31 
 2,317.01 
Financial assets for which allowance is measured using Life time Expected 
Credit Loss Method (ECL)
Trade Receivables
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
Balances with banks is subject to low credit risks due to good credit ratings assigned to these banks
The ageing analysis of trade receivables has been considered from the date the invoice falls due
(` in crores)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Particulars
Trade Receivables
Not past due 
 649.64 
 269.07 
0 to 180 days due past due date
 418.87 
 601.80 
More than 180 days past due date
 96.69 
 104.66 
Total Trade Receivables 
 1,165.20 
 975.53 
The following table summarizes the change in loss allowance measured 
using the life time expected credit loss model:-
As at the beginning of the year
 87.66 
 71.74 
Addition during the year
 17.66 
 18.43 
Utilisation during the year
 (8.02)
 (2.52)
As at the end of year
 97.30 
 87.65 
(c)	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at reasonable price. 
The Group’s objective is to at all times maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and liquidity requirements. The 
Group closely monitors its liquidity position and deploys a robust cash management system. It maintains adequate source 
of financing through the use of short term bank deposits, short term loans, short term commercial papers and cash credit 
facility. Processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by senior management. Management monitors the Group’s 
liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows. The Group assessed the concentration of risk 
with respect to its debt and concluded it to be low.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
337
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below provides the details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date based 
on contractual undiscounted payments.
As at March 31, 2024
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 4.05 
 - 
 4.05 
Trade payables
 2,691.90 
 - 
 - 
 2,691.90 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 93.36 
 200.73 
 93.12 
 387.21 
Other current financial liabilities
 787.68 
 - 
 - 
 787.68 
As at March 31, 2023
 Less than 1 year 
 1 to 5 years  More than 5 years 
 Total 
Other non current financial liabilities
 - 
 3.98 
 - 
 3.98 
Trade payables
 2,643.19 
 - 
 - 
 2,643.19 
Lease Liability (undiscounted)
 54.49 
 166.07 
 121.92 
 342.48 
Other current financial liabilities
 624.85 
 - 
 - 
 624.85 
11.	 Capital Management
	
For the purposes of Group’s capital management, Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Group 
and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard its ability to continue 
as going concern and to ensure that it maintains an efficient capital structure and maximize shareholder value. The Group 
manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the 
financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders 
or issue new shares. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. No changes were made in the 
objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
(` in crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents {refer note 10(C)}
 (266.10)
 (465.16)
Loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
Net Debt
 - 
 - 
Equity / Net Worth
 7,446.76 
 6,625.45 
Total Capital
 7,446.76 
 6,625.45 
Gearing ratio (Net Debt/Capital and Net Debt)
NA*
NA*
Note: No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
March 31, 2023
* This ratio is not relevant for both year as there are no Loans and Borrowings.
12.	 Earnings per share
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)
Basic Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation 
 (` in crores) 
1270.76
1071.73
Havells India Limited
338
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year
 (Numbers) 
 62,66,46,898 
 62,64,88,642 
Earnings per share-Basic (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
 20.28 
 17.11 
b)
Diluted Earnings per share
Numerator for earnings per share
Profit after taxation
 (` in crores) 
1270.76
1071.73
Denominator for earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic 
earning per share
 (Numbers) 
 62,66,46,898 
 62,64,88,642 
Effect of dilution
Share options
 (Numbers) 
 72,890 
 44,860 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year adjusted for the effect of dilution 
 (Numbers) 
 62,67,19,788 
 62,65,33,502 
Earnings per share- Diluted (one equity share of ` 1/- each)
 ` 
20.28
17.11
13.	 Dividend Paid and Proposed
(` in crores)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Dividend declared and paid during the year:
Final Dividend of ` 4.50 per share for FY 2022-23 (` 4.50 per share for 
FY 2021-22)
 282.01 
 281.93 
Interim dividend of ` 3.00 per share for FY 2023-24 (` 3.00 per share for 
FY 2022-23)
 188.00 
 187.95 
 470.01 
 469.88 
Proposed Dividends on equity shares:
Final Dividend recommended by the board of directors for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 ` 6 per share of Re 1 each (March 31, 2023: ` 4.50 per share 
of Re 1 each) subject to approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual general 
meeting.
 376.01 
 281.93 
 376.01 
 281.93 
Note: Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as liability as at 
reporting date.
14.	 Fire Incident in Neemrana Plant
	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, an amount aggregating to `112.52 crores was accounted for in the books 
and disclosed as “Exceptional items” against the fire incident at Neemrana location in July, 2022. As of year ended March 31, 
2024, balance claim amounting ` 15.79 crores is receivable towards Property Plant and Equipment from insurance Group, 
which will be received in due course.
15.	 The Group has not been declared as a Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
339
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
16.	 Struck off Companies: Details of relationship with Companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013 
or Section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956:
Name of the struck off Company
 Nature of 
transaction 
with struck off 
Company 
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2024 
(Nos.)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
March 31, 2023 
(Nos.)
 Relation with 
struck off 
Company 
Manilal Patel Private Limited  
(CIN: U17110MH1947PTC005911)
Shares held by 
struck off company 
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
35 number of shares 
of ` 1/- each
Shareholder 
"Multitech System Industrial Automation  
Private Limited  
(CIN:U28910TN2014PTC097924)
Purchase 
` 0.01 crore
` 0.01 crore
Vendor 
Naveli Decor Pvt. Ltd. 
(CIN:U52609UP2017PTC099523)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.04 crore
Customer 
Apostle Solutions Private Limited 
(CIN:U74110UP2007PTC032990)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.00 crore
Customer 
Samadhan Srbh Opc Private Limited 
(CIN:U74999UP2020OPC126709)
 Sales 
` 0.00 crore
` 0.00 crore
Customer 
Extreme Automation Pvt Ltd 
(CIN:U29220PN2010PTC135444)
 Sales 
` 0.08 crore
` 0.08 crore
Customer 
Ramesh Sales Corporation Pvt.Ltd. 
(CIN:U52390DL2014PTC266899)
 Sales 
` 0.21 crore
` 0.21 crore
Customer 
17.	 Additional regulatory information required by Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013 
	
(i)	
Details of Benami property: No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any 
Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
	
(ii)	
Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium: 
	
	
The Group, other than the below mentioned, has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
Name of Entity / Intermediary 
Amount of 
Investment
%age Sharholding
Investment made 
by
Relationship with 
the Company 
Havells International Inc., USA, 
(Investment dated February 29, 2024, 
File No. 2512890)
USD 2,500,000
100%
Havells India Limited
Wholly owned 
subsidiary 
Havells HVAC LLC, USA  
(Investment dated March 21, 2024, 
File No. 2743679)
USD 1,600,000
100%
Havells International 
Inc., USA
Step Down 
subsidiary 
	
	
The relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and Companies Act has been 
complied with for such transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 
2002 (15 of 2003).
	
	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
	
a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
Havells India Limited
340
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iii)	 Compliance with number of layers of companies: The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(iv)	 Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements: The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement 
which has an accounting impact on current or previous financial year.
	
(v)	
Undisclosed income: There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
	
(vi)	 Details of crypto currency or virtual currency: The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual 
currency during the current or previous year.
	
(vii)	 Valuation of PP&E, intangible asset and investment property: The Group has not revalued its property, plant and 
equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible assets or both during the current or previous year.
	
(viii)	The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand.
18.	 The figures have been rounded off to the nearest crore of rupees upto two decimal places. The figure 0.00 wherever stated 
represents value less than ` 50,000/-.
19.	 The Group has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility that have operated throughout the financial year for all relevant transactions, except: (a) for modification, if any, 
made by certain users having debug access for troubleshooting; and (b) that the audit trail, which was enabled at database 
level in the last month of the financial year, contains only the modified values. There was no instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with for the period the audit trail was enabled.
20.	 Note No.1 to 32 form integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered	
Anil Rai Gupta	
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Accountants LLP	
Chairman and	
Whole-time Director & 
Firm Registration No. 304026E/E-300009	
Managing Director	
Group CFO
	
DIN: 00011892	
DIN: 00002842
Sougata Mukherjee	
Ameet Kumar Gupta	
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Partner	
Director	
Company Secretary
Membership No. 057084	
DIN: 00002838	
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024	
Date: April 30, 2024	
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida	
Place: Noida	
Vice President - Finance
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
341
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Form AOC -1
Salient features of Financial Statements of subsidiaries / Joint Ventures pursuant to section 129(3) read with rule Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Part “A” : Subsidaries
Sl 
No
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Country
Reporting 
period 
for the 
subsidiary 
concerned
Reporting currency 
and exchange rate 
as on the last date 
of financial year 
in case of foreign 
subsidiaries
Share 
Capital
Reserves 
& Surplus
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Assets - 
Liabilities
Investment 
other than 
Subsidiaries
Turnover
Profit 
before 
Taxation
Provision 
for 
Taxation
Profit 
after 
Taxation
OCI
Total 
Comprehensive 
Income
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
shareholding
Currency Exchange 
Rate
1. Havells 
Guangzhou 
International 
Limited
China
31/03/2024
CNY
11.64
0.45
8.94 13.79
4.40
9.39
 - 
40.11
-1.72
-0.01
-1.71 -0.32
-2.03
 - 
100%
2. Havells 
International Inc.
USA
31/03/2024
USD
82.79
20.73
-0.63 20.25
0.15
20.10
 - 
 - 
-0.74
-
-0.74
0.11
-0.63
 - 
100%
Note:-
1.	 Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations:
	
a.	 Havells HVAC LLC
	
b.	 Havells Lighting LLC
2.	 Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: None
Part “B” : Joint Ventures
Note:-
1.	 Joint ventures : Company do not have any joint venture as on reporting date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Anil Rai Gupta
Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director & Group CFO
DIN: 00011892
DIN: 00002842
Ameet Kumar Gupta
Sanjay Kumar Gupta
Director
Company Secretary
DIN: 00002838
FCS No.: F 3348
Date: April 30, 2024
Pankaj Jain
Place: Noida
Vice President - Finance
Havells India Limited
342
Progress at a Glance of Last 10 Years- Havells India Limited (Standalone)
(` in Crores)
Performance for the Financial Year
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019**
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Turnover (Gross)*
 5,557.79 
 5,775.42 
 6,585.96 
 8,260.27  10,067.71 
 9,429.20  10,427.92  13,889.00 
 16,868.38 
 18,549.90 
Less: Excise Duty
 319.10 
 397.10 
 450.70 
 121.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Turnover (Net)
 5,238.69 
 5,378.32 
 6,135.26 
 8,138.57  10,067.71 
 9,429.20  10,427.92  13,889.00 
 16,868.38 
 18,549.90 
Profitability
Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation, 
Taxes and Amortisation
 699.10 
 754.93 
 824.14 
 1,049.29 
 1,183.83 
 1,027.38 
 1,565.26 
 1,757.61 
 1,602.96 
 1,845.29 
Profit before Tax
 646.25 
 909.03 
 768.83 
 1,014.70 
 1,146.10 
 901.73 
 1,431.58 
 1,603.79 
 1,450.25 
 1,709.83 
Profit After Tax
 464.94 
 712.03 
 539.04 
 712.52 
 787.34 
 733.03 
 1,039.64 
 1,194.73 
 1,074.95 
 1,273.21 
Financial Position
Share Capital 
 62.44 
 62.46 
 62.49 
 62.51 
 62.55 
 62.58 
 62.60 
 62.63 
 62.65 
 62.67 
Other Equity
 2,313.35 
 2,891.21 
 3,211.09 
 3,676.64 
 4,129.65 
 4,242.23 
 5,101.85 
 5,926.01 
 6,551.83 
 7,375.78 
Loan funds
 83.46 
 44.40 
 198.05 
 108.00 
 94.50 
 40.50 
 492.20 
 395.53 
 - 
 - 
Other Liabilities
 1,146.23 
 1,004.65 
 1,374.60 
 2,487.31 
 2,468.27 
 2,267.56 
 2,658.64 
 3,629.31 
 3,832.27 
 4,278.53 
Gross Block 
 1,349.03 
 1,328.52 
 1,452.27 
 3,111.48 
 3,635.37 
 4,142.81 
 4,286.37 
 4,620.73 
 5,168.68 
 5,981.95 
Net Block
 1,007.32 
 1,208.56 
 1,221.74 
 2,755.42 
 3,136.49 
 3,435.55 
 3,380.21 
 3,490.71 
 3,786.98 
 4,286.51 
Total investments
 1,011.76 
 309.61 
 227.41 
 41.70 
 1.66 
 1.63 
 1.63 
 1.63 
 0.45 
 21.18 
Cash and Bank Balance
 522.34 
 1,365.21 
 1,937.53 
 1,526.17 
 1,287.71 
 1,106.92 
 1,931.04 
 2,982.14 
 2,157.98 
 3,015.42 
Other Assets
 1,107.43 
 1,205.60 
 1,573.31 
 2,218.12 
 2,699.80 
 2,503.76 
 3,507.34 
 4,030.68 
 5,197.79 
 5,096.72 
Earning per share
EPS-as reported
 7.45 
 11.40 
 8.63 
 11.40 
 12.59 
 11.71 
 16.61 
 19.08 
 17.16 
 20.32 
EPS-adjusted for bonus issue/split
 7.45 
 11.40 
 8.63 
 11.40 
 12.59 
 11.71 
 16.61 
 19.08 
 17.16 
 20.32 
Note: The financial results summary for financial years 2015-16 and onwards  are prepared in accordance with Ind-AS and financial results for other financial years are prepared as per the prevailing GAAP.
*Turnover gross is after deducting turnover discount , incentive and rebates.
** The Company has received approval from the NCLT on January 31, 2020 in respect of a Scheme of Amalgamation, among the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries namely; Promptec Renewable 
Energy Solutions Private Limited, Havells Global Limited, Standard electrical Limited, LLOYD Consumer Private Limited. Appointed date as per scheme is April 01, 2018 and accordingly the figures for 
FY 2018-19 have been restated.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
343
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON IDENTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY 
INFORMATION IN HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED’S INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 
To the Board of Directors of Havells India Limited
We have undertaken to perform a limited assurance engagement for Havells India Limited (the “Company”) vide our Engagement 
Letter dated January 25, 2024 read with amendment thereto dated April 30, 2024 in respect of the agreed Sustainability Information 
referred in “Identified Sustainability Information” paragraph below (the “Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with 
the Criteria stated in the “Criteria” paragraph below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in the “GRI Content Index” 
section in the Integrated Annual Report (the ”Integrated Annual Report”) of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024. This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and engineers/environment experts.
Identified Sustainability Information
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 is summarised in Appendix 1A to this report. 
Our limited assurance engagement was with respect to the financial year ended March 31, 2024 information only and we have 
not performed any procedures with respect to earlier periods or any other elements included in the Integrated Annual Report and, 
therefore, do not express any conclusion thereon.
Criteria
The criteria used by the Company to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information for inclusion in the Integrated Annual Report 
is the Global Reporting Initiatives Standards (“GRI Standards”) 2021 as set out under Appendix 1A to this report (the “Criteria”).
Management’s Responsibilities 
The Company’s Management is responsible for selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the sustainability information, 
taking into account applicable laws and regulations, related to reporting on the sustainability information, identification of key 
aspects, engagement with stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information in 
accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant 
to the preparation of the Integrated Annual Report, and measurement of Identified Sustainability Information, which are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Inherent limitations in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information 
allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. In 
addition, Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases.
Our Independence and Quality Control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including 
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, 
which is founded on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and 
professional behaviour. 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements”, 
the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 “Quality Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financials Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, 
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures 
we have performed and evidence we have obtained. 
Havells India Limited
344
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements 
(SSAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance Engagements (SAE) 3410 
“Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of 
the ICAI and the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 
Statements” (collectively referred to as “the Standards”). These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to 
obtain limited assurance about whether the Identified Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement.
A limited assurance engagement involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of the Company’s use of the Criteria as the 
basis for the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information, assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Identified 
Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and 
evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information.
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the 
risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the 
assessed risks. 
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes 
performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies and agreeing 
or reconciling with underlying records. 
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the Identified Sustainability Information and related disclosures.
•	
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and /or measurements of the 
Identified Sustainability Information. 
•	
Made enquiries of Company’s Management, including those responsible for Sustainability, Environmental Social Governance 
(ESG), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Human Resource (HR) etc. and those with responsibility for managing the 
Company’s Integrated Annual Report.
•	
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the key systems and processes for managing, recording and 
reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information including at the sites and corporate office visited. This did not include 
testing of the design and operating effectiveness of the management systems and controls.
•	
Based on above understanding and the risks that the Identified Sustainability Information may be materially misstated, 
determined the nature, timing and extent of further procedures.
•	
Checked the consolidation for various sites and offices including corporate office under the reporting boundary (as mentioned 
in the Integrated Annual Report) for ensuring the completeness of data being reported.
•	
Performed limited substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability Information for various sites and 
corporate office under the reporting boundary (as mentioned in the Integrated Annual Report) to verify that data had been 
appropriately measured with underlying documents recorded, collated and reported. This included assessing records and 
performing testing including recalculation of sample data.
•	
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the integrated report, we have relied on the information in the 
audited standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2024 and the underlying trial balance.
•	
Assessed the level of adherence to GRI Standards, 2021, by the Company in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information 
in the Integrated Annual Report. 
•	
Assessed the Integrated Annual Report for detecting, on a test basis, any major anomalies between the information reported 
in the Integrated Annual Report on performance with respect to Identified Sustainability Information and relevant source data/
information.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgements made by the Management in the 
preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information.
•	
Obtained representations from Company’s Management.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
345
Assurance Report 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, 
a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the Identified Sustainability Information have been 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria.
Exclusions
Our limited assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we do not express a conclusion on the same:
•	
Operations of the company other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1A.
•	
Aspects of the BRSR and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative) included in the BRSR other than the Identified 
Sustainability Information.
•	
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e. April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024.
•	
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intentions provided by the 
Company and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/or data.
Limited Assurance Conclusion  
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that 
the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information included in the Integrated Annual Report for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. 
Other Matter
The Integrated Annual Report of the Company includes certain information pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
on which an unmodified limited assurance conclusion was issued by another firm as per the scope and criteria defined in their 
report dated June 27, 2023.
Restriction on Use
Our work was performed solely to assist you in meeting the reporting requirements. Our obligations in respect of this deliverable 
are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in no way changed by any other role we may have as auditors of the 
Company or otherwise. This deliverable has been issued solely at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company to whom 
it is addressed, solely to assist the Company in reporting Company’s sustainability performance and activities. Accordingly, we 
accept no liability to anyone, other than the Company. Our deliverables should not be used for any other purpose or by any person 
other than the addressees of our deliverables. We do not accept or assume any liability or duty of care for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this deliverable is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Heman Sabharwal
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership Number: 093263 
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24093263BKFGLC4555 
Havells India Limited
346
S. No.
GRI Indicator Reference
Indicator description
1
302-1 
Energy consumption within the organization
2
302-3 
Energy intensity
3
303-3 
Water Withdrawal
4
303-5 
Water Consumption
5
305-1 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
6
305-2 
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
7
305-4 
GHG emissions intensity (Basis Scope1 and Scope 2 emissions)
8
305-6 
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
9
306-4 
Waste diverted from disposal
10
306-5 
Waste directed to disposal
11
401-1 
New employee hires and employee turnover
12
401-2 
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees
13
401-3 
Parental leave
14
403-1 
Occupational health and safety management system
15
403-5 
Worker training on occupational health and safety
16
403-8 
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
17
403-9 
Work-related injuries
18
404-1 
Average hours of training per year per employee
19
404-2 
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
20
404-3 
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
21
405-1 
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
22
405-2 
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
Appendix 1A 
Identified Sustainability Information
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
347
Assurance Report 
We have undertaken to perform a reasonable assurance engagement for Havells India Limited (the “Company”) vide our Engagement 
Letter dated January 25, 2024 read with addendum thereto dated April 30, 2024 in respect of the agreed Sustainability Information 
referred in “Identified Sustainability Information” paragraph below (the “Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with the 
Criteria stated in the “Criteria” paragraph below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) Section of the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended) (the “LODR Regulations”). The Reporting Boundary for BRSR is as 
disclosed under Question No. 13 of Section A of the BRSR and any exceptions thereto are disclosed by way of a note under the 
respective questions in BRSR. This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and engineers/
environment experts.
Identified Sustainability Information
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, is as summarised in Appendix 1 to this report. 
Our reasonable assurance engagement was with respect to the financial year ended March 31, 2024 information only and we have 
not performed any procedures with respect to earlier periods or any other elements included in the BRSR (other than those listed 
as BRSR Core KPIs in Appendix 1) and, therefore, do not express any opinion thereon.
Criteria
The criteria used by the Company to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information is the “BRSR Core” as detailed in Appendix 
1 to this report (the “Criteria”), which is a subset of the BRSR, consisting of a set of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) / metrics 
under nine Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) attributes, as specified by SEBI vide its circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023 (the “SEBI Circular”).
Management’s Responsibilities
The Company’s Management is responsible for determining the Reporting Boundary of the BRSR, selecting or establishing 
suitable criteria for preparing the Identified Sustainability Information, taking into account applicable laws and regulations including 
the SEBI Circular, related to reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information, identification of key aspects, engagement with 
stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the Criteria. This 
responsibility includes design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the BRSR and the 
measurement of Identified Sustainability Information, which is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The 
Management and the Board of Directors of the Company are also responsible for overseeing that the Company’s compliance with 
the requirements of LODR Regulations and the SEBI Circular in relation to the BRSR Core.
Inherent limitations in preparing the Identified Sustainability Information
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information 
allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. In 
addition, Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases.
Our Independence and Quality Control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International 
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, which is founded on 
the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. 
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1, “Quality Control for Firms 
that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements”, 
the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 “Quality Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financials Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, 
INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT ON IDENTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY 
INFORMATION IN HAVELLS INDIA LIMITED’S BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
PURSUANT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To the Board of Directors of Havells India Limited 
Havells India Limited
348
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance opinion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures 
we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements (“SSAE”) 3000, 
“Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance Engagements (“SAE”) 3410, “Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the ICAI and 
the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised), “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”. 
These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Identified 
Sustainability Information is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. A reasonable assurance engagement 
involves assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error, 
responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances. 
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes 
performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and 
agreeing or reconciling with underlying records.
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the identified sustainability information and related disclosures.
•	
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and /or measurements of the 
identified sustainability information.
•	
Made enquiries of Company’s Management, including those responsible for Sustainability, Environmental Social Governance 
(‘ESG’), Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’), Human Resources (HR) etc., and those with responsibility for managing the 
Company’s BRSR.
•	
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the design of the key systems, processes, and controls for 
managing, recording and reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information including at the sites and corporate office 
visited. This did not include testing the operating effectiveness of management systems and controls.
•	
Based on above understanding and the risks that the identified sustainability information may be materially misstated, 
determined the nature, timing and extent of further procedures.
•	
Checked the consolidation for various sites and corporate office under the reporting boundary (as mentioned in the BRSR) 
for ensuring the completeness of data being reported.
•	
Performed substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability Information for various sites and corporate 
office under the reporting boundary (as mentioned in the BRSR) to verify that data had been appropriately measured with 
underlying documents recorded, collated and reported. This included assessing records and performed testing including 
recalculation of sample data.
•	
Assessed the level of adherence to the BRSR format issued by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) followed by 
the Company in preparing the BRSR.
•	
Assessed the BRSR for detecting, on a test basis, any major anomalies between the information reported in the BRSR on 
performance with respect to agreed information and relevant source data/information.
•	
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the BRSR, we have relied on the information in the audited 
standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2024 and the underlying trial balance.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgements made by the Management in the 
preparation of the Identified Sustainable Information.
•	
Obtained representations from Company’s Management.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
349
Assurance Report 
Exclusions
Our reasonable assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we do not express an opinion on the same:
•	
Operations of the company other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1.
•	
Aspects of the BRSR and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative) included in the BRSR other than the Identified 
Sustainability Information.
•	
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e. April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024.
•	
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intentions provided by the 
Company and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/or data.
Opinion
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information in the BRSR 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. 
Other Matter
The BRSR of the Company includes certain information pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2023, on which an 
unmodified limited assurance conclusion was issued by another firm as per the scope and criteria defined in their report dated 
June 27, 2023.
Restriction on use 
Our work was performed solely to assist you in meeting the reporting requirements. Our obligations in respect of this deliverable 
are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in no way changed by any other role we may have as auditors of 
the Company or otherwise. This deliverable has been issued solely at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company to 
whom it is addressed, solely to comply with the requirement of Circular and LODR regulation, in reporting Company’s sustainability 
performance and activities and for publishing the same as a part of the BRSR Report forming part of Company’s Annual Report. 
Accordingly, we accept no liability to anyone, other than the Company. Our deliverables should not be used for any other purpose 
or by any person other than the addressees of our deliverables. We do not accept or assume any liability or duty of care for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this deliverable is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent 
in writing.
For Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm Registration Number: 304026E/E-300009
Heman Sabharwal
Partner
Place: Gurugram
Membership Number: 093263
Date: April 30, 2024
UDIN: 24093263BKFGLD9379
Havells India Limited
350
Sr. 
No.
Principle and 
indicator reference*
Attribute
Parameters (KPIs) Assured
1.
Principle 6 – E7
Green-house gas (GHG) 
footprint
1.	 Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
2.	 Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG (CO2e) into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
3.	 GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2)
	
a)	 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (MT) / Total Revenue 
from Operations adjusted for PPP
	
b)	 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (MT) / Total Output 
of Product or Services
2. 
Principle 6 – E3 and 
E4
Water footprint
	
	
1.	 Total water consumption
	
	
2.	 Water consumption intensity
	
	
	
a)	 Water Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
PPP
	
	
	
b)	 Water Intensity in terms of physical output
	
	
3.	 Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment
3.
Principle 6 – E1
 
Energy Footprint
	
	
	
1.	 Total Energy Consumed
	
	
	
2.	 % of energy consumed from renewable sources
	
	
	
3.	 Energy intensity
	
	
	
	
a)	 Energy Intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for PPP
	
	
	
	
b)	 Energy Intensity in terms of physical output
4.
Principle 6 – E9
 
Embracing circularity- 
details related to waste 
management by the entity
	
	
	
	
	
1.	 Plastic waste (A)
	
	
	
	
	
2.	 E-waste (B)
	
	
	
	
	
3.	 Bio-medical waste (C)
	
	
	
	
	
4.	 Construction and demolition waste (D)
	
	
	
	
	
5.	 Battery waste (E)
	
	
	
	
	
6.	 Radioactive waste (F)
	
	
	
	
	
7.	 Other Hazardous waste (G)
	
	
	
	
	
8.	 Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
	
	
	
	
	
9.	 Total waste generated ((A+B + C + D + E + 
F + G + H)
	
	
	
	
	
10.	Waste intensity
	
	
	
	
	
	
a)	 Waste Intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for PPP
	
	
	
	
	
	
b)	 Waste Intensity in terms of physical 
output
	
	
	
	
	
11.	For each category of waste generated, 
total waste recovered through recycling, 
re-using or other recovery operations
	
	
	
	
	
12.	For each category of waste generated, 
total waste disposed by nature of disposal 
method
Appendix 1
Identified Sustainability Information (BRSR Core KPIs)
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
351
Assurance Report 
Sr. 
No.
Principle and 
indicator reference*
Attribute
Parameters (KPIs) Assured
5. 
Principle 3 – E1(C)
Principle 3 – E11
Enhancing employee 
wellbeing and Safety
1.	 Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and 
workers- cost incurred as a % of total revenue of the company
2.	 Details of safety related incidents for employees and workers
	
a)	 Number of Permanent Disabilities
	
b)	 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
	
c)	 No. of fatalities
6. 
 Principle 5 – E3(b)
Principle 5 – E7
Enabling Gender Diversity 
in Business
1.	 Gross wages paid to females as a % of wages paid
2.	 Complaints on POSH
	
a)	 Total Complaints on Sexual Harassment (POSH) reported
	
b)	 Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / 
workers
	
c)	 Complaints on POSH upheld
7. 
 Principle 8 – E4
Principle 8 – E5
Enabling Inclusive 
Development
1.	 Input material sourced from following sources as % of total 
purchases –Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
and directly from within India
2.	 Job creation in smaller towns- wages paid to people employed 
in smaller towns (permanent or non-permanent/on contract) 
as % of total wage cost
8.
 Principle 9 – E7 
Principle 1 – E8
Fairness in Engaging with 
Customers and Suppliers
1.	 Instances involving loss/ breach of data of customers as a 
percentage of total data breaches or cyber security events
2.	 Number of days of accounts payable
9.
Principle 1 – E9
Open-ness of business
1.	 Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, 
dealers, and related parties
	
a)	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
	
b)	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made 
from
	
c)	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
	
d)	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
	
e)	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
	
f)	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
2.	 Loans and advances & investments with related parties
	
Share of RPTs (as respective %age) in-
	
a)	 Purchases
	
b)	 Sales
	
c)	 Loans & advances
	
d)	 Investments
*’E’ indicates Essential Indicator
Havells India Limited
352
GRI Content Index 2023-24
Statement of use
Havells India Ltd has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the FY 2023-24 with reference to the GRI 
Standards.
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1
Organizational details
Corporate Overview
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
8
112
2-2
Entities included in the organization’s 
sustainability reporting
About This Report
6
2-3
Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point
About This Report
6
2-4
Restatements of information
In the FY 2023-24 Integrated Report, the following 
figures are being restated:
1.	 In the previous year, it was reported that 180 
male and 8 female employees availed parental 
leave, with a female return-to-work rate of 
0% (IR FY 2022-23, Page 104). However, the 
correct figures are 209 male and 23 female 
employees availing parental leave, with a 
female return-to-work rate of 69.57% (Human 
Capital Section)
55
2-5
External assurance
About This Report
6
2-6
Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships
Manufacturing, Business Model
18
2-7
Employees
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
114
2-8
Workers who are not employees
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
114
2-9
Governance structure and 
composition
Report on corporate Governance
151-159
2-10
Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body
Director's report
84
2-11
Chair of the highest governance body
Governance - Board of Directors
78-79
2-13
Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts
Governance Section 
Report on Corporate Governance 
78
156 - 162
2-14
Role of the highest governance body 
in sustainability reporting
Governance Section 
Report on Corporate Governance 
78
161-162
2-15
Conflicts of interest
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
119-120
2-16
Communication of critical concerns
Stakeholder Engagement, Director's Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
30
 89
115-116
2-17
Collective knowledge of the highest 
governance body
Report on Corporate Governance
154
2-18
Evaluation of the performance of the 
highest governance body
Director's Report
86-87
2-19
Remuneration policies
Annexure I to Directors' Report
Report on Corporate Governance 
94-96
160
2-20
Process to determine remuneration
Annexure I to Directors' Report
Report on Corporate Governance 
94-96
161
2-21
Annual total compensation ratio
Annexure 4 of Director's Report 
106
2-22
Statement on sustainable 
development strategy
Message from the Chairman and Managing 
Director
16
2-23
Policy commitments
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
117-118
2-24
Embedding policy commitments
Value Creation Story
18-39
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
353
GRI Content Index 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-25
Processes to remediate negative 
impacts
Value Creation Story
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
18-39
 115
2-26
Mechanisms for seeking advice and 
raising concerns
Director's Report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
89 
115
2-27
Compliance with laws and regulations
Materiality 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
39
118, 138
2-28
Membership associations
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
140
2-29
Approach to stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Engagement
30
2-30
Collective bargaining agreements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
124
3-1
Process to determine material topics
Materiality
36
3-2
List of material topics
Materiality
36
3-3
Management of material topics
Materiality
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
36
115-144
201-1
Direct economic value generated and 
distributed
Financial Capital
Director's Report
40-41 
88
201-2
Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities due to climate 
change
Enterprise Risk Management
Natural Capital
Director's report
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
22-29
73-74
107
120, 136
201-3
Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement plans
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Financial Reports 
123, 127, 130
206
201-4
Financial assistance received from 
government
Financial Statements
176-343
202-1
Ratios of standard entry level 
wage by gender compared to local 
minimum wage
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
129
202-2
Proportion of senior management 
hired from the local community
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting
141
203-1
Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
Social and Relationship Capital
66
203-2
Significant indirect economic impacts
Social and Relationship Capital
66
204-1
Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
Social and Relationship Capital
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting
72
141
205-1
Operations assessed for risks related 
to corruption
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
119
205-2
Communication and training about 
anti-corruption policies and procedures
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
119
205-3
Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
119
206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
140
207-1
Approach to tax
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
182-183
207-2
Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
Enterprise Risk Management
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
24
182-183
207-3
Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
182-183
301-2
Recycled input materials used
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
121
301-3
Reclaimed products and their 
packaging materials
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
122
302-1
Energy consumption within the 
organization
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
133
302-2
Energy consumption outside of the 
organization
Natural Capital
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
73-74
133
302-3
Energy intensity
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
133
Havells India Limited
354
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
302-4
Reduction of energy consumption
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
73-74
133, 139
302-5
Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
139
303-1
Interactions with water as a shared 
resource
Natural Capital
76
303-2
Management of water discharge-
related impacts
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
134-135
303-3
Water withdrawal
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
76
134, 138
303-4
Water discharge
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
76
134-135
138
303-5
Water consumption
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
76
134, 138
304-1
Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas
Natural Capital 
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
74-75
137
304-2
Significant impacts of activities, 
products and services on biodiversity
Natural Capital 
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
74-75
137
304-3
Habitats protected or restored
Natural Capital 
74-75
304-4
IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats 
in areas affected by operations
Natural Capital 
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
74-75
137
305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
136
305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
136
305-3
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
138
305-4
GHG emissions intensity
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
136
305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
136
305-6
Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)
Natural Capital
74
305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 
(SOx), and other significant air emissions
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
135
306-1
Waste generation and significant 
waste-related impacts
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
137
306-2
Management of significant waste-related 
impacts
Natural Capital
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
77
121, 137
306-3
Waste generated
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
137
306-4
Waste diverted from disposal
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
77
306-5
Waste directed to disposal
Natural Capital
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
77
308-1
New suppliers that were screened 
using environmental criteria
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
120
308-2
Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken
ESG Goals
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
35 
120
401-1
New employee hires and employee 
turnover
Human Capital
47
401-2
Benefits 
provided 
to 
full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees
Human Capital
54
401-3
Parental leave
Human Capital
55
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
355
GRI Content Index 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
402-1
Minimum notice periods regarding 
operational changes
The Prescribed notice given to employees pertaining 
to various Labour Acts are adhered with, prior to 
the implementation of any significant operational 
changes that could substantially affect them
356
403-1
Occupational health and safety 
management system
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-125
403-2
Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigation
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-126
403-3
Occupational health services
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-126
403-4
Worker participation, consultation, 
and communication on occupational 
health and safety
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-126
403-5
Worker training on occupational 
health and safety
Human Capital
56
403-6
Promotion of worker health
Human Capital
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
56
124-126
403-7
Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationships
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-127
403-8
Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management system
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-125
403-9
Work-related injuries
Human Capital
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
57
124-125
403-10
Work-related ill health
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124-126
404-1
Average hours of training per year per 
employee
Human Capital
51
404-2
Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs
Human Capital
50-51
404-3
Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews
Human Capital
52
405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees
Human Capital
53
405-2
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 
of women to men
Human Capital
54
406-1
Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
130
407-1
Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at risk
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
124
408-1
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of child labor
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
130
409-1
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
130
410-1
Security personnel trained in human 
rights policies or procedures
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
129
411-1
Incidents of violations involving rights 
of indigenous peoples
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
128
413-1
Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
128
413-2
Operations with significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local 
communities
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
128
Havells India Limited
356
GRI Standard Disclosure Title
Section
Page Number
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
414-1
New suppliers that were screened 
using social criteria
ESG Goals 
35
414-2
Negative social impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken
ESG Goals
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
35
120, 132
415-1
Political contributions
We do not make any monetary and in-kindd 
contribution to any political parties. 
Our political contribution for FY 24
was Zero.
357
416-1
Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service 
categories
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
144
416-2
Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
144
417-1
Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
144
417-2
Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labeling
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
144
417-3
Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning marketing 
communications
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting
144
418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report
144
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
357
GRI Content Index 
Havells India Limited
Regd. Office: 904, 9th Floor, Surya Kiran Building, K.G. Marg,
Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110 001 (India)
Corp. Office: QRG Towers, 2D, Sector 126, Expressway, Noida - 201 304 (U.P.)
Ph.: +91-120-3331000 | Email: marketing@havells.com
www.havells.com
For Investors Queries
Email: investors@havells.com
For Consumer Complaint Contact
Consumer Care No.: 08045771313 (Havells)  
08045775666 (Lloyd), 9711773333 (WhatsApp) or Scan QR
Email: customercare@havells.com
CIN: L31900DL1983PLC016304
