Reg. Office Address: 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi 110001 
CIN: L70101DL2005G01132162 
v 
, 
: 
R f a 
Website: www.hpil.co.in 
eH 
. oF OR 
afs aT 
Email: info@hpil.co.in, Tel: 011-23061325 
(HINA UPR HT SUA) 
HPIL/BS/Stx/ 2024-25 
Dated:02.09.2024 
To, 
To, 
Manager, 
Manager 
Listing Department 
Listing Department 
BSE Limited, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street 
"Exchange Plaza", Plot No. C/1,G Block, 
Mumbai: 400 001 
Bandra Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai -400 051 
Script Code: 543242 
Symbol: HEMIPROP 
Sub: 
Business 
Responsibility 
& 
Sustainability 
Report 
- 
Disclosure 
under 
Regulation 
34(2)(f) 
of 
the 
SEBI 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
Dear Sir(s), 
This 
is 
to inform that the 20" 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited will be held on Wednesday, September 25, 202 4at 11.30 
am, Indian Standard Time (IST) through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM) in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the applicable General Circular as issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA) and SEBI, from time to time. 
Pursuant 
to Regulation 34(2)(f) 
of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
we 
are 
submitting 
herewith 
the 
Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the Financial Year 2023-24 
The BRSR also forms part of the Annual Report of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2023-24, submitted to the stock exchanges vide letter our dated September 
02, 2024. 
The above is for information and further dissemination. 
Thanking you, 
For Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Lubna 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
LUBNA
Digitally signed by 
LUBNA 
Date: 2024.09.02 
15:16:06 +05'30'
ANNUAL 
REPORT
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED
A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE
2023-24
20th
 CONTENTS
Company Information
Directors’ Profile
Board’s Report 
02
04
12
Board Members
About Company
Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report
03
08
140
10
Notice of AGM
Chairpersons’ s’Communique 
105
139
27
67
52
Corporate Governance
 Report 
Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
Auditors’ Certificate on 
Corporate Governance
Secretarial Auditor Report
144
Particulars of Contracts
 or Arrangements with 
Related Parties
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Auditors’ Report 
205
145
Comments of C&AG 
220
543242 
444 
Board of 
Director 
  
  
  
Meet Our Board 
  
  
“ay 
Ravi Kumar Arora, Director 
  
Suvasish Das, Director 
  
Tanvi Garg, Director   
  
  
  
  
  
Diwakar Kumar Barnwal, 
Director (Upto 08.11.23) 
Dr. Sunita Chandra, 
Independent Director 
Kanakavidu G R, 
Independent Director 
Rajeev K. Das, 
Director 
Pg no.3
Directors’ 
Profile 
XX WY 
Ms. 
D Thara is the Chairperson & Managing Director of the Company w.e.f November, 2019 
who has been assigned additional charge through the order of Ministry of Housing & Urban 
Affairs(MOHUA). She 
is presently acting as Additional Secretary under MoHUA and 
a 1995 
batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer. Besides many prominent role 
in the Government service,she 
also served as and Managing Director of Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC).D 
Thara, Thara has experiences in working in various cities of Gujarat such a Ahmedabad, Kheda, 
Ms. D Thara 
Rajkot, Vadodara and Surendranagar. She was collector 
of Kheda and Ahmedabad and 
§ CMD (DIN 01911714) 
development officer 
in Vadodara and Surendranagar.D Thara who had also acted as deputy 
municipal 
commissioner 
in 
Ahmedabad 
Municipal 
Corporation 
and 
was 
instrumental 
in 
executing a number of projects under Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission. 
She was 
also 
one 
the 
key persons 
behind Ahmedabad’s 
flagship 
infrastructure project— 
BRTS.When she took charge as Ahmedabad municipal commissioner 
in October 2014, she 
made history as she became the first woman civil chief in the history of Anmedabad Municipal 
Corporation 
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora (IAS), Joint Secretary (Land & Estates) in the Ministry of Housing 
and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), has been appointed as Director on the Board of Company 
w.e.f. 28.06.2021. Shri Arora is an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Gujarat 
cadre and joined the service in 2006. He had done his Masters’ Degree in Public Policy. 
In the State of Gujarat, he served important positions and was District Collector in 4 
Districts viz; Mahisagar, Navsari, Bharuch, Valsad. During his central deputation tenure, 
also served as PS to Hon’ble External Affairs Minister, Govt. of India. Shri Arora, as Joint 
Secretary in our Ministry, presently overseeing matters pertaining to L&@DO, Dte. of 
Estates. 
Mr.Ravi Kumar Arora, Director 
(DIN 09217881) 
Page 
No. 04 
WN
Mr. Suvasish Das 
is appointed as Director on Board 
of Hemisphere Propertiesindia Ltd w.e.f 
December 15,2022. Sh. Suvasish Das, IFS is 17" rank holder in IFS 2004 Exam by UPSC. He has 
a Post Graduate Diploma in Forest Management from Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy, 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand, M Sc. Agrochemical & Pest Management from University of Delhi, B Sc. 
(Botany Hons.) 
from Assam 
University. 
He possesses vast research experience and 
also 
a 
recognized author of book namely Rajarishi Banerji and Suvasish Das:W Kaziranga; The Magical 
Wildemess 
& wrote journals 
national 
and 
international 
on 
Climate studies and 
insect pests 
Implications 
for the 
Indian Context, Outlook on Agriculture, 
Plants and Microbes — Potential 
Sources of Pesticide for future Use, Assessment of Air Quality at Lignite Mining Sites in the Kutch 
Area of Gujarat: 
A Case Study, Prevalence of Phytophagous Nematodes in Rhizosphere of Okra 
(Abelmoschus esculentus 
L. Moench) and several others. During the period 
of service he has 
served as Divisional Forrest Officer of Barpeta Social Forestry Division, Sonitpur East Division, 
Biswanath Chariali, Kaziranga National Park, Nagaon Division where he performed outstandingly. 
During the posting he established Social Forestry Campus, nursery plantation projects, Skill eco- 
development programmes and accomplished many achievements for preservation of wildlife and 
environment. Further, posted as Conservator of Forests, Development. Research Education and 
Working Plan with effect from February 2019, with additional charge of State Mission Director, 
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Urban and National Urban Livelihood Mission Assam. Implemented 
PMAY-U 
in the State and livelihood programmes under DAY NULM. He has been appointed as 
Director All (PMAY-U), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Nirman Bhawan, Govt of India from 
June 2021 and now w.e.f 09.12.2022 is appointed as Land & Development Officer, MOHUA. 
Dr. Sunita Chandra, 
Independent Director 
(DIN 09415680) 
Mr.. Suvasish Das, 
Director 
(DIN : 9826037) 
NN 
Dr. Sunita Chandra has completed PhD in Zoology from Banaras Hindu University in 
2001 and was working as Joint Registrar in BHU and presenty acting as registrar in 
Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies (Deemed University) (CIHTS) at Sarnath, 
Varanasi 
. Dr. Sunita Chandra has wide and depth expertise in Finance ,Administratior 
and Management. The Director is appointed in Company from November, 2021.Dr 
Chandra is also the Chairperson of Audit Committee of Company. 
Page 
No. 05
Mr. 
G R Kanakavidu, 
Independent Director 
(DIN 09471091 
) 
Mr. 
G R Kanakavidu was born in 01-06-1966 and he is holding degree in B.tech and 
Masters of Business Administration (MBA). He 
is having vast experience 
in social 
welfare and 
carried 
out various 
activities 
for 
the betterment 
of the society. The 
Director 
is 
appointed 
in 
Company 
From 
January, 
2022. 
The 
direc 
tor 
is 
the 
Chairperson of Nominations & Remuneration Committee of the Company. 
Ms. Tanivi Garg, Direct is appointed as Director on Board of Hemisphere Properties 
India Ltd w.e.f November 08,2023. She is an IAS officer of AGMUT 
( 2009) cadre 
and 
presently 
appointed 
as 
Director 
Central 
Vista 
Division 
under 
Ministry 
of 
Housing and Urban Affairs. She has also completed graduation and Post graduate 
from Chandigarh. 
Ms. 
Garg 
has experience 
of over 
a decade 
has performed 
various duties diligently and with utmost integrity. During period of service she has 
served 
as 
SDM, 
Additional 
Excise 
& 
Taxation 
Commissioner, 
Deputy 
Commissioner and several other roles as designated by the Government of India 
Ms. Tanvi Garg, 
Director 
(DIN : 05165139) 
©) 
Page 
No. 06
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das, Director 
(DIN 07730466) 
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das completed 
his degree 
in Bachelor 
of Science, 
Chemistry Hons. from Ranchi University. He joined Government services 
feu 
from year 1997. He was earlier serving under Department of Post, Ministry i ult HN 
of Health and currently appointed as Deputy Land & Development officer 
4 
nN hes Nt 
in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. He has been appointed as Director 
© 
Aa Hl il " 
in HPIL from June 2021 and presently handling day to day affairs of the 
egy)! 
Ha 
: 
! 
Company 
Mr. Diwakar Kumar Barnwal has completed BA(Hons) 
in Sociology from Patna 
University. He entered in Government Services in year 2005. as Section Officer in 
CSS Grade in Ministry of Human Resources Development. Further in 2005 served 
in Ministry of Defence after being promoted 
in 2013. He has over 16 years of 
experience working under various Ministries. 
He assumed charge as Dy L& DO in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs in 2019 
and also been acting as Director in Company from 2020. He is presently acting as 
Under Secretary in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and diligently handling the 
matters assigned to him 
Mr. Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal, Director 
(DIN 08953153) 
(upto 08.11.2023) 
YY
ABOUT HPIL 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL or the Company) was incorporated in 
year 2005 as Real Estate Company with the intent to transfer and hive off the 
land set aside as Surplus Land at the time of disinvestment of Videsh Sanchar 
Nigam 
Limited 
(VSNL) 
which 
is 
presently 
Known 
as 
Tata Communications 
Limited. 
The Company 
President 
of 
India through 
Department 
of Telecommunication 
acquired majority shareholding 
in HPIL 
in year 2012 and 
it became a CPSE. A 
scheme 
of Arrangement among Tata Communications Limited and HPIL was 
finalized and approved by National Company Law Tribunal 
in 2018 and Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs in August,2019. 
After the approval of Competent Authorities The Administrative Ministry of HPIL 
was transferred from Department of Telecommunication to Ministry of Housing & 
Urban Affairs. 
The Company has 
land 
of approx. 
2.99 
million square 
mtr (739.69 
in 
acre) 
across 4 states located in 5 locations in India. The description of these land are 
as under: 
Location 
Area 
in square meter 
Area in Acre 
(in million) 
Dighi, Pune 
2.12 
524 
Padianallur, Chennai 
0.21 
53.04 
Greater Kailash, Delhi 
0.28 
69.46 
Chattarpur, Delhi 
0.24 
58 
Halishahar, 
Kolkata 
0.14 
35.19 
ag no.8
pg. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 10 
 
     
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
  
CHAIRPERSON COMMUNIQUÉ. 
  
Dear Stakeholders, 
  
I am honored to present the 20th Annual Report of your company, highlighting 
another year of remarkable outstanding achievements. 
  
On behalf of the Board of Directors and the entire team of Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited, it is my great pleasure to welcome you to the 20th  Annual General 
Meeting of your company.  The Annual Report for financial year ended March 31, 2024 
along with the Board Report, Audited Annual Accounts, Auditor's Report and Comments 
of Comptroller & Auditors General of India (C&AG) are with you and, with your 
permission, I take them as read. Let me now share with you the performance of the 
Company during the year, present status and the Company's future prospects. 
  
Economic & Future Outlook 
In financial year 2023-24, the Company recorded net loss of ₹981.85 lakhs as 
against the loss of ₹647.31 lakhs during the previous financial year.  
The company experienced a decline in profitability during the current financial 
year, primarily due to payment of statutory dues and maintenance cost and other 
increased operating cost. While we have taken steps to address these challenges, 
including generation of income through rental opportunities and steps are undertaken 
to generate income through monetization of land parcel, it will take time to fully reverse 
the trend. We remain committed to improving our financial performance and are 
exploring opportunities to enhance our revenue streams and reduce expenses. 
          The land parcel of Company are located in five (5) locations  which are Dighi 
(Pune), Chattarpur (Delhi), Greater Kailash (Delhi), Padianallur (Chennai) and 
Halisahar(Kolkata). All the land parcels are located in major cities of India and  the total 
land is of  739.69 acres demerged through the order of Demerger passed by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs between Tata Communications Limited and Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited. 
The major activities undertaken are as: 
     i. Mutation Completed  
 Kolkata land parcel. 
 Pune Land Parcel 
 Chattarpur land parcel 
 Payment of stamp duty in for registration of land in Chennai 
ii. 
Transaction Advisor appointed for Pune and Kolkata land parcels. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 11 
 
     
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
iii. 
Generating Income from Leasing of land in Pune. 
iv. 
Leasing of building on Pune land parcel. 
v. 
Stakeholder Meeting for accessing demand and creating awareness of land. 
vi. 
Entire demarcation of Pune land and area under Bhopkhel through Govt. 
Authorities. 
vii. 
Filed Application for change of land use for area under Bhopkhel Village (Pune). 
viii. 
Successfully completed Change in Land use of Bhopkhel Village from Public Semi 
Public (PSP) to Residential. 
ix. 
Application for layout approval for land in Bhopkhel village filed with competent 
Authorities in Pune. 
x. 
Regular meetings are held with Pune Competent Authorities regarding present 
land uses. 
  
We have initiated operations with Pune land parcel and simultaneously initiate the 
activities for other land parcel which depends on the viability and subject to several 
approvals.  
 The Company has also requested the Administrative Ministry to release funds 
for completing the Mutation of remaining land and other expenditures. 
          The stakeholder’s belief in our vision and commitment to long-term growth has 
been instrumental in our progress. We recognize that our success is directly tied to their 
support, and we are dedicated to creating value for them through sustainable growth 
and profitability. We believe that our strong shareholder base provides a solid 
foundation for future success and positions us well to capitalize on emerging 
opportunities. The Board of Directors of Company is dedicated towards ensuring the 
action in such directions that it will uphold the trust of shareholders. 
 Acknowledgement 
On behalf of your Company's Board of Directors, I wish to convey my deep 
gratitude to each one of you, our valued shareholders, for your continued support and 
trust. I want to thank fellow Board for their strong and unequivocal support. 
I would also like to deeply thank and acknowledge the continued co-operation, 
trust and support of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Ministry of Finance, 
Securities Exchange Board of India, other Regulatory authorities, shareholders, 
employees and consultants and wish for their continued support in future as well. 
 
Your Faithfully, 
Sd/ 
D Thara 
Chairperson & Managing Director. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 12 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Registered office :Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana 
Azad Road New Delhi,110001 
Tel: 011-23061915, Website: www.hpil.co.in, email: info@hpil.co.in 
 
NOTICE 
Notice is hereby given that the 20th Annual General Meeting of the members of Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited will be held onWednesday, September 25 , 2024  at 11.30 am (IST) 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact the 
following businesses: 
 
ORDINARY BUSINESS  
Item No. 1 : 
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024 and the Reports of the Board of 
Directors, the Statutory Auditors and the Comments of the Comptroller Auditor General of India 
thereon 
 “RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended 31 March 2024, and Reports of the Board of Directors, the Statutory 
Auditors and the Comments of the Comptroller Auditor General of India thereon laid before this 
Meeting be and are hereby received, considered and adopted.” 
Item No. 2 : 
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Suvasish Das, Director (Non-Executive) 
DIN: 09826037 , who retires by rotation at this Annual General Meeting and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment. 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Suvasish Das, Director (Non-Executive) DIN: 09826037, who 
retires by rotation at this Meeting and being eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment, be 
and is hereby re-appointed as Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” 
Item No. 3 : 
To authorize the Board of Directors of the Company to fix the remuneration of 
the Statutory Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2024-25. 
"RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 142 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act 2013, the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorized to determine the amount of 
remuneration  payable to the Statutory Auditors (as and when appointed under Section 139(5) 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act 2013, by the Comptroller & Auditor 
General of India), including the amount of reimbursement of out-of pocket expenses, if incurred 
by the said Auditors, in connection with the audit of Annual Accounts of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 13 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
 
Item No 4 : To appoint Ms. Tanvi Garg (DIN : 05165139) as Director on the Board of the 
Company  
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications(s), the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution: 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Sections 152, other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”) and Rules made thereunder, Regulation 17 (1C) and other applicable provisions of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable laws (including any statutory amendment(s), 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the Articles of 
Association of the Company and Order dated November 08, 2023 issued by the Ministry of 
Housing & urban Affairs, Government of India , Ms. Tanvi Garg (DIN 05165139),, who was 
appointed by the Board of Directors as Director (Additional Director) of the Company with 
effect from November 08, 2023 who holds office up to the date of ensuing Annual General 
Meeting and  until further orders, the Company has received a notice in writing proposing her 
candidature for Directorship under Section 160 of the Act, be and is hereby appointed as the 
Director of the Company and he shall be liable to retire by rotation.” 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
 
               Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
Sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 13.08.2024
 
                          Lubna 
(Company Secretary & Compliance officer) 
 
Registered Office: 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana 
Azad Road New Delhi,110001  
Website: www.hpil.co.inEmail: info@hpil.co.in 
 
Notes: 
1. An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act read with the rules made 
thereunder, setting out material facts relating to the resolution in respect of all Special business 
specified in the notice of annual general meeting, if any and information of the Director 
proposed to be appointed/ reappointed at the Meeting as required under Regulation 36 (3) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard-2 (“the SS-2”) and other 
applicable provisions is annexed hereto and forms part of the Notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 14 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
2.Pursuant to the General Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25 September 2023 issued by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs ("MCA") read together with previous circulars issued by the MCA in this 
regard (collectively to be referred to as "MCA Circulars") and Circular No. CFDPoD- 
2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated 07 October 2023 issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
("SEBI") read together with other circulars issued by SEBI in this regard (collectively to be 
referred to as "SEBI Circulars"), Companies are allowed to hold Annual General Meeting ("AGM") 
through Video Conferencing ("VC") or Other Audio-Visual Means ("OAVM"), without the physical 
presence of Members at a common venue till 30 September 2024. Hence, in compliance with the 
said circulars and provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (the "Act") and SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ("Listing Regulations"), the AGM of 
the Company is being held through VC/OAVM. The deemed venue for the 20th AGM shall be the 
Registered Office of the Company. 
3. In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the SEBI Circulars 
and the MCA Circulars, the 20th  Annual General Meeting (“AGM/ Meeting”) of the Company is 
being held through VC / OAVM on Wednesday, September 25, 2024, at 11.30 AM. 
4. The Company has engaged the services of Central Depository Services (India) Limited  
(“CDSL”) as the Agency for providing e-Voting facility (Remote e-Voting and voting during AGM) 
to the shareholders of the Company in order to cast their votes electronically in terms of the 
aforesaid MCA Circulars. 
5. Pursuant to Section 108 of the Act and Rule 20 of Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, the SS-2, the Company 
has provided remote e-voting facility to all the members of the Company in respect of the 
business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM/Meeting”). 
6. In terms of the MCA and SEBI Circular(s) as mentioned above, physical attendance of 
Members at the AGM and appointment of proxies has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the Attendance Slip, Proxy Form and Route Map are not annexed to this Notice. 
However, in pursuance of Section 112 and Section 113 of the Act, representatives of the 
Members may be appointed for the purpose of casting vote through remote e-voting prior to the 
AGM, participation in the 20th AGM through VC/OAVM facility and for electronic voting during 
the AGM. 
7. Attendance of the Members participating in the 20th  AGM through VC/OAVM facility shall be 
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act. 
In case of joint holders attending the AGM, only such joint holder who is higher in the order of 
names in the Register of Members of the Company/ list of Beneficial Owners as provided by 
National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’)/Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(‘CDSL’) (collectively referred to as ‘Depositories’) in respect of such joint holding, will be 
entitled to vote. 
8. In line with the above Circulars of MCA & SEBI, the Notice of the 20th AGM along with Annual 
Report is being sent by e-mail to all those members, whose e-mail IDs were registered with the 
Company/depository. Annual Report along with notice are also available on the website of the 
Company at www.hpil.co.in and on the website of National Stock Exchange of India Limited at 
www.nseindia.com and BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and also on the website of Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) at www.evotingindia.com.The Company had also 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 15 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
published advertisements in newspapers to encourage shareholders, holding shares in physical 
and electronic form, to register/update their email IDs for receiving the Annual Report for the 
financial year 2023-24 and other updates of Company. 
 
9. Institutional/Corporate Members are entitled to appoint authorized representatives to attend 
the AGM through VC/OAVM and cast their votes through e-Voting. Institutional/Corporate 
Members are requested to send a scanned copy in pdf/jpg format of the Board 
Resolution/Power of Attorney authorizing its representatives to attend and vote at the AGM 
pursuant to Section 113 of the Act, E-mail at gr2advisory@gmail.com and info@hpi.co.in. 
Institutional shareholders (i.e., other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) can also upload their 
Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority Letter etc. by clicking on "Upload Board 
Resolution/Authority Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their login. 
 
10. To support the ‘Green Initiatives’, the Members who have not registered their email 
addresses or there is any change in their email address(es), are requested to immediately 
notify/update their email address with their DP, in case the shares are held in dematerialized 
form and to the RTA, in case the shares are held in physical form by providing necessary details, 
for receiving all communication including Audited Financial Statements, Notices, Circulars, etc., 
from the Company electronically; 
 
11.   
The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the Company will be closed 
from Thursday, September 19, 2024 to Wednesday, September 25, 2024 (both days inclusive) 
for the purpose of 20th  AnnualGeneral Meeting (“AGM”) 
 
12. The Company has fixed Wednesday, September 18, 2024 as the Cut-off date for 
determining the eligibility to vote on item(s) of business to be transacted at the 20th AGM as 
detailed in notice. 
 
 
13 Mr. Rahul Chaudhary, Practicing Company Secretary of M/s Rahul Chaudhary & Associates 
(Membership no 54713)  has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the votes cast by 
the shareholders in respect of items of business to be transacted at the 20th AGM,in a fair and 
transparent manner. 
 
15. Brief Resume of the Directors seeking appointment/reappointment as required under 
Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
{SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015} is annexed hereto and forms part of Notice. 
 
 
DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT THROUGH ELECTRONIC MODE AND REGISTRATION OF E-
MAIL ID 
16. In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, Notice of the AGM along with the 
Annual Report 2023-24 is being sent only through electronic mode to those Members whose E-
mail ID is registered with the Company/Depository Participants (“DPs”). Members may note 
that the Notice and Annual Report 2023-24 will also be available on the Company’s website at 
www.hpil.co.in, website of the Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.bseindia.com respectively and from the website of CDSL (agency 
appointed for providing the Remote e-voting facility and e-voting system during the AGM), Le., 
www.evotingindia.com.  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 16 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
No physical copy of the Notice and the Annual Report has been sent to Members who have not 
registered their E-mail IDs with the Company/DPs/Company’s Registrar & Transfer Agent 
(“RTA”), Link Intime India Pvt Ltd (formerly known as TSR Consultant Private Limited). 
 
17.  CDSL will be providing facility for remote e-voting, participation in the 20th AGM through 
VC/OAVM and voting during the 20th  AGM through electronic voting system. The remote e-
voting period begins on Sunday, September 22, 2024 (0900 hours) and ends on Tuesday, 
September 24, 2024 (1700 hours). The remote e-Voting module shall be disabled by CDSL for 
voting thereafter. 
 
Members may join the 20th  AGM through VC/OAVM, which shall be kept open for the members 
on September 25, 2024 from 11:30 A.M. IST i.e. 15 minutes before the scheduled start time and 
the Company may close the window for joining the VC/ OAVM facility 30 minutes after the 
scheduled start time on date of AGM.  
 
Please refer to detailed instructions for remote e-voting, attending the AGM through VC/OAVM 
and electronic voting during the AGM, annexed to this Notice. 
 
 
18. Pursuant to Section 139(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Auditors of a Government 
Company are appointed/reappointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) of India 
and in terms of Section 142 of the Companies Act, 2013, their remuneration shall be fixed by the 
Company in a General Meeting or in such manner as the Company may determine in a General 
Meeting. 
The appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2024-25 is yet to 
be made by the C&AG of India. Further, members are requested to authorize the Board of 
Directors of the Company to fix an appropriate remuneration of the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company, as may be deemed fit, for the financial year 2024-25. 
 
 
17. Members desirous of getting any information on any item(s) of business of this meeting are 
requested to send an e-mail mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, email 
id, mobile number to agm@hpil.co.in and info@hpil.co.in, at least ten(10) days prior to the date 
of the AGM and the same will be replied by the Company suitably. 
 
18.  Members who would like to express their views or ask questions during the AGM may 
register themselves as a ‘Speaker’ and may send their request mentioning their name, demat 
account number / folio number, email id, mobile number at agm@hpil.co.in and info@hpil.co.in,   
not later than 6:00 p.m., 18th  September, 2024. 
 
 The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions and number of speakers, 
depending on the availability of time for the AGM. Those shareholders who have registered 
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask questions during the 
meeting. 
 
19. In terms of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Suvasish Das (DIN: 
09826037),Director (Non-Executive) retires by rotation at this AGM and being eligible, offers 
themselves for re-appointment. Detail of Director(s) seeking re-appointment as required to be 
provided pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2), issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, is 
given in this Notice and  Brief profile of Directors  in this Annual Report; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 17 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
20.  In terms of Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, transfer, 
transmission and transposition of securities shall be effected only in dematerialized form. 
Accordingly, we request all shareholders to hold their shares in dematerialized form as this 
eliminates the possibility of damage/loss of physical share certificate(s) & cases of forgery and 
facilitates the ease and convenience of paperless trading of shares. Members may contact the 
Company or Link Intime India Private Limited, RTA, for assistance in this regard. 
a) Further, members holding shares in physical form, in identical order of names, in more than 
one folio are requested to send to the Company or Link Intime India Private Limited, the details 
of such folios together with the share certificates along with the requisite KYC Documents for 
consolidating their holdings in one folio. Requests for consolidation of share certificates shall be 
processed in dematerialized form. 
b) SEBI vide its Circular dated January 25, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to issue 
securities in dematerialized form only while processing service requests viz. issue of duplicate 
securities certificate; claim from unclaimed suspense account; renewal/exchange of securities 
certificate; endorsement; sub-division/splitting of securities certificate; consolidation of 
securities certificates/folios; transmission and transposition. Therefore, members are requested 
to make service requests by submitting a duly  filled and signed Form ISR – 4, the format of 
which is available on the Company’s website at www.hpil.co.in  and on the website of the 
Company’s RTA https://www.linkintime.co.in/. It may be noted that any service request can be 
processed only after the folio is KYC Compliant. 
c) In terms of SEBI guidelines/circulars, the security holder(s) whose folio(s) do not have PAN, 
Choice of Nomination, Contact Details, Bank Account Details and Specimen Signature updated, 
shall be eligible to lodge grievance or avail any service request from the RTA only after 
furnishing PAN, KYC details and Nomination. Accordingly, shareholders holding shares in 
physical form are once again requested to furnish the PAN, KYC details and other details, 
immediately to RTA of the Company i.e. Link Intime India Private Limited, in the prescribed 
forms, available on the website of the Company at www.hpil.co.in. 
Further, The Company has also sent intimations to the concerned shareholders regarding the 
same. Further, Shareholders holding shares in dematerialized mode, are requested to update 
their KYC, Bank and other requisite details with their respective Depository Participant (“DP”). 
You are requested to update your particulars timely. 
 
21. Members are requested to note: 
 
a) Non-Resident Indian shareholder(s) are requested to inform their DP/RTA, 
immediately in respect  of change in their residential status on return to India for 
permanent settlement and particulars of  their bank account maintained in India with 
complete name, branch, account type & number and  address of the Bank with PIN Code, 
if not furnished earlier; 
 
 
b) SEBI vide its Circular dated March 16, 2023 read with Master Circular dated 
 
May 7, 2024 and other relevant applicable Circulars, has prescribed common and 
 
simplified norms for processing investor service requests by RTAs and norms for 
 
furnishing PAN, KYC (contact details, bank details and specimen signature), and 
 
nomination details. As per the said Circular, it is mandatory for the shareholders 
 
holding securities in physical form to, inter alia, furnish PAN, KYC, and nomination 
 
details. Physical folios wherein the said details are not available would be eligible  
for 
 
lodging grievance or any service request only after registering the required  details. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 18 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Any payments including dividend in respect of such folios shall only be made 
 
electronically with effect from April 1, 2024 upon registering the required details. 
 
Further, relevant FAQs published by SEBI on its website can be viewed at the 
 
following link: https://www.sebi.gov.in/. 
 
c) To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised to exercise due diligence 
and notify the Company of any change in address or demise of any Member as soon as 
possible. Members are also  advised to not leave their demat account(s) dormant for 
long. Periodic statement of holdings should be obtained from the concerned DP and 
holdings should be verified from time to time. 
 
22. M/s Link Intime Private Limited are acting as the Registrar and  Transfer Agents (RTA) for 
carrying out the Company's entire share related  activities, i.e., Transmission/transposition/ 
dematerialization/  
Rematerialization/  
split/ consolidation of shares, change of address, 
bank mandate, filing of nomination, and allied activities, etc.  Members are requested to make all 
future correspondence related to share and allied activities, etc., with RTA at the following 
address: 
 
 
M/s Link Intime Private Limited 
 
(earlier TSR Consultants Private Limited) 
 
C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, 
 
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
 
Mumbai – 400083 
 
 
Tel no: 91 22 6656 8484   
 
 
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
 
Website: https://linkintime.co.in/ 
 
23. The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding maintained 
under Section 170 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in 
which the directors are interested maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the relevant documents referred to in the Notice will be available electronically for 
inspection by the Members during the AGM. 
 
24.The Scrutinizer shall, after the conclusion of the electronic voting during the AGM, assess the 
votes cast at the meeting through electronic voting system, thereafter unblock the votes cast 
through remote e-voting and make a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report and submit the same to 
the Chairperson or a person authorized by him in writing and declare the result of the voting 
forthwith; 
 
25. The results of the voting indicating the number of votes cast in favour or against each of the 
Resolution(s), invalid votes and whether the Resolution(s) have been carried out or not, 
together with the Scrutinizer’s Report, will be uploaded on the website of the Company 
(www.hpil.co.in) and on CDSL website (https://www.evotingindia.com) and will also be 
submitted to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited within the prescribed 
time. Further, the resolution(s), if passed by shareholders, shall be deemed to be passed on the 
date of 20th AGM of Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 19 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Instructions for members for remote e-voting, attending the AGM through VC/OAVM and 
electronic voting during the AGM: 
I. 
The remote e-voting period begins on Sunday, September 22, 2024 (0900 hours) 
and ends on Tuesday, September 24, 2024 (1700 hours). The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by CDSL for voting thereafter. The members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members/Beneficial Owners as on the record date (cut-off) 
date i.e. September 18, 2024, may cast their vote electronically. The voting right of 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their shareholding as on the said cut-off date. 
II. 
Shareholders who have already voted prior to the meeting date would not be 
entitled to vote at the meeting venue. 
Step 1 
: Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting system in case of individual    
shareholders holding shares in demat mode.  
 
Step 2 
: Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of shareholders holding shares in 
physical mode and non-individual shareholders in demat mode.  
 
(i) 
In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, pursuant to a public 
consultation, it has been decided to enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, 
by way of a single login credential, through their demat accounts/ websites of 
Depositories/ Depository Participants. Demat account holders would be able to cast 
their vote without having to register again with the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also enhancing ease and convenience of participating in e-
voting process.  
Step 1 Access through Depositories CDSL/NSDL e-Voting system in case of Individual 
Shareholders holding shares in demat mode. 
In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility. 
Type 
of 
shareholders 
 Login Method 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
Demat mode 
with CDSL 
Depository 
1) Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login 
through their existing user id and password. Option will be made 
available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit cdsl 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System 
Myeasi Tab. 
2) After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the 
e-Voting option for eligible companies where the evoting is in 
progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking 
the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the 
e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-
Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 20 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit 
the e-Voting service providers’ website directly. 
3) If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is 
available at cdsl website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & 
New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option. 
 
4) Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by 
providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link 
available on  www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email 
as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, 
user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the evoting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting 
Service Providers. 
 
5) The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered 
Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where 
the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers. 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with NSDL 
Depository 
1) If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the 
e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the 
following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is 
launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which 
is available under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will open. You will 
have to enter your User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services. Click on 
“Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to 
see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service 
provider name and you will be re-directed to e-Voting service 
provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. 
 
2) If the user is not  registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register 
is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.  Select “Register Online 
for 
IDeAS 
“Portal 
or 
click 
 
 
at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3) Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing 
the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 21 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You 
will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat 
account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-
Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider 
name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider 
website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting 
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode) 
login 
through 
their 
Depository 
Participants 
(DP) 
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account 
through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL 
for e-Voting facility.  After Successful login, you will be able to see e-
Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be 
redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting service provider website for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. 
 
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use 
Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at abovementioned website. 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any 
technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. CDSL and NSDL 
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can 
contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.comor contact at toll free 
no. 1800 21 09911 
 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode with NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can 
contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000 and 
022 - 2499 7000 
 
Step 2 : Access through CDSL e-Voting system in case of shareholders holding shares in 
physical mode and non-individual shareholders in demat mode. 
 
1) The shareholders should log on to the e-voting website www.evotingindia.com. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 22 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
2) Click on “Shareholders” module. 
3) Now enter your User ID  
a. For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID,  
b. For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID,  
c. Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form should enter Folio Number 
registered with the Company. 
 
4) Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on Login. 
5) If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on to www.evotingindia.com 
and voted on an earlier e-voting of any company, then your existing password is to be 
used.  
6) If you are a first-time user follow the steps given below: 
 
For Physical shareholders and other than individual shareholders 
holding shares in Demat. 
PAN 
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric *PAN issued by Income Tax Department 
(Applicable for both demat shareholders as well as physical shareholders) 
 
 
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the 
Company/Depository Participant are requested to use the 
sequence 
number 
sent 
by 
Company/RTA 
or 
contact 
Company/RTA. 
Dividend 
Bank 
Details 
OR Date of Birth 
(DOB) 
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth (in dd/mm/yyyy format) 
as recorded in your demat account or in the company records in order to 
login. 
 
If both the details are not recorded with the depository or 
company, please enter the member id / folio number in the 
Dividend Bank details field. 
 
7) After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab. 
8) Shareholders holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the Company 
selection screen. However, shareholders holding shares in demat form will now reach 
‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required to mandatorily enter their login 
password in the new password field. Kindly note that this password is to be also used by 
the demat holders for voting for resolutions of any other company on which they are 
eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through CDSL platform. It is 
strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take 
utmost care to keep your password confidential. 
9) For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for e-
voting on the resolutions contained in this Notice. 
10) Click on the EVSN for the relevant <Hemisphere Properties India Ltd> on which you 
choose to vote. 
11) On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION” and against the same the 
option “YES/NO” for voting. Select the option YES or NO as desired. The option YES 
implies that you assent to the Resolution and option NO implies that you dissent to the 
Resolution. 
12) Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to view the entire Resolution details. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 23 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
13) After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A 
confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on “OK”, else 
to change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and accordingly modify your vote. 
14) Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify 
your vote. 
15) You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on “Click here to print” option on 
the Voting page. 
16) If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password then Enter the User ID and 
the image verification code and click on Forgot Password & enter the details as 
prompted by the system. 
17) There is also an optional provision to upload BR/POA if any uploaded, which will be 
made available to scrutinizer for verification. 
 
18) Additional Facility for Non – Individual Shareholders and Custodians –For Remote 
Voting only. 
 Non-Individual shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians 
are required to log on to www.evotingindia.com and register themselves in the 
“Corporates” module. 
 A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the stamp and sign of the entity should 
be emailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com. 
 After receiving the login details a Compliance User should be created using the admin 
login and password. The Compliance User would be able to link the account(s) for which 
they wish to vote on. 
 The list of accounts linked in the login will be mapped automatically & can be delink in 
case of any wrong mapping. 
 It is Mandatory that, a scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of Attorney 
(POA) which they have issued in favour of the Custodian, if any, should be uploaded in 
PDF format in the system for the scrutinizer to verify the same. 
 Alternatively Non Individual shareholders are required mandatory to send the relevant Board 
Resolution/ Authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer and to the Company at the 
email address viz; info@hpil@co.in , if they have voted from individual tab & not uploaded 
same in the CDSL e-voting system for the scrutinizer to verify the same. 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS ATTENDING THE AGM/EGM THROUGH VC/OAVM & 
E-VOTING DURING MEETING ARE AS UNDER: 
1. The procedure for attending meeting & e-Voting on the day of the AGM/ EGM is same as 
the instructions mentioned above for e-voting. 
 
2. The link for VC/OAVM to attend meeting will be available where the EVSN of Company 
will be displayed after successful login as per the instructions mentioned above for e-
voting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 24 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
3. Shareholders who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the 
meeting. However, they will not be eligible to vote at the AGM/EGM. 
 
4. Shareholders are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops / IPads for better 
experience. 
 
5. Further shareholders will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good 
speed to avoid any disturbance during the meeting. 
 
6. Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through 
Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to 
Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi 
or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
 
 
7. Only those shareholders, who are present in the AGM/EGM through VC/OAVM facility 
and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are 
otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting system 
available during the EGM/AGM. 
 
 
8. If any Votes are cast by the shareholders through the e-voting available during the 
EGM/AGM and if the same shareholders have not participated in the meeting through 
VC/OAVM facility, then the votes cast by such shareholders may be considered invalid as 
the facility of e-voting during the meeting is available only to the shareholders attending 
the meeting. 
 
PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE EMAIL/MOBILE NO. ARE NOT REGISTERED 
WITH THE COMPANY/DEPOSITORIES. 
1. For Physical shareholders- please provide necessary details like Folio No., Name of 
shareholder, scanned copy of the share certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by 
email to Company/RTA email id. 
2. For Demat shareholders -, Please update your email id & mobile no. with your 
respective Depository Participant (DP)  
3. For Individual Demat shareholders – Please update your email id & mobile no. 
with your respective Depository Participant (DP) which is mandatory while e-
Voting & joining virtual meetings through Depository. 
 
If you have any queries or issues regarding attending AGM & e-Voting from the CDSL e-
 
Voting System, you can write an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at
 
toll free no. 1800 21 09911.All grievances connected with the facility for voting by 
 
electronic means may be addressed to: 
 
 
Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, 
 
Sr. Manager, 
 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited, 
 
A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 25 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M Joshi Marg, 
 
Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 
 
or send an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com 
 
or call toll free no. 1800 22 55 33. 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
              Hemisphere Properties India Limited
 
Sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 13.08.2024 
 
 Lubna 
(Company Secretary & Compliance officer) 
 
 
Registered Office: 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana 
Azad Road New Delhi,110001  
Website: www.hpil.co.in 
Email: info@hpil.co.in  
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013  
Item no. 4: To appoint Ms Tanvi Garg (DIN : 05165139) as Director on the Board of the 
Company. 
Ms Tanvi Garg (DIN : 05165139), Director, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) was 
appointed on the Board of Hemisphere Properties India Limited as Director pursuant to Ministry of 
Housing and Urban Affairs  order dated November 08, 2023. She was born on year 1985and she is an IAS 
officer of 2009 batch. She was initiallyposted as Assit. Commissioner in Pondicherry and presently 
appointed as Director in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. 
The Company received from Ms. Tanvi Garg ,consent to act as a Director and also Form DIR-8 confirming 
that he is eligible to be appointed as Director as prescribed under the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.The Company has received a valid notice of candidature from a 
member as per the provision of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013, proposing the appointment as a 
Director of the Company whose period of office as director shall be subject to determination by 
retirement of directors by rotation. 
No Director, Key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Ms. Tanvi Garg to whom the resolution 
relates, is interested or concerned financially or otherwise in the resolution. The Board recommends the 
resolution set forth in Item no 4 for the approval of the members. 
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company is in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution. The Board recommends the resolution as 
set out in the notice for approval by the members through Ordinary Resolution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 26 
 
Notice
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
BRIEF RESUME OF THE DIRECTORS SEEKING APPOINTMENT/RE-APPOINTMENT AS 
REQUIRED BY REGULATION 36(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015  
 
Name
Mr. Suvasish Das 
(DIN 09826037) 
Ms. Tanvi Garg 
(DIN 05165139) 
Date of Birth 
02.12.1977 
06.01.1985 
Qualification 
Graduate Diploma in Forest 
Management from Indira 
Gandhi 
National Forest Academy, 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand, M 
Sc. 
Agrochemical & Pest 
Management from 
University of Delhi, B Sc. 
(Botany Hons.) from Assam 
University 
Graduate 
and 
Post 
graduated 
in 
Economic from Punjab University. 
 
Date of Appointment 
15.12.2021 
08.11.2023 
Experience 
Over 18 years 
Over 13 years 
Expertise 
in 
Specificfunctional area· 
Land 
Matters, 
Administrations, 
Management, Financial and 
others 
Land 
Matters, 
Administrations, 
Management, Financial and others 
Terms & Conditions
As 
per 
the 
terms 
& 
Condition 
Determined 
by 
the 
President of India from time 
to time
As per the terms & Condition
Determined by the President of India 
from time to time 
Remuneration sought to 
be paid and last drawn 
 Nil 
 Nil 
No. of shares held in HPIL
Nil 
Nil 
Relationship with other 
Directors & KMP
No inter se related to any 
Director of the Company
No inter se related to any Director of 
the Company
Number of meetings of 
the 
Board 
attended 
during the FY 2023-24 
4 (Four)  
2 (two) 
Directorship 
in 
other 
Companies 
The Delhi Golf Club 
Indore 
Smart 
City 
Development 
Limited 
Membership/ 
Chairpersonship of 
Committee(s) 
of 
the 
other Companies. 
Nil 
Nil 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
 
               Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
Sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 13.08.2024 
 
  Lubna 
(Company Secretary & Compliance officer) 
 
 
Board's Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations for Maharashtra State- 
2020 (UDCPR) has been prepared by Transaction Advisor and the same has been 
filed with Municipal Authorities. Once approval of Municipal Authorities is received, 
further approval of Board will be obtained and the land parcel shall be monetized in 
transparent manner. 
Pune, Maharashtra site view 
Halishahar, Kolkata Land (35.19 acres) 
The 
land 
measuring 
35.19 
acre, 
located 
at 
Halisahar, 
North 
24 
Parganas, 
West 
Bengal.The Site is located very near to Bagmore which is situated at northern part of 
Halisahar. The land parcel is positioned in such a way that it has access of 8 - meter 
from Bizpur Workshop Road and connected to Kabuguru Ravindra path via narrow 
local 
road 
from 
northern 
side. 
The 
Site 
locality 
is 
predominantly 
consisting 
of 
residential zone, small 
scale timber industries, dilapidated jute mills with limited 
clustered commercial and mixed used activities. The Site is easily reachable by roads 
and has excellent connectivity via bus, train and other tertiary transportation services. 
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
pg. 30
Board's Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
There 
are 
several water bodies present within 
the 
site. 
The 
land 
is 
free 
from 
Encroachment and proper security is deployed. There is no ongoing litigation on this 
land. 
The land parcel falls under Commercial, water body and bank of water body land use 
categories. 
As per due diligence conducted, Considering the upward trend for independent houses. 
The land Parcel is feasible to develop gated residential plots where target segment will 
be resident of Halisahar & Kalyani and mid segment buyers from Kolkata.The mutation 
of Kolkata Land parcel is completed in Revenue and Municipal Authorities. Request for 
Proposal (RFP) for selection of Transaction Advisor for Kolkata land vide RFP dated 
26.10.2023 and Transaction Advisor was engaged on 15.02.2024.A feasibility Study by 
Transaction Advisor was submitted and after coordination, the land is registered in the 
name of HPIL. Due to lots of shrubs the detailed survey is pending. CPWD is directed to 
take necessary actions for clearing bushes and making road for proper inspections. 
Halisahar, Kolkata, Site Images 
Greater Kailash (69.46 acres), Delhi 
TheGreater Kailash land parcel measures 69.46 acres and is situated near the outer ring 
road, New Delhi. It is a vacant parcel with good connectivity, just 20 kilometres from the 
airport. 
The site 
is one of the most expensive land parcels owned by the company and 
is 
designated as Public & Semi Public in the Masterplan of Delhi 2021. 
Fencing has been done to demarcate the land, and a digital survey of the site has already 
been done.Greater Kailash Land parcel: it is informed that the demarcation of this entire 
land parcel has not been conducted since there is on-going litigations.
Board's Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
Greater Kailash, Delhi site view 
Chattarpur Land (58 acres) 
HPIL land parcel measuring 58 acres situated near the C-DOT and TCL on mandi road, 
Chattarpur, New Delhi.The 
site 
is around 
1 km from Chattarpur metro station and 
600m away from MG road which provide excellent connectivity to all the prominent 
location to NCR, primarily to central Delhi, south Delhi and Gurgaon. The IGI airport is 
about 15km from the site.The neighborhood of land parcel comprises of buildings of 
low-rise format and farmhouses. The land is under Public & Semi Public use in the 
Masterplan of Delhi 2021. The land is completely secure from encroachment by means 
of boundary wall from three side at its periphery. Land partition between TCL and HPIL 
is done by fixing poles at every 10m in fourth side.The Company has updated its name 
in the Revenue and Municipal Records in Delhi. Further, for monetization of land at 
Chattarpur, the Company conducted demand discovery exercise for Farmhouses land 
and identifying potential buyers. After receiving positive response, an application dated 
28.10.2022 
for 
changing 
the 
land 
use 
from 
Public 
Semi 
Public 
to 
Residential 
(Farmhousing) was 
filed 
with 
Delhi Development Authority 
(DDA). The 
required 
documents 
such as maps, surveys 
etc. were completed and also given to DDA for 
approving the application. It was further informed that it is pending as DDA Master Plan 
for Delhi 2041 has not been approved as yet.
Board's Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
Chattarpur, Delhi, Site Images 
Padianallur, Chennai Land (53.04 acres) 
The land is admeasuring to 53.04 acres and it is located at Padianallur, Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu. 
The Site is located in northern part of the city. It is primarily accessible via 26 m wide 
Kolkata-Chennai National Highway that further connects to Chennai Outer Ring Road 
and nearest railway station 
is Korattur which 
is approx.14.5 km away and nearest 
metro station is Thirumangalam metro station which is located at a distance of approx. 
16.5 
km. The prominent areas around 
the 
site 
are 
Red 
hills, 
Puzhal, Ambattur, 
Madhavaram, Perungavur, Gandhi Nagar, Sholavaram, Pothur and Kesarwadi etc. The 
Site region enjoys good connectivity with other parts of the city via well laid road and 
metro network. 
The land parcel is an undeveloped land falling under Mixed Residential zoning as per 
the Master Plan of CMA -2026. The land parcel is moderately populated with trees and 
plant. The site locality 
is easily reachable by road. The locality 
is predominately 
a 
residential zone with majorly with limited clustered commercial and mixed used 
activities. The land is properly demarcated with approximately 7 feet high boundary 
wall. As on date there are no encroachment on this land parcel. We have deployed 
security on this land parcel to prevent encroachment. Based on market assessment, the 
site could be used for Residential Group Housing Project with Affordable development 
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
pg.33
Board's Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
grade & Data centre with multiple incentives, is another typology recommended. The 
Company filed application of mutation with Revenue Authorities and after submission 
of documents and multiple visits, the stamp duty was paid. However, the Revenue 
Authority rejected the application of patta transfer as there is an ongoing litigation with 
State of Tamil Nadu over the possession of land. A review application has also been filed 
by the Company against the order. 
Further, the stamp duty of X7.73 crores has been paid for Chennai land parcel and the 
updation in Land records is pending with Competent Authority of Padianullur, Chennai. 
Padianallur, Chennai, Site Images 
Revenue 
The Company during the year is receiving rental income from Tata Communications 
Limited, STT Global Data Centres, for using land in Pune for access. 
Further, there are two Building located in Pune, where renovations were undertaken 
and one of the building was given on lease. 
Infrastructure on Pune Land 
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
pg 34
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 52 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Annexure-I to the Board’s Report 
 
Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report 
 
1.Economy & Industry Outlook 
i. Global Economy  
The baseline forecast is for global growth to slow from 3.5 percent in 2022 to 3.0 percent in 
2023 and 2.9 percent in 2024, well below the historical (2000–19) average of 3.8 percent. 
Advanced economies are expected to slow from 2.6 percent in 2022 to 1.5 percent in 2023 and 
1.4 percent in 2024 as policy tightening starts to bite. Emerging market and developing 
economies are projected to have a modest decline in growth from 4.1 percent in 2022 to 4.0 
percent in both 2023 and 2024. Global inflation is forecast to decline steadily, from 8.7 percent 
in 2022 to 6.9 percent in 2023 and 5.8 percent in 2024, due to tighter monetary policy aided by 
lower international commodity prices. Core inflation is generally projected to decline more 
gradually, and inflation is not expected to return to target until 2025 in most cases.In 2023, the 
global economy faced a complex scenario characterized by persistent inflation, geopolitical 
tensions,tightening monetary policies, and ongoing pandemic repercussions, all contributing to 
a decline in growth. 
According to the World Economic Output (WEO) update,global growth slowed from 3.5% in 
CY2022 to 3.0% inCY2023. Central Banks raised interest rates in CY2023 tocounter inflationary 
pressures. Despite challenges such as supply chain disruptions and elevated inflation, major 
economies received support from fiscal stimulus, monetarypolicies, trade agreements, 
international aid, green initiatives,and technological investments. 
Rapid monetary policy tightening over the last year or so led to weakening in global housing, 
bank lending, and the industrial sector. However, this weakness has been more than offset by 
strength in other sectors, most notably service-sector activities, which is visible in labor 
markets. Strong consumer spending and the fading impact of shocks of recent years have been 
difficult to assess, leading to ongoing forecast revisions. Nonetheless, recent data  point to 
moderation of these positive trends, leading to slower global growth in the second half of 2023 
and early 2024. 
 
Global inflation is projected to decrease from an estimated 6.8% in CY2023 to 5.9% in CY2024 
and further to 4.5% in 2025, primarily due to accelerated disinflation in advanced economies. 
Declining inflationary pressures vary by country but generally stem from reduced core inflation, 
influenced by ongoing tight monetary policies, softened labor markets, and impacts from lower 
energy prices. The IMF forecasts a 2.3% decline in oil prices in CY2024, while non-fuel 
commodity prices are expected to drop by 0.9%. Heightened tensions in the Gaza-Israel region, 
which accounts for approximately 35% of global oil exports, could lead to supply shocks if the 
conflict escalates. Continued trade distortions and geopolitical fragmentation are anticipated to 
persist, exerting pressure on global trade levels. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 53 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
The risks to global economic growth are balanced, with potential upside from quicker 
disinflation, slower withdrawal of fiscal support measures, robust economic expansion in China, 
and advancements in supply-side reforms. Conversely, downside risks include spikes in 
commodity prices due to geopolitical or weather-related disruptions, ongoing core inflation 
necessitating tighter monetary policies, potential slowdowns in Chinese growth, and potential 
disruptions from abrupt fiscal consolidations. 
 
ii. Indian Economy 
For FY2024-25, growth, while still healthy, may see a moderation to 6.8%-7% as per various 
estimates due to high interest rates and lower fiscal impulse would temper demand and the net 
tax impact would normalize. Also, the uneven economic growth of some trading partners and 
escalation of geopolitical uncertainties can drag down exports. 
Support will come from other areas. Household consumption is expected to improve as 
continued disinflation will prop up the purchasing power of consumers. Secondly, healthy rabi 
sowing and good kharif output assuming a normal monsoon will support agricultural income. 
Thirdly, prospects of fixed investment remain bright owing to an upturn in the private capex 
cycle, improved business sentiments, healthy balance sheets of corporates and banks as well as 
the government’s continued thrust on capital expenditure. A sustained economic growth will 
lead India to become the 3rd largest and an upper middle-income economy in years to come.The 
Indian real estate sector has witnessed a remarkable resurgence in 2023-24. Driven by several 
factors, the industry is poised for sustained growth. The Indian economy is on a strong wicket 
and stable footing, demonstrating resilience in the face of geopolitical challenges. The Indian 
economy has consolidated its post-Covid recovery with policymakers – fiscal and monetary – 
ensuring economic and financial stability. Nonetheless, change is the only constant for a country 
with high growth aspirations. For the recovery to be sustained, there has to be heavy lifting on 
the domestic front because the environment has become extraordinarily difficult to reach 
agreements on key global issues such as trade, investment and climate. High economic growth 
in FY24 came on the heels of growth rates of 9.7% and 7.0%, respectively, in the previous two 
financial years. The headline inflation rate is largely under control, although the inflation rate of 
some specific food items is elevated. The trade deficit was lower in FY24 than in FY23, and the 
current account deficit for the year is around 0.7% of GDP. In fact, the current account 
registered a surplus in the last quarter of the financial year. Foreign exchange reserves are 
ample. Public investment has sustained capital formation in the last several years even as the 
private sector shed its balance sheet blues and began investing in FY22. Now, it has to receive 
the baton from the public sector and sustain the investment momentum in the economy. The 
signs are encouraging. 
Improving the outlook for global trade and increasing integration in the global supply chain will 
support net external demand. Headwinds from geopolitical tensions, volatility in international 
financial markets and geo-economics. fragmentation, however, pose risks to the outlook. The 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has kept the Repo Rate unchanged since February 2023 to manage 
retail inflation within its target range, which has consistently stayed above the 4% mark. 
In July 2023, Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rose to 7.44%, the highest level seen since 
September 2022. The CPI has since eased and is hovering around 5%. The RBI anticipates a 
4.5% inflation for FY2025. Economists expect the RBI MPC to maintain the repo rate at 6.5%, 
marking the seventh consecutive unchanged rate. Indian banks, with approximately 70% of 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 54 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
assets in floating-rate loans, face less exposure to interest rate risks compared to their global 
counterparts. 
iii. Real Estate Trend in India 
In FY2024, the real estate sector saw remarkable growth, driven by strong housing demand, 
stable interest rates, and a robust economy. Real estate investments in India reached $5.1 
billion, with a substantial portion allocated to land acquisitions, representing 40% of total 
investments. 
FY2024 was a milestone year for India’s real estate sector, with record-breaking sales and 
sustained growth. Despite a notable increase in new launches, inventory levels remained stable 
or decreased in tier-1 cities, highlighting strong demand. The residential segment excelled, 
driven by stable interest rates, a robust economy, and evolving consumer preferences. 
Key Highlights are as under: 
• 
Robust Sales Growth: Residential sales have surged to their highest levels since 2013, 
with  
a YoY growth of 33% in 2023. This trend has continued into Q1 of 2024, with a record-
 
breaking 41% YoY growth. 
• 
Increased Supply: The new supply of housing units has reached an all-time high, 
 
indicating a healthy pipeline of projects. 
• 
Rising Housing Prices: Strong demand and steady interest rates have led to a 7% YoY 
 
increase in housing prices in India's top eight cities. 
• 
Attracting Investments: The sector has seen a significant influx of foreign investments, 
 
with a threefold increase in foreign institutional inflows between 2017 and 2022. 
• 
Government Support: The government's focus on affordable housing and infrastructure 
 
development has acted as a catalyst for growth. 
  
Residential Real Estate  
In FY23, India’s residential property market witnessed with the value of home sales reaching an 
all-time high of Rs. 3.47 lakh crore (US$ 42 billion), marking a robust 48% year-on-year 
increase. The volume of sales also exhibited a strong growth trajectory, with a 36% rise to 
379,095 units sold. 
Indian real estate developers operating in the country’s major urban centers are poised to 
achieve a significant feat in 2023, with the completion of approximately 558,000 homes. 
In 2023, demand for residential properties surged in the top 8 Indian cities, driven by mid-
income, premium, and luxury segments despite challenges like high mortgage rates and 
property prices. 
The lockdown periods led to heightened savings and minimal income disruptions among mid to 
high-income segments, bolstering sustained demand. Additionally, the real estate sector found 
relief in the RBI’s decision to maintain the policy repo rate. The sector experienced notable 
changes in underlying factors during year 2023, indicating evolving market dynamics, as per 
property consultant Knight Frank.The sales performance in year 2023 demonstrated significant 
strength. The total value of homes sold in year  2023 rose by 38% compared to the total sales 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 55 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
value for all of year 2022. The Knight Frank  affordability Index, which monitored the ratio of 
Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) to income for households, showed signs of improvement 
after a brief decline in affordability levels observed in year 2022. This improvement was driven 
by stronger-than-anticipated economic momentum, and inflation levels remaining within the 
central bank’s tolerance band. These factors resulted in higher income levels that offset the rise 
in prices and interest rates. CREDAI, the realtors body, predicts Indian real estate sector to 
significantly boost the economy, reaching $1.3 tn by FY 2034 and $5.17 tn by 2047. Indian real 
estate market size is approximately $300 billion, divided into residential and commercial 
segments at 80% and 20%. 
The surge in demand led to a rapid pace of residential development, with annual unit launches 
reaching nine-yearpeaks. Despite rising inventory levels, the Quarters to Sell (QTS) metric 
decreased from 8.7 in H2 year 2020 to 5.9 quarters (less than 18 months) in H2 2023, reflecting 
robust market fundamentals amid growing demand and development activity. 
 
Commercial market Segment 
The office market across major Indian cities demonstrated resilience in year 2023, despite 
global challenges. Bengaluru's average rentals grew by 6.6% YoY to INR 930/sq 
m/month,driven by increased demand in key micro markets like PBDEast and ORR. Mumbai's 
office rents rose by 3.6% YoY,supported by improved infrastructure and new metro lines.The 
National Capital Region (NCR) saw unprecedentedgrowth in office leasing, reaching a decadal 
high of 0.9 mn sqm in transaction volume, with a 14% increase over CY2022. 
In 2023, the Mumbai real estate market experienced robust growth despite global challenges, 
retaining its position as the top market with 86,871 units sold, marking the highest sales in 
eleven years. This surge stemmed from a positive economic outlook, increased disposable 
income among buyers, a shift towards larger homes, and a fear of missing out on opportunities 
in the flourishing market amidst rising prices.One of the primary catalysts for the anticipated 
growth lies in the ever-evolving urban dynamics of our nation. Cities are becoming magnets, 
attracting individuals in pursuit of better opportunities, education, and improved lifestyles. This 
urban migration, coupled with a burgeoning population, forms the cornerstone for a surge in 
demand for residential spaces, especially in the thriving metropolises. A recent report by JLL 
highlights substantial growth of 26% in housing sales across the top seven residential markets 
in India, indicating a robust market in 2023. Notably, the premium segment priced above ₹3 
crore has seen an impressive rise of 83% in the first nine months of 2023. Fuelled by the 
discerning choices of High Net Worth Individuals (HNIs) and Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), this 
resilient segment remains unaffected by market fluctuations. This trend suggests an expanding 
horizon that is set to redefine luxurious residential living in the Indian real estate landscape. 
Geographically, Delhi-NCR and Mumbai stand out as leaders in housing sales, particularly in the 
premium segment, where luxury segment sales have shown a noteworthy increase. 
 
Urban Reforms 
The ongoing municipal reforms featured an incentivization package and a fifty-year loan to 
states, with a focus on capital project utilization and urban planning reforms to boost municipal 
bond creditworthiness. 
Retail Segment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 56 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
According to a report by Business Standard, India's retail real estate sector is expected to grow 
due to rising consumption and incomes. The report estimates that organized retail consumption 
will increase from 4.6% of total private consumption in 2023 to 21% by 2034. This growth is 
expected to support the expansion of retailers in India, which will boost retail real estate for 
both shopping malls and high streets. 
Retail real estate trends in India for 2023 and 2024:  
Retail spaces 
Retail spaces are expected to appreciate by 20% in 2023, which is higher than the cumulative 
appreciation over the previous three years.  
Retail rental income 
Retail rental income in NCR is expected to exceed 15% in 2023.  
Supply of retail space 
The supply of retail space is expected to increase by 45% by 2028, with a large portion of the 
new supply coming from institutional players.  
Retail-led REIT 
The launch of India's first retail-led REIT in 2023 may lead to more acquisitions to expand retail 
portfolios. 
Government Initiates 
BUDGET 2024 - TAKEAWAYS 
This year's union budget was supportive to fostering longterm growth in India's real estate 
sector, emphasizing urban infrastructure development and the digital economy. 
The Government's heightened emphasis on infrastructure capital expenditure sets a favorable 
backdrop for real estate opportunities. Key measures in this regard include: The followings are 
the key takeaways from the budget and their impact on real estate: 
 
The PMAY scheme for affordable housing includes PMAY (Urban) and PMAY (Rural), 
with a total allocation of ₹80,671 crore, of which ₹54,500 crore is for 
 PMAY (Rural). PM-SVANidhi successfully supported 78 lakh street vendors with credit. 
The government aims for holistic development, envisioning 'Viksit Bharat' by 2047. 
 
The Central Government increased the capital gain taxes for the financial year 
2024-25. Short-term gains on financial assets will now be taxed at 20%, compared 
with 15% earlier, while long-term gains on all assets face a 12.5% tax, and 
indexation benefit will not be there. However, the exemption limit for long-term 
capital gains has been increased to Rs.1.25 lakh from Rs.1 lakh per year. 
 
In the Union Budget 2024, the Central Government increased the capital gain taxes 
for the financial year 2024-25 
 Introduction of the PM AWAS Yojana Urban 2.0, which would see investment 
in urban housing reach Rs 10 lakh crore 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 57 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 Bringing investment in urban housing to ₹10 lakh crore under PM AWAS 
Yojana Urban 2.0 is a quantum jump seen in the nation's response towards 
its urban housing crisis. A commitment of this magnitude for one crore 
families exhibits that the Centre is serious about making urban development 
inclusive. The contribution by Centre, which will be ₹2.2 lakh crore over a 
period of five years, gives financial muscle to the scheme. This huge 
investment is most likely to have far-reaching effects beyond the simple 
provision of housing. It could stimulate the construction sector, create 
millions of jobs, and boost allied industries. 
 
Digital Real Estate Sales 
Digital marketing has become a key strategy for real estate developers to boost sales and 
connect with customers. Since the pandemic, their marketing efforts have expanded beyond 
attracting new customers and building brand awareness to include creating personal 
connections digitally. Thanks to technology that allows property purchases online, 
developers have seen strong sales, even during lockdown periods. They're 
using digital tools to engage with potential buyers, present project details, offer virtual 
tours, and target Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) to increase sales. Advanced technologies like 
virtual reality, augmented reality, and 
Moving forward, developers will need to keep up with technological advancements, as the 
share of real estate transactions conducted online is expected to grow. 
 
OUTLOOK AND STRATEGY 
In 2002, the Government of India conducted a disinvestment exercise in respect of 25% of its 
shareholding in the equity share capital of VSNL (currently known as Tata Communications 
Limited), wherein in terms of the bid for the disinvestment required a separate value to be 
ascribed to lands to be retained with VSNL and to exclude the value of certain Land parcels, held 
by VSNL. Panatone was the successful bidder in the disinvestment process and subsequently, 
entered into the VSNL SPA and the VSNL SHA. In terms of the disinvestment bid, the VSNL SHA 
and VSNL SPA, the Land parcels identified were required to be hived off or demerged into a 
separate entity.  
As a result, Hemisphere Properties India Limited was incorporated in 2005 as a real estate 
company. During FY 2012-13, Government of India acquired 51.12% equity stake in HPIL after 
the decision of Cabinet. Earlier, the Company was in administration of Department of 
Telecommunications and further after the Cabinet decision dated April 06th, 2018 the 
administration of HPIL was transferred from Department of Telecommunication to Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs. The Mumbai Bench of National Company Law Tribunal and Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs approved Scheme of Arrangement & Reconstruction between Tata 
Communications Limited & Hemisphere Properties India Limited on 12.07.2018 and 05.08.2018 
respectively. 
The Land located in 4 major cities i.e. Delhi, Pune, Chennai and Kolkata were transferred under 
the Scheme.  The Promoter of the company i.e. President of India holds 51.12% shares. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 58 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
In terms of the Scheme of Arrangement, following transferred: 
1. 
All rights, title and interest in the Land parcels were transferred to our Company; 
2. 
All assets and liabilities pertaining to the Land parcels were transferred to our Company 
at their book value; 
3. 
All debts, liabilities, taxes, duties and obligations pertaining to the Land parcels were 
transferred to our Company, except for any property taxes arising prior to the effective 
date, which would continue to be the liability of TCL; 
 
The main objects of our Company are as follows: 
i. 
To construct, acquire, hold, manage, develop, administer, protect, reserve and to deal in 
any other manner with properties, including sale and purchase thereof, whether such 
properties are in the nature of land or building (semi-constructed or fully constructed) 
or partially land and partially buildings, any where in India and if permitted by 
applicable legislations, outside India as well. 
 
ii. 
To collect and settle revenue, rental, lease charges and such other charges as may be 
payable by any entity against legitimate use of such properties by persons, companies, 
agencies and administrations for the services provided and to utilise the same for 
furtherance of activities of the Company. 
 
iii. 
To carry out business of developing, holding, owing, leading or licensing real estate, 
consultancy in real estate and property of all kinds and for this purpose acquiring by 
purchase or through lease, license, barter, exchange, hire purchase or otherwise, land or 
other immovable property of any description or tenure or interest in immovable 
property.  
 
iv. 
To carry out the business of building construction and development of commercial 
building, industrial shed, offices, houses, buildings, apartment, structures, hotels or 
other allied works of every description on any land acquired howsoever by the 
company, whether on ownership basis or as a lessee or licensee and to deal with such 
construction or developed or built premises by letting out, hiring or selling the same by 
way of outright sale, lease, license, usufructuary mortgage or other disposal of whole or 
part of such construction or development or built premises. 
 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
The Company has taken over the possession of land parcel and appointed CPWD for land 
maintenance &security for preventing any kind of encroachments. The Company has registered 
its name for Pune, Chattarpur & registration charges are paid for Chennai & Kolkata. The 
applications are pending before the Competent Authorities. 
HPIL has conducted the due diligence for all the land parcel in year 2021-22 and its was decided 
to move forward with Chattarpur land parcel. The Company has also appointed transaction 
advisors (JLL, a Real Estate Consulting Firm) for Pune and Kolkata land parcel. The feasibility 
studies of both land parcel are conducted and for Pune demarcation for entire Pune land of 524 
acres was conducted. The Company has applied for change of land use of a part of 524 acres of 
approx.. 88 acres falling under Bhopkhel village from Public Semi Public (PSP) to Residential 
and the same was approved by the Competent Authority of Pune. Further the land was 
separately demarcated through government agencies. With the consultation of JLL, a layout was 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 59 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
finalised and filed with the Authorities and approval of same is awaited. Also application for 
change in land use was filed with the Competent Authority and same is pending due to approval 
of DDA MPD 2041. 
The Management with the concurrence of  Ministry of Housing and Urban Affair will evaluate 
each land parcel and examine all available options available for further development of the 
Land. The Company has  also leasing the some portion of land and building in Pune. 
The Company received in-principle approval from Ministry of Finance for ₹ 751.00 crores for 
the payment towards stamp duty to give effect transfer of Title in the name of our Company and 
meet the need of other working capital requirements in due course of business. The Company 
till date has received ₹180 crore in form of equity and loan, the remaining money shall be 
received in tranches or in lumpsum as per the decision of Ministry of Finance.  
The Company during financial year 2023-24 generated revenue from rental income of ₹ 52.28 
lakhs from Pune land parcel. The Company has also leased out building in Pune from May, 2024. 
 
SEGMENT-WISE PERFORMANCE 
The Company does not have any other segment. 
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES  
Opportunities 
Housing Demand 
 
A combination of economic growth, increasing income levels, and the perception that housing 
prices are stabilizing has led to a notable uptick in the demand for homes. This trend is evident 
as potential buyers, previously on the sidelines, are now entering the market as first-time 
homeowners or existing homeowners looking for larger spaces. The shift towards remote and 
hybrid work models is further influencing the desire for more spacious living arrangements. 
Employers offering flexible work options continue to be a significant factor in this trend, as it 
allows employees the freedom to live further from the office, thereby boosting demand for 
residential properties in various segments. 
Affordable housing 
The segment of affordable housing remains a pivotal area for developers and a primary focus 
forthe government. As per the new Union budget, a housing for Middle Class scheme is to be 
launched to encourage the middle class to buy their own houses. The Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana (PMAY) is close to achieving 3 crore houses, additional 2 crore houses are targeted for 
the next 5 years, as discussed above. This shows that the affordable housing market is projected 
to experience a surge in demand, bolstered by an anticipated economic revival and increasing 
income levels. 
Others 
Over the past few years, the government has supported in the development of India and 
promoted business opportunities within the country, including various policies made and 
initiatives, such as relaxation in Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) limits, improving ease of 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 60 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
doing business, Housing for All, Make in India, Smart City and Start-up India. The major 
opportunities for our land parcel are: 
1. Housing Demand 
2 Sector Consolidation 
3. Demand of vacant land in metro cities 
4. Minimum Litigation 
5. Direct Administration of MoHUA 
 
The Company is in under the administrative control of MoHUA and board of directors has been 
appointed by MoHUA, who are excelled in handling the work related to estate and property. The 
Company will thrive on formulation of plans which are in pipe line. 
Following are the sectors which are high in Demand: 
Retail Space 
i. 
Rise in demand due to foray of FDI in multi brand retail. 
ii. 
Organized retail sector is growing by 25-30% annually. 
iii. 
The retail segment is expected to remain steady in the medium to long term backed by 
 
strong supply pipeline and growth in absorption rate. 
 
Housing Space 
i. 
Robust housing demand and has increased its focus on Pradhan Mantri Awaas 
 
Yojana, especially in rural areas 
ii. 
Rise in transition of kuccha housing to puccka housing in rural areas. 
iii. 
Public-Private Partnership policy contributing to address the rise in  housing 
shortage 
 
in cities at affordable rates. 
iv. 
Growth in population and rapid urbanization. 
v. 
Rise in disposable income. 
vi. 
Easy availability of finance. 
vii. 
Developers are focusing more on affordable and mid range categories  
to 
 
meet the huge demand. 
Hospitality Space 
i. 
Indian and International hotel chains are expanding. Expansion is  
expected to boost 
 
the sector. 
ii. 
Service apartments along with hotel rooms, business parks and even  retail arcade are 
 
rising under make in India programme. 
iii. 
Tax incentives for hotels and higher Floor Space Index (FSI) are helping in the 
 
growth of the hospitality space. 
iv. 
Government’s efforts to promote tourism especially in Tier2 and Tier3 cities are 
 
generating a strong demand for hotels, especially budget hotels. 
 
Commercial Space 
i. 
India’s commercial space is one of the most well-organized markets in the  
Asia- 
Pacific region, with the introduction of Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs) structure it will 
become more efficient. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 61 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
ii. 
Few large players with pan India presence dominate the market. 
iii. 
Change in operating model – shift from sales to lease and maintenance 
iv. 
Rapid growth in service sector driving demand. 
v. 
Increase in demand for commercial space due to robust business  
growth  
and 
 
optimism in Indian economy, especially in tier-II cities. 
vi. 
It is the most preferred asset classes in real estate by the investors  over the last few 
 
years and has attracted about 80% of the total investment made in the sector. 
 
Digital Real Estate Space 
Digital marketing has emerged as an important tool for real estate developers for their sales and 
customer outreach. Post-pandemic, the marketing activities are not just limited to tap new 
customers or brand recognition,but establishing a personal touch through digital means. 
With the tech-enabled tools to close real estate purchases online, developers have been able to 
record healthy sales even during the lockdown. Digital collaboration tools can be leveraged by 
the developers to interact with potential customers, showcase project brochures, facilitate 
virtual site tours, and focus on NRIs to propel the sales. Going ahead, it will be imperative for the 
developers to adapt to a tech-savvy future and the proportion of real estate business generated 
online is expected to only rise further. 
 
RISKS AND CONCERNS 
The Company is exposed to a number of risks such as economic, regulatory, taxation and 
environmental risks as well as sectorial investment outlook. 
i. The real estate industry is subject to extensive regulation, and any negative adjustments in 
governmental policies or the regulatory framework can negatively influence the sector's 
performance. Significant delays in procedures related to acquiring land, determining land use, 
initiating projects, and obtaining construction approvals are common. Changes in policy applied 
retrospectively, along with regulatory obstacles, could affect profitability and diminish the 
appeal of both the sector and the companies active within it. 
ii. Funding Issues In recent years, the landscape of real estate financing has shown a marked 
divergence. Well-established developers with lower debt levels have continued to secure 
funding with relative ease, benefiting from the selective approach of lenders, while those with 
weaker financial standings have encountered challenges in accessing capital. The Company 
continues to implement robust risk management policies that set-out the tolerance for risk 
management and the requisite mitigation, plans. The major risk and concerns are as under: 
iii. Statutory Approval: Registration of Titles in Name Of Company  
The land is demerged into HPIL through order of Demerger and in land records maintained by 
various Revenue Authorities, the Land parcels continue to be registered in the name of the 
erstwhile VSNL or its successor entity, TCL, including in the registers of various registrars, sub-
registrars and other land records at the respective locations.  
 
The Scheme of Arrangement has directed the transfer of all Land parcels recorded in the 
Scheme of Arrangement to our Company, including all title to such Land parcels, we may be 
required to undertake additional compliances in order to transfer the Land parcels to the name 
of our Company and to perfect our title to the Land parcels. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 62 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
iv. Approval from Changing the Land Use 
 
The real estate sector in India is heavily regulated by the central, state and local governments. 
Real estate developers are required to comply with a number of laws and regulations, including 
policies and procedures established and implemented by local authorities in relation 
to land acquisition, transfer of property, registration and use of land. These laws often vary from 
state to state. Several of your Company’s projects are in preliminary stages of planning and any 
delay in obtaining approvals could warrant revised scheduling of project timelines 
 
v.  Exposure due to on-going Litigations 
The land parcel of HPIL are subjected to certain disputes with regard to title and other claims. If 
any of these claims are determined adversely against our Company or our interests, we may be 
required to relinquish claims to all or part of the Land parcels or may be required to pay 
compensation to such claimants. Any such adverse determination would impact our ability to 
develop or transfer the Land and any amounts to be paid out may require additional infusion of 
funds from our Promoter or from other sources, which may not be available to us on 
commercially viable terms or at all. 
 
We may not be able to assess or identify all the risks and liabilities associated with such land, 
such as faulty or disputed title, unregistered encumbrances or adverse possession rights. In 
addition, title insurance is not available in India to guarantee title or development rights in 
respect of land. The absence of title insurance, together with the challenges involved in verifying 
title to land, may increase our exposure to third party claims to such land. As a result, the 
uncertainty of title to land makes acquisition and real estate development projects more 
complex and may impede the transfer of title, expose us to legal disputes and adversely affect 
the valuation of the land involved. In addition, we may also face the risk of illegal 
encroachments on the land parcels owned by us. We may be required to incur additional costs 
and face delays in our project development schedule in order to clear such encroachments. 
Disputes relating to land title can take several years and considerable expense to resolve if they 
become the subject of legal proceedings and their outcome can be uncertain. If we, are unable to 
resolve such disputes, the title to and/ or interest in,such land may be affected. An inability to 
obtain good title to any plot of land may adversely affect the development of a project for which 
such plot of land is critical and this may result in the write-off of expenses incurred in relation to 
such development. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could 
be materially and adversely affected. 
 
Further, in the event of any loss of contiguity of the land parcels constituting the Land on 
account of any adverse determination, we may not be able to maximise the value of the Land, or 
seek any premium that may be available for a single large parcel of land as compared to 
multiple smaller parcels. Failure to retain or acquire and provide such parcels of land may cause 
a delay or force us to abandon or modify our development of Land parcels. Additionally, we may 
be asked to pay premium amounts for acquiring certain large parcels of land. If we experience 
delay in or are unable to acquire the remaining undivided rights from other co-owners, we may 
not be able to develop such land. Accordingly, our inability to acquire or maintain and offer 
continuguous parcels of land may adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition 
and results of operations.  
 
vi. Financial Risk 
 
There has been a contrasting trend in real estate lending over the past few years wherein 
reputed, low leveraged developers continued to enjoy easy access to liquidity as lenders 
remained selective and weaker developers struggled with limited sources of capital. Real estate 
sector performance is closely linked to economic recovery and its monetary policies. The 
Reserve Bank of India has so far maintained accommodative stance as it tries to support 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 63 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
economic recovery. However, going ahead we expect to see monetary tightening as the central 
bank tries to control inflation in the country. A nascent economic recovery along with rising 
interest rates could impact the real estate sector in the near term as cost of housing loans shoots 
up with rise in the cost of funding for the developers, who are already facing margin pressure 
due to commodity cost inflation. 
 
vii.Market Demand for largest Pune land parcel 
 
Our largest parcel of Land parcels, aggregating to 524 acres is currently located in the PMR. As a 
result, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be heavily dependent on 
the performance of, and the prevailing conditions affecting, the real estate markets in the PMR. 
The real estate markets in these regions may be affected by various factors outside our control, 
including prevailing local and economic conditions, changes in the supply and demand for 
properties comparable to those we develop, changes in the applicable governmental 
regulations, demographic trends, employment and income levels and interest rates, among 
other facto₹ These factors may contribute to fluctuations in real estate prices and the 
availability of land in the PMR and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and 
results of operations. These factors can also negatively affect the demand for and valuation of 
our Land. 
 
viii.Collaborator/Partner  
 
Our ability to identify suitable partners or customers for development of the Land is a vital 
element of our business and involves certain risks, including appropriate financial resources 
and creditworthiness. We will be required to carry out independent assessment processes for 
identification of potential partners or customers for the Land which may include a due diligence 
exercise to assess the creditworthiness of any potential partner or customer, prior experience in 
developing such projects, suitability for development, development potential and ability to 
market. Our assessment processes will be required to be based on information that is available 
or accessible to us either through publicly available means or our diligence and assessment 
exercises. There can be no assurance that such information is accurate, complete or updated. 
Any decision based on inaccurate, incomplete or outdated information may result in certain 
risks and liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 
operations. 
 
ix.Fall  in the Prices of Land and Development rights 
 
The availability of developable land, has been increasing across real estate markets in India and 
therefore, alternative or cheaper land as compared to the Land in each of the markets where we 
own Land poses substantial challenges.  
In addition, the use and development of land is subject to regulations by various local 
authorities. For example, if a specific parcel of land has been deemed as agricultural land, no 
commercial or residential development is permitted without the prior approval of the local 
authorities. Such restrictions could lead to further limitation of development of the Land 
parcels. 
 
x.Joint development agreements and similar agreements with third parties. 
 
We may enter into joint development agreements, joint venture arrangements, development 
management agreements, and similar arrangements with third parties for the development of 
some of the Land parcels and we by virtue of such agreements, may cede development rights to 
a portion or all of the Land parcels.  
 
We may have limited ability to impose conditions on the developing agencies or joint venture 
partners, including for timely payment of consideration. In the event that we are unable to agree 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 64 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
to commercially suitable terms or find joint venture or joint development partners who are 
unwilling to meet our commercial and other terms, we may be unable to develop or transfer the 
Land parcels or portions thereof. Moreover, development agreements that we enter into or the 
leases in respect of leasehold lands may impose certain liabilities and obligations on us or may 
be subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. For instance, in some cases, we may be required to 
obtain the necessary legal and regulatory approvals for the execution of a project.  
 
The inability of a joint development or joint venture partner to continue with a project due to 
financial or legal difficulties could mean that we would bear increased, or possibly sole, 
responsibility for the development of the relevant project. This may have a material adverse 
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
 
We are subject to extensive government regulation and if we fail to obtain, maintain or renew 
our statutory and regulatory licenses, permits and approvals required to operate our business, 
our business and results of operations may be adversely affected 
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 
Our Company as on date only has Five employees and on boarded few consultants  for handling 
work. However, with we are planning to engage more human resource for smooth functioning 
of operations. 
DISCLOSURE OF ACCOUNTING TREATMENT 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under 
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014. Our Company  has not taken any treatment which is different from the applicable Ind AS. 
The fact has been disclosed in Standalone Financial statements 
 
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY 
HPIL has in place adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial reporting in 
compliance with the provisions of Section 134(5) (e) of the Companies Act, 2013 and such 
internal financial controls over financial controls were operating effectively. Internal Financial 
Controls over 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our results of operations as 
per our Financial Statements for the periods indicated: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
₹ in Lakhs) 
 
Particulars 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
REVENUE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue 
from 
operations 
52.28 
6.56 
200.20 
23.47 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 65 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS 
The details of Financial Performance with respect to Operational Performance has been fully 
explained in the Directors’ Report 
Information pursuance to schedule-V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015 - (i) There is no 
significant changes (change of 25% or more as compared to the immediately previous financial 
year) in key financial ratios viz. Debtors Turnover Ratio , Inventory Turnover Ratio), Interest 
Coverage Ratio, Current Ratio (Debt-Equity Ratio, Operating profit margin and Net profit margin 
during the year 2023-24 as compared to the previous year 2022-23.  
 
 
Other income
744.50
93.37
652.64
76.53
315.98
100
Total Revenue 
796.78 
100 
852.84 
100 
315.98 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPENDITURE
Employee 
benefits 
expenses 
42.09 
5.28 
34.48 
4.04 
26.00 
8.23 
Finance cost 
644.04 
80.83 
668.50 
78.39 
581.97 
184.18 
Depreciation, 
amortization 
expenses 
and 
Other expenses
1,337.65 
167.88 
 950.87 
111.49 
1571.88 
497.47 
Total Expenses 
2023.78 
254 
1653.85 
193.92 
2179.84 
689.87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profit 
before 
exceptional and 
extraordinary 
items and tax 
(1,227) 
- 
(801.01) 
- 
(1863.86) 
- 
Exceptional 
items 
-
-
-
-
Tax Expenses 
- 
- 
- 
 
- 
 
Current tax 
- 
- 
- 
 
- 
 
Deferred tax 
(245.15) 
- 
(153.70) 
 
(377.81) 
 
Total 
Tax 
expenses 
(245.15) 
- 
(153.70) 
 
(377.81) 
 
Profit for 
the 
Period 
(981.85) 
- 
(647.31) 
 
(1486.05) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 66 
 
MDAR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
ii. The Key ratios are as under: 
Particulars 
Financial Ratios 
Explanation 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Debtors Turnover 
5.02 
22.48 
Decrease in revenue leads to change 
in ratio 
Inventory Turnover
-
-
-
Interest 
Coverage 
Ratio 
(0.9) 
(0.19) 
Increase in losses leads to change in 
ratio 
Current Ratio 
0.0055:1 
0.19:1 
Due to reclassification of FD 
Investment from  Current Asset 
to Non - Current Asset 
 
Debt Equity Ratio 
2:1 
1.942:1 
The debt equity ratio is declining 
due to discharge of liabilities of the 
Company..
Operating 
Profit 
Margin(%) 
 
- 
- 
Net 
Profit 
Margin 
(%) 
(1878.15) 
(323.33) 
Net profit ratio changes due to 
increase in loss. 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
The above Management Discussion and Analysis contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable 
security laws and regulations. These pertain to the Company’s future business prospects and business profitability, which are 
subject to several risks and uncertainties and the actual results could materially differ from those in such forward-looking 
statements. The risks and uncertainties relating to these statements include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties, 
regarding fluctuations in earnings, our ability to manage growth, competition, economic growth in India, ability to attract and retain 
highly skilled professionals, time and cost over-runs on contracts, Government policies and actions with respect to investments, 
fiscal deficits, regulations etc. In accordance with the Regulations on Corporate Governance as approved by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, shareholders and readers are cautioned that in the case of data and information external to the Company, 
no representation is made on its accuracy or comprehensiveness, though the same are based on sources thought to be reliable. The 
Company does not undertake to make any announcement in case any of these forward-looking statements become materially 
incorrect in future or update on any forward-looking statements made from time to time on behalf of the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 67 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Annexure-II to the Board’s Report 
 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting 
 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 
I. Details of Listed Entity 
S 
no. 
 
 
Particulars 
Information 
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L70101DL2005GOI132162
2. 
Name of the Listed Entity 
Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited 
3. 
Year of incorporation 
2005 
4. 
Registered office address 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, 
Nirman Bhawan Maulana 
Azad Road, New Delhi 
Central Delhi -110001 
5. 
Corporate address 
Same as above 
6.
E-mail
info@hpil.co.in
7.
Telephone
011-23061444, 23061915
8. 
Website 
www.hpil.co.in 
9. 
Financial year for which reporting is being done 
01.04.2023 to 31.03.2024 
10. 
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed 
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and 
National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (“NSE”) 
11. 
Paid-up Capital 
Rs. 4150000000 (As on 
March 31, 2024) 
12. 
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report 
Lubna,  
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer 
011-23061915,  
info@hpil.co.in 
13. 
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity 
and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together). 
Standalone Basis  
 
 
 
II. Product/Services 
14. Details of Business activities 
S no. 
Description of main activity 
Description of 
business activity 
Turnover of the 
entity(%) 
1. 
Reality  
 
Real Estate Activities 
(MOA content) 
100 
 
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s   Turnover)  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 68 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
S. No 
Product/ Service 
NIC Code 
% of turnover of Entity 
1 
Rental Income 
7010 
100 
 
III. Operations 
16. Number of locations where operations/offices of the entity are situated: 
Location 
Number of plants 
Number of offices 
Total 
National  
0 
1 
1 
International
0
0
0
 
*The Company has 5 land parcel located in Dighi (Pune),  Padianallur (Chennai), Halishar 
(Kolkata),  Greater Kailash (Delhi) &   Chhatarpur (Delhi). The office of the Company is situated in 
New Delhi. 
 
17. Markets served by the entity: 
a) Number of locations 
Locations 
Number 
National (No. of States) 
4 
International (No.of Countries) 
0 
 
b) What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the 
entity? 
 
The contribution of exports to the turnover of the Company was Nil for the financial year 
2024-25. 
 
c) A brief on types of customers 
 
The Company is in the business of Real Estate activities and in business with private &  Public 
owned entities etc. 
 
IV. Employees 
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year  
 
a) Employees and workers (including differently abled): 
Sno.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
 
EMPLOYEES 
 
No.(B) 
%(B/A)
No.(C) 
%(C/A) 
1. 
Permanent(D) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2. 
Other than permanent(E) 
5 
4 
80 
1 
20 
3.
Total employees(D+E)
5
4
80
1
20
 
WORKERS 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Permanent(F) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5. 
Other than permanent(G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6.
Total workers(F+G)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Note: The Company has engaged Central Public Works Department (CPWD) as nodal 
agency for maintenance and security services.  
b) Differently abled employees and workers: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 69 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
S no.
Particulars 
Total 
Male 
Female 
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES 
 
1. 
Permanent(D) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.
Other than permanent(E)
-
-
-
-
-
3. 
Total differently abled employees  
(D + E)  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS 
 
4. 
Permanent(F) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5. 
Other than permanent(G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6. 
Total differently abled workers  
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women  
 
Total(A) 
No. and percentage of Females  
 
 
 
No.  (B) 
%(B/A) 
Board of Directors 
 
7 
2 
28.5 
Key Management Personnel 
3 
2
66.67 
Notes: Key Management Personnel are Managing Director  and CFO & Company 
Secretary. 
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 
years) 
 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees*
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Permanent Workers* 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Note:All the employees of Company are engaged on contractual basis in FY 2023-24,2022-23& 
2021-22. 
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures): 
21. a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures: 
S no. 
Name of the 
holding / 
subsidiary / 
associate 
companies / 
joint ventures 
(A) 
Indicate 
whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity 
Does the entity indicate at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? 
(Yes/No) 
NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 70 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
VI. CSR Details 
22. (i)Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013:No, as per 
section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, provisions of CSR is not applicable during FY 2023-24. 
(ii) Turnover of the Company for the year ended 31st  March 2024 
: ₹ 52.28 lakh 
(iii) Net worth of the Company as at 31st  March, 2024 
 
 
: ₹35605.29 lakhs 
VII. Transparency and disclosures compliances 
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC): 
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then provide web-link 
for grievance redress policy) 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Communities
Yes
http://www.hpil.co.in/investor-
contact/
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
other 
than 
Shareholders
Nil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders
Yes, as per Listing Regulations 
ishttp://www.hpil.co.in/investor-
contact/ 
9 
8 
The 
pending 
complaint 
is 
resolved 
on 
the 
dated 
of 
report. 
12 
11 
The 
pending 
complaint 
is resolved 
on 
the 
dated 
of 
report. 
Employees 
and workers 
Yes 
Internal System 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Customers
Yes 
Internal System 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Value Chain 
Partners 
NA 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Other 
(please 
specify) 
NA 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
 
24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conducts issues. 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, 
rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along with its financial 
implications as per the following format. 
S. No
Material 
identified 
Indicate whethe
or opportunity 
 (R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
 
opportunity 
In case of risk, 
approach to  
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications of t
or  
opportunity 
 (Indicate 
 Positive 
 or  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 71 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
negative
 implications) 
1
Corporate
Governance 
and business 
ethics 
Risk
Strong governance and business ethics are 
crucial 
for 
maintaining 
investor 
and 
stakeholder 
trust, 
ensuring 
regulatory 
compliance 
and 
mitigating 
legal 
and 
reputational 
risks. 
Values/ 
Ethical 
behaviour is acting in ways that are 
consistent with how the company views 
moral principles and values. Not adhering 
can lead to reputational risks arising due to 
integrity ,inter-personnel relationships at 
workplace, conflict of interest and inverse 
impact on business. However, we has strong 
Corporate 
Governance 
framework 
and 
exhibits the same by strictly adhering to 
statutory norms and following the best 
practices. 
We have a well-de_ 
ned governance 
framework and code 
of conduct. 
The management 
abides by the 
prescribed rules, 
practices and 
processes. 
 
The Company is 
conducting its 
business in 
compliance with 
Corporate 
Governance 
procedures and code 
of conduct, 
exemplifies each of 
the core values, 
favourable outcomes 
to stakeholders 
 
codes/ procedure are 
in place such  as 
whistle blower policy 
etc. 
 
Negative
 
2
Occupational
Health & 
Safety 
Risk
For real estate companies, it is essential
to inherent risks associated with property 
management, 
construction, 
and  
maintenance activities. Providing a safe 
work 
 
environment 
and 
preventing 
accidents are paramount to protecting 
employees, contractors, and tenants from 
potential hazards. 
Compliance with safety regulations is not 
only a legal obligation but also a critical 
factor in mitigating financial risks related to 
workplace injuries, liability claims, and 
potential fines. 
Since Company has 
limited human 
resources, the CPWD 
are engaged for 
undertaking the 
work in accordance 
to the by laws. 
Negative
3
Approval 
of 
Competent 
Authority 
Risk
The Company has land bank as assets and 
the major issue is for any opportunity is 
getting approval from the competent 
authorities 
The Company is 
being cautious in 
selection of 
operations and to 
adhere with the 
policies of Govt is the 
best way to mitigate 
the risk 
Negative
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
Equal
opportunity 
and inclusion 
Opportunity
Company is an equal opportunity employer 
and does not discriminate on the basis of 
gender, race, caste,religion,linguistic, region 
etc. in recruitment and employment 
relationship guided by GoI policies leading 
to a diverse culture and 
talent 
-
Positive
 
5
Social 
Development 
Opportunity
The land of Company is in the major cities 
of India and by utilizing this land with 
development may impact the whole 
surrounding of the specific place 
-
Positive 
6
Risk 
management 
Risk
Risk management involves
identifying, assessing and 
mitigating risks that affect the 
entire organization or industry, 
rather than just specific projects 
Implementing robust 
risk 
management 
processes 
ensures resilience in 
Negative:
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 72 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
or investments. By effectively
managing risks, HPIL can 
safeguard financial stability, 
reputation and long-term 
viability. 
the face of
uncertainties, 
enhances 
decisionmaking 
and preserves 
stakeholder 
trust. 
 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes 
put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements. 
Disclosure questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Whether your entity’s policy/ policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No) 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
 
Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No) 
The policies are approved by Board/Competent 
Authorities as per the delegated powers. 
 
 
c.Web Link of the Policies, if available 
www.hpil.co.in 
2
 
 
 
Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No) 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
* 
* 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Do the enlisted policies extend to 
your value chain partners? (Yes/No) 
Not Applicable 
4. 
Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international 
codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle. 
Not Applicable 
5
 
 
 
 
Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by  the entity with  
defined timelines, if any 
The commitment to sustainable operations is ensured 
by our Company in its operations. We are obligated to 
water conservation, enhanced energy efficiency and 
waste management. Additionally, we are committed to 
be transparent about the environmental and social 
impacts. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 73 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
 
6.  
Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the 
same are not met. 
The Company is under the administrative control of 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and the steadily 
performing towards the goal, However the Company 
has not entered into any MoU as on date. 
Governance, leadership and oversight 
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related 
challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this 
disclosure)            
The issue of climate change and imperative for climate action has become a key factor influencing 
business strategies and policies HPIL has always been an environment conscious organization . we 
understand the importance of sustainability in shaping a better future for generations to come. Our 
commitment 
goes beyond mere acknowledgment; it is a fundamental part of our ethos and drives our actions at 
every level of operation. As India experiences rapid growth, we recognize the urgent need to balance 
development with the preservation of our natural resources and ecosystems. We are committed to 
upholding the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical conduct, ensuring 
transparency, 
accountability and integrity in all our operations. Our governance framework is a testament to our 
commitment to responsible decision-making, risk management and regulatory compliance.
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of the highest 
authority responsible for 
implementation and 
oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy 
(ies). 
Board of Directors 
9.   
Does the entity have a 
specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible 
for 
decision 
making 
on 
sustainability related issues? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide 
details. 
No, the same shall be constituted when operations of 
Company begins. 
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company: 
 
P
1
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
P
1 
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
Performanc
e against 
above 
policies and 
follow 
up 
action 
Yes, Reviews and frequency are provided in of BRSR wherever applicable, due 
to limited operations the policies are under framing and incorporated. 
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirement
Yes, review was undertaken by the Committee of the Board 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 74 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
s 
of 
relevance to 
the 
principles, 
and 
rectification 
of any non-
compliances
11. Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies 
by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide 
name of the agency 
P
1 
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
All policies & processes are reviewed 
by the 
Board of Directors/senior 
management 
from time to time. 
 
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, 
reasons to be stated:: 
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the 
principles 
material 
to 
its 
business (Yes/No) 
NA 
Yes* 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Yes* 
Yes* 
The entity is not at a stage 
where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles 
(Yes/No) 
NA
Yes*
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes*
Yes*
The entity does not have the 
financial 
or/human 
and 
technical resources available for 
the task (Yes/No) 
NA 
No 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
No 
No 
It is planned to be done in the 
next financial year (Yes/No) 
NA 
No 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
No 
Yes* 
Any 
other 
reason 
(please 
specify) 
The policy on Corporate Social Responsibility is not 
applicable and the Company is not manufacturing/ trading 
any product therefore a few policy(ies) have limited 
applicability on the Company 
 
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE 
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the 
Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is 
categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be 
disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be 
voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be 
socially, environmentally and ethically responsible. 
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a 
manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable. 
Essential Indicators 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 75 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles 
during the financial year: 
Segment 
Total number of 
training 
and 
awareness 
programmes 
held 
Topics / principles covered 
under the training and its 
impact 
%age of persons in 
respective 
category covered by 
the awareness 
programmes 
Board 
of 
Directors 
1
Specific 
Roles 
and 
Responsibilities 
of 
an 
Independent 
Director, 
Effectiveness 
in 
Board 
Meetings, Role of Board Level 
Committees 
and 
Decision 
Making, 
Business 
Familiarizationoperations 
of 
the Company. 
100
Key Managerial 
Personnel 
1
Specific 
Roles, 
training 
programme 
and 
learning 
programme 
100 
 
 
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs 
1
Company Code of Conduct 
and applicable rules. 
100
Workers 
Not Applicable 
 
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount 
paid in proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following\ format (Note: the entity 
shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the 
entity’s website): 
Monetary
 
NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions 
Amount 
(In 
INR) 
Brief of the 
Case 
Has 
an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
Yes/No 
Penalty/ Fine 
Principle 1 
National 
Stock 
Exchange of 
India 
Limited 
(NSE) & 
BSE Limited 
(BSE) 
₹43,18,800/- 
including 
GST 
i.e 
₹21,59,400/- 
each 
including 
GST. 
 
Forthe 
financial year 
ended 
on 
March 
31, 
2024, the 
Company has 
complied with 
all 
requirements 
of SEBI LODR 
Regulations, 
the 
Companies 
Act, 2013and 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 76 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
rules 
made 
thereunder, 
applicable 
Secretarial 
Standards 
issued by ICSI 
and 
DPE 
Guidelines on 
Corporate 
Governance, 
as 
amended 
from 
time 
totime, except 
compliance 
related 
to 
composition 
of 
Board of the 
Company. 
Due to such 
non 
compliances, 
NSE and BSE 
have imposed 
a total fine of 
₹43,18,800/- 
including GST 
i.e 
₹21,59,400/- 
each 
including 
GST. 
 by each stock 
exchanges, for 
all the four 
quarters of FY 
2023-24. 
 
 
 
 
Penalty/Fine 
Principle 1 
Legal 
Metrologic 
Act, 2009 
 
₹12,000/- 
 
During period 
under review, 
the Company 
in June, 2022 
published an 
advertisement 
for 
Expression of 
Interest 
to 
discover 
the 
demand 
of 
Chattarpur 
land parcel of 
Company. The 
 
No, 
fine 
is 
paid in the 
court 
and 
matter 
was 
disposed of. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 77 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Company vide 
letter 
dated 
29.08.2022 
received 
a 
notice 
from 
Legal 
Metrology 
Department, 
Gautambudh 
Nagar, 
UP 
stating 
that 
the Company 
contravened 
with 
the  
Section 11 of 
Legal 
metrology 
Act, 2009. The 
Company 
replied 
with 
the 
justification 
for the same. 
Further, 
the 
matter 
was 
listed 
on 
District Court 
and 
the 
Company 
deposited 
amount of Rs 
12,000/- with 
the court. The 
matter 
was 
disposed 
off 
by the Court 
in July 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Settlement 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Compounding 
fee 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Non-Monetary 
NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions 
Brief of the Case
Has 
an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
Yes/No 
Imprisonment
None
None
None
None
None
Punishment
None
None
None
None
None
 
 
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in 
cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 78 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Case Details 
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions 
In connection with fine levied by NSE and 
BSE for non-appointment of Independent 
Director, as stated in the previous question, 
since the power to appoint Directors on the 
Board of the Company vests with the 
President of India, acting through the 
Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of 
Housing 
& 
Urban 
Affairs 
(MoHUA), 
Government of India, therefore the Company 
has been requesting the appointing authority, 
i.e. MoHUA, for appointment of requisite 
number of Independent Director. Accordingly, 
the 
Company 
has 
no 
control 
in 
the 
appointment of Directors. In view of the 
same, the Company had requested / is 
requesting the stock exchanges to waive off 
the said fines. It is pertinent to mention, that 
BSE has already waived off the fine imposed 
on the Company for earlier quarters  ended 
on 
December, 
2020. 
The 
Company 
is 
following up with the Stock Exchanges for 
waiving off the balance fine(s) as well. 
1.National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE) 
2. BSE Limited (BSE) 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details    in 
brief and if available, provide a web-link to the policy. 
No, HPIL policy for anti-corruption and anti-bribery is under process of implementation. As a part 
of HPIL persisting endeavor to set a high standard of conduct for its staff and Directors. This is 
augmented by Whistle Blower Policy which not only arm the company against unacceptable 
practices but also act as a deterrent. The Company is subject to RTI Act 2005, audit by Statutory 
Auditors and CAG audit under  
section 
139of 
the 
Companies 
Act,2013.https://www.hpil.co.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Whistle-Blower Policy.pdf 
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was 
taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:’ 
Particulars 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs 
Employees 
Workers
 
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest 
Particulars
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
Numbe
r 
Remark 
Number 
Remark 
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the 
Directors 
0 
NA 
0 
NA 
Number of complaints received in relation to 
0 
NA 
0 
NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 79 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs 
 
7.Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to 
fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, 
on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest: 
Not Applicable 
8. Number of days of accounts  payables [(Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services 
procured] in the following format: 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of accounts 
payables 
20 
29 
 
9. Open-ness of business: 
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers and related 
parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format: 
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of 
Purchases 
a. Purchases from trading houses 
as % of total purchases 
 Nil 
Nil 
b. Number of trading houses where 
purchases are made 
from 
 Nil 
Nil 
c. Purchases from Top 10 trading 
houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses 
 Nil 
Nil 
Concentration of 
Sales 
a. Sales to dealer/ distributers as % 
of total sales 
Nil
Nil
b. Number of dealers / distributors 
to whom sales are 
made 
Nil
Nil
c. Sales to top 10 dealer/ 
distributers as % of total sales 
to dealer/distributers 
 Nil 
Nil 
Share of RPTs in 
a. Purchases (Purchases with 
related parties /Total 
Purchases) 
20 
17 
b. Sales (Sales to related parties / 
Total Sales) 
Nil
Nil
c. Loans & advances (Loans & 
advances given to related 
parties/ Total loans & advances) 
Nil
Nil
d. Investments (Investments in 
related parties/Total Investments 
made) 
Nil
Nil
 
 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 80 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
1. Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during 
the financial year: 
Not Applicable 
Total number
of awareness 
programmes held 
Topics/principles 
covered under the 
training 
%age of value chain partners covered 
(by value 
of business done with such partners) 
under the 
awareness programmes
NA 
 
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving 
members of the Board? (Yes/No) If yes, provide details of the same.. 
Yes, the company has a code of conduct for directors which clearly states that every director 
representing the company shall endeavour to avoid conflict of interest and is expected to act in the 
best interest of the company. 
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and 
safe. 
Essential Indicators 
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (CAPEX) investments in specific 
technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of products and 
processes to total R&D and CAPEX investments made by the entity, respectively. 
 
 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Details: 
improvements in 
environmental and 
social impacts
R&D 
 NA 
NA 
NA 
Capex 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 
2. (a) Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) 
Response: No 
(b) If yes, what percentage of  inputs were sourced sustainably?      
Response: Not Applicable. 
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and 
disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous 
waste and (d) other waste. 
Response: The Company deals in Real Estate business and the reusing, recycling and disposing at 
the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other 
waste etc are not applicable to Company. 
4.Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities 
(Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken 
to address the same. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 81 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Response: Not applicable to Company 
Leadership Indicator 
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products 
(for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details 
in the following format? 
NIC
Code 
Name of
Product 
/ 
Service 
% of total
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the 
Life Cycle 
Perspective / 
Assessment was 
conducted 
Whether 
conducted 
by 
independent 
external 
agency 
(Yes/No) 
Results communicated 
in 
public domain 
(Yes/No) If 
yes, provide the web-
link.-link 
Life Cycle Assessment is not applicable for the Company 
 
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from 
production or disposal of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle 
Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along-with action taken to mitigate the same. 
Name of Product / Service 
Description of the risk / 
concern /concerns 
Action Taken 
No significant social or environmental concern / risk is envisaged from production or disposal of 
the Company’s products / services. 
HPIL  is not a manufacturing Company. However, as a part of its appraisal process for all the 
project it undertakes, HPIL identifies and assess the potential environmental risks of the projects. 
Environmental issues, if any, are identified through due diligence, site visits and review of 
applicable compliances etc. 
 
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in 
production (for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry): 
 
Details of materials recycled or re-used are as under: 
Indicate input material 
Recycled or re-used input material to total material 
FY23-24 
FY22-23 
Not applicable. There are no major input materials used since the nature of operations is 
focused on real estate activities 
 
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric 
tonnes) reused, recycled and safely disposed: 
Values in metrictonnes
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
Re-
use
d 
Recycle
d 
SafelyDispose
d 
Re-
use
d 
Recycle
d 
SafelyDispose
d 
Plastics(IncludingPackagin
g)
Not applicable, HPIL does not manufacture any products; hence, there 
is no product or packaging material reclaimed. 
E-Waste 
HazardousWaste
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 82 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
 
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) 
for each product category. 
Indicate product
category 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % 
of total products sold in respective category. 
Not applicable, HPIL does not manufacture any products; hence, there are no product or 
packaging materials reclaimed.
 
PRINCIPLE 3 
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains. 
Essential Indicators 
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees: 
Category
% of employees covered by 
Tot
al(
A) 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day Care 
facilities 
Numb
er 
(B) 
% 
(B/
A) 
Num
ber 
(C) 
%(C/A
) 
Nu
mb
er 
(D)
%(D/A
) 
Nu
m
be
r 
(E) 
%(E/
A) 
Nu
mb
er 
(F) 
%(F/A
) 
Permanent Employees 
Male
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
Female 
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other Than Permanent Employees 
Male
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
HPIL does not have any permanent employees and contractual employess are not give any benefit. 
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers: 
Category
% of employees covered by
Tot
al(
A) 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day Care 
facilities 
Numb
er 
(B) 
% 
(B/
A) 
Num
ber 
(C) 
%(C/A
) 
Nu
mb
er 
(D)
%(D/A
) 
Nu
m
be
r 
(E) 
%(E/
A) 
Nu
mb
er 
(F) 
%(F/A
) 
Permanent Employees
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 83 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Other Than Permanent Employees 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
HPIL does not have any ‘Workers’. Hence in all the sections, details sought for the ‘Workers’ 
category are not   applicable to HPIL. 
2. Details of retirement benefits, for current and previous financial year: 
Ben
efit
s 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
No.of 
employee
scovered 
as a % 
oftotale
mployee
s* 
No.ofwork
erscovere
d as a % 
oftotalwor
kers 
Deducted 
anddepositedwit
htheauthority^ 
No. 
of 
employe
escovere
d as a % 
oftotale
mployee
s* 
No. 
of 
workerscoveredas
a%oftotalworkers 
Deducted 
anddepo
sited 
withthea
uthority
^ 
PF 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gra
tuit
y 
-
-
-
-
-
-
ESI 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
3. Accessibility of workplaces 
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, 
as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether 
any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard: 
Response: Yes, the premises are accessible to differently abled employees, with elevators and 
ramps, wheelchair accessible restrooms The Company does not have any differently abled 
employee. 
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy 
Response: The Company does not have any differently abled employee; however, it is ensured that 
the Company will provide equal rights and opportunities to Person with Disability as per Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. We promote a positive business environment that provides 
equal employment opportunities to all individuals, irrespective of their caste, creed, gender, 
nationality, color, race, religion, disability, or sexual orientation. 
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took 
parental leave. 
Response: No permanent employees  are appointed in the Company. 
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanentworkers
Returntoworkrate
Retentionrate 
Returntoworkrate
Retentionrate 
Male (%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female(%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total(%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 84 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following 
categories of employees and workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief: 
 
Yes/No(If Yes,then give details of the mechanism in 
brief) 
Permanent Workers 
Not Applicable
 
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees 
No permanent employees are appointed in Company
We strongly encourage employees and workers to utilize 
channels such as email, letterbox, and registered post to 
express their problems and concerns to their business 
leaders, human resources, or senior management 
members. 
Other 
than 
Permanent 
Employees 
7. Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognized by the 
listed entity: 
 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
 
Total 
employ
ees / 
worker
s in 
respecti
ve 
categor
y (A) 
No. of employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category, who are 
part 
of association(s) or 
Union (B) 
% 
(B 
/ 
A) 
Total 
employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category (C) 
No. of employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category, who are 
part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D) 
% 
(D / 
C) 
Total Permanent Employees 
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Total Permanent Workers 
Male 
The company does not have any union representing its employees and workers 
Female 
 
8. Details of training given to employees and workers: 
Category
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Tota
l(A) 
On Health 
and safety 
measures 
(B) 
On Skill 
upgradation  
Tota
l(D) 
On  Health and 
safety measures 
OnSkillupgradatio
n 
Num
ber 
 
% 
(B/
A) 
Num
ber(
C) 
 
%(C/A
) 
 
Numb
er 
(E) 
%(E/A
) 
Number 
(F) 
 
%(F/
A) 
Employees
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Worker 
Male
-
- 
-
- 
-
- 
- 
-
- 
-
Female 
- 
-
- 
-
- 
- 
-
- 
-
- 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 85 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
- 
Total
-
- 
-
- 
-
-
- 
-
- 
-
 
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers. 
Category 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Total(A)
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Total(A)
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Employees 
Male 
4 
4 
100 
4 
4 
100 
Female
1
1
100
1
1
100
Total 
5 
5 
100 
5 
5 
100 
Workers : Not applicable as no workers are engaged 
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female 
 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
10. Health and safety management system:’ 
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by 
the entity? (Yes/No). If yes, the coverage of such system? 
Yes, HPIL is committed to provide a safe and healthy workplace by minimizing the risk of accidents, 
injury and exposure to health risks and it complies with applicable laws and regulations with 
respect to safety at workplace. Safety is considered as the foremost value of a Company and no 
business 8 objective can take precedence over it. The company has made it compulsory to 
implement occupational health and safety policies in the office and sites of Company. 
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a 
routine and non- routine basis by the entity? 
This is not directly applicable given the nature of business. Further, the Company has limited 
operations as on date and work-related hazards are not identified on a routine and non- routine 
basis by the entity.  
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to 
remove themselves from such risks (Yes/No): 
Not applicable. 
d. Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and 
healthcare services? (Yes/No) 
Yes 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: 
Safety Incident/Number 
Category 
FY23-24 
FY22-23 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per 
one million-person hours worked) 
Employees 
Nil 
Nil 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil 
Total recordable work-related injuries 
Employees 
Nil 
Nil 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil 
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 86 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Workers 
Nil 
Nil 
High consequence work-related injury or ill-
health (excluding fatalities) 
Employees 
Nil 
Nil 
Workers
Nil
Nil
 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. 
In Company various measures taken to ensure access to a safe and healthy work-place to all 
employees. 
13. Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Filed 
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year 
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year 
Remarks
Working 
Conditions 
Nil
Nil
No
complaints
Nil
Nil
No
complaints 
Health&Safe
ty
Nil 
Nil 
No 
complaints
Nil 
Nil 
No 
complaints
 
14. Assessments for the year: 
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity 
or statutory authorities or third parties) 
Health and safety 
practices 
The Company strives to keep the workplace environment 
healthy, safe and hygienic, upholding the dignity of the 
employees. 
Working Conditions
 
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related 
incidents (if any) and on significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & 
safety practices and working conditions: 
The Company continuously monitors and assesses its health and safety practices and working 
conditions. 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of 
death of (A) Employees (Yes/No) (B) Workers (Yes/No)? 
(A) Employees : No 
(B) Workers : Not applicable. 
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been 
deducted and deposited by the value chain partners. :Not applicable 
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work 
related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who 
have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment: 
Total no. of affected employees/ No. of employees/workers that 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 87 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
workers 
are 
rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable 
employment or whose family 
members have been placed in 
suitable 
employment 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Workers 
Not Applicable 
 
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued 
employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or 
termination of employment? (Yes/No)  
No, further, HPIL is a CPSE, which follows employment norms of DPE in cases of retirement or 
termination of employment. 
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with 
such partners) that were assessed 
Health and safety practice
Nil
Working Conditions - 
Nil 
 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant 
risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working 
condition of value chain partners: 
Not Applicable 
PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS 
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity: 
Yes. The Company has mapped its internal and external stakeholders. Internal stakeholders include 
employees and staff of the Company; and external stakeholders include equity shareholders, 
Governmental bodies and regulatory authorities including State Government(s), Reserve Bank of  
India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock Exchanges 
etc.The process of identifying our stakeholders continues to be an ongoing undertaking, which 
enables us to stay up to date with developments in their needs and respond accordingly 
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement 
with each stakeholder group: 
Stakeholder 
Group  
 
Whether 
identified 
as Vulnerable 
& 
Marginalized 
Group 
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – 
Purpose and scope 
of 
engagement 
including key 
topics and 
concerns raised 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 88 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
(Yes/No) 
Community 
Meetings, 
Notice Board, 
Website), Other 
please 
specify) 
duringsuch 
engagement 
Shareholders 
No 
Email/SMS/Website/ 
Letters/Telephone, 
Newspaper etc. 
On quarterly 
basis,through 
AGM, Postal 
Ballot and as 
and 
whenrequired. 
Communication of 
financialresults, 
adoption of 
financialstatement 
and transaction of 
ordinary and special 
business 
from time to time. 
Addressing 
requests/grievances 
of shareholders 
from time to time 
Employees 
No 
E-mail and other 
written 
communication 
• Performance review 
meetings 
• Various functional 
meetings 
 
Ongoing 
Keep employees 
updated 
onorganizational     
goals, vision, 
mission and 
objectives and also 
align with the 
business plans; 
, Learning and 
development; 
,Careeradvancement 
opportunities; 
,Transparent 
communication and 
grievance 
redressal;    
, Performance 
evaluation; and 
 
Regulatory
Bodies 
Electronic and 
physical 
correspondence with 
regulatory bodies 
• Face to face 
meetings 
• Through industry 
chambers 
Ongoing 
Regulatory 
compliance 
& 
approvals. 
Investor/ 
Collaborator 
No 
Electronic and 
physical 
correspondence with 
regulatorybodies, 
Face to face meetings 
 
Whenever 
required 
To 
discuss 
the 
interest, 
demand, 
feasibility. 
 
Leadership Indicators 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 89 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the Board. 
HPIL periodically undertakes consultation with key internal and external stakeholders as part of 
the materiality assessment exercise. This is aimed at identifying and re-evaluating material 
economic, environmental and social topics relevant for its business. The process has been 
delegated by the Board to the management. As part of this exercise, consultation is carried out with 
key stakeholders to seek their feedback. Feedback received through stakeholder consultation is 
analysed to prioritise the ESG issues significant for the business This feedback is regularly shared 
with the top management for informed decision making. 
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management 
of environmental and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the 
inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and 
activities of the entity. 
Yes, HPIL periodically undertakes consultation with key stakeholder groups as part of the 
materiality assessment exercise. As part of this exercise, consultation is carried out with key 
stakeholders to seek their feedback for identifying and prioritizing material ESG issues and 
incorporate their concerns and expectations in the materiality assessment. Therefore, 
feedbackreceived through stakeholder consultation is analysed to prioritise the ESG issues 
significant for business. Further the Company has limited operations and as on date no such 
inputs and feedback are incorporated. 
 
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the 
concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder groups 
There are no vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder groups identified by Company however, 
company addresses the concern of each stakeholder. 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 
Essential Indicators 
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and 
policy(ies) of the entity in the following format: 
Category 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Total 
(A) 
No. of 
employees/
workers 
covered(B) 
%(B/
A) 
Total 
C 
No. of 
employees/workers 
covered(B) 
%(D/C) 
Employees 
Permanent
0
0
-
0
0
0
Other 
than 
permanent 
5 
0 
- 
5 
0 
- 
TotalEmploye
es 
5 
0 
0 
5 
0 
0 
Workers
Permanent 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other 
than 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 90 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
permanent 
Total Workers 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format: 
 
3. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:: 
Male
Female
Number 
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ 
wages of respective 
category) 
Number 
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category) 
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
4 
  NIL 
3 
3 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel(KMP)* 
1 
  10.8 
2 
10.8 
Employees other 
than 
BOD 
and 
KMP 
3 
 20.49 
0 
0 
Workers 
Not applicable 
* KMP in female includes CMD, who is not drawing any remuneration 
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human 
rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
No 
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights 
issues: 
Category 
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
Total(
A) 
Equal 
toMinimumW
age 
More 
than 
Minimum 
Wage 
Total(
D) 
Minimu
m 
Equal 
toMinimumW
age 
MorethanMini
mumWage 
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.
C 
%(C/
A) 
No.(E)
%(E/D)
No.(F
) 
%(F/D
) 
Employee 
Permanent
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other than Permanent
Male 
4 
0 
4 
100 
4 
0 
0 
4 
100 
Female 
1 
0 
1 
100 
1 
0 
0 
1 
100 
Worker
Permanent 
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
OtherthanPermanent
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 91 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
The Company is committed to providing a safe and conducive work environment to all of 
its employees. Transparency and openness are organizational values and are practiced 
across all levels. Employees are encouraged to share their concerns with their reporting 
manager or them Members of the Senior Management. 
 
Employees can reach out independently if they so choose to..In addition ,the Code of 
Conduct for Employees and the Whistle Blower Policy allows all our employees to report 
any kind of suspected or actual misconduct in the organization in ananonymous manner 
including grievances related to human rights issues.HPIL is committed to providing 
equal remuneration for work of equal value and ensuring non-discrimination in all 
aspects of employment, including recruitment, hiring, promotion, compensation and 
termination. We prohibit discrimination based on gender, age, religion, disability, 
sexual orientation, or any other protected characteristic. 
6. Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
 
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
Filedd
uring 
they
ear 
Pendingre
solution 
attheend
ofyear 
Re
ma
rk 
Filedd
uring 
they
ear 
Pendingresol
utionatthe 
endofyear 
Re
ma
rk 
Sexual Harassment 
Nil 
Nil 
 - 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Discriminationatw
orkplace 
Nil 
Nil 
 - 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Child Labour 
Nil 
Nil 
 - 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
ForcedLabour/Inv
oluntaryLabour 
Nil 
Nil 
 - 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Wages 
Nil 
Nil 
 - 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Otherhumanrights
relatedissues 
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
 
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format 
 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH) 
Nil 
Nil 
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / 
workers 
Nil 
Nil 
Complaints on POSH upheld 
Nil 
Nil 
 
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases: 
The Company believes in the principle of natural justice and ensures full confidentiality 
of complainant ismaintained during and after resolution of complaint. Such complaints 
are usually handled by senior members in theorganization. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 92 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
The members handling such complaints maintain full confidentiality to protect the 
complainant during as well asafter closure of complaints. The complainant is protected 
against any adverse action not limited to harassment, unfair termination of employment, 
demotion, suspension and biased behavior. 
 
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? 
(Yes/No) 
Yes, all critical human rights requirements are part of business agreements, and contracts. 
 
10. 
Assessments for the year: 
 
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties) 
Child labour 
100% 
Forced/involuntary labour 
100% 
Sexualharassment 
100% 
Discrimination 
at 
workplace 
100% 
Wages 
100% 
 
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant 
risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above 
Not Applicable 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human 
rights grievances/ complaints: 
Not Applicable, There were no grievances/ complaints raised in the reporting year 
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted: 
Not Applicable 
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
Yes, the office premises are accessible to differently abled visitors, with elevators and ramps, 
wheelchair accessible restrooms and direction signs at various points. The Company does not have 
any differently abled employees located at Head Office have access to required facilities. However, 
The Company is taking appropriate measures to build systems and processes to ensure: 
1. That appropriate infrastructural facilities and amenities are provided to employees and workers 
with disabilities to enable them to discharge their duties safely and effectively in the establishment.                              
2. The facilities are in compliance with the Harmonized Guidelines and Space Standards for Barrier 
Free Built Environment for Persons with Disability and Elderly Persons (as amended from time to 
time), issued by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India. 
3. That provision is made for an accessible environment and assistive devices as required are 
made available. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 93 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed 
Sexual Harassment
Not Applicable
Discrimination at workplace 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Child Labour 
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour 
Wages
Others- Please specify 
 
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant 
risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 above 
Not Applicable 
 
PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make e_ orts to protect and restore the 
environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS 
1. Details of total energy consumption (GigaJoule : GJ) and energy intensity: 
Parameter 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
From renewable sources 
 
 
Total electricity consumption (A) (GJ)
Nil
Nil
Total fuel consumption (B) (GJ)
Nil
Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (C) (GJ) 
Nil 
Nil 
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) (GJ) 
Nil 
Nil 
From non-renewable sources
Nil
Nil
Total electricity consumption (D) (GJ) 
Nil 
Nil 
Total fuel consumption (E) (GJ) 
Nil 
Nil 
Energy consumption through other sources (F) (GJ)
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) (GJ) 
Nil 
Nil 
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) 
Nil 
Nil 
Energy intensity per crore of turnover
(Total energy consumed in GJ / Revenue from operations in crore) 
Nil
Nil
Energy intensity in terms of physical output 
 
 
Nil 
 
 
Nil 
 
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity 
Nil 
Nil 
 
*The Company does not have any operations and have office in Ministry of Housing   & Urban 
Affairs, hence there is no record of electric or fuel consumption. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 94 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
2. Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under 
the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, 
disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have 
not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
Not Applicable 
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
 
Parameter
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters) 
 
 
(i) Surface water 
Nil 
Nil 
(ii)Groundwater 
Nil 
Nil 
(iii) Third party water 
Nil 
Nil 
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water 
Nil 
Nil 
(v)Others 
Nil 
Nil 
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + 
iv + v) 
Nil 
Nil 
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
Nil 
Nil 
Water intensity per crore of turnover 
(Total water consumption in Kl / Revenue from operations 
in crore) 
Nil 
Nil 
Water intensity per core of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total water 
consumption in Kl / Revenue from operations in crore 
adjusted for PPP) 
Nil 
Nil 
Water intensity in terms of physical output
Nil
Nil
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
Nil 
Nil 
 
No assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by any external agency. 
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Parameter 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloltr)
(i) To Surface water 
 
No treatment 
With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
(ii) To Groundwater 
 
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
 
 
(iii) To Seawater 
 
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
 
 
(iv) Sent to third parties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 95 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
No treatment 
 
With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
 
 
(v) Others
No treatment 
 
With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
 
 
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
 
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide 
details of its coverage and implementation.’ 
Not Applicable 
6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the 
following format: 
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
NOx 
Not Applicable 
- 
- 
SOx 
Not Applicable 
- 
- 
Particulate 
matter(PM) 
Not Applicable 
- 
- 
Persistent Organic 
Pollutants(POP) 
Not Applicable
-
-
Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOC) 
Not Applicable 
- 
- 
Hazardous Air 
Pollutants (HAP) 
Not Applicable 
- 
- 
Note: The Company does not have any manufacturing unit and any such operation contributing to air 
emission. 
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its 
intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter 
Unit 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, 
NF3, if available) 
 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, 
NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity per 
crore of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions in MT/ 
Revenue from operations in 
crore) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/ 
INR 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
Metric tonnes of 
Nil 
Nil 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 96 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
emission intensity per 
crore of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue 
from operations in crore adjusted 
for PPP
CO2 equivalent/ 
USD 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity in 
terms of physical output 
 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity 
(optional) 
– the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
 
Nil 
Nil 
 
8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas (GHG) emission? If 
yes, then provide details. 
Not applicable 
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
     Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) 
Parameter 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) 
Plastic waste (A)
Nil
Nil
E-waste (B)
Nil
Nil
Bio-medicalwaste(C) 
Nil 
Nil 
Construction and demolition waste(D) 
Nil 
Nil 
Battery waste(E) 
Nil 
Nil 
Radioactive waste(F) 
Nil 
Nil 
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) 
Nil 
Nil 
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H).
Nil
Nil
Total(A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H) 
Nil 
Nil 
Parameter 
Waste intensity per crore of turnover
(Total waste generated in MT / Revenue from operations 
in crore) 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Waste intensity per crore of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated in MT / Revenue from operations 
in crore adjusted for PPP) 
Nil 
Nil 
Waste intensity in terms of physical output 
Nil 
Nil 
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
Nil 
Nil 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or 
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes) 
Category of waste: E-waste 
 
 
(i) Recycled 
Nil 
Nil 
(ii) Re-used
Nil
Nil
(iii) Other recovery operations
Nil
Nil
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 97 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Total 
Nil 
Nil 
Category of waste - Other Non-hazardous waste 
generated 
Nil 
Nil 
(i) Recycled 
Nil 
Nil 
ii) Re-used 
Nil 
Nil 
(iii) Other recovery operations – Composting
Nil
Nil
Total 
Nil 
Nil 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal 
method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste 
Nil 
Nil 
(i) Incineration 
Nil 
Nil 
ii) Land filling
Nil
Nil
iii) Other disposal operations 
Nil 
Nil 
Total 
Nil 
Nil 
Note: The Company does not have any operation contributing to waste 
 
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. 
Describe the strategy adopted by the Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic 
chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. 
Not Applicable 
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as 
national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, 
forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals/clearances are 
required, please specify details in the following format: 
Sr.
no. 
Location 
of 
operations/offices 
Type 
of 
operations 
Whether the conditions of 
environmental approval / clearance 
are 
being complied with? (Y/N) 
If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any. 
Not Applicable 
The registered office is in New Delhi. The Company has land across India, which are located in 4 states 
and are not located in ecologically sensitive areas 
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based 
on applicable laws, in the current financial year: 
Name and 
brief 
details of 
project 
EIA Noti_ 
cation 
No. 
Date 
Whether 
conducted 
by 
independent 
external 
agency (Yes 
/ No) 
Results 
communicated 
in 
public domain 
(Yes / No) 
Relevant 
Web link 
HPIL as on date has not  undertaken any project impacting on the environement.
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in 
India, such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 98 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, 
provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
S. N0 
Specify the 
law/ 
regulation/ 
guidelines 
which was not 
complied with  
Provide details 
of 
the 
noncompliance 
Any fines/ 
penalties/ 
action 
taken by 
regulatory 
agencies 
such as 
pollution 
control boards 
or by courts 
Corrective action 
taken if any 
Yes, HPIL is compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and guidelines in India to 
the extent possible. 
 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters): 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information: 
(i) Name of the area: Not applicable 
(ii) Nature of operations: Real estate activities  
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge: Not applicable 
1.  
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
(i) Surface water 
Not Applicable 
Not applicable 
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 
(v) Others 
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) 
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / 
turnover) 
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i) Into Surface water 
Not applicable 
Not applicable
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii) Into Groundwater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii) Into Seawater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv) Sent to third parties 
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 99 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
(v) Others 
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 
 
 
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity: 
Parameter  
Unit 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23 
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 3 emissions 
per crore of turnover 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
Nil 
Nil 
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent 
Nil
Nil
 
3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential 
Indicators above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on 
biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities. 
Not Applicable 
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or 
solutions to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent 
discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such 
initiatives, as per the following format: 
Sr.No
Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative (Web-link, if 
any, may be provided along-with summary) 
Outcome of the 
initiative 
Since your Company does not own any manufacturing facility, there are less significance of this 
question. 
 
 
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 
100 words/ web link. 
No, the Company, due to limited operations does not have any business continuity and disaster 
management plan. However, to support the further operations the Company shall consider the 
same. 
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain 
of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this 
regard: 
Not applicable due to limited operations. 
7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed for environmental impacts: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 100 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Not Applicable 
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS 
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations. 
The Company has not associated with any trade and industry chambers/associations. 
b.List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the 
total members of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to: 
Si. No 
Name of the trade and 
industry 
chambers/ 
associations 
Reach 
of 
trade 
and 
industry 
chambers/ 
associations 
(State/National) 
NIL 
 
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-
competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities:  
 
No adverse orders were passed from regulatory authorities 
 
Leadership Indicators 
 
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
 
S.
No. 
Public 
policy 
advocated 
Method 
resorted 
for 
such 
advocacy 
Whether 
information 
available in 
public 
domain? 
(Yes/No) 
Frequency of 
Review 
by Board 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
Others – please 
specify) 
Web Link, if 
available 
1
The Company is 
advocating 
the 
policy laid down 
by 
Statutory 
bodies such as 
SEBI, MCA, RBI 
policy etc 
Through 
interaction 
No
These policies will 
be reviewed every 
3 years 
www.pol.co.in
 
 
PRINCIPLE 8  
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
Essential Indicator 
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 101 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Not Applicable  
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement 
(R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following format: 
Not Applicable 
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community: 
The Company has a Public Grievance Redressal system for dealing with the grievances of the public 
at large 
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 
 
FY2023-24 
FY2022-23 
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
- 
- 
Directly from within India 
- 
- 
* The Company has limited operations due to which no input material was utilized. 
5.Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including 
employees or workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis): 
During the period tunder review the Company has not created jobs in smaller towns – Disclose 
wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the 
Social Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
Details of negative social impact identified  
 Corrective action taken 
Not Applicable 
 
Not Applicable 
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in 
designated aspirational districts as identified by government bodies: 
The provision of CSR are not Applicable on Company 
Srno.
State 
AspirationalDistrict 
Amount spent(in`Rs) 
Not Applicable 
 
3. a. Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase 
from suppliers comprising marginalized/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No): 
No, the company does not have any preferential procurement policy where preference to purchase 
from suppliers comprising marginalized/vulnerable groups.  
b. From which marginalized/vulnerable groups do you procure? 
Not Applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 102 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
c. What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
No such procurement made by Company 
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or 
acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge: The 
Company owns various Intellectual Property based on traditional knowledge. However, no 
benefit is derived or shared with any party 
Not Applicable 
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved: 
S. No
Intellectual Property 
based on 
traditional knowledge 
Owned/ 
Acquired 
(Yes/No) 
Benefit shared 
(Yes / No) 
Basis of 
calculating 
benefitt 
share 
Not applicable
 
5.Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved: 
Name of authority 
Brief of the Case Corrective 
action taken
Corrective action taken 
No adverse orders were passed in relation to intellectual property related disputes. 
 
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: Not Applicable 
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS 
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and 
feedback. 
The Company due to limited operation does not have any consumer and as on date of report no 
such mechanism has been devised. 
2. Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from allproducts/service 
that carry information about: 
 
As a Percentage to total turnover 
Environmental 
and 
social 
parameters 
relevant to the product 
Not applicable 
Safe and responsible usage 
Recycling and/or safedisposal
 
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the data privacy, advertising, cyber security, 
restrictive trade practices. 
 
FY 2023 -24 
Remarks
FY 2022-23 
Remarks 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 103 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
 
Received
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at 
end 
of 
year 
 
Received 
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at 
end 
of 
year 
 
Data privacy 
Nil
Nil
- 
Nil
Nil
- 
Advertising 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Cyber Security 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Delivery of 
essential 
services 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Restrictive 
Trade 
Practices 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Unfair Trade 
Practices 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Nil 
Nil 
- 
Other 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
Nil 
 
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not applicable 
Forced Recall 
Due to nature of business of HPIL, product recalls on account of safety issues is not applicable. 
5.Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data 
privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy: 
No, Due to limited operation and nature of Business the company has not framed 
policy/framework on cyber security and risks related to data privacy. 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to 
advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; 
re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities 
on safety of products/services: 
Not Applicable 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be 
accessed (provide web link, if available). 
Details of all the products and services are provided on www.hpil.co.in. 
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of 
products and/ or services. 
The Company due to limited operation and does not have many consumer as on date of report. 
Accordingly, the Company has not taken steps to inform and educate the consumers. 
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of 
essential services: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 104 
 
BRSR
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
The Company, due to limited operations, has not framed any mechanism to inform risk of 
disruption/discontinuation of essential services. The risk factors associated with operations of the 
company are given in Management Discussion & Analysis Report. 
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is 
mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details inbrief. Did your 
entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major 
products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity 
as a whole? (Yes/No) 
The Company is in Real Estate Business and as on date of report has limited operations. The 
Company assures to follow the regulatory framework applicable on Company. Due to limited 
operations, no such survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / 
services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity. 
5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact : Nil 
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of   customers: 
Nil 
 
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Sd/- 
 
D Thara 
(Chairman, Managing Director) 
(DIN: 01911714) 
 
 
Place : New Delhi 
Date : August 13, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 105 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Annexure-III to the Board’s Report 
 
Report on Corporate Governance 
 
HPIL functions within a sound Corporate Governance framework, which underlines its 
commitment to quality of governance, transparency in disclosures, consistent enhancement of 
stakeholders’ value and corporate social responsibility. We endeavour to go beyond the 
regulatory requirements of corporate governance and focusing consistently on building 
confidence of its stakeholders. HPIL strives to create value for all its stakeholders including 
shareholders, employees, communities and the general public. 
 The Company complies with all mandatory requirements for corporate governance as outlined 
by the Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”),SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations,2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Department of Public Enterprises' Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises (“DPE Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance”) and the Secretarial Standards issued by Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(“Secretarial Standards”).  
A report regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance during financial year 
2023-24 is provided below, followed by a Certificate on compliance of Corporate Governance.
 
 
 
1. PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
In HPIL, the philosophy of corporate governance centres on the idea that operations  should be 
managed ethically and responsibly, balancing the interests of all stakeholders.It encompasses a 
framework of rules, practices, and processes designed to ensure accountability, transparency, 
and fairness in corporate operations. A strong governance philosophy prioritizes long-term 
sustainability, recognizing that a company's success depends not only on financial performance 
but also on its social and environmental impact. Ultimately, it seeks to build trust among 
shareholders, employees, customers, and the community, fostering a positive corporate 
reputation and contributing to overall societal well-being. 
The Company believes in adopting the best practices Governance means is the process of 
making and enforcing decisions within an organization or society. It is the process of 
interactions through the laws & social norms and Corporate governance is defined as “the 
system by which organisations are directed and controlled”. In essence, it is the “management of 
an organisation’s management. 
The Company believes in conducting its business in compliance with Corporate Governance 
procedures and Codes of Conduct, exemplifies each of the core values, which positions HPIL to 
deliver long-term returns to the shareholders and enrichment of society.. The Codes of Conduct 
are available at HPIL Corporate website (www.hpil.com).The  Company philosophy on 
Corporate governance aims to provide and enhance transparency, fairness and satisfaction to 
stakeholder to develop their faith in Company.  It is based on following factors: 
 
Compliance of Legal Framework 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 106 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Transparency for Stakeholders’ trust 
 
Protecting the interest  and value of shareholders 
 
Recognition of obligations towards all stakeholders, shareholders, customers, 
employees, suppliers and the society 
 
The Company is fully committed to follow and implement the best Corporate Governance 
practices by adherence to the applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) 
and other authorities from time to time. 
 
2. .Board of Directors 
2.1 HPIL is a ‘Government Company’ as 51.12% of the totalpaid-up share capital of the Company 
is held by the Central Government through the President of India. 
The Board of Directors of HPIL as on March 31, 2024, Board of the Company had seven (7) 
Directors. Board is headed by an Executive Chairman and Managing Director and there are total 
5 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Non-Official Independent Director on the Board of Company. 
HPIL being a CPSE and Government Company within the meaning of Section 2(45) of the Act, 
the power to appoint Directors on the Board of HPIL vests with the President of India acting 
through the administrative ministry i.e. Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. The number of 
Independent Directors on the Board were less than fifty percent of Board Members during the 
period under review.The composition of the Board is not as per the statutory provisions 
including Regulation 17 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 read with Section 149 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 Act.  
The Directors of Company are equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to efficiently 
and effectively run the Company's operations. They work together to offer the strategic 
direction and support needed to achieve the Company's goals and objectives. 
The Board is at the core of our corporate governance practice. The Board oversees the function 
and protects the long-term interests of the stakeholders. Being a Government Company, HPIL, 
the power to appoint the Board of Directors is vested with the Ministry of Housing & Urban 
Affairs. 
2.2 The composition of the Board of Directors as on March 31,2024 is as follows: 
S.No 
Name 
DIN 
Designation 
Category  
1.
Ms. D Thara 
01911714 
CMD 
Executive Director 
2.
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora 
09217881 
Director 
Non-Executive 
3.
Mr. Suvasish Das
09826037
Director
Non-Executive
4.
Ms. Tanvi Garg 
05165139 
Director 
Non-Executive 
5.
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das 
07730466 
Director 
Non-Executive 
6.
Dr. Sunita Chandra
09415680
Independent 
Director 
Non-Executive
7.
Mr. G R Kanakavidu 
09471091 
Independent 
Non-Executive 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 107 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Director 
 
2.2 Changes in Composition of Board of Directors in FY 2023-24 
 
i.Pursuant to Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), 
Government of India. Order dated November 08, 2023 read with resolution passed by the Board 
dated November 09, 2023, Mr. Diwakar Kumar Barnwal ceased to be Director on the Board of 
the Company and Ms. Tanvi Garg appointed as Director on the Board of HPIL. 
 
ii. As on March 31, 2023, there exists 3 vacancies of Part time Non-official (Independent) 
Director and The Competent Authority to appoint Directors in the Company is with Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and the Composition of Board is not in accordance with SEBI 
Regulations and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The Company has made request to 
the MoHUA, being the Administrative Ministry/ appointing authority to appoint more 
Independent Director to make composition of the Board in conformity with the SEBI(LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, DPE guidelines and all other applicable rules/ regulations.The matter of 
filling upof vacancies is under consideration/ process at the end ofGovernment of India. 
 
2.3 Attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings held during 2023-24 and on last 
AGM of Company 
Director’s Name 
Mr/ Ms/ Dr. 
No. of Board 
Meetings 
Last AGM 
(held on 
27.09.2023) 
Held during their 
tenure 
Attended 
D Thara 
4 
4 
Yes 
Ravi Kumar Arora
4
1
No 
Suvasish Das 
4 
4 
Yes 
Tanvi Garg 
2 
2 
* 
Diwakar 
Kumar 
Barnwal 
2
1
Yes
Rajeev Kumar Das 
4 
4 
Yes 
Sunita Chandra
4
4
Yes
G R Kanakavidu 
4 
4 
Yes 
 
* Held additional charge of the post of Director  w.e.f. November 08, 2023 
 
2.4 Details of Directorships, Committee Memberships and Committee Chairmanship in 
other companies as on March 31, 2024 
 
Director’s name
Mr/ Ms/ Dr. 
Details of  Directorships in 
other Companies 
Details 
of 
Committee 
Memberships 
and 
Committee 
Chairmanship 
in 
other 
Companies*
D Thara 
i. HSCC (India) Limited 
ii. Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail 
Corporation Limited 
iii. National Land Monetization 
Corporation Limited 
iv. Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
Audit Committee 
1. HSCC (India) Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 108 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
v. Gurugram Metro Rail Limited 
Ravi Kumar Arora 
i. NBCC (India) Limited 
ii. Noida Metro Rail Corporation 
Limited 
iii. The Delhi Golf Club 
vi. Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
 
Nil 
Suvasish Das 
 
i. Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
ii. The Delhi Golf Club 
Nil 
Diwakar Kumar Barnwal 
-NA- 
NA 
Tanvi Garg
i. Indore 
Smart 
City 
Development Limited 
ii. Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
Nil
Rajeev Kumar Das 
i. Ranchi 
Smart 
City 
Corporation Limited 
ii. Agra Smart City Limited 
 
iii. Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
Nil 
Dr.Sunita Chandra 
Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
Nil 
GR Kanakavidu 
Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
Nil 
 
 
Notes: 
 
No. of Directorships in listed entities including Hemisphere Properties India Limited as 
on March 31, 2024 are taken into account. 
 
 
Only Chairmanship/ Membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee have been considered. 
 
 
 Directors are not per se related to each other Directors do not have any pecuniary 
relationship or transaction with the Company . 
 
 
 None of the Director is a member of more than 10 Committees or Chairman of more 
than 5 Committees across all the Companies in which she/he is a Director. 
 
2.5 Details of Directorships in Listed Entities & Category of Directorship: 
 
As on March 31, 2024, the following Directors held Directorship in other listed entities, as 
under: 
 
Director’s name 
 
Name of Listed Entity  
Category of Directorship 
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora 
NBCC (India) Limited 
 
Government Nominee Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 109 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
3. Details of Board meetings, Attendance of Board held during the   financial year 2023-
24 
 
3.1. Details of Board meetings held during the year:  
 
The members of the Board have access to all information of the Company and are free to 
recommend inclusion of any matter for discussion in agenda which is usually sent in 
advance.  
The Company during FY 2023-24 convened 4 meeting of Board of Directors which are as 
under: on the following dates: 
 
1st quarter 
2nd quarter 
3rd quarter 
4th quarter 
29.05.2023 
11.08.2023 
09.11.2023 
07.02.2024 
 
The Board minutes are prepared promptly after every Board meeting and circulated to all 
Directors for their comments, if any, and approved by the Chairman thereafter. The approved 
minutes are then circulated to the departments/groups concerned for initiating appropriate 
action and implementation. The minimum and maximum gap between any two Board 
meetings held during the financial year was 74 days (seventy four ) days and 90 (Ninety) 
days, respectively. Further, gap between the first Board meeting of financial year 2023-24 
from the last Board meeting of financial year 2022-23, was 61 (Sixty one) days. 
 
3.2 Information placed before the Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors has complete and unrestricted access to comprehensive company 
information, exceeding the regulatory requirements. The information placed before the 
board includes annual plans, updates, proposals, financial results, Committee minutes, 
minutes of Committee, management appointments. Additionally, it covers legal notices, 
accidents, defaults, liability claims, , significant transactions, , regulatory compliance and 
Other pertinent information is also presented to the Board. 
 
    3.3. Details of Directors’ attendance at Board meetings and Annual General Meeting 
 
(AGM) held during the financial year 2023-24. 
 
S. 
No 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Mr/ Ms/ Dr. 
Date of meeting and attendance 
thereat 
Total 
number 
of 
meetings 
Attendan
ce at 
GM 
held on 
27-Sep-
23 
29.05. 
23 
11. 
08. 
23 
09.11.2
3 
07.02.24 
Held 
during 
tenure 
Attend
ed by 
Direct
or 
% of 
atten
- 
1.
D Thara 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
4 
4 
100 
✔ 
2.
Ravi Kumar Arora 
✔ 
LoA 
LoA 
LoA 
4 
1 
25 
LoA 
3.
Suvasish Das
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
4
4
100
✔ 
4.
Tanvi Garg 
NA 
NA 
✔ 
✔ 
2 
2 
100 
NA 
5.
Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
2 
1 
50 
✔ 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 110 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
6.
Rajeev Kumar Das
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
4 
4 
100 
✔ 
7.
Sunita Chandra 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
4 
4 
100 
✔ 
8.
G R Kanakavidu 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
4 
4 
100 
✔ 
 
* LoA : Leave of Absence 
 
*Pursuant to Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), 
Government of India. Order dated November 08, 2023 read with resolution passed by the Board 
dated November 09, 2023, Mr. Diwakar Kumar Barnwal ceased to be Director on the Board of 
the Company and Ms. Tanvi Garg appointed as Director on the Board of HPIL. 
 
3.4 Retirement by rotation at the ensuing 20th AGM 
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. 
Suvasish Das, (DIN: 09826037), Director, shall retireby rotation at the ensuing 20th AGM of the 
Company and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. The briefresume of Mr. Suvasish 
Das, including his expertise in various functional areas and other relevant information, is 
appearing in the Notice of the AGM forming part of this Annual Report. 
 
3.5 Resume of Director 
Brief resume of director seeking appointment or re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting 
is appended to the Notice calling the Annual General Meeting. 
 
3.6Inter-se relationship between Directors 
There is no inter-se relationship between the Directors of the Company. 
 
3.7 Share and convertible instruments held by Directors 
As on March 31, 2024, none of the Directors held any shares or convertible instruments in the 
Company. 
 
3.8 Information related to Independent Directors 
During the financial year 2023-24, none of the Independent Directors has resigned. Further, all 
Independent Directors have submitted the requisite declaration(s), that they meet the criteria of 
independence specified under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of Listing 
Regulations. 
In view of the Board, Independent Directors of the Company have strong moral character and 
the necessary skills and experience required for making valuable contributions to the company 
and to be free from any ties or connections to the management.The Independent Directors are 
part of important Committees constituted by the Board such as the Audit Committee, 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee & Risk 
Management Committee. Further, in line with DPE OM dated December 28, 2012 on Model Role 
& Responsibilities of Non-Official Directors for CPSEs, the Board had constituted a Committee of 
Independent Directors. The said Committee is in compliance with the requirements of Listing 
Regulations and the Code of Independent Directors under Companies Act, 2013. Details 
regarding familiarization programme of Independent Directors are available on the website of 
the Company www.hpil.co.in under the heading ‘Familiarization Programme for Directors’. 
 
3.9 Separate meeting of Independent Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 111 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
In accordance with the provisions of Listing Regulations and the Act, a separate meeting of the 
Independent Directors of HPIL was held on May 29, 2023, which was attended by all 
Independent Directors of the Company. 
 
3.10 Key skills, expertise, competencies and attributes of theBoard 
The Board of Directors at HPIL is comprised of highly qualified individuals who possess the 
necessary skills, expertise and competence to effectively manage the company and make 
valuable contributions to the Board and its Committees. TheBoard members are dedicated to 
ensure that HPIL adheresto the standards of corporate governance. List of core skills/ 
expertise/ competence HPIL is a Government Company, all Directors on its Board viz., 
Functional Directors, Government Nominee Directors and Independent Directors are selected 
and appointed by the Government as per a well laid down process for each categoryof directors. 
The requirements of core skills, expertise and competence for the Board to function effectively, 
in context of business segment HPIL operates in, forms an integral part of the government’s 
process of selection of these directors. Therefore, the Board of HPIL by itself does not identify 
any such core skills or competence required for the job as well as identification of directors for 
particular skill/ expertise/ competence. . The Board of Directors of the Company comprises of 
highly professional and competent persons with vast experience in different fields of 
management. Key skills, expertise, competencies and attributes that are critical for its 
effectivefunctioning are: 
 
i. 
Financial Management 
ii. 
Real Estate Experience 
iii. 
Leadership 
iv. 
Strategic Planning 
v. 
Board Practices & Governance 
vi. 
Business Development 
vii. 
Environment& Social 
viii. 
Risk management 
 
In the table set out below, the specific areas of expertise of individual Board members as 
on March 31, 2024 and the Board members appointed subsequently, have been 
highlighted: 
 
Name of Director
Mr/ Ms/ Dr. 
Area of expertise &Area of expertise 
Financial 
Management 
 
Real 
Estate 
Leader
ship 
 
Strategi
c 
Plannin
g 
 
Board 
Practices 
& 
Governan
ce 
 
Business 
Developm
ent 
 
Environm
ent & 
Social 
 
Risk 
managem
ent 
 
D Thara 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Ravi Kumar 
Arora 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Suvasish Das 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
*Tanvi Garg 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
*Diwakar 
Kumar Barnwal
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Rajeev Kumar 
Das 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
Sunita Chandra 
✔ 
- 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
- 
✔ 
✔ 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 112 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
G R Kanakavidu
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
✔ 
 
✔ 
✔ 
 
* Tanvi Garg Appointed w.e.f 08.11.2023 & D K Barnwal ceased to be director w.e.f 08.11.2023 
 
**The absence of tick mark against a member’s name, does not necessarily mean that the said 
member does not possess the corresponding skill. 
 
 
3.11 Board’s Responsibilities 
The Board’s mandate is to oversee the Company’s strategic direction, review and monitor 
corporate performance, ensure regulatory compliance and safeguard the interests of the 
stakeholders 
 
 
3.12 Other Disclosure & Provisions as to Board and its Committees  
i. Procedure of Board 
 
i. 
The Company follows a methodized process of holding Board and Committees 
meetings. The meeting dates are usually finalized in consultation with CMD and 
other Directors well in advance, to ensure their full presence and maximum 
participation of all concerned. The agenda notes are circulated within statutory 
timelines through electronic or physical mode, as preferred by the respective 
Director.  
 
ii. 
 In order to ensure the full participation and presence of all directors, the meeting 
dates are agreed upon well in advance through consultation with all the directors. 
The agenda notes are sent to the directors within the time frame set by relevant 
statutory provisions, using either electronic or physical methods based on the 
director's preference.  
 
iii. 
Resolutions may be passed through circulation as required by business needs and 
are recorded in the next board meeting. In cases of urgent business needs, meetings 
may be called on short notice, following the prescribed procedures. 
 
 
iv. 
The Company sends agenda notes for Board & Committee meetings to the Directors 
electronically and physically. 
 
v. 
As per business requirements, at times resolutions are also passed by circulation, 
which are noted in the next Board meeting. In the event of urgent business needs, 
meetings are sometimes called at a shorter notice, following the prescribed 
procedure. 
 
vi. 
.Agenda notes contain summary in a standard format, alongwith detailed 
information about the proposal, including draft resolution(s) to be approved. The 
Company complies with the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI). 
 
ii. 
Selection of Agenda items for Board Meeting 
 
The Board has complete access to all the information available within the Company. The 
quantum and quality of information supplied to the Board goes well beyond the minimum 
requirements stipulated under Schedule II of SEBI LODR Regulations. The information provided 
to the Board includes, inter-alia, the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 113 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Planning and budgets and any updates. 
 
Capital budgets and any updates. 
 
Proposals relating to raising of funds. 
 
Proposals for sanction of financial assistance. 
 
Quarterly, half yearly and annual financial results and Board’s Report. 
 
All related party transactions. 
 
Minutes of meetings of Audit Committee and other Committees of the Board. 
 
Minutes of Board meetings of subsidiary companies. 
 
The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the 
Board level, including appointment 
 
or removal of Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. 
 
Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices which are materially 
important, if any. 
 
Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution 
problems, if any. 
 
Any material default in financial obligations to and by the Company or substantial non-
payment for goods sold by the 
 
Company, if any. 
 
Issue which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial nature, 
including any judgment or order, 
 
which may have passed strictures on the conduct of the Company or taken an adverse 
view regarding another 
 
enterprise that can have negative implications on the Company, if any. 
 
Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
 
Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity or 
intellectual property, if any. 
 
Significant labour problems, if any and their proposed solutions. Any significant 
development in human resources / 
 
industrial relations front like signing of wage agreement, implementation of voluntary 
retirement scheme etc., if any. 
 
Investments, formation of subsidiaries and joint ventures, strategic alliances etc. 
 
Sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are material in nature and not in normal 
course of business. 
 
Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to 
limit the risks of adverse 
 
exchange rate movement, if material. 
 
Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and shareholders 
service such as non-payment 
 
of dividend, delay in share transfer etc., if applicable. 
 
Quarterly report on loans sanctioned. 
 
Quarterly report on deployment of short-term surplus funds. 
 
Quarterly report on borrowings and redemption. 
 
Quarterly report on compliance of various applicable laws. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 114 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Quarterly report on Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit, Corporate Governance Report 
and status of Investor 
 
Grievances. 
 
Half yearly report on long term investments. 
 
Half yearly report on compliance of Whistle Blower Policy of the Company. 
 
Half yearly report on compliance of Fair Practices Code. 
 
Periodic reports under Delegation of Powers of the Company. 
 
Action Taken Report on earlier deliberations/decisions/suggestions of the Board. 
 
Any other information required to be presented to the Board for information or 
approval. 
 
iii. Recording of minutes of the Board and Committee meetings and follow-up mechanism 
 
The minutes of the each Board and Committee meeting are recorded by the Company Secretary. 
Draft minutes are circulated to members for their comments and finalized minutes are entered 
into the minute book within 30 days of the conclusion of the meeting. Decisions taken in the 
Board /Committee meetings are communicated to respective departments for necessary action 
and action taken report on decisions of the previous meeting(s) is placed at the succeeding 
meeting of the Board/ Committee for information of the members. 
Further, the minutes of all the committee meetings are placed before the Board of Director of 
the Company. 
 
iv. Compliance 
 
While preparing the agenda notes and minutes of the meeting(s), adherence to applicable laws, 
rules and regulations including Companies Act, 2013 read with rules issued thereunder, SEBI 
Laws and Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India is 
ensured 
 
 
v. Selection of New Directors 
 
The President of India through the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs appoints the Chairman 
& Managing Director and Directors on the Board of HPIL.  
The Independent Directors are selected by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs in 
consultation with the Search Committee of the Department of Public Enterprises which 
maintains a panel of eminent personalities having wide experience in the field of Management, 
Finance, Engineering, Administration, Industry etc. 
 
vi Certificate by Company Secretary in Practice 
The Company has received a certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Director of the Company by SEBI/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs or 
any such statutory authority. The same is enclosed. 
 
vii. Board Policies 
Following policies/codes are uploaded on the Company’s website at www.hpil.co.inin line with 
the Companies Act, SEBI (LODR) Regulations and DPE guidelines: 
i. 
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior Management 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 115 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
4.COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
The Board of Directors functions as full Board and through various Committees constituted to 
oversee specific areas of business and governance. Each Committee is guided by its terms of 
reference approved by the Board, which define its composition, scope and powers. The 
Committees meet regularly and as per requirement, to make informed decisions under their 
assigned area ofwork, within the authority delegated to them.As on March 31, 2024, the Board 
had the following Committees: - 
 
i. 
Audit Committee 
ii. 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
iii. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
iv. 
Risk Management Committee 
 
The minutes of meetings of all Committees are placed before the Board, for information Detailed 
terms of reference of each Committee, including details of meetings, attendance etc.,are 
appearing in the subsequent paras. 
 
4.1 Audit Committee 
 
 
The Company has constituted Audit Committee in accordance with the provisions of Section 177 
of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 18 of SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance. The Audit Committee carries out the role as per its terms of reference 
and reviews the information prescribed under the applicable statutory provisions. 
 
i. Terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as under: 
 
a) To comply with the requirements in accordance with Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, as amended from 
time to time; 
 
b) To comply with the requirements relating to Audit Committee as envisaged in SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time; 
 
ii. 
 
Corporate Policy on Materiality for Disclosure of events to the Stock Exchanges 
iii. 
Familiarization Program for Directors (weblink: https://hpil.co.in/wp-
content/uploads/2022/07/FAMILIARISATION-PROGRAMME-OF-INDEPENDENT-DIRECTORS.pdf ) 
iv. 
 
Materiality Policy  
v. 
 
Preservation of Documents and Archival Policy 
vi. 
 
Policy on Related Party Transactions 
vii. 
 
Terms and conditions of Appointment of Part-time Non Official Directors 
viii. 
 
Procedures and Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading in Dealing with Securities 
ix. 
Whistle Blower Policy
x. 
Dividend Distribution Policy.
xi. 
 
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in other public companies as on March 31, 2023  
have been made by the Directors. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 116 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
c) To comply with the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector 
Enterprises, 2010, as notified by the DPE, as amended from time to time; and 
 
d) To comply with any other applicable provisions, as amended from time to time, relating to 
the Audit Committee. 
 
It also, includes as under: 
a. Oversight of the listed entity’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its 
financial information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible; 
b. Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors 
of the listed entity; 
c. Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the 
statutory auditors; 
 
d. Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s report 
thereon before submission to the board for approval, with particular reference to: 
 
 
Matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be 
included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 
134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same; 
 
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment 
by management; 
 
Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit 
findings; 
 
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial 
statements; 
 
Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
 
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report. 
 
e. Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission 
to the board for approval; 
f. 
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised 
through an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of 
funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document / prospectus / 
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilization of 
proceeds of a public issue or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified institutions 
placement and making appropriate recommendations to the board to take up steps in 
this matter; 
g. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, wherever it is necessary; 
h. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems; 
i. 
Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, 
adequacy of the internal control systems; 
j. 
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the 
internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
k. Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on; 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 117 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
l. 
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board; 
m. Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and 
scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of  concern; 
n. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower/ Vigil mechanism; 
o. To review the Audit paras referred by the Internal Audit/ Board and/ or Govt. of India 
and to provide its suggestions/ guidance/ comments on the issues referred to it; 
p. Discussion with Statutory Auditors/ Internal Auditors periodically about internal 
control systems; 
q. To seek professional advice from external sources in appropriate cases, wherever 
required; 
r. The Audit Committee shall also review the following information: 
i. 
Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of 
operations; 
ii. 
Statement of significant related party transactions; 
iii. 
Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory 
auditors; and 
iv. 
Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; 
 
4.2.Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson 
 
The composition of the Audit Committee is in compliance with Listing Regulations and 
Companies Act, 2013. The Audit Committee is chaired by an Independent Director.The member 
Directors comprise of professionals of repute and standing with background in commerce, 
finance, administration and governance.The Audit Committee was last reconstituted w.e.f. 
February 10, 2023. 
 
During the year under review, the Audit Committee met 4(four) times. The composition of Audit 
Committee anddetails of attendance at its meetings held during the financial year 2023-24, were 
as under: 
The maximum gap between any two meetings of the Audit Committee was not more than one 
hundred and twenty days. 
The quorum for meetings of Audit Committee is two members or one third of the total number 
of members, whichever is  greater, with at least two Independent Directors present. Further, 
CFO is permanent invitee in Audit Committee and representatives of Statutory Auditors of the 
Company are also invited to the meeting of the Audit Committee. The Company Secretary acts as 
Secretary to the Committee. 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position 
in 
the 
Committe
e 
Date of meeting and attendance
Total number of meetings
29.05.23
11.08.23
09.11.23
07.02.24
 
Held
during 
tenure 
Attended
by 
Director 
% of
attendanc
e 
Dr. Sunita 
Chandra 
Chairpe
rson 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
4 
4 
100 
Mr. G R 
Kanakavidu 
Member
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
4 
4 
100 
Mr. Suvasish 
Das 
Member 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
4 
4 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 118 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee possesses accounting and financial management 
expertise and all other members of the Audit Committee are financially literate. Further, the 
then Chairperson of the Audit Committee was present at the last Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on September27, 2023, to answer shareholders’ queries. 
4.3 Nomination & Remuneration Committee  
 
HPIL being a Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE),the appointment, tenure and 
remuneration of CMD, Directors and other Directors are decided by the administrative ministry 
i.e., MoHUA. Any of the Directors are not drawing any remuneration from the Company. 
 
The Company had constituted a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 19 of SEBI LODR Regulations 
and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance.  
Terms of reference of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, to the extent 
applicable to Company, are as under: 
a. To comply with the requirements in accordance with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, as amended from 
time to time; 
b. To comply with the requirements relating to Nomination and Remuneration Committee as 
envisaged in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended from time to time;  
Being a CPSE, the remuneration of functional directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees of the Company including senior management personnel, is determined as per the 
extant guidelines on pay, perquisites, allowances etc. issued by the Department of Public 
Enterprises (DPE) and/or Government of India from time to time.  MCA vide Notification dated 
June 5, 2015 provided that Section 178 (2), (3) & (4) of the Companies Act, 2013 with regard to 
performance evaluation of Directors shall not apply to Government Company The appointment, 
tenure and remuneration of Chairperson and Managing Director and other Directors are 
decided by the President of India and communicated by the administrative ministry i.e., the 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Government of India. 
The  Non-official Directors including Independent Directors shall be paid sitting fees for 
attending the meetings of Board and Committees thereof, as decided by the Board from time to 
time. The amount of sitting fees paid is well within the limits prescribed under the Companies 
Act, 2013.  
The quorum for meetings of Nomination & Remuneration Committee is two members, including 
the Chairperson of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Committee. 
i. Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson, Attendance: 
During the financial year 2023-24, following meetings were held as under: 
 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position 
in 
the 
Committee 
Date of meeting and 
attendance 
Total number of meetings 
               29.05.2023 
Held 
during 
tenure 
Attende
d 
by 
Directo
% of 
attendan
ce 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 119 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) vide notification dated June 5, 2015, had exempted 
Government companies from the requirement related to formulation of criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes, independence and annual evaluation of Directors and policy 
relating to remuneration of Directors. 
Further, MCA vide notification dated July 5, 2017, had prescribed that the provisions relating to 
review of performance of Independent Directors and evaluation mechanism, as prescribed in 
Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013, are also not applicable to Government companies.  
Details regarding remuneration paid to Directors of the Company of the Company during the 
financial year 2023-24 are given below: 
 
Name  
Designation/
nature 
of 
duty 
Remuneration 
received 
/Salary 
allowance (₹) 
Perquisites
Other 
Benefits 
Pension 
Any 
Other 
Total 
D Thara
CMD 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ravi 
Kumar 
Arora 
Director 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Suvasish Das 
Director 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tanvi Garg 
Director 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal 
Director 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
ii. Remuneration of Non-Executive Independent Directors  
The Non-Executive Independent Directors are paid sitting fee of ₹15,000/- for attending each 
meeting of the Board of Directors and ₹10,000/- for attending each meeting of the Committee(s) 
thereof, which is well within the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder. 
During the financial year 2023-24, the details of remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors 
towards sitting fee (excluding GST), were as under: - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(In ₹) 
S. No 
Name of Non-Executive 
Independent Directors 
Sitting fee 
 
Board 
Meeting 
Committee Meeting 
Total 
1.
Dr. Sunita Chandra (w.e.f 
29.11.2021) 
60,000 
70,000 
130,000 
2.
Shri GR Kanakavidu (w.e.f 
20.01.2022) 
60,000 
60,000 
120,000 
 
r
Mr. G R Kanakavidu 
Chairperson 
Yes 
1 
1 
100 
Dr. Sunita Chandra
Member
 
Yes
 
1
1
100
Mr. Suvasish Das 
Member  
Yes 
1 
1 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 120 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Apart from the above, the Non-Executive Directors do not have any material pecuniary 
relationship or transaction with the Company, except to the extent of payment / reimbursement 
towards air tickets, hotel accommodation, hiring of vehicle, out-of-pocket expenses, local 
conveyance etc., if applicable, in respect of attending the meetings of the Board or Committees 
thereof. 
iii. Equity Shares held by Directors 
None of the Directors hold any equity shares in HPIL as on March 31, 2023. 
 
4.4  Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
 
The Company has constituted a Stakeholders Relationship Committee, in terms of the provisions 
of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 20 of SEBI LODR Regulations and other 
applicable laws. The Stakeholders Relationship Committee specifically looks into the redressal 
of requests, complaints or grievances from various security holders including shareholders, 
debenture-holders etc., such as non-receipt of dividend credit / warrants, non-receipt of 
interest on debentures, matters connected with transfer, transmission, re-materialization, 
dematerialization, splitting and consolidation of securities issued by the Company.  
Terms of Reference of Stakeholders Relationship Committee are as under: 
The Board of Directors on  constituted the Shareholders’/ Investors’ Grievance Committee as 
the Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC), in line with the requirements of Companies 
Act, 2013 and erstwhile Listing Agreement (now Listing Regulations). The terms of reference of 
the Committee are in line with the requirements of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 as 
well as the Listing Regulations and are as under: 
 
Resolution of the grievances of the security holders of the Company including 
complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report,non-
receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.; 
 
Reviewing measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders; 
 
Reviewing adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of 
various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent; 
 
Reviewing the various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the 
quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/ 
annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the company; 
 
To look into various aspects of interest of shareholders, debenture holders and other 
security holders; 
 
Carrying out any other function related to the terms of reference of the Committee as 
prescribed under the Companies Act, SEBI Regulations and other statutory regulations. 
 
i Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson and Attendance: 
During the financial year 2023-24, the Stakeholders Relationship Committee met 1(one) times 
The composition of Stakeholders Relationship Committee as on March 31, 2024 and details of 
attendance at its meetings were as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 121 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
The Company Secretary Act as Secretary in the meeting and  also the Compliance Officerof the 
Company in terms of Listing Regulations. The quorum for meetings of Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee is two members including the Chairperson of the Committee. The Chairperson of the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee were not present at the last Annual General Meeting of 
the Company held on September 27, 2023. 
 
ii. Requests & grievances of shareholders 
The Company attends to all investor requests & grievances promptly and on an expeditious 
basis, to the satisfaction of the  investors. In order to promptly redress the requests & 
grievances of shareholders,, the Company has establisheda mechanism i.e. support service from 
the respective Registrars, in-house investor cell and which has resulted in timely resolution of 
all requests & grievances. 
 
Investors can lodge their complaints or grievances on SCORES (SEBI Complaints Redressal 
System), which is a web-based complaints redressal system. The status of every complaint and 
Action Taken Report (ATR) thereon can be viewed online, and if required, the investor can send 
reminder for the complaints. Through this system, the investors are also able to check the status 
of the complaints, such as with whom the complaint is pending, upon whom the responsibility 
has been fixed and for how much time the complaint is pending. 
An investor, who is not familiar with SCORES or NSE and BSE web based system or does not 
have access to SCORES, can lodge a complaint in physical form or alternatively can send an e-
mail to the R&TA of the Company and Company for redressal of compliant. SEBI vide Circular 
dated July 31, 2023 and August 4, 2023, read with Master Circular dated July 31, 2023 (updated 
as on August 11, 2023),has established a common Online Dispute Resolution Portal 
(“ODRPortal”) for resolution of disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market. Pursuant to 
above-mentioned circulars, post exhausting the option to resolve their grievances with the 
RTA/ Company directly and through existing SCORES platform, the investors can initiate 
dispute resolution through the ODR Portal (https://smartodr.in/login).The Company and its 
R&TA attends to all investor requests& grievances promptly and on an expeditious basis, to the 
satisfaction of the investors. A quarterly update on the status of investor requests & grievances 
is filed with the Stock Exchanges and also placed before the Board. Pursuant to Regulation 13(3) 
of Listing Regulations, the status of shareholders’ / investors’ requests& grievances for the 
financial year 2023-24 was as under: 
Particulars of Grievances  
Equity Shares 
Pending as on 1-Apr-2023 
1
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position 
in 
the 
Committee 
Date of meeting and 
attendance 
Total number of meetings 
29.05.2023 
Held 
during 
tenure 
Attende
d 
by 
Directo
r 
% of 
attendan
ce 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Suvasish Das 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chairperson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 
Mr. G R Kanakavidu 
Member 
 
Yes 
 
1 
1 
100 
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das 
Member  
Yes 
1 
1 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 122 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Received during the financial year 
9 
Disposed of during the financial year 
8 
Remaining unresolved as on 31-Mar-2024
1
*The pending complaint as on 31.03.2024 has been resolved as on date. 
 
4.5 Risk Management Committee 
 
The Risk Management Committee (RMC) has been constituted in line with the provisions of 
Regulation 21 of SEBI LODR Regulations, to manage the integrated risk of the organization. The 
Terms of reference of RMC are as under: 
a. To manage the integrated risk; 
b. To identify various risks likely to arise, evaluate overall risks faced by the Company including 
liquidity risk, monitor and review the risk management plan, policies and practices followed by 
the Company from time to time; 
c. To oversee the mitigation of various risks and to perform all other risk management 
functions, which shall also cover cyber security; and 
d. To perform any other function, as may be required for compliance of applicable statutory 
provisions issued by RBI, SEBI, MCA and/or any other agencies, from time to time. 
e. Carrying out any other function related to the terms of reference of the Committee as 
prescribed under the  Companies Act, SEBI Regulations and other statutory regulations 
Other functions of RMC are as : 
i. 
To examine and determine the sufficiency of the Company’s internal processes for 
reporting on and managing key risk areas. 
ii. 
To assess and recommend the Board acceptable levels of risk. 
iii. 
To develop and implement a risk management framework and internal control 
system. 
iv. 
To review the nature and level of insurance coverage, if any.. 
v. 
To have special investigations into areas of corporate risk and break-downs in 
internal control. 
vi. 
To set appropriate risk management measures to cope with different situations 
vii. 
To review the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policy and system as 
well as the compliance with the established policy. 
viii. 
To report regularly to the Board of Directors about the management, operation, risk 
status, changes and areas of improvement to ensure the compliance with the 
Company’s policy and strategy. 
ix. 
To appoint a risk management working group as necessary. 
x. 
To provide the risk management working group with necessary factors, such as 
personnel, budget and other resources as per the scope of their responsibilities. 
xi. 
To exercise oversight of management’s responsibilities, and review the risk profile of 
the organization to ensure that risk is not higher than the risk appetite determined 
by the board. 
 
ii. Composition of Committee, name of Members, Chairperson & Attendance: 
 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position in 
the 
Committee 
Date of meeting and 
attendance 
Total number of meetings 
11.08.2023 
07.02.2024 
Held 
during 
tenure 
Attende
d 
by 
Directo
r 
% of 
attendan
ce 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 123 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
The quorum for meetings of Risk Management Committee is three members, including the 
Chairperson of the Committee. 
 
5. General Meetings 
 
a. Annual General Meetings (AGMs) 
The details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) of the Company are given below:- 
 
AGM 
Financial 
year 
Time 
Date 
Venue 
SR passed 
19th AGM 
2022-23 
12.00 AM 
27.09.2023 
through Video 
Conferencing / 
Other Audio- 
Visual Means 
No 
18th AGM 
2021-22 
10.00 AM 
28.12.2022 
through Video 
Conferencing / 
Other Audio- 
Visual Means 
No 
17th AGM 
2020-21 
4.30 pm 
23.12.2021 
through Video 
Conferencing / 
Other Audio- 
Visual Means 
No 
 
Further, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through postal ballot process upto the 
ensuing AGM. The Ministry of Corporate A_ airs (MCA) has issued a General Circular no. 
09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 and SEBI has issued circular dated October 7, 2023, 
pursuant to which the ensuing 20th AGM of HPIL will be held on September 25,2024 through 
VC/OAVM mode. The Company will provide the facility of electronic participation and e-voting 
for the said AGM to the shareholders, relevant details of which are appearing in the Notice of the 
AGM forming part of this 
Annual Report. 
Further, in light of the said MCA General Circular read withSEBI Circular dated January 5, 2024, 
the Annual Report of the Company for financial year 2023-24 is being sent in softcopy to those 
shareholders the Company, whose email addresses areregistered with the Company / 
Registrars / Depositories /Depository Participants. 
 
b. Extraordinary General Meeting: 
 
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2023-24 
 
c. Postal Ballot 
Mr. Suvasish Das 
Chairperson 
Yes 
Yes 
1 
1 
100 
Dr. Sunita Chandra
Member
 
Yes
 
Yes
 
1
1
100
Mr. Rajeev Kumar 
Das 
Member  
Yes 
Yes 
1 
1 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 124 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
=During the financial year 2023-24, the Company sought the approval of shareholders (Special 
Resolution) through Postal Ballot Notice as under: 
 
The Postal Ballot Notice was sent by email to only those shareholders, whose email addresses 
were registered and whose names appeared in the register of members / list of beneficial 
owners of the Company as on cut-off dates, in line with applicable MCA Circulars issued in this 
regard. The electronic dispatch of the Postal Ballot 
 
Notice was completed on 13.04.2024 & 29.02.2024 respectively and advertisement regarding 
completion of dispatch was published in Business Standard (English) newspaper 
&Jansatta(Hindi) on 15.04.2024 and 02.03.2024 respectively. 
 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited was the remote e-voting agency appointed for the 
said postal ballot. CS Rahul Chaudhary, from M/s Rahul Chaudhary& Associates, Company 
Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer for conducting the said postal ballot (s) process in 
a fair and transparent manner. 
 
The results were displayed on the website and communicated to Stock Exchanges, within the 
stipulated timelines. More details with respect to this postal ballot process are appearing at 
www.hpil.co.in 
 
 
6.Service of Documents through Electronic Means 
 
The Company has been effecting electronic delivery of documents such as Notice of AGM, 
Annual Report etc. post listing of its shares, to those shareholders whose email ids are 
registered with the respective Depository Participants (DPs) or Registrar & Share Transfer 
Agent (R&TA). In line with the circulars issued by MCA and SEBI, Notice of the 20th   AGM of the 
Company along with Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24, would be sent by e-mail to 
all those shareholders whose e-mail IDs are registered with the Company. 
 
7. Means of Communication 
Timely disclosure of consistent, relevant and reliable information on corporate financial 
performance is ensured  and the major steps taken are as under: 
Fina
ncial 
Year 
Brief
description of 
the resolution 
Type of
Resolution 
Votes
cast in 
favour 
(%) 
Date of 
Intimatio
n Postal 
Ballot 
Notice 
Cut-off
Date 
Remote E 
Voting 
Result 
date 
 
 
 
 
 
2023
-24 
Item 
no1. 
Approval 
for 
material 
related 
party 
transaction with central 
Public 
work 
department 
(CPWD) for financial year 
2023-24. 
 
 
 
Ordinary 
Resolution 
99.98
13.04.24
07.04.23
9.00 a.m. (IST) 
on Monday, 17" 
April, 2023 and 
ended on 
5:00 p.m. (IST) 
on Tuesday, 16° 
May, 2023. 
6. 
17.05.23
Item 
no.1
Approval 
For 
Material 
Related 
Party 
Transaction 
With 
Central 
Public 
Work 
Department 
(CPWD) For Financial Year 
2024-25. 
 
Ordinary 
Resolution 
96.93
 
 
 
 
 
 
29.02.24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23.02.24 
 
Saturday, 
2"'March, 2024 
at 9.00 a.m. (IST) 
and will ended 
on 
Sunday, 
31*March, 2024 
at 5:00 p.m. (IST). 
01.04.24
Item 
no.2 
Approval 
Of 
Variation 
In 
Terms 
& 
Conditions 
Of 
Preference 
Shares. 
Special
99.95
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 125 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
i) Quarterly/Annual Results: 
The Company regularly uploads its audited financial results with the Stock Exchanges, in 
compliance with the listing regulations. These financial results are published in one English 
newspaper (Financial Express) having wide circulation across the Country and one in Hindi 
newspaper (Jansatta ) having wide circulation across the region. The results are also made 
available on the Company website. 
 
ii) News Release/Advertisement  
The official news release/ advertisement are displayed on the Company’s website. 
 
iii) Website: 
The Company’s website www.hpil.co.in  contains separate dedicated section for investors where 
information for shareholders is made available. The Annual Report and Shareholding Pattern, 
Corporate Governance Report other communication of the Company are also available on the 
website in a user friendly manner. 
 
 
iv) Green Initiative: 
 
Annual Report containing Financial Statements, Auditors’ Report, Board Report, Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report(MDAR), Corporate  Governance Report and Business 
Responsibility Report including information for the Shareholders and other important 
information is circulated through electronic mode to the members and others entitled thereto, 
as per MCA circular dated May 2020. 
 
 
8. Secretarial Audit 
 
CS Naresh Kumar Sinhaof M/s Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates, Company Secretaries, have 
conducted the Secretarial Audit of the Company for the financial year 2023-24 and have 
submitted their report to the Company. A copy of the Secretarial Audit Report is annexed in this 
Annual Report for information of the stakeholders. Further, observations of the Secretarial 
Auditor and Management’s Reply thereto, are appearing in the Board’s Report forming part of 
this Annual Report. 
 
9. Related Party Transactions 
The Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing 
with Related Party Transactions, as per provisions of SEBI LODR Regulations, which is available 
at website of Company. 
 
The transactions with related parties are included in the Notes to Accounts as per the applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. A status report on Related Party Transactions is put up 
for information of the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. For the 
financial year 2023-24, the particulars of Related Party Transactions required to be disclosed in 
Form AOC-2, is attached. 
 
10. Disclosures 
 
i. Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may have potential 
conflict with the interests of Company  
 
The Company has  appointed  CPWD as Nodal Agency for care and maintenance of Land parcels 
of Company. As per Indian Accounting Standards, CPWD is related party to Company as it is 
under administration of  Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs.  Accordingly, the expenditures 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 126 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
incurred in land maintenances are exceeding the limit of materiality as mentioned in  Regulation 
23 of SEBI Listing Regulation.  The rationale for this as the Company turnover is lessor than the 
expenditure incurred in maintenance and security of land parcels. All the transactions are 
entered in ordinary course of Business and at arm length basis. 
None the less, transactions with related parties have been disclosed in Notes to the financial 
statements 2023-24 in the Annual Report. 
 
 
ii Risk Management 
In compliance of SEBI Regulations, 2015 & amendments thereof and DPE guidelines on 
Corporate Governance for CPSEs, HPIL has in place a Board approved Risk Management Policy, 
laying down procedures to inform Board members about the risk assessment, minimization and 
mitigation. An important purpose of the policy is to implement a structured and comprehensive 
risk management system across the Company which ensures that the risks are being properly 
identified and effectively managed. The risk management process includes risk identification, 
risk assessment, risk evaluation, risk mitigation and regular review & monitoring.  
 
iii. Utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement 
as specified under Regulation 32 (7A) : NA 
 
iv. Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, 
to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/ network entity of which the 
statutory auditor is a part: 
 
Details of the total fees for all services paid by HPIL, on a consolidated basis, to the 
StatutoryAuditors of HPILare as follows: 
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Fee paid to Statutory Auditor:
i.As Auditor 
1,50,000 
1,25,000 
ii. 
For 
Company 
law 
matters(includes limited 
review fees) 
1,15,000 
95,000 
iii. For other services
iv.For reimbursement of
Expenses 
15,560
11,590
Sub Total 
2,80,560 
2,31,590 
 
 
v. Loans and advances to firms/companies in which directors are interested :NIL 
 
vi. Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity & statutory auditors thereof:  Not 
Applicable 
 
vii. Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance  
Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance is enclosed. 
 
viii. Non-compliances, penalties & strictures imposed on the Company related to capital markets 
during the last three years 
 
There were no instances of non-compliance related to the Capital Markets during the last three 
years. For the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, the Company has complied with all 
requirements of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Companies Act, 2013 and rules madethereunder, 
applicable Secretarial Standards issued by ICSI and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance, as 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 127 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
amended from time to time, except with respect to Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations 
related to requirement of at least 50% Independent Directors in composition of Board, as the 
composition of the Board of Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2024, was falling short 
by one Independent Director. 
 
Due to such non-compliances, NSE and BSE have imposed a total fine of ₹21,59,400/-  each 
including GST, for all the four quarters of FY 2023-24. 
 
As on date, NSE and BSE has imposed total fine of ₹1,98,51,780/- including GST from the 
quarter ended on December 31, 2020 to quarter ended on March 31, 2024. 
 
It is pertinent to mention that the power to appoint Directors on the Board of the Company 
vests with the President of India, acting through the administrative ministry i.e., Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs, Government of India. The Company has been requesting the 
appointing authority, i.e., MoHUA, for appointment of requisite number of Independent 
Directors and the Company has no control in the appointment of Directors or maintaining the 
Composition of its Board & Committees thereof. In view of the same, the Company had 
requested / is requesting the stock exchanges to waive off the said fines. It is pertinent to 
mention, that BSE has already waived off the fine imposed on the Company for the quarters 
ended on December 2020. The Company is following up with the Stock Exchanges for waiving 
off the balance fine(s) as well. 
 
ix. Details of fines /penalty under any other Act 
During period under review, the Company in June, 2022 published an advertisement for 
Expression of Interest to discover the demand of Chattarpur land parcel of Company. The 
Company vide letter dated 29.08.2022 received a notice from Legal Metrology Department, 
Gautambudh Nagar, UP stating that the Company contravened with the  Section 11 of Legal 
metrology Act, 2009. The Company replied with the justification for the same. 
Further, the matter was listed on District Court and the Company deposited amount of Rs 
12,000/- with the court. The matter was disposed off by the Court in July 2023. 
 
x. As required under statutory provisions, all returns, reports and disclosures were filed with 
the stock exchanges and other authorities within the stipulated time. 
 
xi The Company has complied with the requirements of Regulation 17 to 27 of SEBI LODR 
Regulations relating to Board, Committees and Corporate Governance, as amended from time to 
time; and maintaining and updating the website of the Company as required under Regulation 
46 of SEBI LODR Regulations, except where the Company did not have requisite number of 
Independent Directors including and composition of some Committees of the Board, as detailed 
in point above. 
 
xii The Company has also complied with the disclosure requirements under Corporate 
Governance Report as per Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI LODR Regulations. 
 
xiii Further, in compliance of Regulation 46 of SEBI LODR Regulations, the Company has inter-
alia, disclosed the relevant information on its website (www.hpil.co.in.)The detailed policies are 
also mentioned on the website of the company such as Whistle Blower Mechanism, Code of 
Conduct etc. 
 
xiv The Company has not entered into any material, financial or commercial transactions with 
the Director(s) or the Management or their relatives or the companies and firms etc., in which 
they are either directly or through their relatives interested as Directors and/or Partners. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 128 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
xv. The Company has not entered into any material, financial or commercial transactions with 
the  Director(s) or the Management or their relatives or the companies and firms, etc., in which 
they are either directly or through their relatives interested as Directors and/or Partners. 
 
xvi. All members of senior management have made disclosures in accordance with the code of 
conduct  for financial year 2023-24. 
 
xvii. There were no materially significant transactions with related parties i.e., Promoters, 
Directors or Management, conflicting with the Company’s interest. Further, there were no 
Independent Directors of the Company during financial year 2023-24 ,hence details of their 
shareholding was not applicable. 
 
xvii. Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy 
The Company affirms that a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy is in place and no person 
has been denied access to the Competent Authority.A copy of the Whistle Blower Policy has also 
been placed on the website of the Company www.hpil.co.in for wide publicity. Address, contact 
number(s) and email address of the Competent Authority and Chairman, Audit Committee are 
being notified from time to time. The complaints received under the Policy are being processed 
as per the guidelines in this regard and no employee has been denied access to the Audit 
Committee. 
 
xviii. The Company has not incurred any expenditure which is not for the purpose of the 
business. Further, no expense was incurred which was personal in nature and was incurred for 
the Board of Directors and Senior Management. 
 
xix. The Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit & Loss, Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash 
Flow Statement for the financial year 2023-24 have been prepared as per the Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (“Ind AS”), as amended, and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. 
 
xx. There are no audit qualifications by the Statutory Auditors in their report pertaining to 
financial year 2023-24. Further, the Company has informed the Stock Exchanges that the 
Statutory Auditors have furnished Audit Report on Standalone  Financial Results with 
unmodified opinion, in line with the provision of the SEBI LODR Regulations. 
 
xxi. The Company has not issued any Stock Options / ESOPs during the financial year 2023-24 
 
xxii. Ongoing Litigations 
As on the date of report, the legal case pertaining to Pune, Chennai & Grater Kailash land parcel 
of Company and details of same are forming part of the report. 
 
xxiii. The Company has adopted all mandatory items (except for having requisite number of 
Independent Directors on the Board)  which is as under: 
 
a) The Board: The Company is headed by an Executive Chairperson & Managing Director 
 
b) Shareholder Rights: The Company is making all relevant information available to the 
shareholders / investors in a timely manner, to enable them to be sufficiently informed of the 
major decisions of the Company; 
 
c) Audit Qualifications: There are no audit qualifications pertaining to financial year 2023-24. 
 
d) Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditor provides quarterly report on the 
functioning of the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 129 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
11. Disqualification of Directors 
 
Further Rahul Chaudhary& Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, have provided a 
certificate confirming that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company is debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director of the Company by SEBI, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any other statutory authority. Copy of the said certificate is placed at 
Annexure to this report. 
 
 
12. Compliance with Applicable Laws 
The Company has a robust system in place for monitoring the compliance with applicable laws 
and related statutory and procedural compliances. The Board of Directors of the Company 
periodically reviews the status of statutory, policy and related procedural compliances in order 
to ensure proper compliances of all laws applicable to the Company. 
 
13. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior Management 
The Company has a “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior 
Management”, which is applicable to all Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company. The said Code is  aligned with the Company’s mission / 
vision and objectives and aims at enhancing ethical and transparent process in managing the 
affairs of the Company.The Code encompasses: 
• General Moral Imperatives; 
• Specific Professional Responsibilities; and 
• Specific Additional Provisions for Board Members and 
Senior Management Personnel. 
A copy of the Code has been placed on the Company’s website www.hpil.co.in.  
 Based on the affirmations received from all Board members and Senior Management Personnel, 
a declaration by the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company regarding compliance of 
said Code is as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting Trading by Designated 
Persons and their Immediate Relatives and for Fair Disclosure 
The Company has a “Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting Trading by 
Designated Persons and their Immediate Relatives and for Fair Disclosure”, framed with an aim 
that the Designated Persons and their immediate relatives, as defined in the said Code, do not 
derive any benefit or assist others to derive any benefit from the access toand possession of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) about the Company which is not in the public 
domain and thus constitutes insider information. The Company Secretary has been appointed as 
Declaration under SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance 
 
All Board Members and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the ‘Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics for Board Members and Senior Management’ of the Company for the financial year ended March 
31, 2024. 
 
 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairperson and Managing Director 
DIN: 01911714
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 130 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
the Compliance Officer of the Company; and is responsible for adherence of the said Code. The 
said Code is posted on the Company’s website www.hpil.co.in 
 
Code sets  policies and procedures to prevent leakage of UPSI and to institute adequate 
mechanism of Internal Controls to preserve confidentiality of the sensitive information. Further, 
it also prescribes the practices, procedures and normsto be followed for fair disclosure of UPSI 
and to prescribe legitimate purposes, subject to which the UPSI can be shared with any 
stakeholders. The Code lays down the procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made 
while dealing in the equity shares/securities of the Company and the consequences of non-
compliance. 
In line with the requirement of the said Code, whenever some UPSI is submitted to the Board for 
consideration and approval including consideration of quarterly results, the trading window is 
closed and notice of such closure of trading window is issued to the designated employees and 
concerned persons well in advance. Further, proper announcements are also made on the 
website of the Company as well as to Stock Exchanges where the shares of the Company are 
listed, restraining them and their dependent family members from dealing in listed securities of 
the Company, when the trading window is closed. 
 
 
15. In line with the provisions of the Sexual Harassmentof Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition andRedressal) Act, 2013, the disclosure regarding complaintsunder the said Act 
during the Financial year 2023-24, is asunder: 
Quarter 
No. of Complaints 
Quarter Ended on June, 2023 
0 
Quarter Ended on September, 2023
0
Quarter Ended on December, 2023 
0 
Quarter Ended on March,2024 
0 
 
16. Whistle Blower Policy 
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy in place, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules made thereunder, SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The same is available on website of Company. 
 
17. The Company has adopted all mandatory items (except for having requisite number of 
Independent Directors on the Board); and also some of the non-mandatory items on Corporate 
Governance, as prescribed under the Listing Regulations, status of which is as under: 
 
a) The Board: The Company is headed by an Executive Chairman; 
b) Shareholder Rights: The Company is making all relevant information available to the 
shareholders / investors in a timely manner, to enable them to be sufficiently informed of the 
major decisions of the Company; 
c) Modified opinion in audit report: There are no audit qualifications / modified opinion 
pertaining to financial year 2023-24. It is always the Company’s endeavor to maintain 
unqualified financial statements; 
d) Separate posts of Chairman and MD or CEO: Thereare no separate posts of Chairman and 
Managing Director. Being a Government Company, the role of CMD is performed in HPIL by the 
Chairman & Managing Director  
e) Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditors of the Company directly reports to the 
Audit Committee and CFO of Company  and is invited in the meeting of the Audit Committee. 
 
 
18. Dissemination 
 
All important information pertaining to the Company is also mentioned in the Annual Report of 
the Company, which is circulated to the members and also uploaded on the Company’s website.  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 131 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
Shareholder related information, announcements and latest updates about the Company can be 
accessed on Company’s website at www.hpil.co.in, which, inter-alia, include the following: 
• Corporate disclosures made from time to time to the Stock Exchanges 
• Quarterly / Half-yearly / Annual Financial Results 
• Corporate Governance Report 
• Quarterly Shareholding Pattern etc. 
 
19. CEO/CFO Certification 
 
In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, a Certificate on financial reporting 
and internal controls to the Board, duly signed by the Chairman and Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023. A copy of 
the said certificate is enclosed at Annexure  to this report. 
 
20. General Shareholders’ Information 
 
a. Annual General Meeting for the financial year 2023-24 
The ensuing 20th  Annual General Meeting (AGM) of shareholders of the Company will be held 
through video conferencing / other audio visual means on the following day, date and time:- 
 
Day & Date 
Wednesday September 25, 2024 
Time
11.30PM (IST)
 
Details regarding participation in the said meeting and other relevant information are 
appearing in the Notice of the 20th Annual General Meeting of the Company forming part of this 
Annual Report. 
 
(b) Dividend Distribution Policy 
The Company has formulated a Dividend Distribution Policy in compliance of Regulation43A of 
the SEBI LODR Regulations, which, inter-alia, specifies the external and internal factors 
including financial parameters, that shall be considered while declaring dividend and the 
circumstances under which the shareholders of the Company may or may not expect dividend. 
The policy is available at www.hpil.co.in.  
 
(c) Share Transfer System 
 
SEBI, through its Press Release dated December 3, 2018, has prescribed that with effect from 
April 1, 2019, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the 
securities are held in dematerialized form with a depository. Further, transmission or 
transposition of securities, whether in physical or dematerialized form, is also required to be 
done in dematerialized form only. Accordingly, all shareholders are requested to convert their 
shareholdings from physical form to demat form at the earliest, to reap the benefits of 
dematerialization and considering that transfer/ transmission of physical shares has been 
stopped as per SEBI’s instructions. 
SEBI vide Circular dated November 3, 2021, has inter-alia made it mandatory for holders of 
physical securities tofurnish/update PAN, email address, mobile number, bank account and 
nomination details, besides linking their PAN with Aadhar. Further, SEBI vide Circular dated 
March 16, 2023 prescribed that those folios wherein any one or more of the aforesaid details 
are not available on or after October 1, 2023 shall be frozen and the investor will not be eligible 
to lodge grievance or avail service request from R&TA and will not be eligible for receipt of 
dividend in physical mode. In view of the same, members holding shares in physical mode are 
requested to furnish PAN, KYC details and nomination forms immediately to the Company / 
R&TA in the prescribed forms (as under), to ensure that their folios are not frozen on or after  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 132 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
October 1, 2023 and if the frozen folio remain frozen as on December 31, 2025 it would be 
reported to Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988: 
 
Form 
Particular 
Form ISR-1  
Request for registering PAN, KYC details or changes/ 
Form ISR-2  
Confirmation of signature of securities holder by the 
Banker (in case of major mismatch in signatures) 
Form ISR-3 
Declaration form for opting-out of nomination byholders of 
physical securities 
Form SH-13 
Nomination form 
Form SH-14 
Cancellation or variation of nomination 
 
The duly filled forms along with the signed documents/details (self-attested with date) may be 
furnished to the R&TA through Verification by R&TA, through hard copies or through electronic 
mode with e-sign. The signed documents are required to be sent from your registered e-mail ID, 
to csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) & (10) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, Certificate from Practicing 
Company Secretary confirming due compliance of share transfer formalities by the Company, 
has been submitted to the Stock Exchanges on half-yearly basis within the stipulated time. 
Further, it is also confirmed that all transfer of shares were completed within the prescribed 
time period. 
 
d) Shareholding pattern: 
 
Category 
As on March 31, 2024 
 
No of Shares 
% of Shares 
President of India 
14,56,96,885 
51.12 
Individual  
67544963 
23.64 
Non-Resident Indian (NRI) 
2428969 
0.7 
Foreign National (other than NRI) 
0 
0 
Government 
0 
0 
Central Government 
0 
0 
State Government 
0 
0 
Government Companies 
0 
0 
Insurance Companies 
785420 
0.26 
Banks 
264 
0 
Financial Institutions
0
0
Foreign Institutional Investors 
3245007 
1.12 
Mutual Funds 
133189 
0.03 
Venture Capital 
0 
0 
Body Corporate  
59861213 
21 
Clearing Members 
2714 
0 
Foreign Companies 
53726 
0.01 
Others  
52,47,650 
2.12 
Total 
28,50,00,000 
 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 133 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e. Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2024 
 
S. 
No 
SHARES 
RANGE 
NUMBER OF 
SHAREHOLDERS 
% OF TOTAL 
SHAREHOLDERS 
TOTAL 
SHARES 
FOR THE 
RANGE
% OF 
ISSUED 
CAPITAL 
1 
1 to 500 
126173
87.6220
13228872
4.6417
2 
501 to 1000 
8662 
6.0154 
7015873 
2.4617 
3 
1001 to 2000 
4326 
3.0042 
6629215 
2.3260 
4 
2001 to 3000 
1586 
1.1014 
4088335 
1.4345 
5 
3001 to 4000 
745 
0.5174 
2701045 
0.9477 
6 
4001 to 5000 
654 
0.4542 
3122489 
1.0956 
7 
5001 to10000 
994 
0.6903 
7481082 
2.6249 
8 
10001& above 
857 
0.5952 
240733089 
84.4678 
Total 
143997 
100.0000 
285000000 100.00 
 
f. Market price data- high, low during each month in last financial year 2023-24 
 
Month 
BSE 
NSE 
Market Index (Close) 
High 
Low 
Month 
Closes 
 
High 
Low 
Closes 
 
S&P BSE 
SENSEX 
NSE 
NIFTY 
Apr-23 
95.40 
82.82 
93.30 
95.50
82.80
93.35 
61112.44 
18065.00
May-23 
97.65 
91.50 
95.89 
97.65 
91.35
95.70
62622.24 
18534.40
Jun-23 
106.95
95.70 
105.10 
106.95 
95.75
 
105.10 
64718.56 
19189.05
July-23 
114.45 
102.25
105.60
114.45
98.30
108.05
66527.67 
19753.80 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 134 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
Aug-23 
 
126.85 
107.30 
117.70 
126.75 
107.20
 
117.75
 
64831.41 
19253.80 
Sept-23 
125.75 
112.25 
116.40 
125.70 
112.25 
116.50
65828.41 
19638.30 
Oct-23 
143.00 
109.65 
135.70 
143.40
109.60
135.95 
63874.93 
19079.60 
Nov-23 
146.40 
135.05 
136.45 
146.40
135.10
136.50
66988.44 
20133.15 
Dec-23 
162.00 
135.30 
153.15 
162.20 
135.10
153.20
72240.26 
21731.40 
Jan-24 
226.75 
150.60 
220.75 
226.90
150.30
220.95 
71752.11 
21725.70 
Feb-24 
264.65 
190.00 
205.70 
264.95
195.00 
205.85 
72500.30 
21982.80 
Mar-24 
225.40 
163.55 
199.80 
225.50
161.70 
199.95 
73651.35 
22326.90 
* Source: www.bseindia.com / www.nseindia.com 
g) Liquidity 
 
The shares of the Company are in compulsory dematerialized segment and available for trading 
under systems of both Depositories i.e., National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The correspondence details of the 
depositories are as follows: 
 
Particulars
CDSL
NSDL
Address 
Trade World, A Wing, 4th 
Floor, 
Kamala Mills Compound, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 
013 
Marathon Futurex, A-Wing, 25th 
Floor, NM Joshi 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013 
Website  
https://nsdl.co.in/  
www.cdslindia.com 
 
h) Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report and Dematerialization of shares and 
liquidity 
For every quarter of the financial year 2022-23, Practicing Company Secretaries,  had issued 
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report, after carrying out audits to reconcile the total 
admitted, issued and listed share capital of the Company with NSDL and CDSL, which were 
submitted by the Company to the Stock Exchanges within the stipulated time.  
The details of number of shares held in dematerialized & physical form and email 
registered/not registered as on March 31, 2024 were as under: 
 
Particulars  
 No. of Equity Shares 
capital 
% to 
Share 
Capital
Demat in CDSL 
122390758 
29.49
Demat in NSDL 
Demat form in NSDL 
 ( Unlisted Preference Share) 
162478605 
130000000 
39.15%  
31.33% 
Physical 
130637 
0.03% 
Total 
415000000 
100 
 
 
i) Name & Annual Listing Fee to Stock Exchanges 
The Company has paid the Annual Listing Fee for the financial year 2023-24 to the both stock 
exchanges where the equity shares are listed i.e National Stock Exchange of India Limited and 
BSE Limited having address as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 135 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
BSE Limited,  
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street 
Mumbai: 400 001 
Script Code: 543242              
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
"Exchange Plaza", Plot No. C/1,G Block, Bandra 
Complex, Bandra (E),Mumbai -40005 
Symbol: HEMIPROP 
 
j. Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date 
and likely impact on equity: NIL 
 
 
k) Annual Custodial Fee to Depositories 
The Company has paid the Annual Custodial Fee for the financial year 2023-24 to National 
Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
 
l) Corporate Identification Number (CIN) 
The CIN of the Company is L70101DL2005GOI132162 . 
 
m) Address for Correspondence 
The addresses and contact details for correspondence with the Company are: 
 
*Registered Office 
 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan , 
Maulana Azad Road New Delhi 110001, India 
Tel: +91-11-23061325 
 
*Registrar & Share Transfer Agent 
 
Link Intime India Private Limited 
Address: C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, 
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, 
Vikhroli \(West),Mumbai – 400083 
 
Tel no: 91 22 6656 8484  , 
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
 
 
 
n) Corporate Website 
The corporate website of the Company is www.hpil.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   D Thara 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Chairperson & Managing Director) 
 
Place : New Delhi 
Date: 13.08.2024 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE A 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 136 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE 
(Under Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of SEBI(Listing Obligation & 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 ) 
A. We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 
31, 2024 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:  
(1) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact 
or contain statements that might be misleading;  
(2) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in 
compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.  
B. There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the 
Company during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of 
conduct.  
C. We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial 
reporting and that we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the 
company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors, deficiencies in 
the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we 
have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.  
D. We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee  
(1) Significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;  
(2) Significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and  
(3) Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, 
if any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal 
control system over financial reporting. 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Sd/- 
sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 28.05.2024 
 
DThara 
Chairman, Managing Director 
 
Bhavesh Singla 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 137 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
 
 
To, 
The Members of   
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road New Delhi 110001. 
 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from 
the Directors of Hemisphere Properties India Limited having CIN L70101DL2005GOI132162 
and having registered office at Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana Azad Road New 
Delhi 110001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by the 
Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read 
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
In my/our opinion and to the best of my/our information and according to the verifications 
(including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as 
considered necessary and explanations furnished to me / us by the Company & its officers, I/We 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the 
Financial Year ending on 31st March, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority 
 
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability 
S. 
No
Name of the Directors 
DIN 
Date of 
Appointment in the 
Company 
Director of Active non-
compliant Company  
1 
Ms. D Thara 
01911714 
18-11-2019 
No 
 
2 
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das 
07730466 
14-06-2021 
No 
 
3 
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora 
09217881 
28-06-2021 
No 
 
4
Mr.Suvasish Das
09826037
 
 
15-12-2022
No
5 
Ms. Tanvi Garg 
05165139 
08-11-2023 
No 
6 
Dr. Sunita Chandra 
09415680 
29-11-2021 
No 
7 
Mr. Girish 
Raghavendrarao 
Kanakavidu 
09471091 
20-01-2022 
No 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 138 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted 
the affairs of the Company. 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: August 13, 2024 
For  Rahul Chaudhary& Associates 
 
 
    Sd/- 
Rahul Chaudhary 
ACS: 54713, CP: 20341 
UDIN: F012884F000979707 
Peer Review No.:2059/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 139 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Information in accordance with Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and forming part of the Board’s Report 
for the year ended 31st March 2024. 
 
(A) 
Conservation of energy 
(i)   The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy; - NIL 
(ii)  The steps taken by the company for utilizing alternate sources of energy; -NIL 
(iii) The capital investment on energy conservation equipment’s; -NIL 
 
(B)  Technology absorption- 
(i)    
The efforts made towards technology absorption : NIL 
(ii)  
The benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development 
 
or import substitution: NIL 
(iii)  
In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from  the 
beginning of the financial year) - N.A. 
(iv)  
the expenditure incurred on Research and Development : NIL 
 
(C) Foreign exchange earnings and Outgo 
 (Amount in INR) 
Particulars
As on 31.03.2024
As on 31.03.2023
Income 
Nil 
Nil 
Expenditure 
Nil 
Nil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   D Thara 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Chairperson & Managing Director) 
 
Place : New Delhi 
Date: August 13, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 140 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Certificate on Corporate Governance Compliance 
 
To, 
The Members of   
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
1. We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited for the year ended 31st March, 2024, as prescribed in Regulations 17 to 
27, 46 (2) (b) to (i) and para C and D of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter called as “SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015”) and 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises issued by 
Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Government of India.  
 
2.The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our examination has been limited to review of procedures and 
implementations thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said clause and guidelines. It is neither 
an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company. 
 
3. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to 
us and based on representations made by the Management, we certify that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, 46 
(2) (b) to (i) and para C and D of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance except: 
 
i. 
Half of the board of directors of the company was not independent including one-woman 
independent director as required under Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance with regard to 
Composition of the Board of Directors. 
 
ii. 
Regulation 25(10) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 the Company has not taken D&O 
insurance for the Independent Directors appointed on the Board of the Company. 
 
4. We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company. 
 
 
 
For  Rahul  Chaudhary & Associates 
 
Sd/- 
 
Rahul Chaudhary 
ACS: 54713, CP: 20341 
UDIN:  F012884F000979641 
Peer Review No.:2059/2022 
 
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: August 13, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 141 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON MARCH 31, 2024 
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014] 
 
To, 
 
The Members, 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi - 110001 
 
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL)(hereinafter 
called “the Company”), having its Registered Office at Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, Delhi - 110001. Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon. 
 
Based on our verification of the Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL)books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the Financial Year ended on, March 31, 2024, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:  
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, according to the provisions 
of: 
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;  
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;  
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;  
(iv)Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;  
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -  
a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  
c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 142 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period) 
e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable as the listed entity has not issued any non-convertible 
securities during the Review Period); 
f) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; 
g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit period); and 
h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit period);  
(vi) The other laws, as informed and certiﬁed by the management of the Company which are speciﬁcally 
applicable to the Company based on their sector/ industry. 
The compliance by the Company of applicable ﬁnancial laws, like direct and indirect tax laws, has not 
been reviewed in this audit since the same have been subject to review by the statutory auditor(s) and 
other designated professionals. 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:  
i. 
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).  
ii. 
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
iii. 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) issued by the 
Department of Public Enterprises vide their OM No. 18(8)/2005-GM dated 14th May, 2010. 
iv. 
Guidelines on Capital Restructuring of Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) as stipulated in 
the O.M.F No. 5/2/2016-Policy dated 27th May, 2016 issued by Department of Investment and 
Public Asset Management (DIPAM), Ministry of Finance, Government of India. 
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards etc. mentioned above subject to the following observations: 
1. Half of the board of directors of the company was not independent as required under 
Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance with regard to Composition of the Board of Directors. 
2. The company has not taken D&O insurance for the Independent Directors appointed on the 
Board of the Company as required under Regulation 25(10) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015. 
We further report that: 
1. During the period under review, half of the board of directors of the company was not independent as 
required under Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE Guidelines 
on Corporate Governance with regard to Composition of the Board of Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act. 
 
2. The Company has received notices from BSE and NSE imposing penalties for non-compliance with the 
requirements pertaining to the Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 for the quarters 
ended June, September, December 2023, and March 2024. 
 
3. The Company has replied to the stock exchanges that, Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) is a 
government company in terms of the provisions of Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013. The 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 143 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
power to appoint Directors (including Independent Director) on the Board of the company vests with 
the President of India. Accordingly, all Directors in HPIL are appointed by the Government of India 
through its Administrative Ministry, i.e., Ministry of Housing &Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and HPIL has no 
role to play regarding appointment of Directors including Independent Directors/Woman Director. 
The Company has, a number of times, requested MoHUA for appointment of requisite number of 
Independent Directors on the Board of HPIL to ensure compliance. The Company is following up on 
the matter for an early appointment of the vacant position of the Directors. The matter regarding 
levying of fine by the Stock Exchanges for non-compliance of composition of Board has been discussed 
regularly in the Board Meetings and the Board is also of the view that the Company has no role to play 
for appointment of Independent Directors, it is done by the Administrative Ministry. 
 
4. Further, the company is exploring the possibilities to undertake Directors and Officers insurance (‘D 
and O insurance’) for all their independent directors. 
Adequate notice(s) was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes 
on agenda were generally sent at least seven days, other than those held at shorter notice, in advance to 
all directors, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the 
agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
Decisions are taken with requisite majority and the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and 
recorded as part of the minutes.  
We further report that based on the review of the compliance mechanism established by the company 
and on the basis of Compliance certificate(s) issued by various departments and taken on record by the 
Board of Directors at their meetings, there are adequate systems and processes in the company 
commensurate with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. 
We further report that the district court of Gautam Budh Nagar Noida, UP has imposed a fine of Rs. 
12,000/- regarding violation of the requirements as mentioned under Section 11 of Legal & Metrology 
Act, 2009, which was paid in Court and the matter was disposed of by the Hon’ble Court. 
 
Place: Noida  
 
 
 
 
For, Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates 
Date: July 01, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Company Secretaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
    CS Naresh Kumar Sinha 
(Proprietor) 
                                     FCS: 1807; CP No.: 14984 
PR: 610/2019 
FRN: S2015UP440500 
UDIN: F001807F000645626 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure-A” 
and forms an integral part of this report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 144 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Annexure A 
To, 
The Members 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi - 110001 
 
Auditor’s responsibility 
 
Based on audit, our responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance with the 
applicable laws and maintenance of records by the Company. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the auditing standards CSAS 1 to CSAS 4 (“CSAS”) prescribed by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). These standards require that the auditor complies with 
statutory and regulatory requirements and plans and performs the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about compliance with applicable laws and maintenance of records. 
 
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and operating controls, 
there is an unavoidable risk that some misstatements or material non-compliances may not be 
detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the 
CSAS. Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter. 
1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial recor0ds based 
on our audit. 
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain 
reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The 
verification was done on a random test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial records and Books 
of Accounts of the company and for which we relied on the report of statutory auditor. 
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the 
compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc. 
5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited 
to the verification of procedures on random test basis. 
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the 
company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted 
the affairs of the Company. 
 
Place: Noida  
 
 
 
                For, Kumar Naresh  Sinha & Associates 
Date: July 01, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
                Company Secretaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
    CS Naresh Kumar Sinha 
 
(Proprietor) 
                                     FCS: 1807; CP No.: 14984 
PR: 610/2019 
FRN: S2015UP440500 
UDIN: F001807F000645626 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 145 
 
Corporate Governance 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
AOC-2 
Particulars of contracts / arrangements made with related party 
Disclosure of particulars of contracts/ arrangements entered into by the company with related 
parties referred to in sub 
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act,2013 
  
1. Details of contracts / arrangements or transactions entered in the ordinary course of business 
but not at arm’s length basis for the Financial year 2023-24 : Nil 
  
2. Details of contracts / arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis for the FY 2023-24 
Name of Related 
Party and Nature
of Contract
Relationship
Duration 
of 
Contract 
Salient Features
Amount
(₹ in lakh) 
CPWD 
Government 
owned entity 
Not Applicable 
Services
271.09 
NBCC 
Government 
Company 
Not Applicable 
Services
8.00 
  
  
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 13.08.2024 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairman, Managing Director 
(DIN: 01911714) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 145 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024 
(₹ in Lakh)
Particulars 
 
Note 
No. 
  
As at 
31st March 
2024
 
As at  
31st March 2023 
I. 
ASSETS 
1
Non-current assets 
(a) 
Property, plant and equipment 
4 
2.40
3.12
(b) Investment Property 
5 
66470.76
66228.52
(c)
Goodwill  
6 
28194.15
28194.15
(d)
Deferred Tax Assets (Net) 
7 
1067.87
822.73
(e)
 Other Non Current Investment 
8 
10728.73
0.00
106463.92
95248.52
2
Current assets 
(a) 
 Financial Assets 
(i) Trade Receviable 
9 
3.00
17.81
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents 
 
10 
2.55
4.99
(iii) Bank Balances other than (ii) above 
 
11 
0.00
11935.30
(iv) Other financial assets 
 
12 
26.89
119.92
(b) Current Tax Assets (Net) 
 
13 
80.80
83.66
(c) 
Other Current Assets  
14 
250.27
233.05
363.51
12394.74
Total Assets
106827.43
107643.26
II.
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
1 
Equity 
(a) 
Equity Share Capital 
15 
28500.00
28500.00
(b) Other Equity 
16 
7105.29
8087.15
35605.29
36587.15
2 
Liabilities 
(i)
Non-current liabilities 
(a)
Financial Liabilities 
     (i) Borrowings 
17 
5629.57
5899.02
5629.57
5899.02
(ii)
Current liabilities 
(a) 
Financial Liabilities 
     (i) Borrowings 
18 
600.00
600.00
     (ii) Trade Payables 
19 
95.33
53.30
     (iii) Provisions 
20 
9.11
6.30
 
pg. 146 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
     (iv) Other financial liabilities 
21 
64873.42
64489.40
(b) Other current liabilities  
22 
14.71
8.09
65592.57
65157.10
Total Equity and Liabilities
106827.43
107643.26
III.
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
As per our Report of even date attached 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/- 
Aman Arora 
D Thara 
Suvasish Das 
Partner 
Chairperson & 
Managing Director 
Director 
M.No. 550485 
DIN: 01911714 
DIN: 09826037 
UDIN:24550485BKIPJN4067 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
Bhavesh Singla 
Lubna 
Place : New Delhi 
Chief Financial 
Officer 
Company 
Secretary 
Date : 28.05.2024 
M.No. 551844 
M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
 
pg. 147 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2024 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
(₹ in Lakh)
  
Particulars 
 
 
Note 
No. 
  
As at 
31st March 
2024
 
As at 
31st March 2023
I 
Revenue from Operations 
 
23 
  
52.28
  
200.20
II 
Other Income 
 
 
24 
  
744.50
  
652.64
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
III 
Total Income (I+II) 
796.78
852.84
  
IV 
Expenses 
  
Employee Benefits Expenses  
25 
42.09
34.48
  
Finance costs 
26 
644.04
668.50
  
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
27 
1.73
1.92
  
Other Expenses 
28 
1335.92
948.95
  
  
Total Expenses (IV).  
2023.78
1653.85
  
V 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax (III - IV) 
-1227.00
-801.01
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
VI 
Tax Expense: 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
(1) Current tax 
 
 
  
  
                            
-    
  
                               
-    
(2) Deferred Tax (Net) 
-245.15
-153.70
Total Tax Expense (VIII) 
-245.15
-153.70
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
VII 
Profit/(Loss) for the period from continuing 
operations (VII - VIII) 
  
-981.85
  
-647.31
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
VIII
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
A. (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 
  
  
  
  
Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans 
                            
-    
  
                               
-    
  
Income tax effect on above 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
B. (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss 
  
  
  
  
  
    (ii) Income Tax relating to Items that will be 
         reclassified to profit and loss 
  
                            
-    
  
                               
-    
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
                              
                               
 
pg. 148 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
-    
-    
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
IX 
Total Comprehensive Income for the period (VII 
+VIII) comprising Profit/(Loss) and other 
comprehensive income for the period) 
  
-981.85
  
-647.31
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
X 
Earnings Per Equity Share 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
(1) Basic 
 
 
 
  
  
                         
(0.34) 
  
                              
(0.23) 
  
(2) Diluted 
 
 
  
  
                         
(0.34) 
  
                              
(0.23) 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
As per our Report of even date attached 
  
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
  
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
  
Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
  
  
Chartered Accountants 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Sd/- 
 
 
 
  
 Sd/- 
  
  
  Sd/- 
  
Aman Arora 
 
 
 
  
D Thara 
  
  
Suvasish Das 
  
Partner 
 
 
 
  
Chairperson & Managing 
Director 
Director 
  
M.No. 550485 
 
 
  
DIN: 01911714 
  
DIN: 09826037 
  
UDIN:24550485BKIPJN4067 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Sd/- 
  
  
  Sd/- 
  
  
 
 
 
  
Bhavesh Singla 
  
Lubna 
  
Place : New Delhi 
 
 
  
Chief Financial Officer 
  
Company 
Secretary 
  
Date : 28.05.2024 
 
 
  
M.No. 551844 
  
M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
 
pg. 149 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2024 
  
  
  
  
 
 
(₹ in Lakh)
Particulars 
  
As at  
31st March 2024
 
 
As at  
31st March 2023
A.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING 
ACTIVITIES 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Net Profit/ (Loss) before tax as per Profit & Loss 
Account 
  
-1227.00
 
 
-801.01
  
Adjusted for:- 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Add: Non Cash Debits 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Interest Expenses on Compound financial 
instruments 
  
230.55
 
 
208.91
  
Depreciation 
  
1.73
 
 
1.92
  
Provision for Doubtful Debts 
  
49.65
 
 
0.00
  
Dividend on Preference Shares 
  
3.90
 
 
0.00
  
Interest Income 
  
-744.50
 
 
-652.64
  
Interest and Finance Charges - Other than 
Dividend 
  
640.14
 
 
668.50
  
  
  
-1045.54
 
 
-574.31
  
Movement in working capital 
  
  
 
 
  
  
(Increase) /Decrease in Trade Receviables 
  
14.82
 
 
-17.81
  
(Increase) /Decrease in other financial assets 
  
                           
-    
 
 
-46.98
  
(Increase) /Decrease in other current assets 
  
-66.87
 
 
-19.01
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in other financial liabilities 
  
380.53
 
 
-1545.72
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in other current liabilities 
  
6.62
 
 
0.68
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Trade Payables 
  
42.03
 
 
-42.84
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Provisions 
  
2.81
 
 
2.22
  
  
  
379.94
 
 
-1669.48
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
Cash generated from/(used) in operations 
  
-665.60
 
 
-2243.80
  
Taxes Paid/ (Refund) 
  
2.86
 
 
-52.08
  
Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities 
  
-662.75
 
 
-2295.87
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
B.
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING 
ACTIVITIES 
  
  
 
 
  
  
(Increase)/Decrease in Property Plant and 
Equipment 
  
-1.02
 
 
-1.53
  
(Increase)/Decrease in Non Current Investment 
  
-10728.73
 
 
                           -  
  
(Increase)/Decrease in Investment Property 
  
-242.24
 
 
-66.98
  
Interest Income 
  
837.53
 
 
652.64
  
Net Cash Flow from/ (used in) Investing 
Activities 
  
-10134.46
 
 
584.13
 
pg. 150 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
C.
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING 
ACTIVITIES 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Issue of Preference Shares 
  
0.00
 
 
0.00
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Non-Current Borrowings 
  
-500.00
 
 
-500.00
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Current Borrowings 
  
0.00
 
 
-11.49
  
Interest and Finance Charge 
  
-640.55
 
 
-668.50
  
Net Cash from/ (used in) Financing Activities 
  
-1140.55
 
 
-1179.99
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
Net Increase / (Decrease) in Cash and Cash 
Equivalents 
  
-11937.75
 
 
-2891.73
  
Opening Balance of Cash & Cash Equivalents 
  
11940.29
 
 
14832.02
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
Closing Balance of Cash & Cash Equivalents 
  
2.55
 
 
11940.29
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
As per our Report of even date attached 
  
  
 
 
  
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
Sd/ 
  
 
 
 Sd/ 
   
Sd/ 
  
DThara
  
 
 
Suvasish Das 
Aman Arora 
Chairperson & Managing 
Director 
 
Director 
Partner 
DIN: 01911714 
 
 
DIN: 09826037 
M.No. 550485 
  
  
 
 
  
UDIN:24550485BKIPJN4067 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 Sd/ 
  
 
 
 Sd/ 
  
  
Bhavesh Singla 
 
 
Lubna 
Place : New Delhi 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
Company 
Secretary 
Date : 28.05.2024 
M.No. 551844 
 
 
M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
 
pg. 151 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Statement for Change in Equity for the year ended March 31,2024 
A. Equity Share Capital 
(₹ in Lakh)
    (I) Current Reporting Period: 
Balance at the beginning 
of the current reporting 
period 
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior period 
errors 
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting  
period 
Changes in 
equity  
share capital 
during  
the current year 
Balance at the 
end of  
the current 
reporting  
period 
28500.00
                                               -                                                      -                              -   
28500.00
   (II) Previous Reporting Period: 
Balance at the beginning 
of the current reporting 
period 
Changes in Equity Share 
Capital due to prior period 
errors 
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the current 
reporting  
period 
Changes in 
equity  
share capital 
during  
the current year 
Balance at the 
end of  
the current 
reporting  
period 
28500.00
                                               -                                                      -                              -   
28500.00
 
pg. 152 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
STATEMENT FOR CHANGE IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31,2024 
B. Other Equity 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
(1) Current Reporting Period 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment 
Equity 
component 
of 
compound 
financial 
instruments
Reserves and Surplus 
  
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total 
Capital 
Reserve 
Securities 
Premium
Other 
Reserves 
(specify 
nature) 
Retained 
Earnings 
Debt 
instruments 
through 
Other 
Comprehen
sive Income
Equity 
Instruments 
through 
Other 
Comprehen
sive Income
Effective 
portion of 
Cash 
Flow 
Hedges 
Revaluation 
Surplus 
Exchange 
differences 
on 
translating 
the 
financial 
statements 
of a 
foreign 
operation 
Other 
items of 
Other 
Compreh
ensive 
Income 
(specify 
nature) 
Balance as at April 1, 
2023 
                -   
11057.75
          -   
            -             -   
-2970.60
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
8087.15
Changes in accounting 
policy or prior period 
errors 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
                
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
             -   
Restated balance at the 
beginning of the 
current reporting 
period 
                -   
11057.75
          -   
            -             -   
-2970.60
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
8087.15
Profit/(Loss) for the 
year ended March 31, 
2024 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
-981.85
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
-981.85
Total 
Comprehensive 
Income for the  year 
ended March 31, 
2024 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
-981.85
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
-981.85
Dividends 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
               
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
             
-    
             -   
Transfer to retained 
earnings 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
                
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
              
-    
             -   
Any other change (to 
be specified) 
                -   
                -   
          -   
            -             -   
               
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
             
-    
             -   
Balance as at March 
31, 2024 
                -   
11057.75
          -   
            -             -   
-3952.45
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -   
             -   
          -    
             
-    
7105.29
 
pg. 153 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
(2) Previous Reporting Period 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment 
Equity 
component 
of 
compound 
financial 
instruments 
Reserves and Surplus 
  
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants 
Total 
Capital 
Reserve 
Securities 
Premium 
Other 
Reserves 
(specify 
nature) 
Retained 
Earnings
Debt 
instruments 
through 
Other 
Comprehen
sive Income
Equity 
Instruments 
through 
Other 
Comprehen
sive Income
Effective 
portion of 
Cash 
Flow 
Hedges 
Revaluation 
Surplus 
Exchange 
differences 
on 
translating 
the 
financial 
statements 
of a foreign 
operation 
Other 
items of 
Other 
Compreh
ensive 
Income 
(specify 
nature) 
Balance as at 
April 1, 2022 
                -   
11056.57
          -   
            -   
          -    
-2323.29
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
8733.27
Changes in 
accounting policy 
or prior period 
errors 
                -   
                -    
          -   
            -   
          -    
                
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -                -    
Restated balance 
at the beginning 
of the current 
reporting period 
                -   
11056.57
          -   
            -   
          -    
-2323.29
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
8733.27
Profit/(Loss) for 
the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
                -   
                -    
          -   
            -   
          -    
-647.31
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
-647.31
Total 
Comprehensive 
Income for the  
year ended 
March 31, 2023 
                -   
                -    
          -   
            -   
          -    
-647.31
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
-647.31
Dividends 
                -   
                -    
          -   
            -   
          -    
               
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -                -    
Transfer to 
retained earnings 
                -   
                -    
          -   
            -   
          -    
                
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -                -    
Equity 
Component of 
Compound 
Financial 
Instrument 
                -   
1.18
          -   
            -   
          -    
                
-    
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
1.18
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023 
                -   
11057.75
          -   
            -   
          -    
-2970.60
                -   
               -   
          -    
               -    
             -    
          -    
              -   
8087.15
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
pg. 154 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
As per our Report of even date attached 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
  
  
  
  
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
  
  
  
  
Chartered Accountants 
  
  
  
  
  
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
  
  
  
  
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Sd/ 
  
  
  
  Sd/ 
  
  
  
 Sd/ 
  
  
  
  
  
  
D Thara 
  
  
  
Suvasish Das 
  
  
Aman Arora 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Chairperson & Managing Director 
  
Director 
  
  
  
Partner 
  
  
  
  
  
  
DIN: 01911714 
  
  
DIN: 09826037 
  
  
M.No. 550485 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
UDIN:24550485BKIPJN4067
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Sd/ 
  
  
  
  Sd/ 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Bhavesh Singla 
  
  
Lubna 
  
  
  
Place : New Delhi 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Chief Financial Officer 
  
  
Company Secretary 
  
  
Date : 28.05.2024 
  
  
  
  
  
  
M.No. 551844 
  
  
M.No. A53597 
  
  
 
pg. 155 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
 
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of Balance Sheet 
1. Corporate Information 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (the Company) is a public Limited Company 
incorporated in Indiaon January 17, 2005 and has become Government Company from 
March 18, 2014. The incorporation of the company was pursuant to clause 7.10 of SPA 
executed on February 06, 2002 and 4.7 of SHA executed on February 13, 2002 between 
Government of India and PanatoneFinvest Limited & other Tata Group of Companies 
wherein the surplus land identified at the time of disinvestment of Videsh Sanchar Nigam 
Limited (VSNL) was to be demerged in to the company pursuant to a scheme of 
amalgamation in terms of the provisions of Sec 391 to 394 of the companies act. On 5 
March 2018, the Tata Communications Limited (TCL) filed with the National Company Law 
Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (‘NCLT’), a scheme of arrangement and reconstruction among the 
TCL and the company and their respective shareholders and creditors for demerger of 
surplus land (“Scheme”). By order of the NCLT, a meeting of the shareholders of the TCL 
was held on 10 May 2018, at which the shareholders approved the Scheme. On 12 July 2018, 
the NCLT approved the Scheme. HPIL, being a ‘government company’, as defined under 
Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013, had filed its petition seeking sanction to the 
Scheme, before the Central Government through the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, New 
Delhi (“MCA”). The MCA has approved the Scheme through its order dated 5 August 2019 
and HPIL has filed the order with the Registrar of Companies, New Delhi. Consequent to 
the receipt of the approvals of the NCLT and the MCA, to the Scheme, the Board of 
Directors of the TCL fixed 18 September 2019 as the “Record Date” for the Scheme, for 
determining the shareholders of the TCL who shall be eligible to receive the equity shares of 
HPIL. The Board of Directors of HPIL, at its meeting held on 18 February 2020, approved 
the allotment of HPIL’s shares to the shareholders of TCL on the Record Date in the ratio 
of 1 share of HPIL for every share of the TCL. 
 
2. Basis of Preparation 
 
2.1 
Statement of Compliance 
The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015 notified under Section 133 of Companies Act, 2013, (the ‘Act’) and other relevant 
provisions of the Act. 
 
The financial statements up to and for the year ended 31 March 2019 were prepared in 
accordance with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006, notified under Section 
 
pg. 156 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
133 of the Act and other relevant provisions of the Act. From FY 2019-20 onwards, the 
financial statements are prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS). 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Functional and Presentation Currency 
These financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR), which is also the 
Company’s functional as well as presentation currency. Unless otherwise specified, all 
monetary values are in Lakhs of INR. 
 
2.3 
Basis of Measurement 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. 
 
2.4 
Use of Estimates and Judgements 
In preparing these financial statements, management has made judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. 
 
3. Significant accounting policies 
 
3.1 
Property, plant and equipment 
3.1.1 
Recognition and measurement 
Items of property, plant and equipment, are measured at cost (which includes capitalised 
borrowing costs, if any) less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. 
Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment includes its purchase price, duties, taxes, 
after deducting trade discounts and rebates, any directly attributable cost of bringing the 
item to its working condition for its intended use and estimated costs of dismantling and 
removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located 
The cost of a self-constructed item of property, plant and equipment comprises the cost of 
materials, direct labour and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the item to its 
intended working condition and estimated costs of dismantling, removing and restoring the 
site on which it is located, wherever applicable. 
 
pg. 157 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, 
then they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and 
equipment. 
The title deed of the surplus land, except the land parcel at Chennai, is not executed in the name 
of Hemisphere Properties India Limited as on March 31, 2024 and the value of land has 
been shown at the value shown in the books of Tata Communications Limited as per order 
of demerger passed by Ministry of Corporate Affairs. 
 
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in 
profit or loss. 
 
3.1.2 
Subsequent expenditure 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic 
benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company 
 
3.1.3 
Depreciation 
Depreciation is calculated on cost of items of property, plant and equipment less their 
estimated residual value using straight line method over the useful lives of assets estimated 
by the Company based on an internal technical evaluation performed by the management 
and is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Assets acquired under finance lease 
are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is 
reasonably certain that the Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. 
Depreciation for assets purchased / sold during the period is proportionately charged. 
 
3.1.4 
Reclassification to investment property 
When the use of a property changes from owner-occupied to investment property, the 
property is reclassified as investment property at its carrying amount on the date of 
classification. 
 
3.1.5 
Capital work in progress 
Projects under which assets are not ready for their intended use and other capital work-in-
progress are carried at cost, comprising direct cost, related incidental expenses and 
attributable interest. 
 
 
3.2 
Income Tax 
 
pg. 158 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit or loss except to 
the extent that it relates to a business combination or to an item recognised directly in 
equity or in other comprehensive income. 
 
3.2.1 
Current tax 
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss 
for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous 
years. The amount of current tax reflects the best estimate of the tax amount expected to 
be paid or received after considering the uncertainty, if any related to income taxes. It is 
measured using tax rates (and tax laws) enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting 
date. 
 
3.2.2 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the corresponding 
amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is also recognised in respect of carried 
forward tax losses and tax credits. 
 
 
3.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 
 
3.4 
Cash flow statement 
Cash flows are reported using indirect method, whereby net profits before tax is adjusted 
for the effects of transactions of a non-cash nature and any deferrals or accruals of past or 
future cash receipts or payments and items of income or expenses associated with 
investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from regular revenue generating 
(operating activities), investing and financing activities of the Company are segregated. 
 
3.5 
Earnings per share 
Basic Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) is computed by dividing the net profit attributable to the 
equity shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during 
the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit by the 
weighted average number of equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per 
share and also the weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued 
upon conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive potential equity shares are 
deemed converted as of the beginning of the year, unless issued at a later date. In 
computing diluted earnings per share, only potential equity shares that are dilutive and 
that either reduces earnings per share or increases loss per share are included. The 
 
pg. 159 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
number of shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all 
periods presented for the share splits. 
 
3.6 
Provisions and contingent liabilities 
3.6.1 
General 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or 
constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the Company expects some 
or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the expense relating to a provision is presented in 
the statement of profit and loss net of any reimbursement. 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a 
current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised 
as a finance cost. 
 
3.6.2 
Contingent liabilities 
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where there is a possible obligation or a 
present obligation that may probably not require an outflow of resources. When there is a 
possible or a present obligation where the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, 
no provision or disclosure is made. 
 
 
3.6.3 
Onerous Contracts 
Provision for onerous contracts i.e. contracts where the expected unavoidable cost of 
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be 
received under it, are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle a present obligation as a result of 
an obligating event based on a reliable estimate of such obligation. 
 
3.7 
Borrowing Costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of those property, 
plant and equipment which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use are capitalised. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in 
which they incur in the statement of profit and loss. 
 
3.8 
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue from renting/access of land is recognised, when the right to use of the asset 
have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the 
associated costs, if any, with regard to the use of the asset, can be estimated reliably and 
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.  
 
pg. 160 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
3.9 
Financial instruments – initial recognition, subsequent measurement and 
impairment 
 
3.9.1 
Financial Assets 
Financial Assets are measured at amortised cost or fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income or fair value through Profit or Loss, depending on its business 
model for managing those financial assets and liabilities and the assets and liabilities 
contractual cash flow characteristics. 
Subsequent measurements of financial assets are dependent on initial categorisation. For 
impairment purposes significant financial assets are tested on an individual basis, other 
financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk 
characteristics. 
 
 
3.9.1.1 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. 
 
Impairment is made on the expected credit losses, which are the present value of the cash 
shortfalls over the expected life of financial assets. The estimated impairment losses are 
recognised in a separate provision for impairment and the impairment losses are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other expenses. 
 
Subsequent changes in assessment of impairment are recognised in provision for 
impairment and the change in impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss within other expenses. 
For foreign currency trade receivable, impairment is assessed after reinstatement at 
closing rates. 
 
Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off by reducing the 
carrying amount of trade receivable and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss within other expenses. 
 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to other Income. 
 
3.9.1.2 
Investment in equity shares 
Investment in equity securities are initially measured at fair value and are recognised 
through Profit and Loss account. 
 
 
pg. 161 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
3.9.2 
Financial Liabilities 
At initial recognition, all financial liabilities other than fair valued through profit and loss 
are recognised initially at fair value less transaction costs that are attributable to the issue 
of financial liability. Transaction costs of financial liability carried at fair value through 
profit or loss is expensed in profit or loss. However, borrowings, which is likely to be 
assigned or negotiated are initially measured at fair value through profit and loss account. 
Other borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fee or costs that are an integral part of the Effective rate of interest (EIR). 
The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
 
3.9.2.1 Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not due 
within 12 months after the reporting period. They are recognised initially at their fair 
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
 
3.9.2.2 Redeemable preference shares 
The redeemable preference shares issued by the Company is a compound financial 
instrument and is classified separately as financial liability and equity in accordance with 
the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of a financial liability 
and an equity instrument. At the date of issue, fair value of the liability component is 
estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of a similar non-compound instrument. 
This amount is recognised as liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective 
interest rate method until extinguished at the instrument’s maturity date. The difference 
between the fair value of the liability component at the date of issue and the issue price is 
recognised as the other equity. 
 
 
 
3.10 
Impairment 
 
3.10.1 Financial Assets 
The Company recognises loss allowances using the expected credit loss (ECL) model for 
the financial assets which are not fair valued through Statement of Profit and Loss. Loss 
allowance for trade receivables with no significant financing component is measured at an 
amount equal to lifetime ECL. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case those are measured at lifetime 
ECL. The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) that is required to adjust the loss 
allowance at the reporting date to the amount that is required to be recognised is 
recognised as an impairment gain or loss in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
 
pg. 162 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
3.10.2 Non-Financial Assets 
An asset is considered as impaired when at the date of Balance Sheet there are indications 
of impairment and the carrying amount of the asset, or where applicable the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher 
of the net asset selling price and value in use).The carrying amount is reduced to the 
recoverable amount and the reduction is recognized as an impairment loss in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. The impairment loss recognized in the prior accounting 
period is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate of recoverable amount. Post 
impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying value of the impaired asset 
over its remaining useful life. 
 
3.11 
In accordance with Ind AS 36, an entity is required to test intangible assets with indefinite 
useful life for impairment. Goodwill arises from business combinations and is generally 
determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair 
value of any non-controlling interests in the acquire, over the fair value of the net assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible assets 
acquired in purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful 
life are not amortized, but tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if 
events and circumstances exists that indicate that a goodwill impairment test should be 
performed. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized over their estimated 
useful lives to their estimated residual values. Goodwill is the only intangible assets with 
an indefinite life on our balance sheet. 
 
 
 
pg. 163 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Notes forming part of financial statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
(₹ in Lakh) 
Note:4 Property, Plant and Equipment
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars
  
Gross carrying amount 
Accumulated Depreciation 
Carrying amount 
(net) 
Estimated 
Useful 
Life 
As at  
April 01,  
2023 
Additions
Disposals
As at  
March 
31, 2024
As at  
April 01, 
2023 
Additions
Disposals
As at  
March 31,  
2024 
As at  
March 
31, 2024
As at  
March 
31, 2023
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Computers 
3 years 
6.15
1.02
- 
7.17
3.03
1.73
-
4.76
2.40
3.12
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Total 
  
6.15
1.02
- 
7.17
3.03
1.73
-
4.76
2.40
3.12
 
 
pg. 164 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 5 : Investment Property 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Land 
66228.52
66228.52
Building - Construction Work in Progress 
242.24
0.00
66470.76
66228.52
Note 6 : Intangible Assets 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Goodwill on Demerger 
28194.15
28194.15
 
 
 
 
28194.15
28194.15
Note 7 : Deferred Tax Assets 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Deferred tax assets on carry forward losses and Depreciation 
1067.87
822.73
1067.87
822.73
Note 8 : Other Non Current 
assets 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Fixed Deposits with remaining maturity of more than twelve months  
10728.73
-
10728.73
0.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 165 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Note 9 : Trade Receivables 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
a) Trade receivables outstanding for a period exceeding six months 
from the date they were due for payment 
Unsecured, considered good 
3.00
17.81
 
 
 
 
b) Other Trade receivables 
 
 
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
 
 
                 
-    
               
-    
Total Trade Receivables 
 
 
 
3.00
17.81
Note 9a :Trade Receivables ageing schedule 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As at 31st March 24 
Particulars 
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 years 
More 
than 3 
years 
 Total  
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good 
3.00 
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
3.00 
(ii) Undisputed Trade receivables- 
which have significant increase in 
Credit risk 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(iii) Undisputed Trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables 
considered good 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(v) Disputed Trade receivables- 
which have significant increase in 
Credit risk 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(vi) Disputed Trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
Total 
3.00 
              -   
        
-    
            
-    
        
-    
3.00 
As at 31st March 23 
 
pg. 166 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Particulars 
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 years 
More 
than 3 
years 
 Total  
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good 
17.81 
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
17.81 
(ii) Undisputed Trade receivables- 
which have significant increase in 
Credit risk 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(iii) Undisputed Trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables 
considered good 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(v) Disputed Trade receivables- 
which have significant increase in 
Credit risk 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
(vi) Disputed Trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
         
-    
              -   
        
-    
         
-    
        
-    
            -   
Total 
17.81 
              -   
        
-    
            
-    
        
-    
17.81 
Note 10 : Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Particulars 
As at 
March 
31, 2024
 
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Cash-in-hand 
                 
-    
               
-    
Balances with banks 
2.55
4.99
2.55
4.99
 
 
 
 
pg. 167 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 11 : Other Bank Balances 
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed Deposits with remaining maturity of less than twelve months and 
other than considered in cash and cash equivalents 
0.00
 
11935.30
 
 
  
  
  
0.00
 
11935.30
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Note 12 : Other Financial Assets 
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Accrued interest on Deposits 
  
  
26.89
 
119.92
  
  
  
26.89
 
119.92
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Note 13 : Current Asset (Tax) 
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Tax Deducted at Source 
  
  
80.80
 
83.66
  
  
  
80.80
 
83.66
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
Note 14 : Other Current Assets 
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance to Vendors 
  
  
37.64
 
33.27
Security deposit 
  
  
31.21
 
                           -  
Balance with Statutory Authorities 
  
  
 
 
-GST Recoverable 
  
  
181.42
 
149.21
Other Receivables 
  
49.65
 
 
Less:- Provision for Doubtful Debts 
  
-49.65
                           -   
50.58
  
  
  
250.27
 
233.05
 
 
 
 
pg. 168 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 15 : Equity Share Capital 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Particulars 
As at March 31, 2024 
 
As at March 31, 2023 
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
 
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
a) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up share capital 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Authorised 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Equity shares of Rs.10 each 
  
  
          9,000,000,000 
900000.00
 
          9,000,000,000 
900000.00
Preference shares of Rs.10 each 
  
          1,000,000,000 
100000.00
 
          1,000,000,000 
100000.00
  
  
  
  
  
        10,000,000,000 
1000000.00
 
        10,000,000,000 
1000000.00
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Issued, Subcribed and Paid up 
  
  
  
 
  
  
Equity shares of Rs.10 each 
  
  
             285,000,000 
28500.00
 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
  
  
  
  
  
             285,000,000 
28500.00
 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
b) Reconciliation of the number of equity shares outstanding 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Shares outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
Issued during the year 
  
  
                              -                              -    
                              -                                           -   
Decrease during the year 
  
  
                              -                              -    
                              -                                           -   
Shares outstanding as at the end of the year 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
 
             285,000,000 
28500.00
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
pg. 169 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
c) Details of equity shares held in the Company by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares 
  
  
  
 
  
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2024 
 
As at March 31, 2023 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             145,696,885 
51.12%
 
             145,696,885 
51.12%
Panatone Finvest Limited 
  
  
               27,826,232 
9.76%
 
               27,927,340 
9.80%
TATA Sons Private Limited
  
  
               23,773,800 
8.34%
 
               23,773,800 
8.34%
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
               51,600,032 
69.23%
 
               51,701,140 
69.26%
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
d) Details of equity shares held  by Promoters in the Company  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2024 
 
As at March 31, 2023 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             145,696,885 
51.12%
 
             145,696,885 
51.12%
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
             145,696,885 
51.12%
 
             145,696,885 
51.12%
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
e) Reconciliation of the number of 0.01% cumulative redeemable preference shares outstanding (Compound Financial Instrument): 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
As at March 31, 2024 
 
As at March 31, 2023 
  
 
  
  
  
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
 
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
Shares outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year 
             130,000,000 
13000.00
 
             130,000,000 
13000.00
 
pg. 170 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Issued during the year 
  
  
                              -                              -    
                              -   
0.00
Decrease during the year 
  
  
                              -                              -    
                              -                                           -   
Shares outstanding as at the end of the year 
             130,000,000 
13000.00
 
             130,000,000 
13000.00
On May 17, 2021, the Company has issued non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 1,000 lakhs preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 10,000.00 lakhs  
for a tenure of 20 years to Government of India (i.e. Promoter) maintained with Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on private placement with 
dividend of 0.01% per annum.Further, on November 12, 2021, the Company issued non cumulative redeemable preference shares 300 lakhs 
preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 3,000.00 lakhs  to Government of India (i.e Promoter) on private placement with dividend of 0.01% per annum. In 
the event of liquidation, the Preference Shareholders will carry a preferential right over the holder of equity shares for payment of dividend and for 
payment of capital, in proportion to their shareholding. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
f) Details of Preference shares held in the Company by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2024 
 
As at March 31, 2023 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
 
No of Shares Held
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             130,000,000 
100.00%
 
             130,000,000 
100.00%
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
             130,000,000 
100.00%
 
             130,000,000 
100.00%
 
pg. 171 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 16 : Other Equity 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
 (i) Retained Earnings  
-3952.45
-2970.60
 (ii) Equity component of compound financial instruments 
11057.75
11057.75
7105.29
8087.15
(i) Retained Earnings 
Balance at beginning of the year 
-2970.60
-2323.29
 Less: Transfer to gain on modification 
Add: Profit/(Loss) for the year 
-981.85
-647.31
Balance at end of the year 
-3952.45
 
-2970.60
 (ii) Equity component of compound financial instruments  
Balance at beginning of the year 
11057.75
11056.57
Equity Component of compound financial instruments 
                              -  
1.18
Balance at end of the year 
11057.75
11057.75
 
 
 
pg. 172 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 17 : Financial Liabilities - Non - Current borrowings: 
  
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Unsecured-Loan from Government Of India 
  
  
3100.00
 
3600.00
Liability component of compound financial instruments 
2529.57
 
2299.02
  
  
  
  
  
5629.57
 
5899.02
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
A. Terms of Repayment of Unsecured Loan - Government of India 
 
 
 
S. No. 
  
Amount of Loan 
Availed 
Total Term Repayment 
 
Remaining 
Period
I 
  
4000.00
  
10 Years 
 
7 Years 
II 
  
1000.00
  
10 Years 
 
8 Years 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
B. Liability Component of Compound Financial Instruments 
  
 
 
 
On May 17, 2021, the Company has issued non cumulative redeemable preference shares 1,000 lakhs preference shares 
@10/- i.e. ₹ 10,000.00 lakhs  for a tenure of 20 years to Government of India (i.e. Promoter) maintained with Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs on private placement with dividend of 0.01% per annum. 
Further, on November 12, 2021, the Company issued issued non cumulative redeemable preference shares 300 lakhs 
preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 3,000.00 lakhs  to Government of India (i.e Promoter) on private placement with dividend 
of 0.01% per annum.  
During FY 2023-24, the board of directors has approved variation in rights of preference shareholders by converting 
Non – Cumulative preference shares into 0.01% Cumulative redeemable preference shares  and the approval of 
shareholders was received on 31.03.2024. Accordingly the fair value of cumulative financial instrument have been 
recognised and the preference shares are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The annual 
interest expense is calculated using the effective interest rate applied to the carrying amount of the preference shares. Any 
changes in the fair value are recognized in profit or loss unless they qualify for recognition of other comprehensive 
income. 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Note 18 : Financial Liabilities - Current Borrowings: 
  
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Maturities of Unsecured-Loan from Government Of India 
600.00
 
600.00
  
  
  
  
  
600.00
 
600.00
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
pg. 173 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Note 19 : Trade Payables 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and 
2.05
 
0.55
(B) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises. 
93.28
52.75
  
  
  
  
  
95.33
 
53.30
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
As at 31st March 24 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
  
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
  
Less than 1 
year 
1-2 years
2-3 
years 
More than 3 years
 Total  
(i)   MSME 
  
2.05
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
2.05
(ii)  Others 
  
93.28
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
93.28
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
  
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
0.00
(iv) Disputed dues - Others 
  
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
0.00
Total 
  
95.33
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
95.33
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
As at 31st March 23 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Particulars 
  
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
  
Less than 1 
year 
1-2 years
2-3 
years 
More than 3 years
 Total  
(i)   MSME 
  
0.55
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
0.55
(ii)  Others 
  
52.75
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
52.75
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
  
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
0.00
(iv) Disputed dues - Others 
  
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
0.00
Total 
  
53.30
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
53.30
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Note 20 : Provisions 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Expenses Payable 
9.11
 
6.30
  
  
  
  
  
9.11
 
6.30
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
pg. 174 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 21 : Other Financial Liabilities   
  
  
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Accrued Interest on loan from GOI but not yet due 
  
163.29
 
163.70
Security & Other Deposits 
  
  
  
  
3.87
 
 
-  
Property Tax Payable 
  
  
  
  
383.58
 
 
-  
Stamp Duty/Mutation Expenses Payable 
  
  
64009.68
 
64325.70
Development Fees Payable 
  
  
  
  
309.10
 
 
-  
Dividend Payable 
  
  
  
  
3.90
 
 
-  
  
  
  
  
  
64873.42
 
64489.40
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Note 22 : Other current liabilities 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Depositiory 
  
  
  
  
0.85
 
 
-  
Statutory Dues 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
-GST 
  
  
  
  
6.60
 
4.13
-TDS under GST 
Payable 
  
  
  
  
0.39
 
0.13
-TDS under Income Tax Payable 
  
  
  
6.86
 
3.83
  
  
  
  
  
14.71
 
8.09
 
 
 
 
pg. 175 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 23 : Revenue from Operations 
 
 
 
(₹ in Lakh)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Rental Income from Investment Property 
 
52.28
 
200.20
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
52.28
 
200.20
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 24 : Other Income: 
 
 
 
 
(₹ in Lakh)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Interest on refund of Income-tax  
 
 
3.35
 
1.26
Interest Income on Fixed Deposit 
 
 
741.15
 
651.38
  
 
 
 
 
744.50
 
652.64
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 25 : Employee Benefit Expenses: 
 
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Salaries and Wages 
 
 
 
42.09
 
34.28
Staff Welfare Expenses 
 
 
 
0.00
 
0.20
  
 
 
 
 
42.09
 
34.48
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 26 : Finance Cost: 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Interest on Loan from GOI 
409.59
459.59
Interest Expenses - Financial Instruments 
230.55
208.91
Dividend on Redeemable Preference Shares 
3.90
                                 -  
644.04
668.50
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 27 :  Depreciation and Ammortization Expenses: 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation 
 
 
 
 
1.73
 
1.92
  
 
 
 
 
1.73
 
1.92
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 176 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Note 28 : Other Expenses: 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Property Tax 
 
 
 
 
961.91
 
640.72
Security Charges 
 
 
 
151.52
 
147.29
Legal & Professional Charges 
 
 
86.95
 
76.85
Registrar and Transfer Agent Fees 
 
 
25.84
 
18.04
Advertisement Expenses 
 
 
1.19
 
14.97
Provision for Doubtful Debts 
 
49.65
 
                                 -  
Electricity Charges 
 
 
 
0.73
 
                                 -  
Depository Fees 
 
 
 
14.87
 
13.57
Stock Exchange Fee 
 
 
 
8.74
 
8.53
Travelling and Lodging Expenses 
 
 
6.89
 
8.35
Auditor's Remuneration 
 
 
 
 
 
- Statutory Audit fees 
 
 
 
1.50
 
1.25
- Other services 
 
 
 
1.15
 
0.95
- Secretarial Audit Fees 
 
 
 
0.35
 
0.35
- Internal Audit Fees 
 
 
 
2.29
 
2.00
AGM Expenses 
 
 
 
3.40
 
3.69
Stakeholder Meet Expenses 
 
 
3.05
 
                                 -  
Survey Expenses 
10.71
4.66
Director Sitting Fees 
 
 
 
2.50
 
3.30
Rates & Taxes 
0.12
1.32
Interest/Late Fees on delayed payment of Taxes 
 
0.03
 
0.77
Printing & Stationery 
 
 
 
0.90
 
0.75
Miscellaneous Expenses 
 
 
1.62
 
1.58
  
 
 
 
 
1335.92
 
948.95
 
 
29. 
The balances shown in financial statements against Trade Receivables, Trade Payables, Non- 
Current Borrowings,Current Borrowings, Other Financial Liabilities, Other Current Liabilities 
and Other Financial Assets are subject to confirmation, and reconciliation (if any) arising on such 
confirmation. 
 
30. 
(a) The Company had received funds of Rs. 130,00,00,000/- (Rupees One Hundred and Thirty 
Crores) from Government of India, in previous financial year(s) against which the Company 
allotted 13 crore Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares of 0.01% @ Rs. 10 each to the 
promoter i.e President of India, acting through Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on 
12.11.2021 after taking due approvals from Competent Authorities. 
 
Moreover, during the current FY 2023-24, the Competent Authority, had advised and approved 
the Variation in Terms of Preference Shares, by Converting the Non-Cumulative Preference 
 
pg. 177 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Shares into Cumulative Preference Shares of the Company. Such variation has been approved by 
the Board of Directors of the Company on 07th February 2024, as well as by theShareholders of 
the Company on 31.03.2024. 
 
The said financial instruments have been accounted for by the Company in accordance with 
IND AS 109. 
 
(b)Further, the terms of issue of the said Preference Shares regarding the redemption value at 
the end of 20 years is varied with the approval of Competent Authority. The Company may take 
necessary clarifications from the competent authorities on the Redemption value of such 
preference shares. The said financial instruments have been accounted by the Company, in the 
accompanying financial statements on the assumption of the Redemption at Par Value. 
 
(c)During the FY 2021-22 to FY 2023-34, the Company has not declared/ paid any dividend to 
the preference shareholders, since the Company had reported losses for the relevant period. 
However, the liability for dividend in respect of the previous two financial years, amounting to 
Rs. 2.60 lacs have been accounted for in the current financial year 2023-24, on account of the 
above approved Variation in terms of Preference Shares from Non-Cumulative to Cumulative. 
 
31. 
The Company during the year has procured Land Security and Maintenance Services from 
various CPWD across Delhi, Kolkata, Pune, Chattarpur and Chennai.  
 
 
 
The expenses in connection with Land Security and Maintenance and renovation of buildings are 
booked on provision basis by the company on the basis of Utilization certificates issued by the 
CPWD’s.  
 
The CPWD has informed the Company that, there is no mechanism under CPWD (a GOI 
undertaking) to raise any GST invoice and the Company shall book expense on the basis of Form 
65 and Utilization certificates issued by the CPWD’s  
 
Moreover, as confirmed by CPWD, the statutory compliance with respect to above said expenses 
is done by CPWD and there is nothing related to client regarding GST.  
 
 
 
32. 
Auditor's Remuneration  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(₹ in Lakhs) 
 
Particulars 
March 31,2024 
March 31,2023 
Statutory Audit fees  
1.50 
1.25 
Other Services 
1.15 
0.95 
 
33. 
Fair Value of Investment: 
 
 
pg. 178 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
As per Ind AS 40, land parcels were reclassified as Investment Property and valuation has been 
done on cost model. As per clause 3.2 of Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction, upon the 
scheme becoming effective, all the assets and liabilities pertaining to the surplus land stand 
transferred to and vested in the Transferee Company at their respective book values as appearing 
in the books of Transferor Company. Therefore, the value of the land has been taken as the book 
value of the land in the audited balance sheet of Tata Communications Limited for the FY 2019-
20 and onwards. The Company holds land parcels comprises of 739.69 acres at different 
locations i.e. Pune-524 acres, Halisahar (Kolkata)-35.19 acres, Chennai-53.04 acres, Chattarpur 
(Delhi)-58 acres, Greater Kailash (Delhi)-69.46 acres. 
 
As per Ind-AS 113, the fair value of Investment property has been conducted by the IBBI 
registered Valuer, during the current financial year 2023-24. 
 
The fair value of all the land parcels has been assessed at ₹10879.27 crores.Accordingly, the fair 
value disclosures of each investment property as per Ind-AS 113 are as follows: - 
 
S. No.
Land 
Fair Value  
(Rs. in Crores) May 
2022 
Fair Value 
(Rs. in Crores)as 
on March 2024 
Valuation 
Technique 
1 
Padianullar, Chennai 
417.16 
425.55 
Discounted Cash 
Flow Method 
2 
Halisahar, Kolkata 
90.25 
92.68 
Discounted Cash 
Flow Method 
3 
Dighi, Pune 
2263.99 
2329.30 
Land using 
Comparable 
Approach, 
Building using 
Depreciated 
Replacement 
Cost Approach 
4 
Greater Kailash, New Delhi
7101.94 
7300.93 
Discounted Cash 
Flow Method 
5 
Chattarpur, New Delhi 
728.63 
730.81 
Discounted Cash 
Flow Method 
Total 
10601.97 
10879.27 
 
 
34. 
Contingent Liabilities not provided for: 
a. Differential Liability towards Stamp Duty to be paid for the Conveyance of Title 
Deeds 
 
pg. 179 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
The Stamp duty of ₹ 65100.00 lakhs on transfer of title deed was calculated on the circle 
rates prevailing during financial year 2016-17. However, the Circles rates/stamp duty 
rates may vary at the time of actual payment of stamp duty from circle rates prevailing in 
financial year 2016-17 and amount of stamp duty/registration charges payable might 
differ from Rs 65100.00 lakhs. During FY 2020-21, the stamp duty amounting of ₹ 
65100.00 lakhs was treated as liability on the basis of budget approved by the Ministry of 
Housing and Affairs.  
Out of the above provision of Rs. 65,100 lacs, Stamp Duty of Rs. 774.30 lacs has been 
paid during the Previous financial year 2022-23, for the Conveyance Deed registration of 
the Chennai land Parcel. Further, Development Fees @ 1% of Rs 309.10 lacs has been 
booked payable for the Kolkatta Land Parcel, Halisahar Municipal Corporation and paid 
in May 2024. 
Any liability over and above the amount of Rs. 65100 lacs which may arise in future is 
contingent in nature. 
 
b. There are 28 cases of litigation, claims and disputes pertaining to the land parcels known 
as on 31.03.2024 which are pending under various forums. These litigations, claims and 
disputes, where earlier Tata Communications Limited was a party, subsequent to approval 
of the Scheme and transfer of land, have now been transferred and belong to Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited. The Company is in the process of contesting all such litigations, 
claims and disputes. The financial implications associated with all such litigations, if any, 
is undeterminable as of March 31, 2024. 
(Details as per Annexure I attached). 
 
c. Non Determination of Property tax/Urban Land Tax Liability for the Chennai 
Land Parcel 
 
The demand for Property tax has not been raised by the Revenue Authorities of Chennai, 
for the Land parcels of 53.04 acres in Chennai since the date of transfer of ownership to 
the Company till March 31, 2024. 
 
d. Difference Property Tax Liability for the Greater Kailash, New Delhi Land Parcel 
due to payment of Property tax on Self-Assessment Basis   
The Company is paying property tax on self-assessment basis, for the land parcels at 
Greater Kailash, New Delhi. In FY 2022-23,2021-22 and 2019-20, the Company has 
calculated property tax by using multiplication factor @0.5 and rate of tax @ 15% where 
as in FY 2020-21, multiplication factor @0.3 and rate of tax @15% was used to calculate 
the property tax. But, the additional property tax demand may be raised by Revenue 
Authority by using multiplication factor @0.3 for FY 2019-20 and 0.5 for FY 2020-21 
 
pg. 180 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
and rate of tax may be used @ 20% for FY 2019-20, 2020-21,2021-22 and 2022-23. In 
addition, there may be certain additional liabilities, which may arise for previous financial 
years as well, for the said Land Parcel. 
e. Penalty Imposed by NSE and BSE 
During the current financial year, the NSE and BSE have imposed penalties for Rs. 
198.51 Lakhs on the Company for Non-Compliance of appointment number of 
Independent Directors. The Company has made application to NSE and BSE for waiver 
of such penalties, since the appointment of Independent Directors is subject to the 
approval of Competent Authority. In view of the above, no provision for penalties have 
been made during the year. 
 
35. 
Disclosures for Goodwill accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 38 
 
Particulars 
As at  
31st March,  
2024 
(Rs. In lacs) 
As at  
31st March, 
2023 
(Rs. In lacs) 
Goodwill on demerger ** 
28,194.15 
28,194.15 
(Share Capital - Value of land - FDR covered in 
the definition of surplus land) 
 
 
Total 
28,194.15 
28,194.15 
As per clause 5.7 of the Scheme, 
“Upon the Scheme becoming effective, the Transferee Company shall account for the 
Scheme and its effects in its books of account with effect from the Appointed date as 
under: 
i. 
The Transferee Company shall record the assets and liabilities of the splitting up 
and reconstruction by way of transfer of Surplus land vested in it in accordance 
with this Scheme, as per the book values attributable to such assets and liabilities. 
 
ii. 
The shortfall, if any, on the difference of the aggregate value of the liabilities of the 
splitting up and reconstruction by way of transfer of Surplus land taken over 
pursuant to this Scheme as detailed in clause 3 shall be recorded as ‘goodwill’ in the 
books of Transferee Company.” 
Thus, in accordance with above extracts of Scheme of Demerger, Goodwill of Rs. 28194.15 
lacs were recorded in financial statements from FY 2019-20 and onwards till March 31, 
2024. 
 
pg. 181 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Accordingly, the said accounting in not in violation of Ind AS 103, since the transfer of 
Surplus Land doesn’t constitute a Business (as defined in Ind AS 103), and the applicability 
of Ind AS 103 is overridden by virtue of accounting of Goodwill in accordance with the 
Order of Demerger. 
36. 
Related Party Transactions/Disclosures, in line with Ind AS – 24: 
Subsidiary Company 
Joint Ventures 
Others 
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable 
Central 
Government 
controlled 
entities 
a. NBCC and  
b. CPWD 
 
 
Details of Related Parties: 
 
S.No
Chairman 
Cum 
Managing 
Director 
Director(s) 
Independent 
Director(s) 
Chief 
Financial 
Officer 
Company 
Secretary
1 
Mrs. D Thara 
Mr. Suvashis Das 
Mrs. Sunita 
Chandra 
Mr. 
Bhavesh 
Singla 
Ms. Lubna
2 
  
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das 
Mr. G R 
Kanakavidu 
  
  
3 
  
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora 
  
  
  
4 
  
Mr. Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal (Till 08.11.2023)
  
  
  
5 
  
Ms. Tanvi Garg 
(From 08.11.2023) 
  
  
  
The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of 
business. 
 
A. Managerial Remuneration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
₹ in lakhs 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Mr. Bhavesh Singla 
10.80 
8.40 
Ms. Lubna 
 
10.80 
8.40 
Total (Managerial Remuneration) 
21.60 
16.80 
 
B. Independent Director(s) 
 
 
₹ in lakhs
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Mrs. Sunita Chandra (Sitting fees) 
1.30 
1.70 
 
pg. 182 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Dr. G.R. Kanakavidu (Sitting fees) 
1.20 
1.60 
Total 
2.50 
3.30 
 
C. Details of Transactions with Govt. Controlled Entities 
₹ in lakhs
Services From 
March 31, 2024 
March 31, 2023 
CPWD 
271.09 
115.91 
NBCC 
8.00 
50.00 
D. Balances with Related Parties 
₹ in lakhs 
Particulars 
                     For the year ended 
March 31, 2024 
March 31, 2023 
Advance to CPWD 
37.64 
33.26 
Payable to CPWD 
39.02 
12.84 
NBCC 
3.60 
- 
 
37. 
Ratio Analysis as per Revised Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013 :- 
S. 
No.
Particulars
Numerator 
Denominator
For the 
year 
ended 
March 31, 
2024 
For the 
year 
ended 
March 
31, 2023
Variance
Reasons for 
variance over 
25% 
1 
Current 
Ratio 
Total Current 
Assets 
Total Current 
Liabilities 
0.55% 
19.02% 
-97.09% 
Due to 
reclassification 
of FD 
Investment from  
Current Asset to 
Non - Current 
Asset 
2 
Debt-
Equity 
Ratio 
Total Gross 
Debt 
Average 
Shareholder’s 
Equity 
2.00 
1.94 
3.00% 
Not required 
3 
Debt 
service 
Coverage 
Ratio 
Earning for 
Debt service ( 
Profit after 
tax + Finance 
Cost + 
Depreciation 
and 
amortization 
+ Other non 
Cash 
Expenditure)
Debt Service = 
(Interest + 
Principal 
Repayment) 
-0.46 
-0.10 
353.84%
Due to Increase 
in Loss due to 
incremental 
Property Tax 
amounting to Rs 
383.58 Lacs 
debited during 
the Year. 
 
 
4 
Return on 
Equity 
Profit after Tax
Average 
Shareholder’s 
-2.72% 
-1.75% 
55.10% 
 
pg. 183 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Equity 
5 
Inventory 
Turnover 
Ratio 
Total Revenue 
from 
Operations 
Average 
Inventory * 365
0.00 
0.00 
0.00% 
 
6 
Trade 
Receivable 
Turnover 
Ratio 
Total Revenue 
from 
Operations 
Average trade 
receivable 
5.02 
22.48 
 
-77.65% 
Due to decrease 
in Turnover in 
Comparison to 
Previous Year. 
 
7 
Trade 
Payable 
Turnover 
Ratio 
Net credit 
Purchase 
Average trade 
payable * 365 
17.97 
12.70 
 
41.55% 
8 
Net Capital 
Turnover 
Ratio 
Total Revenue 
from 
Operations 
Average 
Working Capital 
= "Current 
assets (-) 
Current 
Liabilities" 
-0.08% 
-0.38% 
-78.88% 
Due to decrease 
in Turnover since 
Previous Year. 
9 
Net Profit 
Ratio 
Profit after Tax
Total Revenue 
from 
Operations 
-1878.15% 
-323.33%
480.88% 
Due to Increase 
in Loss due to 
incremental 
Property Tax 
amounting to Rs 
383.58 Lacs 
debited during 
the Year. 
10 
Return on 
Capital 
Employed 
Earning before 
interest and 
taxes (Profit 
before taxes + 
Finance Cost )
Average Capital 
Employed = 
Total Equity + 
Borrowing 
-1.41% 
-0.31% 
352.29% 
11 
Return on 
Investment 
Income 
Generated 
from 
Investments 
Total 
Investments 
1.03% 
1.09% 
-5.41% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. During the current financial year, 2023-24, the Company has made a provision amounting to Rs. 
49.65 lakhs, in respect of Receivables from Tata Communication Limited (TCL) for their 
proportionate share of Property tax arrears paid for the period 2016 till the date of Demerger.  
 
HPIL has paid Property Tax Arrears (under MCD Samriddhi Scheme) for Chhatarpur Land 
Parcel, New Delhi, on the mutation of property under MCD records, in previous financial year 
2022-23, for Rs. 141.61 Lakhs for the period 2016 to 2023, out of which, the Company has 
recognized receivable of Rs. 49.65 Lakhs from TCL, being their proportionate share, as per the 
demerger order from 2016 till date of Demerger, being 05th August 2019. 
 
However, no recoveries have been made by the management of the Company in respect of this 
amount, and accordingly, a provision has been created in respect of this amount of Rs. 49.65 
lakhs since the recovery is not ascertainable. 
 
39. During the current financial year, 2023-24, the Company has Consolidated all its Short-Term 
Fixed Deposits, into a Single Flexi Deposit in excess of Rs. 100 crores, in order to Enhance the 
 
pg. 184 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Interest yields, which has been duly disclosed under Other Non-Current Assets in Note No. 8 to 
the Financial Statements. 
 
40. The title deeds of the immovable properties of Investment Property for 4 land parcels, are not 
held in the name of the Company as of March 31, 2024. Only the Conveyance Deed in respect 
of Chennai Land parcel is held in the name of the Company. 
 
The Company, as per the Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction dated 05.08.2019, got the 
transfer of the Surplus Land parcels from Tata Communications Limited. However, the title deeds is 
not executed in the name of the company. The details of the same are as under :- 
 
As Informed by the Company,  
*In respect of the Chattarpur Land Parcel, the Mutation of Land has been transferred from Sarkar Daulat 
Mardar to Hemisphere Properties India Limited under L&DO records and MCD records. However, the 
stamp duty on transfer is not yet paid due to non-clear terms for stamp duty payment. 
 
**In respect of the Pune land parcel, the Mutation of Land has been transferred under Gramin records. 
However, the mutation of name is yet to be transferred in the Municipal records. Further, the stamp duty 
on transfer is not yet paid. 
 
***In respect of the Kolkata land parcel, the Mutation of Land has been transferred under Halisahar 
Municipal Corporation records as per mutation certificate on 17.05.2024. Further, the stamp duty on 
transfer is not yet paid. 
 
Description 
of Property 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
 
(Rs.  
In lacs) 
Held in 
name of 
Whether 
promoter, 
director 
or 
their relative 
or employee
Period held- 
Reason for not being 
held in the name of the 
Company 
 
Greater 
Kailash - Delhi
11.12 
Sarkar 
Daulat 
Madar 
Yes 
From Demerger 
 
After Demerger, the 
company is in the process 
of transferring the Land 
parcels in Company Name, 
which is pending. 
Chattarpur – 
Delhi* 
3.04 
 
 
Pune** 
 
1.09 
Tata 
Commun
ications 
Limited 
 
No 
Kolkata*** 
0.99 
41. Previous year figures are regrouped and rearranged wherever necessary. 
42. Notes 1 to 41 form an integral part of the accounts and have been authenticated. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 185 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
As per our Report of even date attached 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
 
 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
 
 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
FRN No. N500365/005469N 
 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
 
Sd/- 
 
Aman Arora                                                       D Thara 
Suvasish Das 
Partner                                         Chairperson & Managing Director                            Director 
M. No.550485                                          DIN: 01911714                                        DIN:09826037 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/-  
 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
Bhavesh Singla 
                          Lubna 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Financial Officer                       Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer 
Place : New Delhi 
 
  
    M.No. 551844 
                             M.No. A53597 
Date : 28th May 2024 
UDIN: 24550485BKIPJN4067 
 
 
 
pg. 186 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
                PART-I                         Annexure-1 
 
LIST OF PENDING CASES PERTAINING TO HPIL ALONGWITH THEIR 
STATUS 
 
S NO. 
LIST OF CASES  
NOTE IN THE MATTER  
 
STATUS 
1. 
TCL VS GOVT. OF NCT 
OF DELHI – WP NO. 
2546/2014 
 
Alongwith  
 
CM APPL. 1974/2024 
filed u/s 340 and 195 
of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1973 
 
[DELHI HIGH COURT] 
 
TCL has filed the captioned writ 
petition against the orders dated 
05.08.2013 and 29.03.2014 passed by 
Respondent No. 1 and to further 
restrain the Respondents from acting 
in furtherance of proceedings dated 
16.04.2014 whereby only two Khasras 
being Khasra No. 444/203(03-05) and 
446/204(0-03) 
situated 
in 
village 
Yakutpur, Delhi have been ordered to 
be demarcated based on the claims of 
Respondent No. 3 and 4. 
 
It is the case of the TCL that after the 
acquisition of land for TCL no land is 
left in the vicinity and therefore TCL 
suspects encroachment of land by 
private Respondent and therefore TCL 
has filed this petition i.e. WP No. 
25456/2014 
challenging 
order 
of 
demarcation of only two khasras i.e. 
Khasra Nos 444/203 and 446/204.  
 
 
In the present writ petition, this 
Hon’ble Court vide its order dated 
28.04.2014 directed the SDM Kalkaji to 
maintain Status Quo and further vide 
its order dated 02.06.2014 inter-alia 
restrained Mr. Sushil Sharma from 
trespassing into the land in question. 
The Hon’ble Court also granted liberty 
The 
application 
bearing CM APPL. 
1974/2024 
u/s/ 
340 and 195 of the 
Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 
1973 
alongwith the main 
matter 
is 
now 
listed 
27.05.2024 
for final hearing. 
 
2. 
DLF 
LIMITED 
VS 
GOVT. 
OF 
NCT 
OF 
DELHI 
– 
WP 
NO. 
654/2015 
 
[DELHI HIGH COURT] 
 
 
pg. 187 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
to the TCL to fence the land in question 
and also directed the local police to 
provide police protection. 
 
 
DLF 
Limited 
(Respondent 
No. 
5 
herein) also filed a writ petition 
bearing 
W.P.(C) 
No. 
654/2015 
challenging the aforesaid orders dated 
05.08.2013 and 29.03.2014 passed by 
SDM Kalkaji directing demarcation of a 
parcel of land falling in Khasras being 
Khasra 
No. 
444/203(03-05) 
and 
446/204(0-03) 
situated 
in 
village 
Yakutpur, Delhi with a claim that they 
are the owners of the aforesaid two 
Khasras. 
 
In the aforesaid writ petition, vide 
order dated 21.01.2015, this Hon’ble 
Court extended the interim order 
granted in favour of Applicant / TCL 
vide orders dated 28.04.2014 and 
02.06.2014 in favour of DLF Limited 
also. It is submitted that vide another 
order dated 06.01.2016, the interim 
order dated 28.04.2014 & 02.06.2014 
was 
made 
absolute 
during 
the 
pendency of the present writ petition. 
 
Note: -  
 
(i)   A contempt petition bearing Cont. 
Cas (C) 387/2022 titled as Raj versus 
Aatish Kumar &Anr was filed by one 
Shri Raj alleging non-compliance of the 
orders 
dated 
21.01.2015 
and 
 
pg. 188 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
06.01.2016 passed by this Hon’ble 
Court in W.P.(C) No. 654/2015.  
 
The aforesaid contempt petition was 
dismissed vide order dated 07.04.2022 
passed by this Hon’ble Court after 
recording the submissions made on 
behalf of the counsel appearing for the 
SDM that no demarcation exercise is 
contemplated or is being undertaken. 
 
(ii) One Mr. Raj Kumar Shandilya, has 
also filed CM APPL. 1974/2024 u/s/ 
340 and 195 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1973.  
 
The said application was listed on 
11.01.2024 and then on 05.02.2024. 
Notice in the said application was 
opposed by the Ld. ASG who was 
briefed by the HPIL. 
3. 
SLP(C) No.-013010 – 
2020 - TCL Vs. UNION 
OF INDIA & ORS. 
 
 
Registered as : 
 
Civil 
Appeal 
No. 
3401/2023 
 
[SUPREME COURT] 
TCL filed a writ petition before Delhi 
High Court challenging the acquisition 
of 10489.18 sq. mtrs of land situated at 
G.K-1 along Outer Ring Road, near 
Savitri Cinema, New Delhi belonging to 
TCL including the award dated 30 
December 2013 for Rs. 188, 80,168/- 
as compensation for acquisition. This 
writ 
petition 
got 
dismissed 
vide 
judgment dated 25.11.2019. 
 
The present SLP has been filed 
challenging 
the 
judgment 
dated 
25.11.2019. 
 
Next date is yet to 
be notified in the 
matter. 
 
pg. 189 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
HPIL has been impleaded in the matter 
vide order dated 01.05.2023. The 
hearing has also been directed to be 
expedited in the matter vide the said 
order dated 01.05.2023.  
 
 
Note: - As per scheme or arrangement 
out of the acquired land of 2.59 acres for 
DMRC, 0.54 acres of land are the surplus 
land belonging to HPIL. 
 
4. 
TCL VS UOI – LAC NO. 
14/2014 
 
New Numbers: - 
 
Tata Communications 
Ltd. v. Union of India, 
LAC 24 / 2016 
 
[DISTRICT 
COURT 
, 
SAKET] 
Reference Petition filed by TCL for 
enhancement 
of 
compensation 
vide 
award dated 30 December 2013 for Rs. 
188,80,168/-.  
 
Impleadment of HPIL in the matter has 
been 
allowed 
vide 
order 
dated 
12.03.2024.  
 
 
The matter is now 
listed on 03.04.2024 
for orders. 
5. 
UOI VS TCL – LAC NO. 
04/2014 
 
New Numbers: - 
 
Union of India &Ors. v. 
Tata Communications 
LAC also filed a Ref Petition being LAC 
Ref No. 4 of 2014 alleging that TCL did 
not 
collect 
the 
sum 
awarded 
as 
compensation for the said acquired land.  
 
Status: Same as in Tata Communications 
Ltd. v. Union of India, LAC 24 / 2016 
 
The matter is now 
listed on 03.04.2024 
for orders. 
 
pg. 190 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Ltd., LAC 19 / 2016 
 
[DISTRICT 
COURT 
, 
SAKET] 
 
6. 
SLP (C) 13478 of 2019 
now converted to Civil 
Appeal 5090 of 2019 - 
TCL Vs.  GNCTD & ORS. 
 
 
[SUPREME COURT] 
 
The controversy in the present case 
relates to a small area of land which is 
required for widening of the Outer Ring 
Road near Savitri Cinema Flyover.  
 
According to the PWD, the total area in 
question is approximately 662 sq. metres 
which are in possession of various entities: 
Sanjeev Gas Agency (6.75 sqm); DJB 
(185.25 sqm); TCL (160 sqm), BSES 
(235.20 sqm); and DMRC (74.25 sqm). As 
per TCL, it is also in possession of the 
areas, which are reflected to be in 
possession of BSES (235.20 sq metres) and 
DMRC (74.25 sq metres). 
 
The demarcation exercise done by the TCL 
was challenged by PWD in W.P. (C) 
2434/11 and the said WP was disposed off 
vide order dated 01.09.2014 with a 
direction to carry out the demarcation.   
 
The reports which emerged, purportedly 
by way of compliance with the above 
order 
dated 
01.09.2014, 
charted 
an 
entirely new course, in that, now, PWD 
seeks to remove alleged encroachment in 
Khasra Nos. 1472/1022/2, 1020/2/1, 
1010, 
1011 
1013, 
977min, 
1701, 
1702/1014/2, 
977min, 
1327/977/2, 
1327/977/2, 1326/977/2, 1326/977/2, 
960, 959, which are totally different from 
The next date in the 
matter has not been 
notified. 
 
pg. 191 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
the Khasras 
originally in dispute. 
 
The TCL immediately filed an application 
before the vacation bench of the High 
Court. TCL separately filed a WP No. 
5301/2017 claiming that the demarcation 
exercise done by PWD and SDM, KalkaJi to 
widen the road is incorrect and that the 
TCL is the owner of the land which the 
PWD is claiming ownership. 
 
The WP was filed by TCL which was 
disposed off vide order dated 21.05.2019 
directing the respondents to appoint 
another 
agency 
for 
conducting 
the 
demarcation exercise and conduct the 
survey by the Total Station Method (TSM). 
However, while directing as above, it was 
clarified by the Ld. Single Judge that the 
pendency of the said demarcation would 
not preclude the respondent PWD from 
taking over the land for carrying out the 
road widening works as are required. 
 
Aggrieved by the Ld. Single Judge’s Order, 
TCL preferred an Appeal bearing LPA No. 
371 of 2019 against the Order dated 
21.05.2019. 
 
Vide its Order dated 27.05.2019, the 
Division Bench of the Delhi High Court 
upheld the Order of the Ld. Single Judge 
while holding that “merely because there 
is a deviation from the due process of law, 
in our considered view, interference into 
the matter is not called for when public 
 
pg. 192 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
convenience and public importance is to 
be 
given 
due 
consideration 
and 
weightage”. 
 
Therefore, aggrieved by the Order dated 
27.05.2019 passed by the Division Bench 
of the Delhi High Court in LPA No. 371 of 
2019, TCL then approached the Supreme 
Court India by filing this Special Leave 
Petition bearing SLP (C) NO. 13478 of 
2019. The Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its 
order dated 11.06.2019 granted status quo 
with regard to the land in question 
however it was clarified that the same 
shall not come in the way of demarcation 
in accordance with law.  
 
Vide 
order 
dated 
17.09.2019, 
the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court directed the 
Surveyor to file its report.  
 
 
7. 
SURRENDER 
SINGH 
GAKKHAR 
VS 
HEMISPHERE 
PRPOERTIES 
INDIA 
LIMITED – 
CP- 55/ND/ 2022 
 
[NCLT, DELHI] 
 
This petition has been filed by the 
Petitioner under Section 58 & 59 of the 
Companies Act before National Company 
Law Tribunal at New Delhi inter-alia 
seeking transfer of 3600 shares of HPIL to 
the Petitioner. The Petitioner was an 
employee of VSNL who took voluntary 
retirement on 2003 has stake his claim in 
the petition upon 3600 shares of HPIL. 
 
 
The petition has been 
dismissed vide order 
dated 12.02.2024. 
 
 
8. 
P VENKATA RAO VS 
TCL – AS NO. 70/2011 
AS 70 of 2011 is an appeal filed by 
P.Venkat Rao (Died) and his Son P.Gopal 
against VSNL (TCL), Secretary, Revenue 
The AS 70/2011 was 
finally argued and the 
order 
therein 
was 
 
pg. 193 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
[ADDITIONAL SUB 
JUDGE PONNERI ] 
Department; District Collector,Tiruvallur; 
The TahsildarPonneri Taluk against order 
dated 11.02.2011 passed in OS. No.35 of 
1998 by the Ld. District MunsifPonneri.  
 
Mr.P.Venkat Rao had filed the OS claiming 
that the lands in Padianallur, Ponneri 
which then belonged to VSNL and later 
TCL and now HPIL originally belonged to 
his forefathers. However, the OS came to 
be dismissed and he filed AS 70 of 2011 
(Appeal Suit) before the Sub Court, 
Ponneri. Originally VSNL was made a 
party and then TCL came in place of VSNL. 
Now, HPIL has filed implead application 
being IA/1/2021 and the same was 
allowed on 20.06.2023. 
 
 
reserved vide order 
dated 28.03.2024. 
9. 
(i) State of Tamil Nadu 
Vs. TCL - CMP NO. 878 
of 
2019 
in 
WASR 
107562 of 2018  
 
Renumbered 
as 
WA/3372/2023 
(ii) State of Tamil Nadu 
Vs. TCL - CMP NO. 879 
of 
2019 
in 
WASR 
107563 of 2018 
 
Renumbered 
as: 
WA/3374/2023 
 
[MADRAS 
HIGH 
By 
way 
of 
an 
order 
bearing 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 dated 06.06.2011, 
the 
patta 
in 
the 
name 
of 
Tata 
Communication 
Limited 
(TCL) 
was 
cancelled. Aggrieved by the said order 
dated 06.06.2011, TCL filed two writ 
petitions.  
(i) WP 23739 of 2014 was filed to stay 
and quash the impugned order in 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 dated 06.06.2011 
and direct the Tahsildar to restore the 
entry in revenue records including patta 
in the name of Tata Communications for 
property in survey no. 155/2 and 156.  
(ii) WP 23740 of 2014 was filed to stay 
and quash the impugned order in 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 dated 06.06.2011 
and direct the Tahsildar to issue patta in 
favour of the members of the Tata 
The matter was last 
listed on 07.02.2024 
and thereafter the 
matter has been re-
notified 
for 
18.04.2024 
further 
hearing. 
 
pg. 194 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
COURT] 
 
Communication's society in respect of 
32.5 acres of land in survey no. 155/2 
and 156. 
The 
aforesaid 
Writ 
petitions 
were 
allowed vide a common order dated 
2.3.2017 and patta stand restored in 
favour of TCL. A direction was also made 
that the name of the members of the 
society be also included in the patta. 
Thereafter, WASR 107562 of 2018 and 
WASR 107563 of 2018 were filed by the 
State Govt. of Tamil Nadu against order 
dated 02.03.2017 in WP 23739 of 2014 
and WP 23740 of 2014, respectively. The 
delay in filing the writ appeal was 
condoned vide order dated 20.11.2023 
and the appeals have been renumbered 
as WA/3372/2023 and WA/3374/2023. 
 
10. KAUSHALYA 
MAHADEV 
CHOUDHARY & ORS. 
VS. TCL 
WRIT PETITION NO.  
9163/2009 
 
[BOMBAY 
HIGH 
COURT] 
 
A PIL No. 109/2008 titled as Santosh 
Walke VS. TCL was filed challenging the 
acquisition proceedings of various Survey 
Nos. mentioned in Notification dated 
10.08.1925. In this PIL, an interim order 
dated 20.01.2010 was passed restraining 
the authorities from carrying on any 
construction over the portions of land to 
which no compensation has been given to 
the land owners / tenants. 
 
TCL filed an SLP against the said order. 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its order 
dated 15.11.2010 has limited the reliefs to 
compensation.  
The aforesaid PIL came to be disposed off 
vide order dated 20.02.2023 granting 
liberty to the petitioners to file separate 
writ petitions. 
The matters were last 
listed on 12.12.2023.  
 
The next date has not 
been notified by the 
Bombay HC. 
 
pg. 195 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
In so far as the present petition is 
concerned, the same has been filed inter-
alia 
challenging 
the 
acquisition 
proceedings of 27 Acres 31 R at Survey No. 
51, 33 Acres 37R Portkharaba 6.6 Aakar 
26.40 paise at Survey No. 51, 15 Acres 7 R 
at 
Survey 
No. 
52, 
17 
Acres 
27R 
Portkharaba 2.20 R Aakar 12.60 paise at 
Survey No. 52, all at Village Kalas, Taluka 
Haveli, Distt. Pune. 
 
Principal Grounds of Challenge by the 
Petitioners: 
 
(i) That they were cultivating lands and 
were in possession from 1925 to 1990. 
 
(ii) Neither any award passed nor any 
compensation was paid. 
 
(iii) Acquisition proceedings have lapsed 
in terms of Section 24 (2) of the Right to 
Fair Compensation and Transparency in 
Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Re-
Settlement Act, 2013. 
 
Section 24 (2) is reproduced below: - 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in 
sub-section (1), in case of land acquisition 
proceedings initiated under the Land 
Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894), where 
an award under the said section 11 has 
 
pg. 196 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
been made five years or more prior to the 
commencement of this Act but the physical 
possession of the land has not been taken 
or the compensation has not been paid the 
said proceedings shall be deemed to have 
lapsed and the appropriate Government, if 
it so chooses, shall initiate the proceedings 
of 
such 
land 
acquisition 
afresh 
in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act: 
 
Provided that where an award has been 
made and compensation in respect of a 
majority of land holdings has not been 
deposited 
in 
the 
account 
of 
the 
beneficiaries, 
then, 
all 
beneficiaries 
specified in the notification for acquisition 
under section 4 of the said Land 
Acquisition Act, shall be entitled to 
compensation in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act. 
 
Brief submissions of TCL/HPIL: 
 
(i) Land 
was 
acquired by way of 
Notification dated 10.08.1925 for erection 
of deemed station of Indian Radio 
Telegraph Company. 
 
(ii) Collector, Poona was directed to take 
possession of land. 
 
(iii) The land was handed over to Indian 
Radio & Telegraph Company. 
 
(iv) In 1927, mutation entries were made 
 
pg. 197 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
in the name of the said company. 
 
(v) Consequent upon Independence entire 
land vest upon the Government. 
 
(vi) As per order dated 15.11.2010 of SC, 
the petitioners can only get compensation, 
if they are ultimately held to be entitled. 
 
Applications for impleadment of HPIL in 
these matters are pending. 
 
 
Note :- All the matters mentioned below 
are connected with Writ Petition No.  
9163/2009. Hence, they are being listed 
together. 
 
 
11. MADHAV MHASKE VS. 
UOI &ORS. 
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 
612/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 27 acres 33 Gunthas out of 
Sr. No. 51 and 17 acres out of Sr. No. 52 
situated at Village Kalas Dist. Pune. 
 
-do- 
12. SANTOSH 
KESHAV 
WAJE VS. UOI & ORS. 
  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
132/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 8 Acres 10 Gunthas out of 
Land from Survey No. 38 and 39 Village 
KalasDistt. Pune.  
 
-do- 
13. DATTATRAYA 
SADASHIV GAVHANE 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 11 acres and 20 Gunthas at 
-do- 
 
pg. 198 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS  
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4332 OF 2016 
 
Village Bhosari, Pune, Sr. No. 238, 260 to 
281 – Surplus Land 
14. SOMNATH SHINDE VS. 
UOI & ORS. 
WRIT PETITION NO. 
602/2016 
 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
3 acres and 12 Gunthas in Survey No. 45, 
village Kalas, Dist Pune  
 
3 acres and 19 Gunthas in Survey No. 48, 
village Kalas, Distt  Pune 
 
-do- 
15. HARIHAR 
JAYWANT 
WALKE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4334 OF 2016  
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 35 Acres 13 Gunthas 
situated at Sr. 63, Village Dighi ,Distt. Pune. 
– Surplus Land 
 
-do- 
16. SHANTI PARANDE VS. 
UOI & ORS. 
  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
11464/2015 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
13 Acres 16 Gunthas in Sr. No. / Gat. No. 
62 / 1 / 2 Village Dighi, Distt. Pune - 
Partial Surplus Land 
 
12 Acres 18 Gunthas in in Sr. No. / Gat No. 
65/5/1 Village Dighi ,Distt. Pune. - Surplus 
Land 
-do- 
 
pg. 199 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
17. KRISHNA DNYANOBA 
WALKE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 
614 OF 2016  
 
 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 35 Acres 13 Gunthas at 
Survey No. 63, Village Dighi ,Distt. Pune. – 
Surplus Land 
-do- 
18. MANGALA GHULE VS. 
UOI & ORS. 
  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4747/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 35.72 Hectors at Survey No. 
133 + 136 to 141, Village Bokhpel, Distt. 
Pune – Surplus Land 
 
 
-do- 
19. MARUTI TAPKIR VS. 
UOI & ORS. 
  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4744/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
7 Acres 13 Gunthas from Sr. No. 58/3/2 
Village Dighi, Distt. Pune – Partial Surplus 
Land 
 
O Acres 12 Gunthas from Sr. No. 58/2/3 
Village Dighi, Distt. Pune – Partial Surplus 
Land 
 
3 Acres 30 Gunthas from Sr. No. 56/1/5 
Village Dighi, Distt. Pune - Partial Surplus 
Land 
 
8 Acres 5 Gunthas from Sr. No. 56/2 
Village Dighi, Distt. Pune - Partial Surplus 
-do- 
 
pg. 200 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
Land 
 
 
20. RAMDAS WALKE VS. 
UOI & ORS. 
  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4863/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 25 Acres 16 Gunthas in 
Survey No. 59/2/1, 59/3/1, 59/5/2, 60, 
61/3/1, 65/3, 65/4/3, Village Dighi, Distt. 
Pune 
 
Note: - 59- SL, 60-PSL, 61-PSL, 65-SL 
 
-do- 
21. PARSHURAM MHASKE 
VS. UOI & ORS. 
 WP/4333/2016 
This peition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 7 Acres 21 Gunthas from 
Survey No. 53 of Village Kalas, Distt. Pune  
-do- 
22. PANDIT 
LAXMAN 
WALKE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
4342 OF 2016  
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: - 
 
7 Acres  Gunthas from Survey No. 58/2/2 
 
3 Acres 3 Gunthas from Survey No. 55/1/2
 
2 Acres 0 Gunthas from Survey No. 55/1/4
 
All in Village DighiDistt. Pune [Both S No. 
are Partial Surplus Land] 
-do- 
23. POPAT DATTATRAYA 
KATE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
1 Acre 6 Gunthas at Survey No. 52/2/0 
-do- 
 
pg. 201 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
4341 OF 2016  
 
 
10 Acres 4 Gunthas at Survey No. 53/2/1 
 
20 Acres 5 Gunthas at Survey No. 54/1/0 
 
18 Acres 25 Gunthas at Survey No. 57/0/5 
 
0 Acres 21 Gunthas at Survey No. 58/4/0 
 
1 Acre 15 Gunthas  at Survey No. 59/4/10 
 
O Acre 8 Gunthasat  Survey No. 59/6/6 
 
8 Acres 1 Gunthasat  Survey No. 65/2/0 
 
All in Village  DighiDistt. Pune 
 
Note: 52-PSL, 53-PSL, 54-PSL, 57-PSL, 58-
PSL, 59-SL, 65-SL 
 
24. SURESH 
BHIKAJI 
WALKE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
11346 OF 2016 
 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 39 Gunthas out of 8 Acres 
situated at Survey Nos. 57/2, 57/3 and 
59/4/3 at Village DighiDistt. Pun 
 
Note :- 57-PSL, 59-SL 
-do- 
25. ASHOK 
DHONDIBA 
SAKURE VS. UNION OF 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
-do- 
 
pg. 202 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
11339 OF 2016  
 
7 Gunthas out of 14 Acres situated at 
Survey No. 57/1 
 
.00 Gunthas out of 3 Acres situated at 
Survey No. 65 
 
36 Gunthas out of 1 Acre situated at 
Survey No. 52/1/1 
 
All at Village DighiDistt. Pune 
 
Note :- 57-PSL, 65-SL, 52-PSL 
26. SHRI EKNATH BHIKU 
WALKE V. UNION OF 
INDIA & ORS. 
 
WRIT PETITION NO.  
11348/2014 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of 20 Gunthas out of 3 Acres 
situated on Survey No. 58/5/5 and 59/4/5 
at Village Dighi District Pune 
 
[Partial Surplus Land] 
 
-do- 
27. SHRI 
VITTHAL 
DHONDIBA WALKE V. 
UNION OF INDIA & 
ORS. 
WRIT PETITION NO.  
11347/2016 
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
20 Gunthas out of Survey No. 41/1/1 
 
30 Gunthas out of Survey No. 56/1/1 
 
1 Guntha out of Survey No. 56/4/1 
-do- 
 
pg. 203 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
All at Village DighiDistt. Pune 
 
[Partial Surplus Land] 
28. MARUTI DAMU KATE 
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 
6647 OF 2017   
This petition has been filed challenging 
acquisition of: 
 
26 Gunthas out of 6 Acres at Survey No. 
54/2 
 
20 Gunthas out of 5 Acres at Survey No. 
situated on Survey No. 54/2 and Survey 
No. 55/1 
 
At Village DighiDistt. Pune. 
 
[Both Partial Surplus Land] 
-do- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 204 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
   Financial Statements
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
PART-II 
 
LIST OF MATTERS THAT HAVE BEEN DELETED FROM THE LIST AS ON 31.03.2023: 
 
1.  WA No. 1903/2018 alongwith CMP No. 21808/ 2018 in Writ Appeal No. 1903/2018, WA No. 
1918/2018 and WA No. 1919/2018 have been dismissed by the Hon’ble High Court of Madras by 
order dated 27.09.2023. 
 
2. W.P. No. 11340/ 2016 – Dattatraya Haribhau Walke vs. Union of India & others before High Court 
of Bombay– In this case, the challenge to the acquisition pertains to Survey No. 50 at Village Dighi, 
Distt Pune. As per the clarification received from TCL vide their email dated 10.12.2021, Survey No. 
50 falls on land belonging to land. Hence, as per the clarification received from TCL, this case does 
not fall within the purview of the HPIL. 
 
3.PIL No. 109/2008 - Santosh Walke VS. TCL before the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay- A PIL No. 
109/2008 titled as Santosh Walke VS. TCL was filed challenging the acquisition proceedings of 
various Survey Nos. mentioned in Notification dated 10.08.1925. The aforesaid PIL came to be 
disposed off vide order dated 20.02.2023 granting liberty to the petitioners to file separate writ 
petitions. Later vide order dated 02.03.2023, typo error in the order was corrected by the Hon’ble 
Court. 
 
4. CRL OP NO. 8183/2015: Komalavalli Vs Inspector of Police &Anr. – In this matter HPIL / TCL is 
not a party. The Petition however has been dismissed vide order dated 13.04.2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 205 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
To the Members of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements 
 
Opinion 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited (“herein after called as The Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 
March 31 2024, the Statement of Profit and Loss, the statement of cash flows and the statement 
of changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statement including the 
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, 
the aforesaid financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 
("the Act") in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (“IND AS”) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March,2024, and its 
profit/(Loss), total comprehensive income, its cash flows and changes in equity for the year 
ended on that date. 
 
Basis for Opinion 
 
We conducted our audit of the financial statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. (Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. 
 
Emphasis of Matter 
 
1. Note No. 30 of the financial statements, regarding the accounting of Equity Components 
of Compound Financial Instrument in accordance with IND AS 109. The Company has 
received an amount of Rs. 130 crores during the financial year 2021-22, by way of issue 
of 0.01% Non-Cumulative Non-Convertible Preference Shares of Rs. 10 each, (Converted 
to0.01% Cumulative Non-Convertible Preference Shares in FY 2023-24, as approved by 
Shareholders on 31st March 2024) redeemable after 20 years. However, the terms of issue 
of the said Preference Shares regarding the redemption value at the end of 20 years, 
whether at par or at any value other than par is not clearly established on record. The 
Company may take necessary clarifications from the competent authorities on the 
Redemption value of such preference shares.The said financial instruments have been 
accounted for in the accompanying financial statements on the assumption of the 
Redemption at Par Value, which is uncertain and indefinite in nature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 206 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
2. Note No. 31, regarding Land Security Services and Construction Work in Progress Services 
(in respect of Pune Land Parcel), received from CPWD during the financial year 2023-24 and 
earlier years. The Company has incurred an amount of Rs. 271.09 lacs (Previous year – Rs. 
115.91 lacs), on such payments, on provisional basis, on the basis of Utilization certificates 
issued by the CPWD’s.  
 
The CPWD has informed the Company that, there is no mechanism under CPWD (a GOI 
undertaking) to raise invoice and they only issue Utilization certificates for application of 
released funds. Further, the underlying supporting documents, of the contractors/vendors 
in respect of payments were not made available.  
 
The liability of Goods and Service Tax (GST) and Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) are being 
considered by CPWD while initiating and making payments to their contractors/vendors. 
 
However, in our understanding, the manner of recording the expenses on the basis of 
Utilization Certificates, in the absence of Tax Invoices is not specified under Goods and 
Service Tax Act, 2017, and Income Tax Act, 1961. Furthermore, the compliances with regard 
to the incidence of GST on such payments, may also be impacted. 
 
3. Note No. 33 regarding treatment of complete land parcels in all states as Investment 
Property. The purported land use for the land parcels, has not yet been decided by the 
Management during the year ended on March 31, 2024. As per IND AS 40, any land held for 
a currently undetermined future use as on the date of reporting, the said land is regarded as 
held for capital appreciation. In addition, the title deed of few land parcels are yet to be 
transferred/mutated in the name of the Company as on March 31, 2024, as a result of which 
the land use has not yet been ascertained. 
 
4. Note No. 21 read with Note No. 34(a) regarding Provision for Stamp Duty Payable towards 
registration/mutation of the complete land parcels in all states, amounting to Rs. 65,100 
lacs, which has been computed based on the circle rates prevailing in Financial Year 2016-
17. The actual liability in this regard may vary, being dependent upon the Circles 
rates/stamp duty rates prevailing at the time of transfer of titles of land in future.  
 
The Company has paid an amount of Rs. 774.30 lacs (out of the above provision of Rs. 
65,100 lacs) during the previous financial year 2022-23 for the Chennai Land and the 
Conveyance Deed has been executed for the said land. Further, during the current financial 
year 2023-24, an amount of Rs. 316.02 lacs, being the Development Fees/Mutation 
Chargeson Mutation of Kolkata land parcel has been appropriated out of Rs. 65100 lacs, and 
paid in May 2024. 
 
However, the management has not re-assessed/reviewed the remaining outstanding 
liability of Rs. 64009.68 lacs as of March 31, 2024, as laid down in Para 2.4 of Significant 
Accounting Policy, in view of the Mutations/Execution of Conveyance Deed of certain land 
parcels post FY 2020-21 till March 31, 2024. 
 
5. Note No. 34(c) of the financial statements, regarding Non-Recognition/Accounting of 
Property Tax/Urban Land Tax Liability by the Company in relation to the Land Parcel of 
53.04 acres in Chennai. The management is of the view that the Liability for the said cost is 
not presently determinable, and shall be accounted for only when the demand is ascertained 
from the said local revenue authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 207 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
6. During the Financial Year, the Company has not complied, with the provisions contained in 
Section 149 of the Companies Act read with Rule – 4 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17(1)(b) & 2(A) , Regulation 
18(1)(b)(d) & 2(b), Regulation 19(1)(c),(2) & 2(A), Regulation 20(2A), Regulation 25(3)of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 in respect of the 
Appointment of the Independent Directors. The NSE and BSE have imposed penalties in 
respect of the said Non-Compliances. 
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matter(s). 
 
Key Audit Matters 
 
a. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of 
most significance inour audit of the financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters 
prescribed below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Key Audit Matter 
Auditor’s Response 
A. 
Assessment of fair value of the land 
parcel (as described in Note No. 33 of the 
financial statements)  
 
The 
management 
has 
initiated 
the 
process of calculation of fair value of land 
parcels located in Chennai, Pune, Kolkata, 
Chattarpur and Greater Kailash. The 
Market Valuation of all the land parcels 
as on date of consideration and 
declaration of the financial results by 
the Board of Directors, has been 
assessed and valued at ₹ 10,87,927/- 
lakhs. 
However, 
the 
report 
being 
received from a single Valuation Agency 
is not a complete reliable measure of the 
fair value of the Investment Property. 
 
As per IND AS 40, Investment Property, 
when the fair value of the property (not 
under 
construction) 
is 
not 
reliably 
measurable, the entity shall disclose: 
Description of  the 
Investment 
property 
Refer Note 
No.33 of 
the 
financial 
Statements. 
Explanation of why
fair value cannot be 
measured reliably 
If possible, the range 
of estimates within 
which fair value is 
likely to fall. 
 
 
Our audit procedures related to the key audit 
matters included the following: 
 
 
We evaluated the details of the land parcels as 
available in the Schedule I of the order of MCA 
dated 05.08.2019 pursuant to which the Scheme 
of 
Arrangement 
and 
Reconstruction 
was 
approved.  
 
In addition, we have considered the Valuation 
Reports 
of 
various 
Land 
parcels 
dated 
31.03.2024.  
 
The Valuation for the land parcels has been 
arrived by the Valuation Agency on the basis of 
certain assumptions of the purported use of the 
land, which has not yet been finalized by the 
management of the Company. 
 
We assessed the disclosures made in the 
financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 208 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
B. 
Litigation, claims and disputes pertaining 
to the surplus land (as described in Note 
No. 34(b) of the financial statements)  
 
There are total 28 cases of litigation, 
claims and disputes pertaining to the 
surplus land and Company, known as on 
31.03.2024 which are pending under 
various forums. These litigations claim 
and disputes, where earlier TCL was a 
party, subsequent to approval of Scheme 
and transfer of land, have now been 
transferred and belong to the Company.  
The Company is in the process of 
contesting all such litigations, claims and 
disputes. 
 
The financial implications associated with 
all 
such 
litigations, 
if 
any, 
is 
undeterminable as of March 31, 2024. 
Our audit procedures related to the key audit 
matters included the following: 
 
 
 
We obtained the list of total cases of litigation, 
claims and disputes, and analysed the progress 
in all the said cases, including evaluation of any 
financial impact, due to any order of the court 
during the financial year 2023-24.  
 
We assessed and have made the relevant 
disclosures in the financial statements. 
 
Further, it has been observed that Claim of the 
Company in respect of Execution of Sale Deed of 
Chattarpur Land Parcel (in lieu of Shortage of 0.4 
acres of Chennai Land Parcel)has not yet been 
executed by TCL, in favour of the Company as of 
March 31, 2024. 
 
 
 
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon 
 
7. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other 
information. The other information comprises the information included in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Business 
Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance and Shareholder’s Information, but does not 
include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
 
8. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the course of 
our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard. 
 
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements 
 
9. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 with respect to the preparation of these financial statements that 
give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total 
comprehensive income, Cash flows of the Company, changes in equity of the Company in 
accordance with the IND AS and other accounting principles generally accepted in India. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 209 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Ind-AS financial statements that give a 
true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
10. In preparing the financial statements, Management of the Company is responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
11. The Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of Financial Statements 
 
12. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
 
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statement, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant to the audit in order to 
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 
143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013 we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls. 
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Management. 
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management's use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in 
the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 210 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, 
includingthe disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 
 
13. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, 
the plannedscope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies ininternal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
14. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have compiled 
with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with 
them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
 
 
 
 
Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements. 
 
15. As required by section 143(3) of the Companies Act,2013 based on our audit we report 
that: 
 
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best 
of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
 
b) In our opinion proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as appears from our examination of those books. 
 
c) The financial statements dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of 
accounts; 
. 
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards)Rules 2015 as amended. 
 
e) The company being a Government Company, the provisions of Section 164(2) of the 
Act in respect of disqualification of directors are not applicable to the company in 
terms of notification no. G.S.R.463(E) dated 5th June 2015 issued by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Government of India; 
 
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate Report in “Annexure A”. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion 
on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls over financial reporting. 
 
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with the requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, we are 
informed that the company being a Government Company, the provisions of section 
197 read with schedule V of the Act, relating to managerial remuneration are not 
applicable to the company in terms of Notification No. G.S.R. 463(E) dated 5th June 
2015. 
 
h) With respect to the other matters included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 211 
 
    AUDITOR’S REPORT 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given 
to us: 
 
(i) The company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its 
financial position in its financial statements. Refer Note No. 31(c) to the 
financial statements. 
(ii) The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivatives 
contracts for which there were any material foreseeable losses; 
(iii) The Company has not declared any dividend in the previous financial 
year, so the applicable sections do not apply on the Company. 
(iv) Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Company has 
used accounting software for maintaining its books of accounts for the 
Financial Year ended 31.03.2024 which has a feature of recording audit 
trail(edit log) facility and the same has been operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in software. Further, during 
the course of our audit we will not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with. 
 
16. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
“Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, 
to the extent applicable. 
 
17. On the basis of such checks of the books and records of the company, as we considered 
appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, we are 
enclosing our report in terms of section 143(5) of the Act, on the directions issued by 
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, in “Annexure C” attached. 
 
 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
Firm Registration Number -N500365/ 005469N  
 
 
 
     Sd/- 
Aman Arora 
Partner  
Membership No. 550485 
 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:- 28th May, 2024 
UDIN: 24550485BKIPJN4067 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 212 
 
   AUDITOR’S REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
ANNEXURE - A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Referred to in paragraph 15 (f) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
members of Hemisphere Properties India Limited on the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 
 
1. We were engaged to audit the internal financial controls over financial reporting (IFCoFR) of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (“the Company”) as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, in conjunction with our audit of the financial statements of the Company for 
the year ended on that date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
2. The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
3.   Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls over 
financial reporting based on our audit conducted in accordance with the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and 
the Standards on Auditing, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, 
both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.  
Because of the matter described in Emphasis of matter paragraph below, we were not able to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on 
internal financial controls system over financial reporting of the Company.  
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
4.  A Company’s IFCoFR is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company’s IFCoFR 
includes those policies and procedures that:- 
(i) 
Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;  
(ii) 
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and  
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 213 
 
   AUDITOR’S REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
(iii) Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements. 
 
Emphasis of Matter 
5. According to the information and explanation given to us, the Company is yet to 
implement its internal financial control over financial reporting on criteria based on or 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. 
Because of this reason, we are unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a basis for our opinion whether the Company had adequate internal financial controls 
over financial reporting and whether such internal financial controls were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2024. 
However, we also understand that the company has limited business operations for 
the FY 2023-24. We have considered this aspect in determining the nature, timing, and 
extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
Company, and the Emphasis of matter does not affect our opinion on the standalone 
financial statements of the Company. 
 
ForDhruv Aggarwal &Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No.: N500365/ 005469N 
 
Sd/- 
 
Aman Arora 
Partner  
Membership No. 550485 
 
Place: - New Delhi  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   28th May 2024 
UDIN:24550485BKIPJN4067 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 214 
 
Auditor’s Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
 
ANNEXURE - B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Referred to in paragraph 16 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
members of Hemisphere Properties India Limited on the standalone financial statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024 
 
Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting a true and fair view on 
the financial statements of the Company and taking into consideration the information and 
explanations given to us and the books of account and other records examined by us in the 
normal course of audit, we report that: 
 
 
(i) 
(a) 
(A) 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, plant and equipment, to the extent of 
Computers only, forming part of Fixed Assets Register. 
 
 
(B) 
The Company does not have any Intangible Assets as of March 31, 2024, except for 
Goodwill, which was acquired as part of the Demerger Order passed by the National 
Company Law Tribunal. 
 
(b)
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company does not have any Property 
Plant and Equipment’s, except for Computers forming part of Fixed Assets Register. 
The management has given a written representation regarding the physical existence 
of all such Computers, as on 31.03.2024, which has been relied upon by us. 
 
(c) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records, the title deeds of the immovable properties of 
Investment Property for 4 land parcels, are not held in the name of the Company as 
of March 31, 2024. Only the Conveyance Deed in respect of Chennai Land parcel is 
held in the name of the Company. 
 
The Company, as per the Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction dated 
05.08.2019, got the transfer of the Surplus Land parcels from Tata Communications 
Limited. However, the title deeds are yet to be transferred in the name of the company. 
The details of the same are as under :- 
 
Description 
of Property 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
 
(Rs.  
In lacs) 
Held 
in 
name of 
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their 
relative or 
employee 
Period 
held- 
Reason for not 
being held in 
the name of 
the Company 
 
Greater 
Kailash - Delhi 
11.12 
Sarkar 
Daulat 
Madar 
Yes 
From 
Demerger
 
After 
Demerger, the 
company is in 
the process of 
transferring the 
Land parcels in 
Company 
Chattarpur – 
Delhi* 
3.04
 
 
Pune** 
 
1.09 
Tata 
Communi
No 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 215 
 
Auditor’s Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Kolkata*** 
0.99 
cations 
Limited 
 
Name, which is 
pending. 
 
As Informed by the Company,  
*In respect of the Chattarpur Land Parcel, the Mutation of Landhas been transferred 
from Sarkar Daulat Mardar to Hemisphere Properties India Limited under L&DO records 
and MCD records.However, the stamp duty on transfer is not yet paid due to non-clear 
terms for stamp duty payment  
 
**In respect of the Pune land parcel, the Mutation of Land has been transferred under 
Gramin records.However, the mutation of name is yet to be transferred in the Municipal 
records. Further, the stamp duty on transfer is not yet paid. 
 
***In respect of the Kolkata land parcel, the Mutation of Land has been transferred under 
Halisahar Municipal Corporation recordsas per mutation certificate on 17.05.2024. 
Further, the stamp duty on transfer is not yet paid. 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not revalued its 
Property, plant and equipment (including Right-of-use assets) or Intangible assets or 
both during the year. 
 
(e) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, there are no proceedings initiated or 
pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition 
of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder. 
(ii) 
(a) 
 
The Company does not have any inventory during the year and hence Clause 3(ii)(a) of 
the said order is not applicable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not been sanctioned any 
working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, and hence Clause 3(ii)(b) of the 
said order is not applicable. 
(iii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not made any 
investments, provided guarantee or security or granted any advances in the nature of 
loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or any 
other parties during the year.The Company has not granted any loans, secured or 
unsecured, to firms, limited liability partnerships or any other parties during the year 
and hence Clause 3(iii) of the said order is not applicable. 
(iv) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records, the Company has not given any loans, or provided any 
guarantee or security as specified under Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Company has not provided any guarantee or security as specified under Section 
186 of the Companies Act, 2013and hence Clause 3(iv) of the said order is not 
applicable. 
(v) 
 
 
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be 
deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Orderis not applicable. 
(vi) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Central Government 
has not prescribed the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 216 
 
Auditor’s Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
Companies Act, 2013 for the products manufactured by it (and/ or services provided 
by it). Accordingly, clause 3(vi) of the Order is not applicable. 
(vii) 
(a) 
 
The Company does not have liability in respect of Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of excise 
and Value added tax during the year since effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues 
has been subsumed into GST. 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, amounts deducted/ accrued in the books 
of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Services Tax 
(‘GST’), Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Duty of Customs, Cess 
and other material statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited with the 
appropriate authorities. 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect of GST, Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, 
Duty of Customs, Cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 
March 2024 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of 
GST,Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service tax, 
Duty of Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other statutory dues which have not been 
deposited by the Company on account of disputes, except as mentioned below 
 
Name of the 
Statute 
Nature of 
the Dues 
Amount  
(Rs. In Lacs) 
Period to which 
the amount 
relates 
Forum 
Where 
Dispute is 
Pending 
 
The Goods & 
Service Tax  
Act 
The Goods 
& Service 
Tax 
Rs. 1.51
FY 2018-19
GSTO
(viii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not surrendered or 
disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, 
in the tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. 
(ix) 
(a) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company hastaken unsecured loans or 
borrowings from Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs,lender which is outstanding as 
on 31.03.2024. However, there are no defaults whatsoever in the repayments during 
the year 2023-24. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not been declared a 
wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government 
authority. 
 
(c) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the 
Company has obtained term loans only from Government of India, for the purposes as 
defined. There are no terms loans from any banks or financial institutions. 
Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 217 
 
Auditor’s Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we report that no funds have been 
raised on short-term basis by the Company. Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(d) of theOrder is 
not applicable. 
 
(e)
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the Company, we report that the Company 
has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries as defined under the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable 
 
(f) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed 
by us, we report that the Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge 
of securities held in its subsidiaries as defined under the Companies Act, 2013. 
Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable. 
(x) 
(a) 
 
The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public 
offer (including debt instruments), during the financial ear 2023-24. Accordingly, 
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company,the Company has made no Private 
Placement during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xi)  
(a) 
 
Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, considering the principles of materiality 
outlined in Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during the course of the audit. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-
section (12) of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by the auditors 
in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 with the Central Government. 
(c)
The Company has not received any whistle blower complaints during the year and 
accordingly, clause 3(xi)(c) of the order is not applicable. 
(xii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 
Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xiii) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
transactions with related parties are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, where applicable, and the details of the related party 
transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements as requiredby 
the applicable Indian Accounting Standards. 
 
(xiv)
(a)
Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, inour 
opinion, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business. 
 
(b) 
 
We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till 31.03.2024 
for the period under audit. 
(xv) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 192 of the Companies Act, 
2013 are not applicable to the Company. 
(xvi) 
(a) 
 
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 218 
 
Auditor’s Report 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited---------------- 
of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
 
(b) 
 
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
 
(c) 
 
The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable. 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations provided to us during the course of 
audit, the Group does not have any CIC. Accordingly, the requirements of clause 
3(xvi)(d) are not applicable. 
(xvii)
 
 
The Company has incurred cash losses in the current year amounting to Rs. 941.17 
lacs and in the immediately preceding financial year, amounting to Rs. 590.18 lacs. 
(xviii)  
 
There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xix) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the 
financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realization of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to 
our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the 
date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities 
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date.  
 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due. 
 
(xx) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
provisions of Section 135 (5) are not applicable on the Company for the Financial Year 
under review. 
 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
Firm Registration Number -N500365/ 005469N  
 
Aman Arora 
Partner  
Membership No. 550485 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   28th May 2024 
UDIN:-24550485BKIPJN4067 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 219 
 
Auditor ‘Report
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
 
ANNEXURE - C TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Annexure to the Auditor’s report referred to in Paragraph 17 of our Audit Report of Even 
date of Hemisphere Properties India Limited for the year ended on 31st March 2024 
 
S. 
No 
Direction issued by CAG under Section 
143(5) of the Companies Act, 2013  
Our Comment 
Impact on 
Financial 
Statements 
1 
Whether the company has system in place 
to process all the accounting transactions 
through 
IT 
system? 
If 
yes, 
the 
implications of processing of accounting 
transactions outside IT system on the 
integrity of the accounts along with the 
financial implications, if any, may be 
stated 
All the accounting transactions are 
properly recorded with the help of 
Tally.ERP9 accounting software. 
No cases of manual recording of 
transactions which may impact the 
integrity of the accounts has been 
observed. 
NIL 
2.
Whether there is any restructuring of an 
existing loan or cases of waiver/write off 
of debts/loan/interest etc made by a 
lender to the company due to company’s 
inability to repay the loan? If yes, the 
financial impact may be stated. 
No such case has been observed 
during the year. 
NIL
3.
Whether 
funds 
(grants/subsidy etc.) 
received 
or 
receivable 
for 
specific 
schemes from the Central/State agencies 
were properly accounted for/ utilized as 
per its terms & conditions? List the cases 
of deviation.  
The Company has not received any 
funds 
under 
specific 
schemes 
(Grants/Subsidy) 
from 
the 
Central/State agencies. 
NIL
 
For Dhruv Aggarwal &Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No.: N500365/ 005469N 
 
 
Sd/- 
 
Aman Arora 
Partner  
Membership No. 550485 
 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   28th May 2024 
UDIN:  24550485BKIPJN4067 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
oA 
/Q.\(,,, 303 /xv»nsz/amg/m;»;, 
@I/ No. 
Heie /uz_ 
4 
YRR AEgfen AR aan faum, 
Frifed wefRas damder (FaEva), el 
i 
INDIAN AUDIT & ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT, 
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF AUDIT 
(INFRASTRUCTURE), DELHI 
'SUPREME AUDIT INSTITUTION OF INDIA 
Rei® /Dated 
077, 03~ 2024 
wrfeard Tt 
Dedicated to Truth In Public Interest 
bl cic 
dar 
A, 
IegeT 
Ud gy fAgers 
FFERTR aadtsr S fafdes 
FAT 7144, Y o1 HAOT syaeT 
Hiemar 3TeTe AT 
& Reel- 110011 
v 
Fraelt HffeT 2013 & 
4Ry 143 (6)(b) 
& 3fedeid 31 AT 2024 
F 
FACT a¥ & 
AT Fena wmdler R 
RfRs 
& aiffE wWaRd & 
e 
vd FgreEr sderE A Reeafor 
| 
e, 
# 3W 9T F WY 31 A 
2024 F FACA A 
G AR orodtor gfzar 
faffes & affs dat o 
Frwl 
wfaffme 
2013 & urr 
143 (6)(b) & 
Iedld SR 
& ATEE 
Agrerar wierE 
F 
o 
oot sefva 
e 
€ 
& 
RewafOret 
1 Fwue 
fr Al 
smawsn A 3 
GHR W@ S 
S 
R denfe 
oar aferEr A o 
gfer R 
@i S 
§) 
s, 
Foreet. ey feeaforat 
/Aoiqgf 
,()‘\;f‘ 
(Frfra favsm) 
ARTAGAFR 
T T, TR, TR WA, TR TRe, ¢ Rei-110002 
3" Floor, A-Wing, Indraprastha Bhawan, I. P. Estate, New Delhi-110002 
G4/ Tele.: 011-23378473, E-mail : pdainfradi@cag.gov.in 
pg. 220
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 
COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER 
SECTION 
143(6)(b) 
OF 
THE 
COMPANIES 
ACT, 
2013 
ON 
THE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS OF HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED 31 MARCH 
2024 
I'he preparation of financial statements of HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED 
for the year ended 31 March 2024 in accordance with the financial reporting 
framework prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of the company 
‘The statutory auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 
139(5) of the Act is responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 
143 of the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed 
under section 143(10) of the Act. This is stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report 
dated 28 May 2024 
1. on behalf of the Compiroller and Auditor General of India. have conducted a supplementary 
audit of the financial statements of HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED for the 
year ended 31 March 2024 under section 143(6)(a) of the Act. This supplementary audit has been 
carried out independently without ac 
s to the working papers of the statutory auditor and is 
limited primarily 
to inquiries of the statutory auditor and company personnel and 
a 
tive 
examination of some 
of the accounting records. 
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which 
would give rise to any comment upon or supplement to statutory auditors™ report under section 
143(6)(b) of the Act. 
For and on behalf of the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India 
Place: New Delhi 
(Vinita Mishra) 
Dated: 
87 August 2024 
Director General of Audit (Infrastructure) 
New Delhi 
pg. 221
 
 
 
 
 
pg. 222 
 
     
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
---------------Hemisphere Properties India Limited----------------
 
