Transforming
for scale
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Read the report or download it from  
www.kotak.com
You can write to us at 
investor.relations@kotak.com
Scan the QR code or visit our website to 
know more about us
Kotak had set itself on the path of 
change, recognising that we would 
require certain enablers such as 
technology and talent to make the 
transition to serve the customer in a 
superior manner. As we look out over 
the next few years, we are convinced 
that the customer will determine the 
outcome of Kotak’s relevance and 
positioning in the market.
Transforming
for scale
To take our objective forward we are reimagining how 
we look at our businesses by keeping the customer 
at the core. We are accordingly building out our 
capabilities, reimagining our processes, to bring to 
bear to the customer all the products and services 
that Kotak’s financial conglomerate has to offer. Our 
goal is to infuse simplicity into every transaction, by 
becoming a bank that truly understands and caters to 
the needs of our customers. We strive to transform 
banking into an experience that is simple, curated, 
engaging and as enjoyable as shopping! As we see it, 
the customer will benefit from these propositions, drive 
enhanced engagement and ultimately increase value 
for our stakeholders.
This transformation that we are driving, by harnessing 
the power of technology and leveraging on the 
opportunities that India’s demographic dividend presents, 
sets the tone for the scale and relevance that we are 
seeking in our chosen areas.
Our commitment to hire the best talent 
and to drive their integration into the 
Kotak culture is a significant element of 
our strategy to drive the transformation. 
As we go forward, we remain 
anchored in our mores of prudent risk 
management to protect our balance 
sheet, and the adherence to the 
practice of risk adjusted returns to drive 
value for our shareholders. 
We will continue to remain 
true to our core DNA of driving 
differentiation and trust, and building 
a franchise that is recognized for its 
promise and potential.
About this Report
Organisational Boundary for ESG Disclosures2
This report predominantly covers information related to Kotak Mahindra Bank 
Ltd as well as those of our subsidiary companies. The list of subsidiaries 
is mentioned on page 388. The ESG disclosures encompass details of 
our Group’s national and international footprint, including office premises, 
branches and ATM networks. 
The BRSR is prepared for the Bank on a standalone basis, aligned with 
our standalone financial statements. Similarly, the GRI indicators are also 
disclosed for the Bank on a standalone basis in this Integrated Annual 
Report. Furthermore, in our endeavour to expand the reporting boundary, the 
Group has voluntarily disclosed certain indicators both on standalone and 
consolidated basis such as Energy consumption within the organisation, 
GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2), Energy and Emission intensity, employee 
headcount, employee hires and turnover. The boundaries for specific 
disclosures are clearly indicated in the notes of the relevant sections within 
this Report. As with the previous two years, no restatements have been 
made for this Report, however there has been a change in methodology and 
assumptions in the computation of certain indicators and the impact of the 
same have been disclosed in respective sections.3
Management review 
This Integrated Annual Report has been reviewed and approved, for 
publication, by the Management of Bank.
Feedback
For any suggestions, views and perspectives you may have about this Report, 
kindly reach out to us at investor.relations@kotak.com.4
Assurance for ESG disclosures4
Reasonable and limited assurance engagement on the agreed indicators 
in the Integrated Annual Report including the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report has been provided by Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Accountants LLP, in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability 
Assurance Engagements (SSAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements on 
Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(SAE) 3410, “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, 
both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the ICAI, 
the International Standards on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 
(revised), “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits Or Reviews Of 
Historical Financial Information” and ISAE 3410, “Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standard Board (IAASB)”. The assurance statements can be found 
from page 431 of this report. 
1GRI 2-1 | 2GRI 2-2 | 3 GRI 2-4 | 4GRI 2-5 | 5GRI 2-3
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Bank’ or ‘Kotak Mahindra Bank’) and our 
subsidiaries (hereby collectively referred to as ‘Kotak Mahindra Group’, ‘the 
Group’ or ‘Kotak’ or ‘We’)1 are pleased to present our fourth Integrated Annual 
Report (Report) for the period starting from 1st April, 2023, to 31st March, 2024. 
We at Kotak ensure our efforts towards business growth, environmental 
stewardship and social development are published on an annual basis.
Our Integrated Annual Report strives to provide our readers with disclosures 
on our financial and non-financial performance as well as value creation 
imperatives across our businesses and subsidiaries. It narrates in detail 
the way environment, social and governance matters are embedded 
in the functioning of our businesses with an emphasis on our strategy, 
governance, risks and prospects to provide insightful information about our 
activities and performance. Our material matters outlined on pages 42-45, 
inform our strategic decisions and risk management protocols. Through a 
dual materiality lens, we engage stakeholders, assess impacts, risks and 
opportunities across our operational landscape, ensuring alignment with 
our objective of value creation - in the short, medium and long term, detailed 
on page 12. It also covers the performance, progress and initiatives of 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited and its subsidiaries for FY 2023-24. We have 
incorporated comparative figures, as applicable, for the last three to five years 
in this Report, to provide a holistic view. In this report,colleague(s) refers 
to all employees on full time (permanent and fixed term contracts) 
and part time roles.
Reporting Guidelines
Our Integrated Annual Report has been developed as per the International 
Integrated Reporting Council framework and the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct. This report includes the Bank’s Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) stipulated by SEBI, which 
has been prepared on a standalone basis. 
Furthermore, the contents of the Report include disclosures prepared with 
reference to Global Reporting Initiative Standards 2021. We have also 
attempted to align some of our updates and disclosures presented in this 
report to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
The financial and statutory information has been presented as per the 
requirements specified by the following regulations and standards:
Standards and guidelines
The Companies Act, 2013 
(including the rules made 
thereunder)
The Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
The Indian Accounting 
Standards
The Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 and other relevant RBI 
regulations
Business  
Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting
What’s Inside
Who We Are
Introducing our group structure , diverse products and 
services, our network and the visionary Board of Directors.
Elaborating on our key ESG initiatives along with a synopsis 
of the sustainability outcomes.
An overview of the financial performance of the Group.
Message from the MD & CEO on our strategy and performance; 
our value creation model, overview of our businesses and key 
performance indicators.
Year in Review
About Us
04
Board of Directors
06
Message from Ashok Vaswani
08
Value Creation Model
12
Business Overview
14
Digital
24
Technology
28
Talent
30
Key Performance Indicators
32
Awards and Accolades
34
Financial Performance
Financial highlights
Consolidated and Standalone
94
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report On Consolidated 
Financial Statements
97
Consolidated Financial Statements
110
Financial Information of Subsidiaries and Basel III 
(Pillar 3) Disclosures
160
Independent Auditor’s Report On Standalone 
Financial Statements
162
Standalone Financial Statements
168
Statutory reports
Directors’ Report And Annexures
249
Report On Corporate Governance
294
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
343
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR)
386
Annexures
ESG Data Tables
422
GRI Index
428
TCFD Index
430
Assurance Statements
431
An insight into our overarching strategy, stakeholder 
interactions, along with materiality issues, risk management 
and governance.
Transforming for scale
Strategy
36
Stakeholder Engagement and 
Materiality Assessment
42
Risk Management
46
Governance
52
Sustainability at Kotak
Embracing Sustainability
56
Generating Value for Customers
70
Empowering Colleagues
74
Supporting Communities
86
Message from Ashok Vaswani
Managing Director & CEO
08
Page
About Us
Purpose-led, value-driven
Established in 1985, Kotak is one of India’s leading diversified and integrated financial 
services conglomerates, providing a wide range of financial solutions across customer and 
geographic segments within India. As a Group, Kotak also operates in overseas markets 
through international subsidiaries and branches in key geographies.1
Kotak has been built on the ethos of trust, governance, prudent risk management practices, 
product expertise, innovation in its offerings and a talented management team with an 
entrepreneurial mindset. This conflux of elements has resulted in the creation of the robust 
financial conglomerate structure that it is today. All this we have done, keeping in mind, the 
long-term interest of our stakeholders for sustainable growth. We are uniquely positioned to 
serve our customers across every spectrum of their financials needs.
Kotak is a J 7.7 trillion institution* with a market capitalisation of J 3.5 trillion as on 
31st March, 2024
J 4,30,352 cr
Total advances
6,81,000+
Shareholder base
J 7,80,320 cr
Relationship Value$
J 1,75,302 cr
Total investments#
5.0 cr
Number of customers of the Bank
J 4,45,269 cr
Total deposits
1,16,000+
Full-time employees
Kotak Universe^
*Consolidated Assets | **as on 31st March, 2024 | ^All numbers are on a consolidated basis except where stated | #Excludes Policyholders’ Investments | 
$Relationship Value of Private Banking + Priority + Investment Advisory | 1GRI 2-1
J 7,67,667 cr
Total assets
J 5,60,140 cr
Assets under management
Unleashing the Power of Kotak‘s Financial Conglomerate Structure
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited- Parent Company
All subsidiaries are 100% owned beneficially by the Bank**
Banking, Private Banking, Asset 
Reconstruction, Car Finance and 
Microcredit among others
Broking and Investment 
Banking
Life and General Insurance
Asset Management, Alternate 
Assets and Pension Fund
Banking and 
Other Lending 
related 
entities
Capital 
Markets
Protection
Asset 
Management
04
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
59.5 lakh
Credit cards in force
3.4 cr
Debit cards in force
98%+ 
Savings account transactions 
through digital or non-branch 
modes in FY 2023-24
Digital universe 
Building unified user interactions across various 
platforms
Our strategy of creating a seamless customer experience 
between physical, voice and digital channels remains unchanged. 
At Kotak, we are actively participating in India’s digital revolution 
and relentlessly working to improve the digital banking experience 
for our customers.
Our services are available on various digital channels, such 
as websites, mobile apps, WhatsApp, chatbots, voice bots 
and kiosks. To provide ease of access, information and short 
videos are made available in English, Hindi and other vernacular 
languages. Bots are deployed to automate services, go paperless 
and deliver customer responses faster.
^ Does not include branches in GIFT City (Gujarat) and DIFC (Dubai) | ^^ Including cash recyclers | #Kotak Securities network includes branches, 
franchises and referral co-ordinators
Physical Footprint
Our pan-India distribution network comprising branches and 
franchisees enables us to reach out to a large customer base. We 
also have an international banking unit in Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), a Bank branch in the Dubai International 
Financial Centre (DIFC) and international offices in New York, 
London, Mauritius, Dubai, Singapore and Abu Dhabi.
1,948
Bank branches^
3,291
Bank ATMs^^
898
Bank Pan-India operating 
locations
5,137 
Group branch network 
in India^#
Group Branch Network In India
Bank branch classification (No. I %)
Metro
887  45%
Rural
326  17%
Semi Urban
309  16%
Urban
426  22%
Bank branch distribution (No. I %)
East
164  8%
North
603  31%
South
577  30%
West
604  31%
151 
101 
1,196#
292 
31
855
68% 
Growth in transaction volume  
on mobile app
563
YoY
05
About Us
Who We Are
Board of Directors
Guardians of your trust
Left to Right
Left to Right
Ashok Gulati
Independent Director
Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
Uday Shankar
Independent Director
Uday Khanna
Independent Director
Ashok Vaswani
Managing Director & CEO
Eli Leenaars
Independent Director
Uday Kotak
Non-Executive Director
Ashu Suyash
Independent Director
Amit Desai
Non-Executive Director
C S Rajan
Non-Executive Independent 
Part-time Chairman
Ketaki Bhagwati
Independent Director
06
07
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Board of Directors
Who We Are
Message from Ashok Vaswani 
Transforming 
for scale
“In all my 35 years of 
working experience, one 
lesson stands out: if you 
get it right by the customer, 
everything else will fall 
into place. If you don’t get 
it right by the customer, 
then nothing else matters. 
At Kotak, we are deeply 
determined to get it right 
by our customers.”
Ashok Vaswani 
Managing Director & CEO 
08
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Dear Shareholders,
It is with a great sense of humility, excitement and determination that 
I share my first thoughts with you. 
Kotak is one of the largest financial conglomerates in India, with a 
stellar reputation, a strong brand, global standards of governance, a 
prudent risk management mindset, and a dedicated management 
team. Therefore, it is no surprise that Kotak has delivered excellent 
financial results, growing consolidated Profit After Tax at a 5-year 
CAGR of 20.4%– fiscal year 2023-24 being no exception. 
The credit goes to Uday Kotak, who has built this exceptional 
business, directed its growth from a bill discounting business to 
the most diverse financial organisation in the country today. His 
incredible attention to detail and to first principles have been pivotal 
in navigating difficult situations over the last few decades, such as 
the NBFC crisis, global financial meltdown, COVID-19 pandemic, etc. 
Uday’s ability to build a strong management team that embodies 
entrepreneurial energy has been instrumental in our success over 
these years. Words cannot sufficiently express the institutional 
building that he has achieved. And this is exactly what we want to 
sustain – a preeminent institution that outlives generations!
I am humbled and grateful that I have been chosen to lead our 
company into its next phase of growth. I sincerely believe that we are 
extremely well poised to take this franchise to the next level. In a way, 
I have trained for 35 years across every geography in the world to 
take on this opportunity. 
Of course, the Indian economy and the Indian drive and determination 
are clear tailwinds. India’s growth trajectory, both in terms of stature 
and prominence, achieved on its own terms, is truly inspiring. Over 
the years, I have seen this first hand while managing businesses 
in India from abroad. As an Indian, my heart swelled with pride 
regardless of the geography that I was in. This, coupled with all the 
internal building blocks that we have, gives me a great sense of 
excitement and energy as we take this institution to the next level.
“Kotak is one of the largest financial conglomerates in 
India, with a stellar reputation, a strong brand, global 
standards of governance, a prudent risk management 
mindset, and a dedicated management team. 
Therefore, it is no surprise that Kotak has delivered 
excellent financial results, growing consolidated Profit 
After Tax at a 5-year CAGR of 20.4%– fiscal year 2023-
24 being no exception.”
This is also what drives my determination. 
I am deeply committed to ensuring that our key stakeholders are 
proud of the Kotak Group and the Group achieves its rightful position 
in the financial services industry. That then brings me to our core 
strategy for the next phase – 
Transforming for scale 
Equally important while transforming for scale would be to Scale for 
Relevance and not for the sake of size.
Customers
Company
Colleagues
Community
“Every single financial product and service that we provide 
is a means to an end rather than the end in itself. Hence, 
making sure that we are there and deliver for the customer 
on their terms becomes critical.”
Customers  
The Heart of Our Business 
The most important stakeholder is our Customer. In all my 35 years 
of working experience, one lesson stands out: if you get it right by 
the customer, everything else will fall into place. If you don’t get it 
right by the customer, then nothing else matters. At Kotak, we are 
deeply determined to get it right by our customers by understanding 
their needs and building appropriate propositions and thus being the 
right partner to them – which sometimes may even mean saying no. 
The good news is that we have a comprehensive range of products 
and services within Kotak, enabling us to fulfil our promises. We 
assure our customers that we will make it easier for them to do 
business with us. 
Every single financial product and service that we provide is a 
means to an end rather than the end in itself. Hence, making sure 
that we are there and deliver for the customer on their terms 
becomes critical. Getting this right will lead to our customers 
rewarding us with their loyalty and business. In turn, this approach 
will help us scale our business and expand market share. Where 
we already have a good market share, we will aim to maintain 
our position while simultaneously driving growth in other 
business segments. 
09
Message from Ashok Vaswani
Year in Review
Message from Ashok Vaswani
“Changing customer expectations, the dramatic pace 
of business growth and the emerging risk landscape 
have meant that we have to move at a much faster pace. 
We are absolutely committed to further enhancing our 
resources and commitments in this area, and I am very 
confident that collectively, as a team – we will deliver 
and use this as an opportunity to leapfrog.”
“Our regulators give us the licence to do business. They 
essentially want us to take care of our customers and 
do that in a prudent manner. That’s exactly what the 
management team seeks to do. Hence, there is no ray of 
light between the regulators and the team.” 
“We will transform our internal processes to make 
it easier for our customer-facing colleagues to 
meet the needs of the customer.”
Colleagues  
Our Greatest Asset 
We can only achieve our goals through our greatest asset and 
ambassadors – our Colleagues. Committed colleagues who are 
aligned with the Company’s purpose will deliver for the customer. 
The job of everyone in the Company is to become a customer 
facing colleague, or at the very least, serve the front-line colleague 
facing the customer. We will transform our internal processes to 
make it easier for our customer-facing colleagues to meet the 
needs of the customer.
Attracting and retaining colleagues who are excited about being 
customer obsessed will be our mantra as we transform for scale.
Community  
Thriving Together 
Another very important stakeholder is our Community. Within this, 
the most important stakeholders are our regulators. Our regulators 
give us the licence to do business. They essentially want us to take 
care of our customers and do that in a prudent manner. That is 
exactly what the management team seeks to do. Hence, there is no 
ray of light between the regulators and the team. 
More broadly, we can only thrive – if the community in which we live 
and operate thrives. It is in our self-interest to make sure that the 
community thrives. Our efforts in this regard will be reflected in the 
value of our brand. 
Company  
Building Sustainable Value 
You give us the capital to run our Company, and it is our 
commitment to deliver to you – to build a great company that you 
can be proud of and an institution that delivers sustainable and 
consistent financial returns.
On a consolidated basis in FY 2023-24, our Net Profit grew at 22% 
YoY to ₹ 18,213 crore translating into a strong Return on Assets of 
2.66%. As on 31st March, 2024, our Networth was ₹ 129,892 crore, 
Book Value per Share was ₹ 653 and Capital Adequacy Ratio stood at 
21.8%. Total Assets Under Management was over ₹ 560,000 crore. 
At the Bank standalone level, our customer base grew to over 5 crore, 
Net Profit grew 26% YoY to ₹ 13,782 crore and Net Interest Margin 
stood at 5.32%. YoY we grew our deposits and advances by over 20% 
while maintaining credit cost at 45 bps. 
We recognise that you have many options, but we will demonstrate, 
as we have in the past, that we will deliver for you consistently. 
At this stage, it is appropriate to address the recent RBI order. Over 
the last few years, we had completely embraced the notion that 
leveraging technology is fundamental to growing the business. 
Towards this, we had significantly stepped up resources and 
investments in technology. However, it is evident that we have 
more to do. Changing customer expectations, the dramatic pace 
of business growth and the emerging risk landscape have meant 
that we have to move at a much faster pace. We are absolutely 
committed to further enhancing our resources and commitments in 
this area and I am very confident that collectively, as a team – we will 
deliver and use this as an opportunity to leapfrog.
It is also very clear that technology is going to be at the centre of our 
efforts to transform and hence, scale. 
10
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
I am extremely proud of the CSR activity that we do as a Group, 
especially on education, livelihood, healthcare and environmental 
sustainability. Personally, I have benefited from my family’s intense 
focus on education and sincerely believe in the adage of teach a 
person to fish and you feed them for life. Closely linked to that is 
the need to create employment and fuel entrepreneurship. That, in 
a sense, is Kotak’s legacy, and we want to Transform for scale – 
Entrepreneurship. I have been going around the country, meeting 
many young people, and the confidence and sparkle in their eyes 
tell me that it is only the right thing to do. That’s transforming and 
scaling the country, and as part of our community efforts, we 
will play our share. 
These are, no doubt, ambitious goals, but we are not playing for the 
short term. Our commitment to you is to demonstrate consistent 
progress against these goals.
In conclusion, I want to leave you with one last thought – as your 
management team, we will build a sustainable, high performing 
organisation. Our journey ahead is filled with opportunities and 
challenges and I am confident that with your continued support, we 
will achieve our aspirations. We are determined to win and more 
importantly, win in the right way! 
Let’s keep going! 
Ashok Vaswani
Managing Director & CEO 
6th July, 2024
“As your management team, 
we will build a sustainable, 
high performing organisation. 
Our journey ahead is 
filled with opportunities 
and challenges, and I am 
confident that with your 
continued support, we will 
achieve our aspirations. 
We are determined to win 
and, more importantly, win 
in the right way!” 
11
Message from Ashok Vaswani
Year in Review
Value Creation Model
Perceiving value through 
the 4C framework
Capitals employed
*On Consolidated basis except where stated | **This includes cost of training staff, subscription for e-learning modules and conferences etc. | #Including transfer to 
Unspent CSR Account, administrative overhead and impact assessment.
Financial 
Capital*
Manufactured 
and
Intellectual 
Capital*
Human  
Capital
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital
Natural 
Capital*
K 4,48,954 cr
Deposits (Bank Standalone)
5,137
Group Branch Network
in India
1.16 lakh+
Full-time employees at 
the Group
44.06%
Total Priority Sector Lending
(PSL) annual average
achievement at the Bank
(against target of 40%)
20,000+
Employees working out of
33,271 GJ
Renewable Energy procured 
for use in corporate offices
208
Corporate offices
75%
% of virtual server in the total
server base at the Bank
K 1,29,892 cr
Networth
K 75,106 cr
Borrowings
33%
Semi Urban and Rural
Bank Branches
K 46 cr
Investment in training and
development at the Bank**
K 320 cr+
Group CSR Expenditure#
6
Organic waste convertors
1,500+
Premises which are accessible 
to persons with disability
98%+
Savings account transaction 
volumes were in digital or 
non-branch modes in  
FY 2023-24 (Bank)
~27 lakh
Active microcredit women 
borrowers at the Group
Strategic Themes
Our approach to corporate governance enables 
us to effectively address risks and emerging 
opportunities so as to create value for our 
stakeholders through our business strategy.
Identified themes to drive value
Scale
One Kotak
Prudent Risk 
Management
Technology at 
the Core
Driving 
Inclusive and 
Responsible 
Growth
Empowered 
Colleagues
Execution 
Excellence at Scale
pg. 36
Material topics that add value to our foundation, growth 
and ecosystem have been determined by considering 
Financial materiality and Impact materiality. The views of 
the Kotak Leadership Team indicated how ESG related 
risks and opportunities affect our business helping us 
understand Financial materiality. Engagement with our 
key stakeholder groups indicated how our business 
activities affect people and the environment, helping 
us arrive at Impact materiality. For more details on 
materiality assessment refer pages 42-45 of the report.
1
7
2
6
3
5
4
We aim to enhance financial well-being, promote sustainable practices, and 
amplify value for our stakeholders through the 4C framework.
Value created for stakeholders
YoY | $Improvement in score over the period December 2022 to January 2024 |*On Consolidated basis except where stated | #As per green activities/projects 
indicated in RBI’s ‘Framework for acceptance of Green deposits’ issued in April, 2023 | **refers to all employees on full time (permanent and fixed term contracts) 
and part time roles | ^by the Great Place To Work® Institute (India) | &The inclusion of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (Kotak) in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI 
logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute A sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Kotak by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The 
MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates
Consistently deliver value and drive seamless customer 
services by leveraging tech-enabled innovation.
Safety
and Returns
13 points
Increase in R-NPS 
score for the Consumer 
Banking segment$
Convenience
and Accessibility
81%
of customer grievances 
resolved within stipulated 
turnaround time
Customers - The heart of our business
Creating long-term shareholder value through strong financial 
returns and integrating sustainability into the core business 
and operations.
K18,213 cr
Net Profit*
5.0 cr 
Number of customers 
of the Bank
Constituent of MSCI India ESG Leaders Index as on the date of publishing 
of this report&
2.66%
Return on Assets*
20% 
Increase in  
Advances 
15.08%
Return on Equity*
J 6,000 cr+
Green asset book#
Company - Building sustainable value
Generating sustained positive societal and environmental 
value¸ through financial inclusion and CSR initiatives.
4 lakh+
savings accounts digitally 
opened, with about 68% in rural 
and semi-rural areas as on 
March 31st, 2024
8.2 lakh+
beneficiaries impacted by CSR 
projects at the Group
Partnerships with IIT 
Kanpur and IISc Bangalore 
for nurturing sustainability, 
AI and ML talent
Community - Thriving together
Creating a diverse, inclusive, engaged and effective workforce.
10.4% 
Increase in full-time
women employees 
at the Group
14%
Reduction in Bank’s 
permanent 
employee turnover 
rate (46% in FY 
2022-23 to 40% in FY 
2023-24)
~15 years
Average tenure of
senior management 
at the Bank
80% 
of our colleagues at 
Kotak feel proud of their 
accomplishments here^
Colleagues** - Our greatest asset
Supporting Pullela 
Gopichand Academy 
to groom world-class 
sporting talent
12 LEED/IGBC
Certified Buildings
13
12
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Value Creation Model
Year in Review
Business Overview
Diversified businesses 
with a unified vision1
We have remained focused on growing our businesses and deepening our relationships with 
our customers. We created propositions leveraging product insights and our technology stack 
to drive better customer engagement and customer experiences.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Strengthening our deposits franchise
We continued to focus on growing the low-cost CASA deposits and 
building the term deposit book through various propositions.
We relaunched ‘ActivMoney’, an auto-sweep facility providing flexibility 
to access funds anytime which offers attractive rates on FD and 
penalty waiver in case of pre-closure.
We launched a ‘Global Service Account’, a current account specially 
designed to meet the unique banking needs of the Service Export 
Sector. Relaunched the ‘Kotak Startup Current Account’ with 
additional features such as preferential trade and forex pricing, 
specially curated offers, among others to help start-ups in their 
entrepreneurial journeys.
We curated propositions for senior citizen customers by offering 
Term Deposits at higher interest rates and launched ‘Kotak Grand’, 
a programme in partnership with GetSetUp to offer complimentary 
membership [GetSetUp is an online community for older adults (55+) 
aimed at meeting their needs to learn, socialise and participate in 
activities for individuals and groups].
YoY | 1GRI 2-6
We provide a wide spectrum of propositions to retail customers, 
small businesses, NRIs, retail institutions, government 
departments and entities, backed by convenient, innovative and 
digital-first solutions.
Product and services
Savings and Current Accounts, Term Deposits, Home Loans and 
Loans Against Property, Personal Loans, Consumer Finance, Business 
Banking, Credit Cards, Priority Banking, Small Business Loans, Private 
Banking, Rural Housing, Business Loans and FASTags.
24% 
Growth in Deposits
~90%
of the Savings Accounts 
opened through assisted 
biometric journey
102% 
Growth in ActivMoney
20% 
Growth in Consumer Assets
Fortifying propositions for loans and credit card customers
We launched a digital co-branded Credit Cards with Myntra and 
PVR Inox. UPI on Credit Card was launched to provide a seamless 
credit card lifecycle experience. Strong growth was witnessed in the 
credit card loan book (44% YoY), aided by co-brand relationships and 
collaborations with world renowned artists.
We continued to consolidate our market share in the mortgages segment.
Consumer Banking 
14
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
20% 
Growth in Commercial 
Banking Loan book*
#1
Tractor Financier among 
banks in India with a market 
share^ of 11.7% as on  
31st March, 2024, spread 
over 562 districts
YoY | *Includes MicroCredit loan book | ^Tractor and Mechanization Association (TMA) website
Commercial Banking 
We play a significant role in meeting financial inclusion goals and 
financing deep into ‘Bharat’.
Product and services
Tractors, Commercial Vehicles and Construction Equipment Loans, 
Loans to Small and Medium Enterprises in the Agri Value Chain, 
Logistics and EPC segments, Microcredit Loans to women borrowers 
under JLG and Gold Loans to Individuals and Small Businesses.
Deepening engagement in Bharat
We witnessed a healthy disbursement growth across businesses, 
resulting in higher YoY market share in Commercial Vehicle, 
Construction Equipment, Tractor and Microcredit businesses.
We successfully launched Dairy loans for placing funds directly into 
the hands of farmers based on their milk revenue and crop cycles. 
Our customers were benefitted by 100%, digital and cashless journeys 
(RM assisted) as well as E-execution of loan agreements and simple 
vernacular documentation.
We continue to invest in technology and analytics to improve the ease 
of doing business and process efficiencies.
Wholesale Banking
Caters to a wide range of corporate customer segments, including 
large Indian corporates, conglomerates, financial institutions, 
public sector undertakings, multinational companies, financial 
sponsors including private equity funds and portfolio investors, 
new-age companies, small and medium enterprises (SME) and 
realty businesses.
Product and services
Offers a portfolio of products and services, including working capital 
finance, medium-term finance, project finance, trade and supply 
chain finance, foreign exchange services, other transaction banking 
requirements, custody services, debt capital markets, structured 
financing solutions and treasury services.
Growth in a profitable manner
We continued to witness growth momentum in acceptable credit 
across customer segments on the asset side. Our book is of high-
quality with low credit costs. Our continued focus on non-credit 
income streams, such as current account deposits, foreign exchange 
and other transaction banking products and use of risk-return metrics 
like Risk-Adjusted Return on Capital (RaRoC) at a transaction level 
have ensured that parameters like Return-on-Equity (ROE) remain 
healthy even in the face of rapidly changing market conditions. 
We went live with multiple technology & digital projects across the 
product and segment spectrum in FY 2023-24.
Mid-Market
Consistent with our philosophy of growing the granular book in the 
Corporate Bank, this year, we created a separate focused Mid-Market 
vertical to better capture opportunities in this segment. The business 
saw good momentum with twice the number of clients being 
onboarded this year in this segment as compared to the previous 
year. The book is of high quality with majority of the book comprising 
working capital and flows based lending. We will continue to invest in 
growing this business and expect it to be among the fastest growing 
businesses in the Corporate Bank.
SME
We scaled up our geographic presence by entering into nine new 
locations while deepening our penetration in our existing markets. We 
employed data analytics to identify potential customers and capture 
higher share in the value chain of our existing larger customers. 
Strong risk monitoring and proactive measures helped maintain a 
pristine quality of the portfolio.
15
Business Overview
Year in Review
Infrastructure
We have seen significant growth in our exposure in the infrastructure 
sector in FY 2023-24. Our exposure has been well diversified with 
various sponsors such as Corporates, Private Equity and Sovereign 
Wealth Funds and InvITs. We have provided financing support 
to projects in Roads, Renewable Energy, Telecom, Data Centres, 
Logistics and Hospitals.
Our ability to structure, underwrite and syndicate has helped us to 
provide comprehensive solutions on larger financing requirements of 
these projects. We are also focusing on providing cash management 
and escrow solutions to these projects, thereby improving the Bank’s 
non risk income. Majority of the book is of high rated sponsors and 
diversified across end-sectors.
We will continue to pursue the entire gamut of opportunities in the 
infrastructure sector with the right-sizing of risks and returns. The 
business undertook various processes and digital initiatives to 
improve its ability in serving its customers.
| *EDPMS- Export Data Processing & Monitoring System and IDPMS- Import Data Processing & Monitoring System
Transaction Banking
Kotak Fyn, an integrated portal for corporate and business banking 
customers encompassing collections, payments, trade and account 
services ramped up well during the year with significant growth 
seen in adoption. 
We launched new initiatives on the fyn platform such as EDPMS 
& IDPMS* which helped in reducing the TAT for processing trade 
transactions by 65% and led to a growth of 13x YoY and ensuring 
faster regularization of regulatory submissions.
Business Overview
21%  
Growth in Corporate 
Banking Loan Book
90%+ 
Infrastructure exposure with 
borrowers with AA- and 
above rating
18% 
Growth in fund-based 
SME Loan book 
19% 
Growth in new-to-bank 
customers in SME business
YoY
Custodial Services
One of India’s largest indigenous custodians in the offshore space, 
best known for delivering comprehensive custody, clearing and 
fund accounting services.
Product and services
We cater to both domestic and international asset managers, with 
a focus on clients from regions including the Middle East, North 
America, Europe, the United Kingdom, Mauritius and the Far East.
Robust capital markets - a tailwind for the business
We have seen a consistent increase in domestic flows, supported 
by the acquisition of PMS and Domestic AIFs. Additionally, the 
foreign custody segment has rebounded from last year’s trends, 
demonstrating growth through the acquisition of new clients, 
including high frequency trading (HFT) clients.
We have focused our digital initiatives and product development 
on enhancing the capacity of our clearing platform to handle HFT 
transactions and have also expanded our capabilities to clear trades 
on various exchanges.
First Custodian to issue an FPI 
license to a GIFT City based fund
16
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
A client first approach
We continue to serve our clients through the open architecture 
approach for investment products.
Our differentiated propositions like Estate Planning^ and Family 
Office* at a group level enables us to cater to all the needs of a client 
in a holistic manner. Moreover, the stability and vintage of senior 
management, along with Private Bankers having experience across 
multiple market cycles, continues to remain our strength.
Enhancing client satisfaction through bespoke experiences 
and offerings
We have introduced various products and propositions across 
segments for our clients. This year, for the Global Indian, we 
introduced the ‘NR Programme’ which offers them lifestyle and 
experiences, health and wellness among other benefits.
Keeping client centricity at our core, we have crafted an optimal 
product and services mix and engage with them regularly to meet 
their needs. By prioritizing technological advancements, we boost 
productivity, improve customer experience, increase cost efficiency 
and reduce turnaround times.
Our ‘Live Your Purpose’ brand theme drives distinctive client 
engagements. We have specialized service divisions for UHNI, 
HNI and Professionals segments to cater to the specific needs of 
these customers in a better manner , enhancing market reach and 
strengthening relationships. Through our Estate Planning^ business 
we offer bespoke solutions to our clients to address their succession 
planning needs through a combination of wills, family trusts and 
acting as corporate trustees during and even post the lifetime of 
the client. Our Multi Family office* proposition further enables us to 
assist our clients not only on investments but also to facilitate and 
co-ordinate various incidental and ancillary services by engaging 
Changing environs create opportunities
Clocked the highest-ever profitability in FY 2023-24. 
Resolution of stressed accounts has gathered momentum because 
of effective functioning of judiciary and enforcement authorities. 
In an environment, where the Indian economy continues to 
face unpredictable headwinds due to geopolitical uncertainties, 
rising commodity prices and inflation, we monitor the impact 
and adopt various measures to resolve stressed accounts after 
appropriate due diligence.
*Offered by Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Ltd. | ^Offered by Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Ltd. | **Derived from Forbes India Rich List 2023
58%
Of India’s top 100 families are 
managed by Kotak Private Banking**
14
Buyout Transactions
Offers a comprehensive and holistic platform spanning a gamut 
of financial services for UHNI and HNI clients comprising, 
entrepreneurs, business families and professionals; a trusted 
partner for client families for their diverse wealth creation and 
preservation needs.
Product and services
Offers a comprehensive platform covering a wide array of products 
and services through product partners, providers and internal group 
companies. These include Investment Advisory*, Investments, Family 
Office*, Estate Planning^ and Banking Solutions
Private Banking
Addresses potential turnaround cases and structured funding 
opportunities on the basis of genuine borrower profile, backed 
by commensurate cash flows and collaterals; also considers 
opportunities in the Corporate, SME and retail stressed assets 
space, basis strong resolution expertise built over the years.
Product and services
One of the few banks that provides vital financing required to revive 
stressed companies back to mainstream banking. Additionally, the 
Bank provides effective options to other lending institutions to exit 
their stressed assets by offering to buy the same.
Asset Reconstruction Division
with external experts for creation of asset registers, digitisation 
of documents, structuring, philanthropy solutions, social impact 
investments and immigration.
17
Business Overview
Year in Review
Car and Two-Wheeler Loans 
(Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited)
Lending and Investments 
(Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited)
Provides financing to retail consumers and dealers in the 
passenger vehicle and two-wheeler segments, as well as retail 
consumers in the Loan Against Property (LAP) segment.
Product and services
Offers finance options to retail consumers for passenger cars, 
multi-utility vehicles and two-wheelers. Provides end-to-end financing 
solutions through a single window to auto dealers for their working 
capital and infrastructure creation requirements in the form of 
inventory funding and term loans. The Company also provides LAP to 
retail consumers for their business and personal needs.
Enhancing customer experience
The business undertook various digital initiatives to improve its 
ability in serving its customers by: 
•	
Upgrading the ‘Collections Management System’ to enhance 
internal collections process and adding new features like QR 
Code-based UPI payments and instant receipts, among others.
•	
Launching a ‘Requests & Complaint Management System’ to 
enhance overall customer experience.
Lends to real estate (RE) and other sectors, provides structured 
financing and holds strategic investments.
Product and services
Lends to developers across the entire spectrum of residential and 
commercial. The team offers a trusted and dedicated platform 
with expertise in complex transactions, thereby broadening the 
access to capital.
Significant improvement in profitability
In FY 2023-24 profitability improved sharply on account of continued 
focus on residential RE market (76% of the sector exposure as at 
31st March, 2024), significant increase in disbursement in both RE 
and non RE book leading to higher processing fee, recovery in non-
performing assets and gains from investments in IPOs owing to 
buoyant capital markets.
Business Overview
24% 
Growth in Retail Auto Loan 
Disbursement
28% 
Growth in Total 
Customer Assets
0.07%
Net NPA on Customer Assets 
(0.5% as of 31st March, 2023)
43% 
Growth in CRE (Commercial 
Real Estate) Customer 
Assets
YoY
K 1,306 Cr 
Customer Assets, up 33% 
Infrastructure Financing 
(Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited)
Provides long-term finance to infrastructure projects that have 
completed at least one year of satisfactory commercial operations.
Product and services
Long-term finance (Loans as well as NCDs).
Maintaining pristine quality
We continued to be judicious about credit underwriting and selection 
of customers resulting in nil delinquency in the entire book, indicating 
quality of the book built.
18
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
J 1,226 cr
Highest Ever Profit After  
Tax in FY 2023-24
12.6%
Equity Derivative Market Share*
11.8%
Overall Equity Market share*
Stock Broking 
(Kotak Securities Limited)
Full service broker offering services to retail and institutional 
investors across Indian capital market.
Product and services
Retail broking arm offers wide array of services and products, 
including investment and trading in equities, derivatives (equities, 
commodities, currency) and mutual funds; also provides research 
services, Margin Trading Facility, depository services and distribution 
of third-party products such as insurance.
Institutional equities arm offers wide array of services, including 
a full spectrum of comprehensive research and advisory services, 
corporate access as well as trade execution across cash, futures and 
options. We’re also the leading institutional broker in India for IPOs, 
block trades, qualified institutional placements, companies’ share 
buybacks and offers-for-sale.
Digitizing trading and investing experience and providing 
value to retail segment
Our new-age tech platform Kotak Neo equipped with cutting-edge 
features and tools to enhance our clients’ trading and investing 
experiences, contributed 89% of all the traded orders for the firm 
for March 2024. 97% of all new accounts opened in March 2024 
were on the Kotak Neo platform. We saw 55% (YoY)^ growth in 
trading volume through the Kotak Securities Mobile App. These data 
points underscore the trust and confidence our clientele place in our 
platform and our offerings.
We launched the ‘Trade Free Pro Plan’, offering one of the best 
pricing plan in the industry for Margin Trading Facility (MTF) and 
equity delivery brokerage. Our digital-only Trade Free Plans played a 
significant role in client acquisition, by collectively accounting for 50% 
of our all newly opened accounts for FY 2023-24.
India’s dominant institutional broker
We executed 55 equity capital market transactions in FY2023- 24 
including 39 block deals worth more than USD 7.0 billion. Our 
Research coverage spans 263 stocks, representing 75% of India’s 
market capitalisation. We added 65 new institutional investors (global 
and local) in FY 2023-24.
^Based on notional turnover for futures of all segments and premium turnover for options of all segments | *Retail and institutional market share after excluding 
proprietary segment. Based on notional turnover for equity futures and premium turnover for equity options segment .| **Total deal value does not include the 
transactions where value is not disclosed | #source:Bloomberg
Investment Banking 
(Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited)
Leading investment banking firm with leadership across 
equity capital markets and advisory.
Product and services
Capital markets and advisory services.
Predominance in capital markets
We successfully completed 45 equity capital market (ECM) 
transactions, including 13 IPOs, 5 QIPs, 2 OFS and 1 Rights Issue in 
FY 2023-24. We led several marquee transactions such as the IPO 
of Mankind Pharma (H 4,326 cr), first ever combined QIP of equity 
and CCD through a single document of Cholamandalam Investment 
and Finance Co. (H 4,000 cr). We also advised on a diverse array of 
10 M&A transactions across a range of products and sectors, with a 
total deal value** of USD 4.0 billion.
#1 Ranking in ECM 
transactions for FY 2023-24#
19
Business Overview
Year in Review
*Computed based on the principles prescribed by APS10. The methodology, assumptions and results have been reviewed by Willis Towers Watson Actuarial Advisory 
LLP / ^Regular Premium/Limited Premium Payment under Individual category for period ended 31st March, 2024
Life Insurance 
(Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited)
Offers a wide range of life insurance solutions under individual 
and group platforms through a multi-channel distribution network. 
With a customer-first approach, the Company offers enhanced 
propositions across the value chain from policy purchasing, to 
servicing, to claim settlement.
Product and services
Offering a diverse range of products across multiple platforms - 
Savings, Protection, Investment, Health and Annuity, tailored to meet 
the needs of all customer segments at different life stages. Ensuring 
an omni-channel experience across the entire value chain, with 
immediate resolution of servicing requests.
Protection and wealth creation
Some significant new launches for the year were:
T.U.L.I.P - Term with Unit Linked Insurance Plan
We launched T.U.L.I.P, one of our flagship offerings - a fusion of 
protection and wealth creation product providing the customer 
with life coverage plus investment in equity markets. For long-term 
commitment, the product T.U.L.I.P rewards loyal investors with 
benefits of returning 2X of premium allocation charges, up to 3X of 
mortality charges and also offers loyalty additions.
Kotak Mid Cap Advantage Fund
We launched the ‘Kotak Mid Cap Advantage Fund’ across 6 ULIPs 
to further enhance our fund basket and ULIP propositions. Since its 
inception in September 2023, this fund has achieved an Assets Under 
Management (AUM) of H 294 crore as of 31st March, 2024.
Kotak GAIN – Get Assured Income Now
We introduced Kotak GAIN (Get Assured Income Now), a 
comprehensive offering providing life coverage until the age of 85 
years with flexible benefit options for customers such as - 
 	
‘Early Income’, for regular income benefit starting as early as 1st 
policy month / 1st policy year.
 	
‘Paid-up Addition,’ where bonuses are utilized to purchase 
additional sum assured and enhance policy benefits.
 	
‘Premium Saver,’ where the guaranteed loyalty additions will 
offset the last two premiums.
15.6% 
Growth in Gross Written 
Premium (GWP)
87.5%
13th Month Persistency^
25.6% 
Growth in Assets Under 
Management (Policyholders’) 
at H 74,322 cr 
28.5% 
Value of New Business 
(VNB) Margin*
21.8% 
Growth in Indian Embedded 
Value* at H 15,242 cr
32.7%
Protection share of Total 
New Business Premium
Business Overview
20
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
YoY | *Kotak General Insurance has ceased to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank on 18th June, 2024 and the Bank now holds the remaining 30% of the share 
capital of Kotak General Insurance.
43% 
Growth in Health Portfolio 
99%
Claim Settlement Ratio for 
Motor Insurance
32% 
Growth in Assets Under 
Management (AUM)
97%
Claim settlement ratio for 
Health Insurance
Caters to the growing non-life insurance needs of individual 
customers and businesses.
Product and services
Provides a wide range of general insurance products from motor 
to health, home and commercial insurance, addressing emerging 
consumer needs and segments.
Securing our customers non-life Insurance needs. 
With our well diversified product mix (Motor: 47%, Health: 43%, 
Commercial: 10%), we had recorded a topline growth of 40% YoY with 
a 67% YoY growth in the digital business. We continued to focus on 
the business quality, resulting in improved loss ratio to 65.6% versus 
69.5% in FY 2022-23
In line with our enduring philosophy of customer centricity, our Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) stands at +47 for FY 2023-24, up from +37 
in last year. To encourage more women to drive, we continued to 
invest and promote our women-centric initiative #DriveLikeALady by 
providing a special pricing on car insurance. To address the emerging 
needs of our customers, we had launched multiple products like 
travel insurance, wallet insurance, gadget insurance and credit-linked 
insurance policies.
General Insurance 
(Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited*)
Serves investor requirements across active as well as passive funds 
on a continuing basis, focusing on the local as well as offshore 
markets across debt, equity and commodities segments for retail 
and institutional investors. Offers schemes that cater to investors 
with varying risk-return profiles. We are India’s first signatory to the 
PRI - supported by the United Nations.
Product and services
Diversified product portfolio across a wide range of equity, debt, 
exchange-traded funds (ETFs), index funds and overseas funds.
Strengthening presence in the market
We launched an investor awareness and education initiative – ‘Seekho 
Paiso ki Bhasha’, which was recognized by the Asia and India Book 
of Records. We witnessed an overwhelming level of participation by 
59,000+ CBSE Teachers covering 100+ locations via 990+ Investor 
Awareness Programmes.
We witnessed a 23% YoY increase in a cumulative SIP count and 20% 
YoY growth in the number of unique investors.
Mutual Fund 
(Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited)
5th Largest fund house
in India in terms of QAAUM as 
on 31st March, 2024
7.33%
Market share in QAAUM  
(FY 2018-19: 6.14% and  
FY 2015-16: 4.32%)
21
Business Overview
Year in Review
Business Overview
YoY | *Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (formerly known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
USD 9.4 bn 
Total capital raised since inception
Alternate Assets 
(Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited*)
Diversified multi-asset investment manager providing private 
capital to Indian companies and advising discerning family offices 
and HNIs on asset allocation.
Product and services
We manage/advise funds across six verticals (Private Credit, Real 
Estate, Private Equity, Infrastructure and Investment Advisory) - led 
by independent investment teams. In addition, for retail investors, we 
have a 100% digital investment platform called Kotak Cherry. 
Leading diversified multi-asset investment manager 
We received new capital commitments of ~ ₹ 4,951 crore across 
various funds and strategies, of which, ₹ 1,452 crore was raised for 
Kotak Strategic Situations India Fund II, which focuses on providing 
solution capital across growth and value companies. 
Our advisory team was able to tap into the growing acceptance of 
fee-based, investment advisory model, which creates customised 
investment portfolios in line with the return requirements and risk 
appetite of clients. The investment advisory business crossed a 
significant milestone of ₹ 1,00,000 crore of assets under advice. 
Kotak Optimus (multi manager, multi asset) and Kotak Iconic (multi 
manager equity only) portfolio solutions manages ₹ 4,849 crore
We launched ‘Kotak Selekt’, a digital investment advisory offering for 
clients in the ₹ 5 crore to ₹ 50 crore segment.
We enhanced the features and scaled up Kotak Cherry, a 100% 
digital investment ecosystem providing investment products such as 
mutual funds, stocks, bonds and mutual fund baskets (launched in 
FY 2023-24) for its customers’ convenience.
Authorised as a pension fund management company under 
the National Pension System (NPS). Managing nine schemes 
across asset classes.
Product and services
Pension fund management
Earning your trust
We are among the top two best-performing equity funds in the 
industry (NPS Tier 1) over a 5-year period as of 31st March, 2024 
and among the top two best-performing government securities 
funds in the industry (NPS Tier 1) in the 1 & 3-year period as 
of 31st March, 2024.
Pension Fund 
(Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited)
65% 
Growth of Assets Under Management (AUM)
Source: NPS Trust website
22
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
USD 6.2 bn
Assets managed/ advised
International Business 
[Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited 
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited 
Kotak Mahindra Inc. 
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte Limited 
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited]
Offers loans to borrowers belonging to underserved households 
mainly for income generating activities primarily in allied agri and 
micro enterprises. Also, provides credit facilities to NBFC-MFIs 
and NBFCs for onward lending and investing in securitised papers 
for loans originated by NBFC-MFIs.
Product and services 
Primarily caters to women borrowers leveraging the network 
of business correspondents (mainly BSS Microfinance) to offer 
products designed to augment income generation and improve 
quality of life of customer households. 
Supporting financial inclusion
With the acquisition of Sonata Finance in March 2024, our 
microcredit footprint has expanded to 1,400+ BC branches across 16 
states making Kotak Mahindra Bank a national player. 
We directly funded close to 27 lakh women customers through 
small ticket unsecured loans for micro enterprises and allied 
agriculture activities.
Microcredit 
(Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited, BSS Microfinance 
Limited and Sonata Finance Private Limited)
1,418
Branches of BSS 
Microfinance + Sonata 
Finance catering to rural 
and semi-urban markets
60% 
Growth in Retail 
Microcredit Loan Book
(including Sonata Finance 
acquisition)
YoY
Offers financial services across our offices in Singapore, London, 
New York, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Mauritius.
Product and services
Offerings include India bound Asset Management, Investment 
Advisory and Alternate Assets; India bound Institutional Equities 
and Prime Brokerage; Global Bond Trading and International 
Wealth Management.
Promoting the India narrative internationally
Our international businesses recorded its highest AUM (assets 
managed/ advised) during the year on account of net inflows into 
funds as well as positive movement in capital markets in India. Our 
India Midcap Fund with an AUM of ~USD 3.8 billion continues to be 
the largest (source:-Bloomberg) India-focused offshore fund (actively 
managed with daily liquidity).
23
Business Overview
Year in Review
Digital endeavours to 
remain future ready
Customers choose the way they communicate 
with us and we have always believed that the 
Indian customer is technologically literate. To 
serve them better, we have over the last few years, 
committed resources to improve our resiliency 
and latency, enhanced our UI and UX and built 
digital journeys. To enhance the usability for our 
customers, we have focused on leveraging the 
India digital stack to unlock the value that these 
initiatives can create, complimented by our data 
analytics resulting in superior propositions.
Consumer Banking
Our customers expect us to deliver fast, friendly and reliable 
experiences in their onboarding, transaction banking and 
investment journeys with us.
These expectations are the setting stones of our ambition of 
’providing convenient access to a wide range of financial products 
and services to our customers’. We believe a large part of this vision 
is powered by technology. 	
Last year, we started to build a new foundational platform that 
will enable us to offer a best-in-class digital banking experience 
to our customers in FY 2024-25. Additionally, we focused on the 
following priorities:
1  Actively participating in DPI initiatives
In the fiscal year 2023-2024, we continued to innovate and 
leverage technology to enhance digital payments experience. 
We reimagined the ‘Scan Any QR’ payments experience with 
a focus on speed, security, easy navigation and launched 
an upgraded version with features like - generate QR for 
receiving payments, upload QR from gallery for making 
payment, flashlight option in QR code scanning and easy 
redirection to ‘Pay Your Contact’. These measures have 
enhanced usability of the service and contributed to 163% 
growth in UPI transaction volume from Mobile Banking App 
(Q4FY24 vs Q4FY23).
We introduced several innovative features in Unified Payment 
Interface (UPI), enhancing functionality and user experience. 
Key launches include, Rupay credit card on UPI and UPI 
Lite X to conduct small-value transactions without internet 
connectivity. We conducted a comprehensive campaign 
educating customers on the benefits of UPI.
We took several initiatives to fuel the growth of Digital 
Currency (CBDC)-Retail transactions. This includes 
easy redirection from mobile app to digital rupee 
app and through several customer campaigns and 
customer awareness drives.
Digital
1
2
3
Actively participating 
in Digital Public 
Infrastructure (DPI) 
initiatives
Driving digital 
engagement
Reimagining the 
digital experience
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
24
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2  Driving digital engagement
Our current mobile banking app continued to be among the top-rated 
banking apps on both iOS and Android platforms with 280+ features. 
Last year, we enhanced the banking and payments experience 
resulting in higher customer engagement. We enhanced several UPI 
features, revamped journeys for FD/RD, one view of the networth, 
InstaSIP, forex remittances in app and credit card spends tracking. 
We enabled our customers to grow their savings by services such as 
ActivMoney, invest in mutual funds, via the mobile app.
3  Reimagining the digital experience
Earning and preserving trust of customers is our #1 goal. We 
believe that this trust will help us deepen our relationship with them. 
We are prioritizing DIY journeys to acquire and grow customer 
holding of multiple-products and address the customers’ needs 
better. While we are pleased with the steady improvements in our 
customer experience metrics, we are always seeking opportunities to 
improve our service to them. 
While we recorded steady growth in customers transacting and 
raising service requests on the current app last year, our engineering 
team is busy solidifying the tech foundation and building next-
generation mobile banking app with several customer delight 
features. In Q4FY24 we have commenced deployment of our 
new Mobile Banking App (Beta version in both iOS and Android) 
– marking a crucial stride towards bolstering resilience and 
in-house development.
26.5% 
Growth in 30D digital 
Active Users
72% 
Growth in UPI 
Remittance Volume
27% 
Growth in Non-financial 
Transaction Volume
68% 
Growth in Transaction 
Volume on Mobile App
126% 
Growth in UPI In-app 
Volume
YoY
25
Digital
Year in Review
Kotak811
Commercial Banking
The business undertook various process improvements and digital/
tech initiatives to improve its ability in serving its customers, such 
as, straight through process (STP) in small CV segment and Chat 
functionality via WhatsApp, among others for faster redressal of 
service requests/queries.
We also initiated Salesforce based Loan Origination System (LOS) for 
vehicle businesses, implementation of Central Repossession Auction 
process for better transparency and control over resale process, 
among others. 
Further, we implemented the digital pay-out system that provides 
seamless, transparent system for our dealer partners in the eco-
system and revolutionised the MIS Reporting with modern dash 
boarding capability that automates analytics.
Wholesale Banking
On the supply chain side, digitisation enabled linkage capabilities were 
initiated with counterparties for seamless financing including auto 
settlement. On the acquiring business side, we are helping merchants 
accept transactions from foreign card holders with the focus to grow 
this offering. An all new payments platform was introduced with 
enhanced UI/UX resulting in increasing the transaction speed by 7X, 
thereby improving customer experiences. 
We were among the few banks to launch eBRC in partnership with 
DGFT to provide direct Bank Realisation Certificate (BRC) issuance 
capability to customers on the realisation of export proceeds. We also 
launched eBG solution along with NeSL, enabling complete digital 
journey for Bank Guarantee issuance. 
Aspiring to be full stack digital banking proposition, Kotak811 
launched its own app and premium offering. To make it the 
best, Kotak811 also on-boarded ~100 engineers to build 
everything in-house.
The Bank in your Phone: Payments, Savings, Credit Cards 
and more
Launched in March 2024, the Kotak811 App brings the cornerstone 
of banking – savings, payments, credit cards, investments – onto 
one platform. Designed to be payment-first app, given the affinity 
of the Indian customer for digital payments, the app facilitates and 
rewards UPI payments.
Launched 811super : A premium savings account
In FY 2023-2024, Kotak811 launched its first premium savings 
account, 811super, designed to attract and service high-value 
customers with exclusive benefits and support mechanism.
Rating of the App (as of 31st March, 2024)
4.7
Appstore
4.6
Play-store
^Savings Account refers to Live Full KYC Accounts only | ^^Paid Debit Card (physical DC) includes all cards sold to 811 customers | ^^^Throughput includes 
both credit and debit transactions
YoY
2.36 cr
35%  
Kotak811 Savings A/c^
1.25 cr
34%  
Paid Debit Cards^^
38% 
Growth in Deposits
52% 
Growth in Savings A/c 
throughput^^^
Digital
26
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
#One working day | *Kotak General Insurance has ceased to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank on 18th June, 2024 and the Bank now holds the 
remaining 30% of the share capital of Kotak General Insurance.
YoY
24% 
Growth in the Online 
Investors’ base
22% 
Growth in Distributor 
User’s base
23% 
Increase in Distributor Initiated 
Transactions on our Business 
Hub (Distributor Portal)
47% 
Increase in AUM from Online 
Investors 
Retail Stock Broking  
(Kotak Securities Limited)
Adding convenience for trading and investing with launches and 
enhanced digital features:
We implemented dedicated portals with End-to-End (ETE) tracking 
from intimation to payment for both individual and group claim 
processing (Individual: IndiClaim and Group: Express Portal), 
ensuring a seamless and trackable experience for the customer.
Claim processing enabled on portals - 32% of MFI claims are 
processed in 0 day and 76% within a day.
Boost 360 App - A super-app for advisors, partners and Front Line 
Sales (FLS) for pre and post-sales activities; 95K+ users registered. 
General Insurance 
(Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited*)
We expanded our digital footprint and reach by entering partnerships 
with leading fintech and digital platforms. We launched a new 
automotive claims and collision repair estimation platform for our 
partners to enable them to provide faster claims settlement to our 
customers. We had automated 45% of our do-able service requests 
in FY 2023-24 by implementing Voice bot on our IVR to provide 24/7 
self-service options. 
Striving for enhanced customer interaction and servicing, we 
had also launched AI-based Chatbot, enhanced our GIA Web and 
WhatsApp Bot by offering few fully managed services.
Mutual Fund 
(Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited)
Streamlining and simplification of our transaction user journeys in  
FY 2023-24 led to a - 
Life Insurance 
(Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited*)
In our unwavering commitment to streamline processes and elevate 
customer experiences, we have digitized the end-to-end onboarding 
journeys by Integrating CKYC and Account Aggregators, which have 
resulted in faster Issuance of non-medical policies, with  37% of 
policies being issued in three hours and 68% in one day#. 
We have enabled 24 service offerings and claim status tracking 
on WhatsApp, ensuring prompt and efficient resolution of queries 
and requests. Through these digital initiatives, over 5 million 
customer servicing transactions, representing 78% of total servicing 
transactions were seamlessly processed. 
Usage of Advanced Data analytics for persistency management 
by leveraging predictive modeling and customer segmentation 
led to 2.3% increase in 13th Month persistency, reaching 
87.5% in FY 2023-24.
Leveraged the learnings from data analytics on claim experience 
in onboarding of new business and underwriting process for 
better risk management.
We launched ‘InstaTrade’, comprehensive trading solution providing 
access to Charts, Option Chain, Positions, Orders and P&L – 
all on one screen. 
We launched ‘Neo Mutual Fund platform’ with simplified user 
journeys, offering greater accessibility and convenience to 
our valued clients.
We launched ‘IPO Module’ to enhance order journeys and expedite 
processing of IPO applications for a smoother experience.
We launched ‘Sipit’, a long-term investment product that enables 
SIPs in individual stocks and ETFs, allowing customers to 
systematically invest a pre-specified amount / quantity of shares 
over a predefined frequency. Within eight months of its launch, we 
had processed 1 lakh+ SIPs through this feature.
We implemented ‘Salesforce’ to enhance customer servicing, aiming 
to smoothen resolution of service requests.
We revamped our pre-login website featuring a modern UI/UX 
design and transitioned to cloud based architecture powered 
by a next generation headless content management system 
(CMS) at the backend.
100%
of our individual agents are 
on-boarded on KLI Recruit App 
27
Digital
Year in Review
Strengthening our 
technology backbone
Our Technology team has been diligently 
implementing an aggressive risk-based 
approach to enhance resilience, governance, 
risk management, security and automation 
of our Bank’s IT systems. Elevating overall 
customer experience has been at the 
core while ensuring stability and security 
of our operations.
The Bank has taken several steps to augment its capacity, strengthen 
IT resilience, IT infrastructure including network devices and apps 
to withstand potential disruptions and ensure seamless service 
availability. A few key initiatives taken herein are: 
The Bank has been implementing effective governance frameworks 
to oversee IT operations and ensure alignment with business 
objectives. Adopting a proactive approach to identify, assess and 
mitigate risks associated within our systems and operations and 
therein enhancing security measures to protect sensitive data and 
mitigate cyber security threats. 
	
Upgradation and/or replacement of EOL (End of Life) 
devices, for e.g. operating systems and databases, network 
switches and routers before they can cause any security or 
performance issues. 
	
Our customer service platform, ‘Seibel’ reached its EOL and 
hence, we moved to Salesforce to improve performance, 
increase scalability, enhance security and reduce costs.
	
We resolved critical and high internet facing vulnerabilities 
in our IT systems. 
	
We scaled our Disaster Recovery (DR) site to make them 
capable of handling production like workloads. 
	
We established Network Access Control (NAC - restricting 
unauthorized users and devices from gaining access to the 
Bank’s network) – covering more than 60K end points.
	
We integrated Critical Payment Systems to a security solution 
called SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) that 
helps us detect threats before they disrupt business.
	
We replaced our old IT Service platform with a modern platform 
‘Service Now’ that helps us define, manage, automate and 
structure IT services - allows us to raise and track tickets as well 
as process and catalogue regular IT service requests.
This is being achieved via efforts around the following three levers:
Governance, Risk Management and Security
Technology 
IT Resilience and Capacity
1
2
28
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Launched a cutting-edge unified service platform ‘K-Force’ on 
Salesforce that substantially improved the operational efficiency 
and customer experience by centralising information and simplifying 
SLA tracking and measurement across customer servicing teams, 
branches, call centres and operations. This resulted in benefits 
of capturing customer interactions and creating service requests 
seamlessly, reduced the need for manual handling, along with 
complete automation of key high-volume service requests, resulting 
in superior servicing.
We have deepened our use of machine learning in various decision 
points in our businesses from deciding asset offer eligibility to 
marketing/propensity to driving efficiency in collections through 
digital programmes. This has led to significant expansion in  
data-driven business across various verticals from consumer to 
business loans to commercial bank. Some of our flagship solutions 
this year include risk model for loan eligibility, card behaviour score, 
mule detection and propensity/affinity models which increased 
efficacy/impact of the underlying programmes by over 30%. We 
are building an end-to-end solution stack that includes ability to 
integrate internal, bureau and alternate data sources, deep mining 
of customer transactions and real time modeling, rules deployment 
through cloud based platform with rules engines. We are 
We on-boarded 537 engineers between April 2023 to March 2024 
enabling greater control and ownership in delivering faster, cheaper 
and better solutions for internal and external customers. Building this 
in house engineering capability has enabled us in automating and 
streamlining processes, improve efficiencies, improvise better data 
outputs and reduce manual interventions and potential errors.
Deployment of new eMBark platform, marks a critical stride towards 
bolstering reliance and inhouse development. Additionally, more than 
25 apps were built on the cloud this year using Cloud 2.0 principles 
and governance, such as eMBark, RTS, ROS and Call Audit Platform.
Significant progress has been made across the above three levers 
and these will continue to be under focus and priority to further 
create a robust technology backbone for our Bank with an ultimate 
motive to enhance our customer experience and satisfaction. Bank 
has made significant customer visible improvements resulting in 
customer NPS improvements indicating the Bank’s commitment to 
put the customer first.
Customer Service Efficacy and Unified Onboarding 
Journeys for Customers
Data Analytics
modernizing our data stack by enhancing our cloud data platform, 
data quality coverage, data consumption tools and building ML Ops 
framework for faster deployment and model governance.
Build out of Internal Software Development 
Capabilities leading to better software quality and 
automations
3
29
Technology
Year in Review
Driving growth through 
people excellence
At Kotak, we recognize that our people are 
the driving force behind our success. As 
we navigate the ever-changing business 
landscape, nurturing and empowering our 
talent pool is of utmost importance. Our 
approach to talent transformation is rooted 
in fostering an environment that encourages 
innovation, collaboration and continuous 
development, enabling our workforce 
to thrive and excel.
For FY 2023-24, our Talent Acquisition Strategy remained focused 
on making Kotak a future-ready organisation with concentrated 
efforts directed towards building talent pipeline. The Kotak Mahindra 
NextGen Bankers Programme in collaboration with the Manipal 
Academy of BFSI is an ideal launch pad for ambitious and aspiring 
youth, equipping them with the skills for growth and success in 
their banking career.
We have amplified our fresher intake from STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) campuses, implemented 
off-campus hiring through Hire, Train and Deploy Programmes and 
increased lateral hiring from top-tier tech organizations. 
A key aspect of our hiring strategy is to cultivate a young, agile and 
tech-savvy workforce, better equipped to drive digital transformation 
and enhance customer experiences. Our efforts to recruit women 
have led to a more diverse and inclusive workforce. 
At Kotak, we excel at creating a high-performance environment that 
fosters innovation, collaboration and continuous development. In 
FY 2023-24, we launched a new-age learning management system 
‘Kotak MyLearn’ and introduced ‘Refueling Hours,’ enabling colleagues 
to dedicate time to personal and professional growth.
To democratise learning and build a future-ready workforce, we 
launched the third edition of the highly successful Learning A-Fair. 
This virtual event brought together Thought Leaders, Influencers, 
best-in-class Facilitators and Celebrities, who interacted with 
colleagues through a metaverse platform.
The Bank also launched the 5th cohort of Quantum Leadership, a 
senior leadership programme aimed at developing strategic thinking 
while dealing with a disruptive environment. Coaching Connects were 
introduced for senior leaders, supporting them in navigating current 
challenges and preparing them for future roles.
With an aim to develop the leadership capabilities of our 150 mid-level 
high-performing talent, the Bank launched an Executive Education 
programme in collaboration with the IIM campuses to develop the 
Bank’s mid-level talent. The programme has garnered great feedback 
from the cohort with them appreciating the curriculum, teaching 
methodology, mentorship and networking opportunities. 
Our flagship programmes, Kotak Young Leader Council (KYLC) and 
DRONA, provide unique opportunities for young managers to work 
with senior leaders as mentors, co-create innovative solutions and 
enhance their managerial capabilities.
Talent Acquisition
Talent Management
Building a Future-Ready Workforce 
Fostering a Culture of Continuous Learning
Talent
30
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
In January 2024, Talent Engagement was established as a strategic priority for the Bank and its leadership team. 
To guide our approach, we introduced five pillars and took initial steps in this direction.
People Development: To ensure specific focus on the 
development and growth agenda for identified talent personas that 
include Leaders, KWWs (Kotak Wonder Women), Hi-performers, 
branch managers, specialist/ niche talent, new hires and a common 
minimum for the rest.
Talent Engagement
A Strategic Priority 
Colleague Value Proposition: Aimed at enhancing the purpose 
and pride of what it means for every colleague to work with Kotak, 
with a specific focus on the target talent personas. 
5
2
Building a Culture of Appreciation: The aim is to continue to 
celebrate and reward outstanding performances and contributions, 
with greater consistency of experience across the Bank. 
Our Rewards and Recognition platform- K-Applaud cultivates an 
appreciation culture. Various recognition programmes, such as 
Cheers for Peers, Kotak DNA Awards, SPOT and Heavy Lifters 
Rewards and Kotak Infinity Awards, further recognize and reward the 
exceptional contributions.
3
The Best of Kotak for Kotakites: It is the Bank’s endeavour 
to enhance the proposition from a corporate salaried segment 
perspective to ensure the best we would offer to any external 
customer. As a first step, we launched a ‘Staff Home Loan Policy’ 
effective from April 2024 and incorporated the best of our Corporate 
Salary propositions for colleagues.
1
Transparent Communication: Our intent is to strengthen the 
agenda on communication and communication channels and make it 
an ongoing habit by leaders This includes regular update emails from 
CEO/CHRO/other CXOs, periodic townhalls, and the planned launch 
of a new intranet for colleagues.
4
Colleague- refers to all employees on full time (permanent and fixed term contracts) and part time roles. 
31
Talent
Year in Review
 4-year CAGR | *excluding dividend and interest on income tax refunds
Profit & Loss
Our Net Interest Margin (NIM)* is driven 
by our risk-adjusted pricing and stood at  
5.3% for FY 2023-24.
Operational
A high CASA ratio has significantly 
contributed in lowering our cost of funds and 
enabled the engine to grow the asset book.
Balance Sheet
With a capital adequacy ratio of close to 22%, 
we are positioned attractively to support our 
growth aspirations.
CAGR 18%
FY 20
 17,570 
FY 22
 22,187 
FY 21
 19,858 
FY 23
 27,740 
FY 24
 33,669 
Net Interest Income
(H in crore)
CAGR 8%
FY 20
 1,47,622 
FY 22
 1,89,134 
FY 21
 1,69,313 
FY 23
 1,91,815 
FY 24
 2,04,304 
Current Account and Savings Account
(CASA) Balances (Bank standalone)
Bank Capital Adequacy Ratio
CET 1
FY 20
 17.9 
 17.1 
FY 21
 22.3 
 21.2 
FY 22
 22.7 
 21.5 
FY 23
 21.8 
 20.6 
FY 24
 20.5 
 19.2 
Bank Capital Adequacy Ratio and CET1	
(%)
CAGR 18%
Capital and Reserves and Surplus
(H in crore)
FY 20
 67,134 
FY 22
97,134
FY 21
 84,836 
FY 23
1,12,254
FY 24
1,29,892
CAGR 15%
Total Assets
(H in crore)
FY 20
4,43,153
FY 22
 5,46,498 
FY 21
 4,78,854 
FY 23
 6,20,430 
FY 24
 7,67,667 
CASA 
(%)
FY 20
 56.2 
FY 22
 60.7 
FY 21
 60.4 
FY 23
 52.8 
FY 24
 45.5 
CAGR 21%
Net Profit
(H in crore) 
FY 20
 8,593 
FY 22
 12,089 
FY 21
 9,990 
FY 23
 14,925 
FY 24
 18,213 
CAGR 17%
Operating Profit
(H in crore)
FY 20
 13,842 
FY 22
 16,719 
FY 21
 16,018 
FY 23
 20,086 
FY 24
 25,836 
CAGR 20%
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS)
(H)
FY 20
 44.7 
FY 22
 60.8 
FY 21
 50.5 
FY 23
 75.0 
FY 24
 91.5 
Key Performance Indicators
Delivering value with 
commitment
CAGR 14%
Deposits (Bank Standalone)
(H in crore)
FY 20
2,62,821
FY 22
3,11,684
FY 21
2,80,100
FY 23
3,63,096
FY 24
4,48,954
CAGR 15%
Advances
(H in crore)
FY 20
 2,49,859 
FY 22
 3,04,474 
FY 21
 2,52,170 
FY 23
3,59,107
FY 24
4,30,352
All numbers are on a consolidated basis except where stated
(H in crore)
32
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 4-year CAGR | ^KSEC ADV is computed based on the revised disclosures by NSE from April’23, accordingly previous period numbers are recomputed. | #Average assets 
under management | *as per green activities/projects indicated in RBI’s ‘Framework for acceptance of Green deposits’ issued in April, 2023. | $This data also includes 
energy consumed at Bank premises shared with a few subsidiaries | ##including transfers to Unspent CSR Account, administrative overheads and impact assessment | 
&as on the date of publishing this report | **The performance is indicated for the Bank wherever it is not mentioned specifically
Group Companies
Our subsidiaries and associates contributed 
 24% of the consolidated Profit after Tax 
(PAT) for FY 2023-24, reflecting the diversity 
of our business model.
ESG**
Promoting environmental sustainability, 
employee empowerment, good governance 
and responsible resource management 
for long-term growth.
Valuation Metrics
Our commitment to shareholder value 
creation is reflected in our sustained growth 
in book value per share.
Book Value Per Share
(H)
FY 20
 348 
FY 22
 487 
FY 21
 426 
FY 23
 563 
FY 24
 653 
CAGR 17%
Governance
Environment
Social
Market Capitalisation
(H in crore)
FY 20
 2,47,939 
FY 22
 3,48,080 
FY 21
 3,47,416 
FY 23
 3,44,240 
FY 24
 3,54,943 
CAGR 9%
19.5x
Price-to-earnings (P/E) as 
on 31st March, 2024
26.2%
Gender diversity 
at the Bank
8.2 lakh+
CSR beneficiaries 
for the Group
64%
Independence of the board&
23%
Purchases by value from 
MSME vendors at the Bank
27%
Board gender diversity&
J 320 cr+
Total CSR expenditure 
(Group)##
~27 lakh
Active microcredit women 
borrowers for the Group 
as of 31st March, 2024
12 LEED/IGBC
Certified offices
K 6,000 cr+
Green asset book* as of 
31st March, 2024
7%+
Share of renewable power 
used by the Bank is from 
renewable sources
2.6x 
Renewable power used  
compared to previous year$
2.66%
Return on Assets (RoA) 
for FY 2023-24
2.7x 
Price-to-book (P/B) as on 
31st March, 2024
15.08%
Return on Equity (RoE) 
for FY 2023-24 
Code of Conduct for service 
providers is integrated in 
service agreements
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management
– AAUM# - Overall (H in crore)
FY 20
 1,73,394 
FY 24
 3,46,589 
CAGR 19%
Kotak Life Insurance - Gross Written
Premium (H in crore)
FY 20
 10,340 
FY 24
 17,708 
CAGR 14%
22%
Increase in Bank’s 
customer base
Kotak Securities – Average Daily Volume
(ADV)^ (H in crore)
FY 20
 9,327 
FY 24
19,089
CAGR 20%
Total Assets Under Management
(H in crore)
FY 20
 2,25,878 
FY 24
 5,60,140 
CAGR 25%
Certified cybersecurity 
operations 
ISO 27001:2013 
Of the Bank’s workforce 
operates out of six  
ISO 45001:2018  
certified offices
15%
33
Key Performance Indicators
Year in Review
Awards and Accolades
Recognition of
Excellence
Kotak Mahindra Bank
 	
Best Mid-sized Bank by Mint BFSI Summit & Awards
 	
Best Bank Treasury FX Risk Management Award by India 
Treasury Summit & Awards, 2024
 	
Best Transaction Bank in India, Best Cash Management 
Bank in India and Best Business Ecosystem Initiative - 
Fusion Cash Management by The Asian Banker Transaction 
Finance Awards, 2023 
 	
Award for Corporate Banking Innovation: Digitization of Supply 
Chain Finance by Infosys Finacle Innovation Awards, 2023
 	
Best Digital Channel/ Platform Implementation: Most 
Impactful Project for Kotak fyn by IBSi Global FinTech 
Innovation Awards, 2023
 	
India’s Best for Philanthropic Advisory by Euromoney Global 
Private Banking Awards, 2024
 	
Best Private Bank in India by PWM/The Banker Global Private 
Banking Awards, 2023	
 	
Best Private Bank, Highly Commended in India by The Asset 
Triple A Private Capital Awards, 2023
Kotak Investment Banking
 	
India’s Best Investment Bank Award by Asiamoney 
Best Bank Awards, 2023
Kotak Life Insurance
 	
Customer Experience Team of the Year Award and Digital 
Experience Strategy of the Year Award by CX Strategy 
Summit & Awards, 2024
 	
Leader in Customer Engagement Initiative in Customer Service 
Management by 4th Elets BFSI Game Changer Summit, 2023
Kotak Alternate Assets Management
 	
Best Performance of The Year: Real Estate Fund by Indian 
Venture and Alternate Capital Association (IVCA)
Recognition for
Business Excellence
Recognition for
Employee Excellence and Learning Initiatives
 	
Uday Kotak honoured with Lifetime Achievement Award 
by BT-KPMG Best Banks Awards, Forbes India Leadership 
Award for Institution Builder and AIMA Lifetime Achievement 
Award for Management
 	
Shanti Ekambaram was recognised in India’s Most Powerful 
Women in Business 2023 - Fortune India and India Today She 
List - Top 100 Women Achievers of India
 	
Paritosh Kashyap honoured with CA Business Leader Award in 
the Large Corporates, BFSI Segment by Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI) Awards
 	
Lakshmi Iyer was conferred the Forbes India Self-Made 
W-Power Award 2024; featured among the Most Promising 
Business Leaders of Asia by Asian Business Leaders Conclave 
2024 and recognised as India’s Impactful CEO by Times Now
 	
Sandeep Chordia recognised with CA CXO Award in the Mid 
Corporates, BFSI Segment by Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI) Awards and featured in Top 20 CDO of the year by 
QUANTIC INDIA in 4th Annual BFSI Excellence Awards 2023.
 	
Rajeev Saptarshi has been recognised as Indian Alternative 
Investment Thought Leaders 2024 by Equalifi
 	
Tanvi Bothra has been featured in 40 under 40 Alternative  
Investment Professionals in India by Equalifi
 	
Pratik Parekh has been featured in 40 under 40 CA Business  
Leaders by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India  
and featured in 40 under 40 Alternative Investment  
Professionals in India by Equalifi
34
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Recognition for
Harnessing Talent and Culture
Kotak Mahindra Bank
 	
Best Bank for Talent & Workforce by BT-
KPMG Best Banks Awards
 	
Top 100 Best Companies to Work for 2024, as well as India’s 
Best Employers Among Nation-Builders 2024 and one of the 
India’s Best Workplaces in BFSI 2024 by Great Place to Work®.
Kotak Life Insurance
 	
Won the Best Leadership Development Program (Silver Award) 
and Best Corporate University (Silver Award) by TISS Leap 
Vault CLO Awards, 2023
 	
Won the Best Organisation for Women 2024 Award by ET Now 
Recognition for
Brand and Marketing
Kotak Mahindra Bank
 	
Best Brand Awareness Campaign-Gold for #FDwalaSavings 
- ActivMoney and Best Branded Content (Single)-Gold for 
#AlertRaheinSafeRahein - Safe Banking by afaqs! Digies, 2024
 	
Best Integrated Campaign (Multi-channels)-Gold and Best 
Celebrity Driven Campaign-Gold for #FDwalaSavings - 
ActivMoney by e4m Impact Digital Influencer Awards, 2023
 	
Best digital influencer-Bronze for Father’s Day 
campaign by e4m DigiOne
 	
Was recognised for Outstanding Marketing Initiative of the Year 
by ETBFSI Excellence Awards, 2023
Kotak Securities
 	
Won Customer Engagement Campaign of the 
Year Award at ASSOCHAM
 	
Won Best Use of Data Analytics in Marketing 
Award at ASSOCHAM 
 	
Won Most Effective Launch / Relaunch campaign Award, Most 
Effective Marketing Campaign - Online Trading Platform Award 
and Most Effective Performance Marketing Campaign Award at 
Pitch BFSI Marketing Awards, 2023
Kotak Life Insurance
 	
Won D2C Brand Campaign of the Year Award at Indian 
Television DMEA – Digital Media Excellence Awards, 2024
Kotak General Insurance
 	
Won top honours at Pitch BFSI Marketing Awards 2023
	
	
GOLD - Most Effective Customer 
Engagement for Kotak Meter
	
	
GOLD - Most Effective Use of Apps for Kotak Meter
	
	
GOLD – Most Effective Content Marketing Strategy for 
#DriveLikeALady campaign
	
	
GOLD - Most Effective Mobile Campaign for 
Road Safety campaign
 	
Won DMAi Asia Awards
	
	
GOLD – Financial Services – for #DriveLikeALady campaign
	
	
SILVER – Financial Services – for Kotak Meter campaign
	
	
SILVER – Mobile Category – for Kotak Meter campaign
Kotak Mutual Fund
 	
Bagged top honours at Digixx Awards 2024
	
	
PR / ORM – Award for the Seekho Paiso ki Bhasha Campaign 
	
	
Best Use Of Social Media (BFSI) Award for Sahi Samay 
Pe SIP Karo Campaign
	
	
Brand Awareness Campaign (BFSI) Award for Sahi Samay 
Pe SIP Karo Campaign
	
	
Data, Analytics and Optimisation - Award for the Seekho 
Paiso ki Bhasha Campaign 
Recognition for
Community Services
Kotak Life Insurance
 	
Best CSR Project of the Year by Corporate Social Responsibility 
Summit & Awards, 2024 - 10th Edition
Kotak Mahindra Bank
	
Gold Category (Service Sector) – ICAI‘s Sustainability 
Reporting Leadership Awards, 2023
	
Gold Category in The Asset ESG Corporate Awards, 2023
Kotak Mutual Fund
 	
Largest Investor Education Program for CBSE School Teachers 
recognised by Asia Book of Records, 2024 
 	
Largest Investor Education Program for CBSE School Teachers 
recognised by India Book of Records, 2024 
 	
Kotak Bond Fund adjudged Best Medium to Long Duration Fund 
by Morning Star Fund Awards, 2024
35
Awards and Accolades
Year in Review
Strategy 
Transforming for scale
Our strategic initiatives are deeply rooted in an ethos that places the customer at the centre 
of our focus. This is the guiding principle behind the ongoing evolution in our product 
propositions, customer service initiatives, and customer experience journeys across 
physical, voice and digital interactions with us.
Strategic Themes:
4C Framework:
Scale
Powered by organic initiatives, 
partnerships and inorganic initiatives
1
One Kotak
Meeting the holistic needs of 
the customer by drawing on the 
capabilities of the Group
2
Prudent Risk 
Management
Ensuring a sustainable risk-
reward relationship
3
Technology at 
the Core
Ensuring that systems and 
platforms are best-in-class
4
Empowered 
Colleagues
A diverse, engaged and 
productive workforce
5
Execution Excellence 
at Scale
Driving efficiency
6
Driving Inclusive and 
Responsible Growth
Driven by the highest standards of 
compliance and ESG
7
Customers
Company
Colleagues
Community
Driving Inclusive 
and Responsible 
Growth
Scale
One 
Kotak
Prudent Risk 
Management
Technology at 
the Core
Empowered 
Colleagues
Execution 
Excellence at 
Scale
Customer at 
the Center
1
7
2
6
3
5
4
Strategic 
Themes
Stakeholder 
Value
Colleagues
Customers
Company
Community
36
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Meeting the Holistic Needs of the Customer by drawing on the 
capabilities of the Group
We have identified certain high-value customer segments and seek to 
meet their needs holistically. The Group manufactures and distributes 
a variety of products across its integrated and diversified businesses 
offering banking, financing, asset management, insurance, retail and 
institutional broking, alternate assets, investment banking, and wealth 
management through a combination of the Bank, wholly-owned subsidiaries 
and associate companies. Through a ‘One Kotak’ approach, we endeavour 
to seamlessly bring together our entire suite of services in order to best 
meet the holistic needs of customers, deepen relationships and focus on 
offering relevant product-set for these high-value customer segments. 
One Kotak
Customer Centricity
Brand Recognition
Financing Inclusion and Social Development
Relevant Material Topics
2
Contribution to SDGs
Powered by Organic Initiatives, Partnerships and Inorganic Initiatives
Organic Initiatives
We believe that our path to scale has three key levers: 
	
Best-in-class Customer Service: The core tenets pivotal to 
delivery of excellent customer experience are: speed and simplicity, 
transparency, consistency, resilience, and a seamless omnichannel 
experience - all of which are supported by a strong backbone of 
technology and digital platforms.
	
Focused Propositions: This involves stitching together 
strong product and service bouquets designed for specific 
customer cohorts. 
	
Deep Engagement: This entails meeting the customer needs 
holistically, leveraging product capabilities across the Group.
We believe that convenience of digital banking experience and trust of 
branch presence are amongst the most important factors influencing 
the customer’s choice of bank. This helps expansion of reach while 
enabling multi-modal customer engagement and service delivery. This 
shall be enabled through the following:
	
Expanding Access: We will drive our distribution network across 
all three modes – Digital, Voice and Branch. This will enable deeper, 
omnichannel engagement with customers, resulting in higher 
growth in the retail deposit base, in particular current, savings and 
ActivMoney deposits, all of which aid in maintaining a competitive 
cost of deposits. In addition, the large and engaged customer 
base will aid asset growth and distribution growth across businesses, 
especially in the retail, commercial and MSME segments. 
	
Digital Capabilities: We recognise the importance of digital 
capabilities for scaling up the pace of customer acquisition and 
providing a best-in-class customer experience. With a promise of quick 
account opening through an entirely digital journey, at any time of the 
day, our digital capabilities are instrumental in driving acquisition of 
savings account customers. As part of our core digital focus, we are 
investing to create simplified, technology-driven journeys for customer 
acquisition and servicing across many other products as well.
	
Leveraging Technology to Power Scale: We are fully committed 
to ensure that Technology infrastructure is resilient to empower 
aspirations of growth at scale. To achieve this, we will continue to 
invest in technology for both infrastructure and applications with a 
dual objective: ‘run the Bank’ and ‘change the Bank’. In addition to 
making investments in Tech infrastructure, we have also created a 
highly capable Tech organisation, which will be critical to ensure the 
Bank is agile and nimble in the ever-evolving digital landscape.
Partnerships and Inorganic Initiatives
To enable us to scale faster, we actively seek opportunities in line with our 
internal framework for partnerships and M&A, such as businesses or assets 
that either enable us to expand our market share (e.g.: Our acquisition in FY 
2023-24 of Sonata Finance, a retail MFI focused on North India); allow entry 
into an industry, customer or geographic segment that we are currently not 
present in; or provide new capabilities. 
Scale
Customer Centricity
Brand Recognition
Financing Inclusion and Social Development
Relevant Material Topics
1
Contribution to SDGs
37
Strategy
Transforming for scale
Strategy 
Ensuring a Sustainable Risk-Reward Relationship
We intend to pursue sustainable and efficient growth through right 
quality assets at risk-adjusted pricing:
Advances Growth with Healthy Risk-reward Balance: Our strategy is 
centred on risk-adjusted returns with a sharp focus on return on capital 
across our various businesses. The consumer lending business (across 
secured and unsecured business lines) along with the SME lending 
businesses are expected to remain a key driver of our overall growth 
strategy. We aim to meet our priority sector lending targets by providing 
financing for tractors, small enterprises, allied agricultural activities, and 
microcredit for women borrowers. The core focus of wholesale business 
is to acquire quality customers and deliver customised solutions in trade 
finance, forex and cash management through efficient technology platforms, 
backed by high quality service. 
Risk Management: At its core, we consider the Bank to be a ‘risk management 
company empowered by technology’. The strategy for risk optimisation on 
unsecured credit involves continuous enrichments in high-quality model-based 
risk frameworks, while going from strength to strength in traditional areas 
of touch-and-feel credit and treasury risk management. With the emergence 
of newer risks in the area of cyber-security, operations and technology, 
we will continue to increase our focus towards strengthening and building 
appropriate guardrails. 
Prudent Risk Management
Data Security and Resilient IT Systems
Financing Inclusion and Social Development
ESG and Climate Risk Management in Lending and Investments
Promoting Green Finance
Operational Eco-efficiency and Resilience to Climate Change
Relevant Material Topics
3
Contribution to SDGs
Ensuring that Systems and Platforms are Best-in-Class
We will continue our journey to provide best-in-class digital interfaces 
and processes at speed.
Speed, Simplicity, and Transparency: We are working on mapping, 
automating, and digitising customer journeys across the ecosystem of 
products and services, in both physical and digital worlds. The operating 
philosophy behind the revamp is to make our journeys faster, simpler, 
more intuitive and well-informed for the customer. We are working on 
unified digital onboarding journeys for customers to have a consistent 
onboarding experience across products.
Best-in-Class Digital Banking Experience: We are undertaking a 
complete revamp of our mobile-banking platform to make it more user 
friendly, faster, safer and more convenient. The Beta version of the new 
Mobile Banking app is now available for public use. We will continue to invest 
in digital channels for enhancing customer acquisition, servicing, transaction 
processing capability, especially across payments and transfers. 
Leverage Digital Public Infrastructure: The rail roads for Digital Public 
Infrastructure in India have become wider and stronger with the advent and 
success of key government initiatives under India Digital Stack (UPI, Digilocker, 
Account Aggregator, ONDC, etc.). We are fully focused on unlocking the 
full value that each of these initiatives can create for our customers, duly 
complemented by our initiatives on advancing our analytics and underwriting 
engine, using direct and proxy data. Together, these shall enable personalised 
and well-informed customer outcomes.
Technology at the Core
Data Security and Resilient IT Systems
Data Privacy
Customer Centricity 
Relevant Material Topics
4
Contribution to SDGs
38
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
A Diverse, Engaged and Productive Workforce
Our colleagues are our biggest asset and ambassadors. As the 
organisation of the future is evolving both in terms of structure and 
composition, we are preparing ourselves with the right human capital 
to navigate the complexities of the modern world, enhance employee 
satisfaction and performance, and drive sustainable growth. The 
pathway to this is a well-rounded strategy which enriches the colleague-
value-proposition, learning and development towards career growth, 
culture of transparency, and recognition.
Colleague Value Proposition: We are committed to providing best-in- 
class colleague value proposition based on five pillars:
 	
Providing the ‘Best of Kotak for Kotakites and their families 
– offering differentiated/best-in-class products and 
services to colleagues
 	
People development through continuous learning, leadership development 
and skill enhancement
 	
Recognising and celebrating colleagues
 	
Transparent communication philosophy 
 	
Enhancing value proposition for each distinctive employee group
Organisation of the Future: Further, we aim to design an organisation 
for the future by:
 	
Hiring the best talent and driving a harmonious integration 
with ‘Kotak culture’ 
 	
Continuing to invest in tech, digital, analytical and propositional talent
 	
Developing a pipeline of future leaders and focusing on attrition control
 	
Fostering professional entrepreneurship within the organisation
Empowered Colleagues
Employee Health and Well-being
Employee Development and Engagement
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Relevant Material Topics
5
Contribution to SDGs
Driving Efficiency
We continue to leverage technology for scalability while also ensuring 
time and cost-efficient operations. We have revamped our internal 
processes to enable the customer to ‘Do-It-Yourself’ (DIY) in addition 
to empowering our workforce with tech-enabled tools and processes 
to service the growing customer base, improving productivity and 
efficiency. Some of the key focus areas are:
Operational Efficiency: We continue to expand our market share across 
businesses, bringing scale-led efficiency. Additionally, we will continue 
to invest in various digital initiatives and technology infrastructure 
to acquire customers and enrich service delivery, thereby optimising 
associated costs on a per unit basis. This will also make internal 
operations more efficient. Revamped customer journeys and process 
re-engineering initiatives will further help us achieve deeper relationships 
and cost efficiencies associated with lean processes. 
Employee Productivity: We endeavour to consistently improve employee 
productivity levels and have identified technology, automation, and straight-
through-processing as critical enablers to achieve this objective. Automating 
repetitive tasks not only helps in reducing costs, but creates customer delight, 
leading to an increased customer wallet-share and improved operating 
leverage. We are also focused on placing the right tools in the hands of our 
colleagues, especially at the front lines, to enrich the quality of engagement 
with customers, thereby enabling superior outcomes.
Capital: We plan our capital with the objective of meeting regulatory and 
business requirements, while striking a balance between risk-reward on the 
capital to be deployed. We will continue to maintain Tier-I capital in excess of 
the regulatory requirements and will continue to ensure that Credit-to-Deposit 
ratio remains within acceptable levels.
Execution Excellence at Scale
Regulatory Compliance 
Customer Centricity
Employee Development and Engagement
Operational Eco-efficiency and Resilience to Climate Change
Relevant Material Topics
6
Contribution to SDGs
39
Strategy
Transforming for scale
1Improvement in score for Consumer Business over the period December 2022 to January 2024 | 2Growth over the period 31st March, 2023 to March 31, 2024 | 
3Industry growth rates over the period 31st March, 2023 to 31st March, 2024 basis data published by the RBI | 4Growth in the average monthly active users of FY 
2023-24 versus the average monthly active users of FY 2022-23
Across businesses, key outcomes that we pursue are:
 	
Building trust with our customers 
 	
Enhancing customer engagement 
 	
Scale in customer base
Success is measured typically through parameters such as growth in 
customer base, market share, NPS, product holding, etc. 
At the overall Bank level, the number of customers increased to 5.0 crore 
as on 31st March, 2024, as against 4.1 crore as on 31st March, 2023. This 
was primarily led by acquisitions in 811 and Consumer Bank business. 
During the year, R-NPS score, a measure of customer trust and therefore 
willingness to refer the Bank to others, saw an increase by 131 points. 
Overall, we saw a deposit growth of 24%2 in FY 2023-24, which outpaced the 
industry deposit growth by 10%3. 
Engagement through digital platforms gained traction. Kotak Fyn, our 
platform for enterprise clients saw 4x2 growth in customer base, whereas 
there was 26.5%4 growth in average monthly active users on our Mobile 
Banking platform. 
Customers
Strategy
4C 
F
R
A
M
E
W
O
R
K 
We propose to measure the progress of our strategy in driving value 
to our stakeholders through the ‘4C framework’:
Driven by the Highest Standards of Compliance and ESG
We will continue to strengthen the compliance framework, lead efforts in 
responsible banking, and create an impact beyond banking. 
Financial Inclusion: Our asset growth strategy continues to focus 
on granular, high-quality, and sustainable businesses. We continue 
to increase the base of Jan Dhan accounts to lower-income groups, 
distribute government-sponsored lending/insurance schemes and 
offer services such as Aadhaar Enabled Payment Systems through 
our branch and Business Correspondent (BC) network. Our digital 
ecosystem has further opened opportunities to offer financial 
services to a vast population by leveraging the partner network. We 
continue to explore the fintech partnership network for new use cases 
and business models. 
Compliance: We will continue to follow a comprehensive compliance 
framework to ensure adherence to all the regulatory requirements at all times. 
We maintain transparency in communication with stakeholders, including 
customers, employees, investors, and regulators. 
Sustainable and Responsible Banking: We continue to focus on strong ESG 
practices and actively focus on sustainable practices in banking operations 
such as addressing carbon emissions and promoting resource efficiency. We 
have board-approved frameworks for green and sustainable finance in place 
and are working on strengthening our approach to addressing ESG and climate 
risks. We have been publishing detailed ESG disclosures since FY 2021-22 and 
have received a Gold Award for Sustainability reporting in services sector by the 
ICAI for the past two consecutive years.
Driving Inclusive and Responsible Growth
Regulatory Compliance
Promoting Green Finance
Financing Inclusion and Social Development
ESG and Climate Risk Management in Lending and Investments
Formulation of an ESG Roadmap
Relevant Material Topics
7
Contribution to SDGs
Customers
Company
Colleagues
Community
40
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2Growth over the period 31st March, 2023 to 31st March, 2024 | 5Growth in the number of accounts opened in FY 2023-24 versus FY 2022-23 | 6As on 31st March, 2024
Key outcomes that we pursue are:
 	
Engaged and enabled colleagues
 	
Productive workforce
 	
Diversity 
In June 2024, we were recognised as one of the ‘Top 100 Best Companies 
to Work for 2024’, as well as ‘India’s Best Employers Among Nation-
Builders 2024’ and ‘one of India’s Best Workplaces in BFSI 2024’ by Great 
Place to Work® (GPTW).
As a measure of colleague engagement, the Bank received a 75%+ score in 
the Annual Employee Pulse Survey. Further, 25% of our Top Management 
has > 20 years tenure with the group. Some of the responses to the GPTW 
Survey – December 2023 are as follows:
79% of employees say – 
“I would say this is a great place to work taking everything into account”
76% of employees say – 
“I feel I make a difference at Kotak”
80% of employees say – 
“I feel a sense of Pride when I look at what we accomplish at Kotak”
We have 25%+ women employees. We aim to foster and encourage diversity 
further through supportive policies appropriate for various life-stages. 
Colleagues
Company
Key outcomes that we pursue are:
 	
Sustainable growth 
 	
Value creation 
 	
Capital efficiency
One of the key drivers of sustainable growth is the quality of deposit 
franchise. We saw a CASA ratio of 45.5% for FY 2023-24. 79%6 of our total 
deposits were below ₹ 5 crore, an indication of granularity of deposits. 
ActivMoney, our sweep TD product was well received by customers and 
saw 102%2 growth. For FY 2023-24, our Cost of Deposits was 4.7%, which is 
competitive vis-à-vis peer private sector banks.
We witnessed 20%1 growth in total advances, driven by higher retail 
advances. Unsecured retail advances stood at 11.8%6 of net standalone 
advances, driven by a 44%2 growth in credit card advances. Our commercial 
vehicle/construction equipment advances grew by 33%2. The Net NPA of 
the Bank improved to 0.34% as on March 31, 2024 (compared to 0.37% as 
on March 31, 2023). 
Our Consolidated Balance Sheet overall is well capitalised at 21.8%6 
CRAR, with healthy return on assets of 2.66% and return on equity of 
15.08% for FY 2023-24.
We received the following awards during FY 2023-24:
 	
Best Mid-sized Bank by Mint BFSI Summit & Awards, 2023
 	
Best Bank Treasury FX Risk Management’ Award by India Treasury 
Summit & Awards, 2024
 	
The Asian Banker Transaction Finance Awards, 2023 
	
	
Best Transaction Bank in India
	
	
Best Cash Management Bank in India
	
	
Best Business Ecosystem Initiative - Fusion Cash Management
Community
Key outcomes that we pursue are:
 	
Inclusive growth 
 	
Responsible growth 
In FY 2023-24, we received the following awards for performance on ESG:
	
ICAI Gold category in Sustainability reporting in Services Sector for 
FY 2022-23 Annual report 
	
Gold Category in The Asset ESG Corporate Awards, 2023
In essence, our strategy is focused on Transforming for scale – an over-arching focus on the customer, driven through the seven strategic themes. This 
would enable value creation for all our stakeholders. Our commitment is to consistently progress against these goals.
We received 81/100 SES ESG score with 4/73 SES ESG ranking in BFSI 
sector. This rating is provided by Stakeholder Empowerment Services, a 
proxy advisory firm registered with the SEBI as an ESG Rating provider. It 
scores companies based on their Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (BRSR) disclosures and ranks them accordingly.
We continue to focus on financial inclusion, and saw 7.6x5 growth in number 
of Jan Dhan Accounts opened, ₹ 11000 crore + PSL eligible advances 
over regulatory requirement for FY 2023-24, growth of 60%2 in Retail MFI 
advances, and 36%2 growth in micro lending customers.
41
Strategy
Transforming for scale
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment
Creating value and 
nurturing relationships
ESG Policy framework covering all material topics and linked to 
Kotak’s strategic pillars was developed to finalize the outcomes 
and create a strategic roadmap for the material topics. This earlier 
assessment was reviewed in FY 2022-23.
In FY 2023-24, we undertook an improved materiality exercise to 
identify material topics that serve as inputs for our ESG strategy. 
We involved our stakeholders in this process to gain a better 
understanding of the changing economic and policy landscape, 
enabling us to identify emerging risks and opportunities, and the 
potential impact on our business and to the environment and society. 
The materiality exercise undertaken in FY 2023-24 is in alignment 
with GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 and guided by the double materiality 
principles of European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). 
The assessment factored the impact of Kotak’s business activities 
on ‘Impact materiality’ and ‘Financial materiality’. Impact materiality 
provides a view on how an organisation impacts people and the 
planet through its activities and financial materiality helps an 
organisation understand how external factors affect financial 
position, performance, cash flows, access to finance or cost of 
capital. This exercise enabled us to deeply and actively engage with 
stakeholders by seeking their views on how material topics are likely 
to impact the organization and vice-versa by assessing the scale and 
scope of risks, opportunities, and impacts. We are cognizant that 
wider and sustained stakeholder engagement is necessary to attain 
a comprehensive understanding of what is material for business 
operations, as different stakeholders have various and sometimes 
conflicting perspectives on material topics.
1GRI 3-1
We at Kotak strive towards creating long-term relationships with 
our stakeholders based on transparency, accountability, respect 
and mutual trust, through our ethical and agile business practices 
and robust stakeholder communication. We firmly believe that 
understanding our stakeholders is necessary to address the 
opportunities and challenges evolving in today’s dynamic market. 
This not only contributes to the strategic direction and operational 
excellence of our organisation, but also helps in enhancing our 
performance and reputation.
We identify key stakeholders based on their potential to influence 
our business strategy, vulnerability to business outcomes, and 
potential to collaborate with us. 
Improve 
stakeholders’ trust and 
confidence in our business
Increase
our ability to understand 
stakeholder inputs 
Stakeholder engagement helps us in the following:
We attempt to communicate effectively with all our identified 
stakeholders to recognize and address their respective concerns. 
Kotak has identified seven crucial stakeholder groups and the 
stakeholder engagement strategy structured for each  
stakeholder group is available on pages 402-403 in the  
Section C Principle 4 of BRSR. 
Impact Materiality
Considers impacts on people and the planet.
Financial Materiality
Considers the effects on the financials of the organization.
Determined by risks and opportunities.
People and Environment
Kotak Mahindra Group
Materiality Assessment1 
In FY 2021-22, we conducted a materiality assessment aligned with 
the principles of the GRI 2021, where key stakeholders rated and 
ranked various topics based on their influence on business outcomes 
and perceived preferences. The material topics were then clustered 
according to their contribution to value creation. Subsequently, an 
42
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The materiality assessment was carried out as follows: 
Step 1
 Identification and articulation of topics 
To identify relevant sustainability topics, we reviewed emerging 
business trends, risks and opportunities. A secondary research was 
conducted of industry specific material topics identified by practices 
of domestic and global peers, and rating agencies for financial 
institutions, which were contextualised to Kotak’s operations in terms 
of risks, opportunities and impacts. Risks and opportunities were 
qualitatively represented on how they could affect the enterprise 
value. Impacts indicated how the organization could affect the 
environment and people at large. 
Step 2
 	Engagement with key stakeholders to assess the 
identified material topics2 
By engaging with stakeholders, we tried to understand their 
perspectives on how material topics could influence the organization, 
as well as how the organisation can affect them. For this purpose, 
stakeholders were asked to rate the scale and scope of risks, 
opportunities, and impacts through online surveys. Valuable insights 
from our stakeholders revealed opportunities and emerging risks, 
which help shape our strategy towards sustainability.
Step 3
	 Analysis of external and internal 
stakeholder consultation
The responses gathered from the engagement were further analysed 
to derive the materiality outcome along with the analysis on impacts, 
risk and opportunities. After this analysis, the materiality matrix was 
developed, and the material topics were clustered into groups – 
Foundation, Growth and Ecosystem. Executive Directors on the Board 
and Senior Management reviewed the material topics along with the 
aggregated results from the surveys. 
Material issues3
Our Material issues are categorised into the following: 
Foundation
Material topics core to Kotak’s operations and sustainability	
A 	
 Data Security and Resilient IT Systems
B 	
 Regulatory Compliance
C 	
 Data Privacy
D 	
 Business Ethics
E 	
 Corporate Governance
Growth
Material topics driving Kotak’s progress and business excellence
F 	
 Customer Centricity
G 	
 Brand Recognition
H 	
 Employee Development and Engagement
I 	
 Formulation of an ESG Roadmap
J 	
 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
K 	
 Employee Health and Well Being
L 	
 Promoting Green Finance
M 	
 ESG and Climate Risk Management in
	
	
Lending and Investments
Ecosystem
Material topics integrating Kotak’s long-term vision to contribute to 
national goals and commitments on sustainable development 
N 	
 Financing Inclusion and Social Development
O 	
 Operational Eco-efficiency and Resilience to Climate Change
P 	
 Policy Advocacy
Q 	
 Community Well-being
R 	
 Supply Chain Sustainability
Kotak Mahindra Materiality Matrix
2GRI 2-29 | 3GRI 3-2
The Outcome of Materiality assessment conducted for FY24
Impact Materiality
Financial Materiality
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
O
P
Q
R
N
Medium
High
Medium
High
43
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment
Transforming for scale
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment
Kotak Mahindra Group’s Material Topics and some key performance indicators are covered in this Report3
Material 
Topics 
Description 
Rationale for materiality and management 
approach4
Section of the 
report covering 
management 
approach4,5 
Our performance6
Data Security 
and Resilient 
IT Systems
Prevent and address IT system failures and 
major cybersecurity incidents to facilitate 
seamless operations resulting in resilient IT 
systems.
Data security is a significant risk for 
organisations handling large volumes of 
sensitive financial and personal data. Lack 
of robust data privacy systems can result in 
financial penalties, increased legal fees arising 
from lawsuits and reduction in customer 
retention.
Governance
Cybersecurity operations are 
ISO 27001:2013 certified 	  
 
Relevant Board committees are updated on 
Cybersecurity*
Regulatory 
Compliance
Adherence to laws, regulations and 
guidelines.
In an ever-evolving regulatory landscape it 
is imperative for organizations to ensure 
compliance on current and emerging 
regulations. Failure to keep abreast with the 
dynamic policy and regulatory landscape can 
lead to litigation, regulatory and reputational 
risks.
Governance 
Corporate 
Governance 
report
No non-compliance noted to applicable 
environmental laws and regulations
Data Privacy
Measures taken to ensure safe and secure 
use and maintenance of sensitive personal 
information.
Data breaches or unauthorised access to 
customer data could lead to legal liabilities, 
including lawsuits from customers, regulatory 
investigations, financial penalties and damage 
to brand and reputation leading to reduction in 
customer retention.
Generating value 
for customers
 
Governance
GDPR aligned Privacy Notice for non-resident 
customers
Business 
Ethics
Ethical conduct of business, including in 
areas such as taxation and accounting, 
anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, anti-
competitive practices, insider trading and 
intellectual property issues.
Ethical business practices can present 
opportunities by building a strong reputation 
and brand, managing risks, attracting and 
retaining employees and customers.
Governance 
Corporate 
Governance 
report
Percentage of employees who acknowledged 
adherence to Code of Conduct (CoC): 99.61% 
Total employee training hours on Anti money 
laundering: 39,662
Corporate 
Governance
Covers Board and management 
effectiveness and integrity, succession 
planning, remuneration policies and 
practices, reporting and audit of financial 
and non-financial information that promotes 
high level of transparency, accountability and 
Board oversight.
Failure to adhere to good governance practices 
could pose significant risks to operations, 
financial performance, and ultimately long-term 
success for the organization. This could result 
in financial penalties, a reduction in access to 
capital.
Governance
Corporate 
Governance 
report
Smooth transition of leadership across Board 
and Top Management.
Number of Board of Directors with expertise 
on Risk Management: 4
Average Board meeting attendance: 94.93%
Customer 
Centricity
Enhance customer experience and 
satisfaction, and address customer 
expectations via product innovation, efficient 
processes, digital solutions, user friendly 
interfaces, easy access to products and 
services, fair marketing practices and 
efficient complaint resolution.
Enhancing customer experience and 
satisfaction can help Kotak improve customer 
retention, increase revenue, differentiate the 
Bank from competitors, build a strong brand 
image, increase customer base and reduce 
costs.
Generating value 
for Customers
25% Y-o-Y growth in digital sourcing of 
Personal Loans
Customer grievances resolved within 
stipulated turnaround time: 81%
Brand 
Recognition
Enhance the brand image and reputation to 
boost stakeholder confidence and goodwill.
Positive brand and reputation help attract and 
retain customers and other stakeholders such 
as investors, employees and shareholders. 
A positive reputation can also help dampen 
impacts of macroeconomic risks.
Generating value 
for Customers
22% YoY growth in customer base
22% YoY growth in customer assets
Employee 
Development 
and 
Engagement
Invest in training, upskilling and leadership 
development to nurture, advance and retain 
talent. Initiatives to improve collaboration and 
mutual respect, towards creating an open 
and approachable work culture.
Enabling learning, development, and an open 
work culture for employees is an opportunity 
to increase employee engagement, retention, 
and performance, decreased hiring costs, 
enhance reputation, attract top talent, and gain 
a competitive advantage.
Empowering 
Colleagues
Average person hours of training: 41 Hours
Investment in training and development:  
I 46 Cr
80% employees feel proud of 
accomplishments at Kotak8
Formulation 
of an ESG 
Roadmap 
(ESG 
Stewardship)
Specify and communicate a forward 
looking ESG trajectory including targets and 
commitments for promoting sustainability 
across portfolio and operations.
Indicating a strategic roadmap demonstrates 
commitment to responsible business practices, 
enhancing brand reputation and financial 
performance.
This would also signal stakeholders 
on contribution to national goals and 
commitments on climate and sustainable 
development
Embracing 
Sustainability
Oversight of a Board committee on ESG 
strategy.
Published our aspiration to have women 
represent one-third of our workforce to 
improve gender diversity
 Risk	
 Opportunity
3GRI 3-2 | 4BRSR, Section A, Question 26 describing rationale for identifying a material topic as risk or opportunity, approach to adapt or mitigate and the
financial implications of the risk or opportunity | 5GRI 3-3 | 6The performance is indicated for the Bank wherever it is not mentioned specifically. The static figures 
mentioned in the KPIs are as on 31st March, 2024. The period figures mentioned are for FY 2023-24. | *As on the date of publishing this report
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
44
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 Risk	
 Opportunity
Material 
Topics 
Description 
Rationale for materiality and management 
approach4
Section of the 
report covering 
management 
approach4,5 
Our performance6
Diversity, 
Equity, and 
Inclusion
Run programmes and activities to hire, 
mentor and support employees for 
promoting workforce diversity, equity 
and inclusion. Provide equal and fair 
treatment, remuneration and advancement 
opportunities to all employees.
Promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) 
amongst employees can provide numerous 
benefits including increased innovation and 
creativity, enhanced reputation, better risk 
management, and compliance with regulations.
Empowering  
Colleagues
Percentage of women in the workforce at the 
Group: 25.7%
Share of women workforce in Senior 
Management at the Bank: 8%
Employee 
Health and 
Well Being
Provide a safe workplace and proactively 
address health and safety related concerns 
through trainings, safety drills, ergonomics, 
insurance, daycare etc.
Promoting employee health, safety, and well-
being enhances employee productivity and 
minimises absenteeism, employee turnover 
and hiring costs.
Empowering  
Colleagues
ISO 45001:2018 certified offices: 6
Number of hours of health and safety trainings 
at the Bank: 15,442
Promoting 
Green Finance
Providing products, services and incentives 
to depositors and borrowers for mobilizing 
capital towards positive environmental and 
climate impact. Strengthen the systems and 
build capacities to raise and deploy green and 
climate finance.
Promoting green finance could help build 
trust among conscious stakeholders, reduce 
exposure and losses arising from climate 
risks and support transition to a low carbon 
economy. 
Embracing 
Sustainability
99% and 77% increase in electric 2-wheelers 
and electric car loans respectively by KMPL 
over FY 2022-23
I 6,000 Cr+ Green asset book*
ESG and 
Climate Risk 
Management 
in Lending and 
Investments
Integrating ESG screening and due diligence 
in evaluation of potential borrowers and 
transactions. Managing the investment and 
advances portfolio mix, based on scenario 
analysis and stress testing for climate risk.
Identifying ‘ESG and climate risk management 
in lending and investment’ as a material topic 
for Kotak is imperative. It aligns with global 
sustainability agendas, mitigates financial 
risks, enhances reputation, and fosters long-
term value creation. Addressing these factors 
proactively reinforces stakeholder trust and 
resilience in the face of evolving environmental 
challenges.
Embracing 
Sustainability 
ESG Management Systems Plan covers 
the steps for ESG risk evaluation of select 
transactions 
Physical risk assessment on geographical 
footprint and transition risk assessment of 
select carbon intensive sectors 
Financing 
Inclusion 
and Social 
Development
Promoting financial inclusion via ensuring 
availability and access to financial services 
and providing financial literacy for unbanked 
and underbanked people. Extending financial 
services to contribute to positive societal 
good such as education, nutrition and 
healthcare.
Promoting financial inclusion is an opportunity 
to access new markets, generate new 
revenue streams, improve reputation, and also 
contribute to economic development.
Embracing 
Sustainability 
ATMs with voice guidance facilities: 618
45% micro-ATM outlets across rural and  
semi-urban locations
~27 lakh active microcredit women 
borrowers till FY 24 at the Group
Operational 
Eco-efficiency 
and Resilience 
to Climate 
Change
Optimize energy and water use, along with 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and 
waste, and investments in environmentally 
sustainable programmes to promote 
ecoefficiency in operations. Organization’s 
operational readiness to handle chronic and 
acute climate incidents, such as temperature 
rise and floods/cyclones respectively.
Operational eco-efficiency can help meet 
regulatory requirements, enhance reputation, 
reduce costs and increase revenue. Efforts 
to become resilient to climate change can 
contribute to business continuity
Embracing 
Sustainability
7%+ share of renewable power used by the 
Bank
2.6x renewable power used compared to 
previous year
Policy 
Advocacy
Provide views and ideas to help develop 
regulations and policies for building 
sustainable practices in the industry.
Contributing to the development of regulations 
and policies could be an opportunity to 
demonstrate commitment to responsible 
governance, reduce regulatory risk, enhance 
collaboration and improve brand and 
reputation.
Governance
Active participation as part of industry 
associations as part of industry associations
Community  
Well-being
Programmes to address the developmental 
needs of communities through CSR 
programs and donations.
By investing in community development, 
organizations can make a positive impact on 
the communities and contribute to the long-
term sustainability of business operations. 
This can result in stronger relationships with 
communities.
Supporting 
Communities
Group’s CSR expenditure: ₹ 320 crore7 
CSR beneficiaries: 8.2 lakh + for the Group
Supply Chain 
Sustainability
Engaging with service providers on 
sustainability. Integrate sustainability in 
sourcing decisions.
Meaningfully engaging with the supply chain 
can foster stronger and longer partnerships 
that create business value, and contribute 
to business continuity. Sourcing sustainably 
demonstrates commitment to environmental 
stewardship and social responsibility. 
Governance
Purchases by value from MSME vendors: 23%
7Inclusive of transfer to Unspent CSR Account, administrative overhead and impact assessment | * as per green activities/projects indicated in RBI’s ‘Framework for 
acceptance of Green deposits’ issued in April, 2023.
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
45
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment
Transforming for scale
Risk Management
Safeguarding 
stakeholder interests
ESG and Climate Risk Management in 
Lending and Investments
Operational Eco-efficiency and Resilience to Climate Change
Data Security and Resilient IT Systems
Material Topics Covered
Capitals Covered
Key Highlights
Intellectual  
Capital
We consider risk management a core competence, ensuring sound management of risks 
through timely identification, assessment and management. Risk Management is integral to 
our operations, and our approach towards risk is designed to align the outcomes of our risk-
taking activities with our strategic goals and risk tolerance. We achieve this by maintaining a 
balanced approach ensuring that risks are managed prudently to optimise shareholder value.
ERM framework also supports the MD & CEO and the Group Chief 
Risk Officer (CRO) in cultivating a strong risk culture at the Group. 
It ensures effective oversight of risks through a clear internal 
governance model that defines the structure of risk ownership and 
accountability. Our risk management approach entails three lines of 
defence wherein clear definitions of roles and responsibilities for risk 
management are defined for each line of defence.
119.03%
Group’s Net Stable Funding 
Ratio
0.34%
Bank’s Net NPA
20.5%
Bank’s Capital Adequacy 
Ratio
Financial 
Capital
 Business Units 
 Support Units
 Risk Management  
 Financial control
 Compliance
 Independent Assurance 
 Internal Audit
 External Audit
Risk Governance
The Group operates within an enterprise-wide risk management 
(ERM) framework that integrates risk and capital management 
with business strategy. This framework safeguards financial 
strength and reputation while supporting business activities that 
enhance customer value and sustain shareholder returns. All legal 
entities within the group work under this framework with suitable 
modifications as appropriate for their individual businesses. The 
Line  
of Defence
1st 
Line  
of Defence
2nd
Line  
of Defence
3rd
46
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Group Chief Risk Officer, appointed by the Board of Directors 
and reporting directly to the MD & CEO, heads the independent risk 
function in the Bank. The Risk Function provides an independent 
and integrated assessment of risks across various business lines, 
and has separate units responsible for managing operational, credit, 
market, liquidity, interest rate, group and technology risks, which all 
report to the Group CRO. Every quarter, the Group Chief Risk Officer 
provides reports to both the Risk Management Committee (RMC) and 
the Board, detailing out the performance in relation to risk appetite 
and risk profile. 
The Group has a well-established robust risk management 
structure, which includes the Board of Directors, an experienced 
senior management team, and various management committees. 
The respective Board of Directors approve the risk policies and 
the delegation matrix, and the Bank and every legal entity within 
the Group operates within the limits set by their Boards and the 
Committees to whom the powers are delegated by their respective 
Board. The risk management processes of the Bank’s subsidiaries 
are the responsibility of their respective boards. A Group Risk 
Management Committee (GRMC) ensures that there is a holistic view 
of risks for the group.
The RMC and Board members are appropriately qualified to discharge 
their responsibilities, equipped with deep industry knowledge, skills, 
experience, professional qualifications and relevant technical, 
financial expertise in risk disciplines or businesses.
Credit risk
Risk of financial loss- resulting 
from the failure of a borrower 
or counterparty to fulfil their 
contractual obligations, leading to 
non-payment of loans or default on 
financial obligations.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to a Bank not being 
able to meet short-term obligations due to 
an inability to convert assets into cash or 
obtain funding at reasonable cost.
Interest rate risk
Interest Rate risk of losses in a Bank’s 
earnings /economic value of its capital 
due to fluctuations in interest rates 
affecting value of assets, liabilities and 
net interest income.
Market risk
Risk of losses in a Bank’s trading of 
investment portfolio due to adverse 
movements in market factors such 
as interest rates, exchange rates, 
commodity prices and equity prices.
Group risk
Risk arising from interconnectedness 
and exposures within a banking group, 
including risks associated with inter-group 
transactions, funding and contagion 
effects between entities within the group.
Operational risk
Risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people, 
systems, or external events.
Technology risk
Risk of financial loss, disruption of business 
operations, or damage to the Bank’s reputation 
resulting from failures or inadequacies in technology 
systems, cybersecurity breaches, data breaches or IT 
infrastructure failures.
Risk Function headed 
by CRO has oversight 
of the following risks
47
Risk Management
Transforming for scale
As of date, the Bank and major entities of the Group continue to be 
rated “AAA”, reflecting the Group’s strong financial risk profile, sound 
asset quality, robust liquidity and strong capital adequacy.
Details regarding risk management, encompassing risk categories, 
independence of risk management functions, controls, stress 
testing, governance structure, approach, and risk management 
and mitigation strategies, are elaborated upon in the Management, 
Discussion and Analysis section.
Every year, the Group conducts the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP), providing management with a 
comprehensive view of overall risks and assessing the capital 
required to mitigate these risks. Determining the level of capital 
required to cover these risks is a crucial outcome of the ICAAP 
process; it is then reviewed by senior management and approved by 
the board. Periodic enhancements to the ICAAP ensure greater detail 
and deeper analysis. 
Stress testing plays a crucial role within the ICAAP and serves as 
a cornerstone in our risk management framework. It offers the 
management deeper insights into portfolio performance during 
challenging economic conditions. This approach enhances our 
predictive risk management capabilities and complements other 
tools by assessing potential risks, ensuring our capital levels are 
sufficient in forward-looking and severe stress scenarios. A Board 
approved Stress Testing policy aligned to regulatory guidelines and 
covering material risks is in place for this. The ICAAP incorporates 
stress testing into capital planning, ensuring that throughout the 
year, the Bank maintains capital ratios above regulatory requirements 
and internal targets across all approved stress scenarios. The Group 
maintains sufficient capitalization to adequately cover both Pillar I 
and Pillar II risks.
Risk Culture 
The risk culture lays emphasis on responsible business practices, 
priortisation of customers’ needs, and appropriate disclosures. The 
ERM framework reinforces a risk culture across the organization 
that ensures a high level of risk awareness and makes risk 
management an integral part of organisational decision-making. 
The objective is to develop a disciplined risk culture where 
managing risk is a responsibility shared by all employees. This 
is achieved through regular communication and tailored training 
programmes, and incorporating a structured induction curriculum for 
all new employees.
All employees are required to be familiar with risk management 
policies relevant to their roles and responsibilities and are 
encouraged to escalate any potential risk issues to senior 
management on a timely basis. The employees can send an email 
to their respective line managers in case a risk has been identified. 
We also have processes in place for testing the risk awareness 
of staff in general and skill set of relevant individuals (those in 
risk management functions or responsible for day-to-day risk 
management) with the objective of determining the training gaps in 
the area of risk management.
Risk management is also integral to business plan development 
and product launches at the Group. The Risk Function participates 
in activities supporting business development such as development 
and implementation of risk management processes for new 
business lines, product approval process, and post implementation 
reviews. This helps in ensuring that key aspects of the project 
such as risk identification procedures, compliance with regulatory 
guidelines, training, accounting framework, governance, IT 
infrastructure and staffing, are implemented prior to launching a new 
product and that appropriate approvals have been obtained. Before 
introducing new products, the Board and Senior Management of 
the Bank identify and review the changes in firm-wide risks arising 
from these potential new products or activities and ensure that the 
infrastructure and internal controls necessary to manage the related 
risks are in place.
Business leaders and senior management also receive regular 
updates on emerging risks within their business sectors. The Risk 
Function receives and reviews reports from the business lines and 
other areas about their risk profile mitigation programmes and loss 
event summaries. Feedback, if any, is considered for implementation 
for process control enhancements accordingly. 
Compliance to risk management policies and protocols is scored in 
performance appraisals of all roles including senior management. 
Similar to senior executives, line managers also undergo yearly 
performance appraisals in which compliance to risk management 
policies and protocols is scored. The Management Discussion and 
Analysis section of this Report provides more details regarding the 
embedded risk culture. 
Risk Management
48
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Digitalisation
Banks are increasingly embracing digital technologies, where they 
face a new array of risks, including cybersecurity threats, data 
privacy concerns and operational vulnerabilities. Digitalisation has 
the potential to enhance customer experience and reduce costs 
across various banking processes, such as loan origination, cash 
management, payments, trade finance and asset servicing. It also 
offers opportunities for efficiency gains and timely redressal of 
customer grievances. The banks managing this transition well would 
need to empower their relationship managers to focus on sales, 
customer service, risk management and handling exceptions.
In India, banks are navigating the adoption of AI/machine learning 
and APIs to enhance risk management and create operational 
efficiencies in the loan value chain1. Catering to the customer 
demand for digital-first experiences has emerged as a challenge for 
banks in the face of new age non-banking competitors equipped with 
advanced technical capabilities. Additionally, proliferation of digital 
options has expanded investment and lending opportunities and at 
the same time, exposed banks to increased fraud risks. 
Big data and analytics technologies need upfront investment 
in infrastructure, software, and systems integration, which also 
increases operational expenses for maintenance and upgrades. 
Banks would have to weigh carefully these costs against potential 
benefits, and consider phased implementation to manage the 
financial burden. Additionally, the rapidly evolving nature of 
technology means that banks risk investing in systems that may 
become outdated quickly, necessitating further expenditure to 
stay competitive. 
The complex nature of data analysis requires expertise in statistics, 
programming, machine learning, and domain-specific knowledge of 
banking and finance. Attracting the right talent and retaining them 
could be a challenge when tech companies and other industries are 
also competing for them. This shortage can lead to suboptimal use 
of data analytics tools, misinterpretation of results, or inability to fully 
capitalize on the potential of big data. A central mitigation measure 
for this would be to invest heavily in training programs, and to foster 
partnerships with educational institutions. 
The effectiveness of big data analytics also depends heavily on the 
quality and integration of data from various sources. The challenge 
facing banks are their legacy systems, siloed data structures, and 
inconsistent data collection practices, which could lead to incorrect 
insights and decision making.
As banks increasingly start relying on algorithms for decision-making 
in areas such as credit scoring, loan approvals, and customer 
service, there’s a growing risk of algorithmic bias. These biases can 
inadvertently discriminate against certain groups based on factors 
like gender, age or socioeconomic status. Addressing this risk 
requires careful algorithm design, regular audits for fairness, diverse 
teams in development, and transparency in decision-making process.
Big Data and Analytics
As banks transition into a digital economy, client-related 
customisation has become priority and a pre-requisite. Customers 
are now increasingly expecting personalised services tailored to their 
unique needs, from bespoke financial advice to customised loan 
products. Leveraging big data and advanced analytics customers 
can be offered personalised experiences that enhance their 
satisfaction and loyalty. 
1McKinsey: Building the AI bank of the future 
Navigating the New Normal: Emerging Risk 
Landscape
The banking sector faces a diverse array of emerging risks, 
spanning cybersecurity threats, financial risks triggered by 
climate change, evolving regulation, geopolitical volatility and 
disruptive technological advances. These risks entail multifaceted 
consequences demanding a proactive and flexible approach to 
risk management, coupled with a strategic foresight to ensure 
resilience and value generation within an ever-changing landscape. 
Mitigating Actions
1 	 Upgrading technology capabilities: At Kotak, we are 
upgrading the technology capabilities of our workforce 
and our systems to match and leverage the technological 
advancements emerging in our sector. We are also 
monitoring the digitalization landscape as it evolves, and 
putting in place proactive risk management strategies 
to not only meet customer expectations, but also 
maintain customer trust.
Mitigating Actions 
1 	 Data Infrastructure: We are investing in cloud computing, 
data warehousing and real-time data processing, which 
will allow the Bank to continuously upgrade the data 
infrastructure to support the increasing volume, variety 
and velocity of data.
	
 
2 	 CSR programme: The Bank through its CSR programme, 
is supporting the establishment of an AI/ML Centre 
at IISc Bangalore. The Center focuses on supporting 
research and developments in this evolving AI/ML space 
across sectors, including the financial services industry. 
3 	 Data Integration: We are continuously strengthening 
our data governance frameworks, data cleaning 
processes, and data integration technologies to create 
a unified, reliable data ecosystem that can support 
advanced analytics.
49
Risk Management
Transforming for scale
Cybersecurity and data privacy
Cybersecurity poses significant risks for the Group, given the 
increasing sophistication and frequency of cyberattacks targeting 
financial institutions. The Bank holds vast amounts of sensitive 
consumer data, including personal, financial and transactional 
information. Data breaches could lead to unauthorised access 
to this information, resulting in substantial financial losses and 
severe reputational damage. Additionally, cyberattacks such as 
phishing and malware can lead to fraudulent transactions and 
direct financial harm.
Reputational damage from cybersecurity incidents can significantly 
erode customer trust and confidence in a bank’s ability to safeguard 
its assets and their personal information, which may negatively 
impact the organisation.
Operational disruptions caused by cyberattacks can lead to service 
outage that affect transaction processing, online banking services 
and other critical functions, thereby impairing customer experience 
and operational efficiency. The costs associated with post-attack 
recovery, including investigation, remediation and restoration of 
services can divert resources from other strategic initiatives.
Mitigating Actions
1 	 Advanced Security Infrastructure: The Bank invests 
in robust IT systems, especially in advanced security 
technologies to protect data and network infrastructure. 
The Bank is committed to demonstrating sustainable 
compliance to Cyber Security Framework for Banks.
2 	 Employee Training and Awareness: Regular 
cybersecurity training programmes are conducted for 
employees to keep them informed about latest threats 
and best practices. Continuous efforts are made to raise 
awareness among employees about potential risks and 
the importance of following security protocols in place.
3 	 Incident Response and Recovery: A comprehensive 
Incident Response Plan outlines roles, responsibilities 
and procedures for responding to cyber incidents. 
Regular drills and simulations are periodically done to 
test the Bank’s incident response capabilities through 
drills to ensure preparedness. Regular security audits and 
assessments are conducted at the Bank to evaluate and 
improve cybersecurity measures. 
4 	 Consumer Protection and Education: For online and 
mobile banking, multi-factor authentication (MFA) and 
other security measures are implemented. Customers 
are also regularly educated on safe banking practices and 
how to recognize and avoid potential scams.
Risks associated with a transitioning workforce
Retaining talent in a technologically evolving sector is critical. 
As banking relies more on advanced technologies, attracting 
and retaining skilled professionals is essential. We invest in 
continuous learning and development programmes focused on 
emerging technologies such as AI and blockchain to keep our 
workforce updated.
The younger talent joining our workforce bring fresh perspectives 
and need comprehensive on-boarding to help them align with our 
operational standards and regulatory requirements. Structured 
training programmes ensure effective utilization of their potential 
while maintaining high operational efficiency.
Mitigating Actions 
1 	 Structured Onboarding: Kotakites receive structured 
onboarding programmes where new talent is trained on 
regulatory compliance, cybersecurity awareness and 
ethical use of technology, along with training on the 
employee Code of Conduct.
2 	 Career Opportunities: The Group provides career 
development opportunities through various mentoring 
programmes with senior management. We also share 
job openings across business segments to internal 
employees facilitating employee growth. Competitive 
compensation is offered to attract, retain and 
incentivize talent.
3 	 Colleague Value Proposition: We are committed to 
providing best in class colleague value proposition 
based on five pillars:
	
a.	 Providing the ‘Best of Kotak for Kotakites’ and their 
families – offering differentiated/ best-in-class 
products and services to colleagues
	
b.	 People development through continuous learning, 
leadership development and skill enhancement
	
c.	 Recognising and celebrating colleagues
	
d.	 Transparent communication philosophy 
	
e.	 Enhancing colleague value proposition for each 
distinctive employee group
Risk Management
50
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Climate-related Risks and Opportunities1
Climate change poses a clear and tangible risk to the economy and 
financial systems, demanding keen monitoring from all industry 
actors. For financial institutions, it is a source of a systemic 
risk as it has the potential to negatively affect many different 
exposures at the same time2. Climate change risk drivers may 
not seem significant today, however with evolving regulations and 
technological developments, climate change related risks may act 
as factors that change existing risks and affect how they impact 
financial institutions.
IPCC’s AR6 Synthesis report in 2023 highlighted that there is a more 
than 50% chance that global temperature rise will reach or surpass 
1.5 degrees C before 2040 across studied scenarios. Specifically 
under a high-emissions pathway, it is highlighted that the world may 
hit this threshold even sooner, i.e. before 20373.
Recognizing this, regulators across the world have started taking 
mitigating measures. RBI’s ‘Draft disclosure framework on Climate-
related Financial Risks’ issued on February 28, 2024 and the 
‘Discussion Paper on Climate Risk and Sustainable Finance’ released 
on July 27, 2022, have laid a roadmap for the regulated entities 
to address climate risks over the coming years. These guidelines 
mandate Scheduled Commercial Banks to disclose climate-related 
financial risks from FY 2025-26 onwards aimed at enabling early 
assessment of the risks across the financial system. 
The regulation highlights physical and transition risks. Physical 
risk stems from changes in weather patterns, and may affect 
infrastructure and business continuity, as well as erosion of the 
value of financial assets. Transition risks arise from the shift towards 
low-carbon activities, impacting businesses through policy and 
technological changes. 
Recognizing the increasing severity of climate risk to the larger 
economy and the potential impacts on its business, the Bank in FY 
22-23 had initiated a forward-looking, scenario-based climate risk 
and opportunity assessment in alignment with the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. A 
two-pronged approach is being employed to understand the potential 
of climate linked risks impacting the Bank’s operations and portfolio. 
A scenario analysis for physical risk assessment was conducted in 
FY 2022- 23, where projected changes in various climatic parameters 
such as temperature and precipitation were studied to identify risk 
impacts such as potential increase in operating costs due to heat 
stress, infrastructure damage or service disruption, and potential 
impacts on productivity. This physical risk assessment considered 
our branch network and offices with the analysis for risks of Sea 
Level Rise and Cyclones limited to coastal regions. The estimated 
annual financial impacts were observed to be within the operational 
risk appetite. Based on this assessment, the Bank has put in place 
guidelines that cover details of governance and oversight, frequency 
of assessment and roles and responsibilities, data collation 
1GRI 201-2 | 2European Systemic Risk Board | 3Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) AR6 Synthesis Report, 2023
practices to be adopted and proposed mitigation measures such as 
strengthening business continuity plans.
To assess the impact of climate risks on its corporate lending 
portfolio, the Bank adopted a sectoral approach and developed its 
own methodology to understand the potential direction of sectoral 
emission intensities over a period of time compared to publicly 
available scenarios. This approach was applied to the Power 
generation sector in FY 2022-23 and we have begun working on 
Cement manufacturing sector in FY 2023-24. This analysis has been 
based on publicly available data where available, and industry proxies 
wherever data was not readily available.
The sectoral portfolio’s emission intensity is used as an indicator to 
understand risk in multiple scenarios. A key assumption was that 
the Bank continues to have a similar exposure pattern to its portfolio 
companies. The Power pilot study highlighted several challenges, 
which we are currently addressing. We have integrated these into the 
Bank’s guidelines for regular evaluation. These guidelines include the 
details on governance, oversight, and the frequency of assessments. 
They also outline roles and responsibilities, additional data that 
needs to be captured and risk mitigation measures. 
Besides disclosures on physical and transition risk assessment, 
the RBI’s draft regulation on Climate-related Financial Risks has 
also mandated that financial institutions begin to address their 
carbon footprint arising from direct operations. Pursuant to this, the 
Bank is working towards finalising a low-carbon transition plan and 
decarbonisation strategy, considering India’s climate goals.
While climate change presents significant risks, it also unlocks new 
business opportunities for banks. A key driver will be the financing 
needs for technologies and infrastructure enabling the transition to 
a low-carbon economy – be it renewable energy, green buildings, 
electric vehicles, advanced battery storage solutions or flood 
defense systems. In parallel, new financing instruments such as 
Green Bonds and Sustainability-Linked Loans are emerging to fund 
such climate-positive initiatives. Moreover, there is a visible demand 
from environmentally conscious clients for investment products 
and savings avenues aligned with sustainability principles and 
climate resilience. 
Accordingly, the Bank has instituted two-board approved documents 
– Green Finance Framework and Sustainable Finance Framework to 
guide the Bank in its approach to address environmental, climate and 
social risks and opportunities. The Green Finance Framework is in 
alignment with RBI’s ‘Framework for Acceptance of Green Deposits’, 
issued on April 11, 2023, forms a foundation for developing new 
products such as Green Deposits in the future. 
51
Risk Management
Transforming for scale
Governance
Our guiding 
principles
Data Security and Resilient IT Systems
Regulatory compliance
Data Privacy
Business Ethics
Corporate Governance
Brand Recognition
Material Topics Covered Here
Capitals Covered
Key Highlights
Contribution to SDGs
Intellectual  
Capital
#These numbers are as of June 2024
Corporate governance, transparency, accountability and ethics 
are fundamental pillars that guide our business practices in 
our attempt to achieve the highest governance standards. Our 
policies, systems and procedures are crafted to effectively 
communicate our values, priorities and strategy throughout the 
organization. Our governance approach is firmly grounded in the 
principles of accountability, responsibility, integrity, independence, 
and transparency. Through our diverse and independent Board, 
comprehensive policies, vigilant oversight mechanisms, and 
robust cybersecurity measures, we strive to create a culture of 
integrity, transparency and responsible banking.
The Bank’s Board of Directors (“Board”) safeguard and enhance 
shareholders’ capital, by ensuring Board independence, 
management effectiveness, legal compliance, timely disclosures 
and responsible leadership. Key policies adopted are the Policy 
on Board Diversity, Vigilance Policy, Whistle Blower Policy, 
Policy against Sexual Harassment in the Workplace, Policy for 
determination of materiality of events or information and the 
Insider Trading Code of Conduct. Our list of key policies can be 
found on pages 419-421 of the report.
~15 years
Average tenure of the Senior 
Management at the Bank
27%#
Board gender diversity
64%#
Independence of the Board 
Composition of the Board1
Our Board comprises a blend of Independent, Non-Executive 
and Executive Directors, with Independent Directors constituting 
half of the Board at the end of FY 23-24. The Independence 
of the Board is 64% and the gender diversity of the Board is 
27% as on the date of publishing of this report. The directors 
are distinguished professionals in various domains, cognizant 
of their fiduciary duties and are committed to fulfilling 
stakeholder expectations. 
The selection and appointment of Directors is governed by 
guidelines from the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR Act”), 
1GRI 405-1
52
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Regulation 17 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) directives. Our Board consistently 
meets the stipulated criteria under Section 10(A)(2) of the BR Act and 
RBI circulars. Upholding our diversity policy, we ensure a rich mix of 
perspectives, skills and backgrounds among Board members, thereby 
enhancing our capacity to fulfil banking requirements and governance 
mandates effectively. 
Our Board has established various Board and key Management 
Committees to deal with specific matters and has delegated 
powers for different functional areas. These committees oversee 
specific areas and assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities. 
We place minutes of all Board Committees before the Directors. 
Details of these Committees may be found on page 307 in 
the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of the Directors’ Report.
Roles and Responsibilities of the Vigilance Committee
Fostering a culture of ethics2
Our policies, systems and procedures have been designed with the 
intent of communicating our values, priorities and strategy across 
all levels of the organisation. We review our policies periodically and 
make the necessary modifications to ensure compliance with the 
most recent regulatory requirements and industry best practices. 
Our ethical framework is embodied in our Code of Conduct (CoC), 
guiding employees and Directors in their interactions with all the 
stakeholders, nurturing a culture of integrity, professionalism 
and mutual respect. New employees receive CoC training upon 
joining and may take a refresher course thereafter. We empower 
our employees to champion responsible behavior in their daily 
activities by actively integrating our corporate values and principles 
into their work. Regular training sessions ensure employees stay 
abreast of our policies, procedures and values. We also undertake 
regular awareness building initiatives to keep them up to date with 
evolving practices. Bank’s employees have undergone trainings on 
anticorruption policies such as, AML standards and KYC norms for 
Banking and Insurance completing 39,662 of total training hours.3
Our anti-bribery and corruption strategy is enshrined in Code of 
Conduct and Vigilance Policy. The AML Policy, including stringent 
Know Your Customer (KYC) guidelines, undergo annual review by 
our directors. To oversee anti-corruption measures, a Vigilance Unit 
is in place. Additionally, we have a Insider Trading Code of Conduct 
guiding responsible share trading practices. Our list of key policies 
can be found on pages 419-421 of the report.
Our Vigilance Policy approved by the Board, outlines the roles and 
responsibilities of the independent vigilance unit. The management is 
responsible for instituting anti-corruption measures in the Bank, and 
for looking into the acts of misconduct alleged against or committed 
2GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24, GRI 3-3, GRI 205-2 | 3 GRI 205-2
Overseeing  
preventative and detective 
vigilance policies
Guiding  
management on vigilance 
aspects
Providing  
impartial advice on disciplinary 
cases involving a vigilance 
angle and recommending 
appropriate actions
Administration  
of Whistle Blower Process 
Investigating  
transactions involving suspected 
employee misconduct
Investigating  
complaints against employees 
involving a vigilance angle and 
recommending appropriate 
actions
Reviewing  
interactions with outsourced 
agencies or vendors
As part of our vigilance mechanism, internal operating guidelines 
delineate appropriate conduct and approval processes. A Board-
approved delegation matrix for expense and credit approvals is in 
place and is reviewed regularly. Additionally, automated workflows 
for purchase orders, payments and credit approvals are also in place. 
Background checks and credit credentials checks are conducted for 
new employees. Furthermore, the business units and functions also 
have their own policies and processes defined and adherence to them 
is monitored by the Internal Audit and Risk Control Unit (RCU) teams. 
A vigilance clearance is required for movement of employees to high-risk 
roles. High value fraud cases are reported to the Special Committee 
of the Board for monitoring and follow-up of Frauds. This committee 
reviews such cases, monitors investigations, ensures accountability  
and strengthens internal controls.
by employees. Also deemed necessary are appropriate preventive 
measures to avoid misconduct or malpractices by the employees.
53
Governance
Transforming for scale
Governance
Clear controls and mechanisms are in place to identify and 
address cybersecurity risks. The Bank has implemented 
controls in the following areas:
Information Security and Data Privacy
At Kotak, our aim is to deliver digitally enhanced services tailored to our 
customers’ diverse needs. We prioritise safeguarding data integrity and 
system security through our resilient IT infrastructure. All employees 
undergo mandatory cybersecurity and data privacy training, guided 
by our Information Security and Cybersecurity Policy. The Policy also 
guides us in proactively monitoring internal and external infrastructure 
to detect and respond to any vulnerabilities in a timely manner. 
Oversight of our cybersecurity strategy is entrusted to our Chief 
Information Security Officer (CISO). 
Lines of Defence
Information 
Technology 
(IT) Team and 
Business Units
1st
2nd
3rd
Chief Information 
Security Officer 
(CISO) who reports 
to the Head of Risk 
Management
Internal Audit
1 	Prevention
3 	Response
2 	Detection
4 	Recovery
Update on supervisory action by RBI
The Bank had received an order dated 24th April, 2024 (‘Order’) from 
RBI, inter alia, directing the Bank to cease and desist, with effect from 
24th April, 2024 from on-boarding new customers through the Bank’s 
online and mobile banking channels; and issuing fresh credit cards. 
The Order was based, inter alia, on the deficiencies observed by RBI 
in the Information Technology (IT) Examinations of the Bank, for the 
years 2022 and 2023.
The Order does not impact servicing and cross-sell of products 
(excluding issuance of fresh credit cards) to the existing customer 
base through all channels and does not impact on-boarding of new 
customers through channels other than online/mobile banking 
channels. We have taken concrete steps to adopt new technologies 
to strengthen our IT systems and continues to work with the RBI 
to swiftly resolve the issues, at the earliest. The management has 
evaluated the impact of the Order and assessed that there is no 
impact on the going concern and has no material impact on financial 
statements, including internal financial controls over financial 
reporting and on our operations.
We comply with regulatory requirements and data protection laws, 
including the regulations set by the Information Technology Act, 
2000 and the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices 
and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 
2011, Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), as well as 
the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), 
wherever applicable. Our Privacy Policy sets the expectations with 
respect to the behaviour of Kotakites and third-party vendors, when it 
comes to the collection, use, retention, transfer and disclosure of any 
personal data belonging to them or customers. In early August 2023, 
the Indian Parliament passed the Digital Personal Data Protection 
(DPDP) Act, 2023 that will govern how entities who process users’ 
personal data. In regard to this Kotak took an initiative to carry 
out DPDP Act gap assessment activity and the implementation of 
DPDP Act will be initiated once the act is enforced by the central 
government issuing a notification for the same. 
Our Governance Framework for managing technology and 
cybersecurity risks is structured around a three-line defence system, 
detailed as follows:
The Whistleblower Policy is available on the Bank’s intranet and the 
website, and we ensure sustained communication for awareness 
through regular emails, and employee training programs.
Our subsidiaries’ policies, procedures and practices are also 
aligned with the Group’s overall values and principles. Throughout 
FY 2023-24, no legal actions pertaining to anti-competitive 
behaviour were recorded3.
Employees are required to report any unusual events immediately. 
A vigil mechanism has been implemented through the adoption of 
Whistleblower Policy with an objective to enable any employee or 
director or third party to raise genuine concern or report evidence of 
any activity that may constitute:
1  	 fraud, malpractice; 
2 	 unethical business conduct; 
3 	 violation of laws, rules, regulations and/or any other regulatory  
or judicial directives;
4 	 impropriety, abuse or wrong doing; etc.
3GRI 206-1
54
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
To ensure optimal and appropriate use of computer systems 
within our organization, we have established an Apex Information 
Technology Policy. The policy is designed to safeguard the integrity, 
reliability and availability of our IT systems while promoting their 
effective utilisation. Developed with the objective of strengthening our 
IT infrastructure, it applies to all individuals associated with the Bank, 
including all employees, consultants, contractors, third parties and 
vendors. The policy offers comprehensive guidance for managing 
violations and exceptions. Concerns pertaining to information and 
cybersecurity by employees can be reported to the Bank’s round-the-
clock Security Monitoring Team at a designated email address.
Our Approach to Cybersecurity
As a Group, we acknowledge the potential disruption of cyber threats 
and have implemented a comprehensive cyber-resilience framework 
to address risks such as data breaches, malware and denial-of-
service attacks. In this reporting period, the Bank focused on two 
areas, Risk and Resiliency along with Growth and Transformation. 
Consistently investing to fortifying our IT systems has also been an 
integral part of the process. 
Below is the summary of key initiatives undertaken to enhance 
operational stability and drive innovation.
Trainings Provided to Augment IT Security
As a part of our commitment to cybersecurity, every new team 
member undergoes thorough induction training, which includes 
specific modules on cybersecurity awareness. Additionally, to ensure 
that our workforce stays updated on the latest information security 
procedures, all employees are required to attend an annual course. 
The Information Risk Management (IRM) and/or Chief Information 
Security Officer (CISO) teams regularly communicate security tips 
and updates to employees, fostering a well-informed workforce and 
promoting a culture of cybersecurity awareness. We also conduct 
regular awareness sessions to help employees recognize phishing 
scams, malicious software, enhancing data security in the process. 
These annual security trainings are mandatory for all Kotakites and 
our vendors. To assess staff awareness, monthly phishing drills 
are also conducted.
Classroom trainings are provided to employees on data security 
on a need basis, where a self-paced learning module is made 
available to them. This equips Kotakites with relevant and necessary 
information in the same. In this reporting period, 68,700+ employees 
received a total of 2.04+ lakh hours of trainings on data security. 
Education on Cybersecurity is also imparted to the Board.
Moreover, our induction training program “KONE” covers cybersecurity 
awareness for new employees and they also complete an annual 
Information Security Course on our Learning Management System 
(LMS). Furthermore, we conduct a phishing awareness exercise, 
periodically to reinforce employee awareness.
At Kotak, business ethics and corporate governance are entrenched 
in every aspect of our business and decision-making. We strive to 
align our business practices with the highest governance standards. 
Our processes are designed with a strong emphasis on sound 
governance practices.
 	
Improved uptime and stability metrics for critical applications
 	
Established an Architecture Review Board (ARB) and created 
Cloud 2.0 architecture blueprint for information security and 
operational resiliency
 	
Implemented a service management tool
1 	Risk and Resiliency
 	
Launched various DIY journeys in Consumer and Commercial 
banking segments, including small business loans, top-up 
loans and corporate salary services
 	
Onboarded over 300 experiences and skilled engineers
 	
Launched a cutting-edge customer service request platform
 	
Introduced a developer portal
2 	Grow and Transform Initiatives
 	
Accelerate the execution of the comprehensive plan for core 
banking resilience
 	
Ensure sustainable compliance with the Baseline Cyber 
Security Framework for Banks
 	
Strengthen security controls on digital payments
3 	Ongoing IT Investments
Our ISO 27001 certified Information Systems have the potential to 
identify malicious behaviour, supported by regular cyber exercises 
and third-party security evaluations to ensure its effectiveness. Each 
digital product undergoes thorough cybersecurity risk assessment 
before launch and monitoring thereafter. Periodic audits and thematic 
assessments, such as risk evaluations, stress tests, and RED team 
exercises etc., are conducted regularly to bolster technological 
safeguards and mitigate potential incident impacts.
We inform our customers on privacy protection concerns, including 
the collection and use of their information, data protection, and third-
party disclosure policy among others. We have a dedicated email 
address for reporting cybersecurity incidents. Our implementation 
of a layered technology architecture, Disaster Recovery (DR) and 
Business Continuity Plans (BCP) helps us manage risks effectively.
Our Business Continuity Management (BCM) Policy guides proactive 
risk mitigation, continuity of key service, with critical units regularly 
testing the BCP. Annual review of the BCP is conducted to ensure 
continual improvement. Testing is conducted half yearly, and the 
results obtained are communicated periodically. The same results 
are also submitted to the regulator. The Bank also has defined a 
Cyber Crisis Management Plan (CCMP) and an Incident Management 
Procedure which is tested periodically.
55
Governance
Transforming for scale
Corporate Governance
Promoting Green Finance
ESG and Climate Risk Management in 
Lending and Investments
Financial Inclusion and Social Development
Operational Eco-Efficiency and 
Resilience to climate change
Embracing Sustainability 
Transforming for a 
sustainable future
At Kotak, we integrate social and 
environmental considerations into our 
strategy and operations through a robust 
ESG Policy Framework, supported by 
subsidiary specific ESG policies. The 
ESG Policy framework covers six focus 
areas, which address material topics 
relevant to our industry and organization. 
We are cognizant that sustainable 
practices and an appropriately trained 
workforce is imperative to contribute to 
sustainable development. As a responsible 
financial institution, we proactively 
recognize the environmental impact of 
our operations and embrace our role in 
driving a sustainable future across the 
sectors we influence.
Relevant Material Topics
Capital Linkage
Key Highlights
Contribution to SDGs
Financial 
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital
J 6,000+ cr
Green asset book* 
~27 lakh
Active microcredit women 
borrowers till FY 24
33% & 45%
of total branches and micro 
ATMs of the Bank are 
located in rural and semi-
urban locations respectively
7%+ 
share of renewable power 
used by the Bank
6 
Organic waste converters 
(OWCs) with total 250+ kg/
day capacity 
12 
LEED/IGBC certified offices
*as per green activities/projects indicated in RBI’s ‘Framework for 
acceptance of Green deposits’ issued in April, 2023.
56
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
In FY 2023-24, we conducted a materiality assessment aligned with 
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 guidelines and guided by the double 
materiality principles of ESRS which considers both financial and 
impact dimensions. This two-pronged approach ensures that we 
account for both the risks and opportunities posed by ESG topics 
and their broader societal and environmental implications. Details 
on this assessment are provided in the ‘Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality Assessment’ section found in pages 42-45. This 
assessment bolsters our ESG strategy and disclosures, helps identify 
impacts, and contributes to risk management and transparency.
of representatives from relevant functions and group companies 
facilitates implementation of this framework.
In our pursuit of creating value for stakeholders, we have established 
an ESG policy framework that aligns our strategy, processes and 
disclosures with both national and international standards. We have 
six focus areas outlined in the ESG policy framework indicated below
The Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social 
and Governance Committee (“CSR and ESG Committee”) of 
the Board is responsible for managing and providing strategic 
direction, inter alia, for the Bank’s ESG performance and strategy. 
The details of the Committee’s terms of reference are given on 
page 316 of the Corporate Governance section of this Report. As 
of March 31, 2024, following individuals were the members of the 
CSR and ESG Committee
 	
Chair of the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board- Mr. C.S. Rajan 
(Non-Executive Chairman, Independent)
Other members
ESG Governance and Oversight1
1 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14
It is to be noted that Mr. C. Jayaram completed his term as Non-
Executive Director on 30th April, 2024 and Ms. Shanti Ekambaram 
(Deputy Managing Director) has become a member of the 
Committee. The Committee plays a pivotal role in guiding the Bank’s 
ESG strategy and driving action across the focus areas outlined in 
our ESG policy. Their guidance provides us with clear direction and 
momentum to strengthen ESG aligned practices in the short, medium 
and long term. The committee oversees compliance with relevant 
ESG regulatory requirements, tracks progress against set goals, and 
reviews the Bank’s ESG disclosures. 
The ESG function at the Bank is the nodal team responsible 
for implementing the ESG policy framework, analysing ESG 
performance across functions, and communicating progress 
through reports to internal and external stakeholders, including the 
CSR & ESG Committee of the Board. An ESG taskforce comprising 
 	
Corporate governance 
 	
Enhancing customer experience
 	
Creating an empowered workforce
 	
ESG integration in risk management 
 	
Managing climate risk and caring for the environment 
 	
Community development
For detailed insights into each focus area, refer to our Environment, 
Social and Governance Policy Framework document which came 
into effect from 1st April, 2022. Key performance indicators are 
identified for each focus area, driving specific action to improve our 
ESG performance with the help of the ESG taskforce.
Over the past few years, we have undertaken a review of our internal 
policies to ensure alignment with various ESG disclosure standards. 
This has enabled a transformative approach to some of our key 
practices and has served as a bedrock of ESG performance. 
To induce ESG awareness and integration within our workforce, we 
are developing structured training programmes. These programmes 
would equip our relationship managers, risk managers, credit 
analysts and other teams to understand the relevance of ESG in their 
respective domains. Our Code of Conduct (CoC) for service providers 
also incorporates expectations from our partners on labour practices, 
ethics, anti-corruption and environmental stewardship.
We also engage with regulatory bodies, industry associations 
and think tanks to contribute towards formulation of policies that 
contribute to sustainable development. Our membership with 
the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) India since 2021, 
and active participation in various working groups of industry 
associations underscore our commitment to advancing sustainability 
within the industry. We also are part of the Sustainable Markets 
Initiative, Indian Banks’ Association, Confederation of Indian Industry, 
FICCI, and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). For more 
details on our engagements, please refer to page 414 of this Report.
Dr. Ashok Gulati 
(Independent 
Director)
Mr. C Jayaram  
(Non-Executive 
Director)
Mr. Ashok Vaswani  
(Managing Director 
& CEO)
57
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Embracing Sustainability
Advancing ESG in our Core Businesses
We are integrating ESG aspects across the Bank and its subsidiaries.
Kotak Mahindra Bank
At the Bank, our ESG Management Systems Plan (EMSP or the Plan) 
has been designed based on the IFC guidelines as well as other ESG 
evaluation frameworks. EMSP aids in identifying, managing and 
reviewing ESG risks in eligible transactions in our portfolio. It also 
covers the roles and responsibilities of administering and overseeing 
the Plan, as well as for facilitating training to relevant roles and 
functions. This Plan is subject to periodic review to ensure alignment 
with evolving ESG regulations and guidance frameworks.
The EMSP lays out the criteria to conduct due diligence and 
evaluation of select borrowers using an ESG lens. The plan also 
categorizes the borrowers based on the potential of the sector 
which a company belongs to, impact social and environmental 
aspects through their business activities. The Plan indicates specific 
checklists for assessment which depends on the nature and category 
of the transaction. Capital expenditure and working capital loans 
above particular size and tenor thresholds are covered in the Plan for 
evaluation, that gives a score to be included in the credit assessment 
note, which is to be adjusted downwards for high-risk borrowers. 
Additionally the EMSP outlines an exclusionary list, implementation of 
which is subject to periodic supervision and monitoring. 
In FY 2023-2024, the Bank has also put in place Board approved 
Green and Sustainable Finance frameworks that articulate our 
approach to addressing the evolving regulations and customer 
expectations. We are working towards implementing these 
frameworks by strengthening our systems and training our workforce 
towards channeling capital for environmentally and socially beneficial 
projects. As of March 31, 2024, we have a green asset book of 
more than J 6,000 crore which is as per green activities/projects 
indicated in RBI’s ‘Framework for acceptance of Green deposits’ 
issued in April, 2023.
Some of the key transactions undertaken in the reporting period
Commercial banking division disbursed loans totaling J 412 crore 
across solar energy projects, waste management initiatives, and 
water infrastructure projects promoting efficiency
Allocated a total of J 263 crore under SME loans such as 
bio-gas energy generation and distribution and other non-
conventional energy projects
Funded the ‘Suraksha Smart City’, an affordable housing project 
in Vasai. Approximately 50% of this project falls under the 
Affordable Housing in Partnership scheme of Pradhan Mantri 
Awas Yojna (Urban)
2
1
3
4
Our presence in renewable energy segment includes loans towards 
a)	
two renewable energy greenfield solar power projects in 
Bikaner with an aggregate capacity of 541 MW for large 
private sector developers
b)	
towards a Renewable energy Infrastructure Investment Trust
58
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
In a move towards responsible investing, our Private banking division 
is consciously trying to identify ESG-compliant funds and track 
them. As on March 31, 2024, we have on-boarded seven different 
ESG strategies within the listed equity space to provide clients with 
sustainable investment options. 
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (KMAMC) is the first  
Indian asset management company to become a signatory  
to PRI - supported by the United Nations. KMAMC is also  
a signatory to Climate Action 100+. 
KMAMC uses the Business, Management and Valuation framework 
for fundamental analysis along with an ESG framework called the 3E 
strategy (Evaluation, Engagement and Exclusion). 
The Kotak ESG Exclusionary Strategy Fund mandates all the investee 
companies in the fund need to have a BRSR report, 65% of the AUM 
to be in those companies with a core BRSR report from Oct 1, 2024, 
prioritizing investments in companies that display transparency 
and accountability. KMAMC serves on the AMFI ESG Advisory 
Committee, and its senior management engage directly with policy 
makers through several responsible investment committees including 
one within the SEBI.
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Singapore (KMAMS) 
Among our International subsidiaries, KMAMS is also a signatory 
to the PRI - supported by the United Nations, and a part of Climate 
Action 100+. Similar to KMAMC, KMAMS also integrates ESG 
considerations into its BMV framework using the 3E strategy to 
all stocks under coverage and is integral to various strategies and 
mandates managed by them. 
In their named ESG funds, KMAMS limits and/or excludes direct 
investments in issuers with exposure to sectors with significant ESG 
concerns. While some mandates may not have strict ESG exclusions, 
their investment philosophy integrates ESG at every level of 
assessment. Among environmental factors, KMAMS monitors carbon 
emissions, energy consumption, resource efficiency, alternative 
energy use and adherence to climate-related regulations. With respect 
to social indicators, the focus remains on employee safety, retention, 
diversity and corporate social responsibility. Under governance, the 
assessment includes shareholder structure, board composition and 
independence and ethical behaviour. 
3https://www.kotakmf.com/kotakflipbook/docs/download/Voting_Policy_AIF_2021
Uses 3rd party ESG 
scores into its 
investment process, 
with assessment of 
companies based on 
public information, 
by considering 
factors such as 
climate change, talent 
management and 
board composition.
Sector specific exclusions which is fund and 
mandate specific; screening out companies 
involved in activities such as controversial 
weapons, tobacco, gambling or alcohol. 
Incorporates ESG principles 
into its stewardship strategy 
guided by a stewardship 
code and a proxy voting 
policy found on its website, a 
dedicated voting committee 
oversees this policy.
Evaluation
Exclusion
Engagement
59
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Embracing Sustainability
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (KAAML) 
As an advocate of responsible investing, KAAML has streamlined 
its governance system and has formed an ESG Committee. 
This committee is responsible for providing strategic direction, 
supervising policy execution and ensuring consistency 
across fund strategies. 
With the oversight of ESG Committee, KAAML has also established 
an ESG Policy Framework, with the primary objective to provide 
guidance to the business verticals, which manage various pools 
of capital for multiple asset classes including Private Equity, Real 
Estate, Infrastructure, Special Situations, Listed Strategies and 
Investment Advisory. The KAAML ESG Policy, effective from 2021, 
is applicable to select funds managed by KAAML as determined 
by the ESG Committee from time to time. It guides the Business 
Verticals in developing specific Fund Level Environmental and Social 
Management System (ESMS) consisting of a policy, principles, 
procedures and guidelines. 
KAAML endeavors to introduce new funds that comply with national 
and state government objectives for environment and societal 
development. These funds prioritise fair labour practices, safe 
working conditions, community livelihood restoration and grievance 
mechanisms, aligning with international industry standards.
Additionally, Kotak Infrastructure Investment Fund (KIIF), managed 
by KAAML, has developed its own ESG Policy and an ESMS that 
integrates leading ESG practices into the investment process. The 
ESMS focuses on monitoring and mitigating environmental and 
social risks through an environmental and social action plan that is 
developed post due diligence by third-party domain experts. These 
action plans are developed to educate investee companies about 
ESG risks and mitigation approaches. 
KAAML has also started incorporating ESG risk scores into client 
equity portfolios, using these to educate clients about potential ESG 
risks, calling their attention to benchmarking with the Nifty index. 
KAAML expanded its impact in affordable housing by financing 
mortgage companies catering to this segment and supporting real 
estate projects that integrate social housing, addressing the needs of 
underserved market segments.
60
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Kotak Life Insurance (KLI)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited (KMPL)
Life insurance offers financial protection to individuals and their 
families, safeguarding them against unexpected events such as 
death, accidents, or illnesses. In the fiscal year 2023-2024, Kotak Life 
insured 2.35 crore lives across different strata of society, through 
both its group and individual platforms.
Through “Kotak Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima” product, KLI 
offers affordable protection to the mass market, up R 2 lakh cover 
at a nominal price of R 436 per annum. During FY 2023-24 KLI 
enrolled about 46 thousand customers under this product through 
its bank partners.
KLI also offers micro-insurance services to borrowers from 
socially and economically disadvantaged groups who have availed 
micro loans from banks and NBFCs. This micro insurance covers 
repayment of pending loan amount in the event of the borrower’s 
death, securing the financial future of the borrower’s family. In FY 
2023-24, KLI covered ~1.91 crore lives of micro loan customers 
of its banks and NBFCs partners under the group platform, 
achieving a 74% YoY growth.
Additionally, KLI provided coverage to 89+ lakh individuals from the 
social sector, accounting for 37% of its total business, surpassing 
the regulatory requirement of 5%. In the rural sector, KLI issued 
approximately 79,000 policies, representing 23% of the total policies, 
once again exceeding regulatory requirements.
One of KLI’s products, ‘Kotak Guaranteed Fortune Builder’ offers 
a unique feature called ‘Premium Break’ for women customers. 
This allows a one-year premium payment break for women during 
childbirth or upon diagnosis of specific illnesses, ensuring policy 
continuation and benefit access. Additionally, KLI offers additional 
benefits or premium discounts in many of its products for women 
customers to encourage them to buy life insurance products.
KMPL, our auto financing subsidiary, is expanding its 
asset book by financing electric, hybrid and energy 
efficient vehicles, contributing to sustainable mobility 
goals. In FY 2023-24, lending to electric 2-wheelers 
increased by 78% in terms of units and 99% in terms of 
value, as compared to the previous reporting period. In 
the same period, EV car financing increased by 80% in 
terms of units and 77% in terms of value.
61
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Embracing Sustainability
Financial Inclusion
At Kotak Mahindra Bank, we are committed to promoting Financial 
Inclusion through tailored initiatives and products for underbanked 
locations and underserved segments, including small and marginal 
farmers, women borrowers, micro-enterprises and underserved 
communities. We drive efforts such as priority sector lending 
and servicing through MicroATM and Aadhaar Enabled Payment 
System (AePS). We offer Microcredit Loans and other asset 
products to ensure access to frequently used affordable financial 
services. Through these efforts, we aim to foster financial inclusion 
and economic empowerment across traditionally underserved 
community segments. 
Participation in Government Schemes
Expansion of the Distribution network of 
Business Correspondents (BC)
Our Bank actively participates in numerous government lending 
schemes and delivers services under various government initiatives 
During FY 2023-24, we undertook several key initiatives:
As part of our efforts to expand our distribution network, we 
leveraged BSS Microfinance Limited (BSS) BC services and partnered 
with other corporate BC networks. 
Key highlights of the financial year include:
 	
As of March 31, 2024, we digitally opened 4 lakh+ savings 
accounts, with about 68% in rural and semi-rural areas. BSS 
facilitated over 3 lakh+ of these accounts, of which 45% were 
opened in FY2023-24.
 	
Bank established over 4,000 micro-ATM outlets nationwide, with 
about 45% in rural and semi-urban locations, processing more 
than 7.22 lakh transactions
 	
Over 15,000 AePS points were set up for transaction services, 
facilitating over 51 lakh acquiring transactions and 22 lakh 
issuing transactions during FY 2023-24
 	
Over 90,000 Aadhaar update and enrollment transactions at 
customers’ doorsteps across 23 locations in India using our 
23 Aadhaar on Wheel vans, particularly aiding senior citizens, 
hospital, differently abled individuals and pregnant women
 	
Conducted periodic training camps, with over 3,000 
camps conducted in FY 2023-24, to educate and empower 
customers to utilise mobile banking functionalities and other 
digital applications, supported by our extensive network of 
business correspondents
 	
Integrated social security schemes into our mobile applications, 
allowing customers to effortlessly access these benefits 
 	
Enabled Aadhaar-based e-KYC that uses face authentication via 
a mobile app developed by UIDAI. Offered to savings account 
holders via partner channels such as BSS Microfinance
During FY 2023-24, we took active measures to achieve our identified 
strategic objectives that align closely with meeting government 
obligations while creating a cost effective distribution network. 
Disbursement of loans under multiple government sponsored 
schemes such as PM Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PMSVA 
Nidhi), Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojna (PMMY), and Stand-up India 
Scheme and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) scheme
1,35,000+ Atal Pension Yojana (APY) subscriptions, with more than 
90,000 sourced in FY 2023-24 with the aim to provide financial 
stability to the unorganized sector after retirement by granting 
pension. About 50%, i.e. over 47,000 of the year’s subscriptions came 
through the pre-login link feature.
As on March 31, 2024, we have disbursed 15,000+ collateral 
free working capital loans for street vendors under PMSVA Nidhi, 
recording over 120% increase from the previous year
5 lakh+ Basic Savings and Deposit Accounts opened for the 
unbanked Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY),  
promoting the national mission for financial inclusion
1
4
2
3
62
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Financial Literacy
Priority Sector Lending
We conduct literacy camps through our rural branches to educate 
customers on effective banking service usage, promoting meaningful 
financial inclusion. During FY 2023-24, we conducted over 3,000 
such camps for the beneficiaries. We also regularly conduct various 
digital campaigns to educate customers, especially those individuals 
belonging in the underserved segments. Sonata Finance has 
conducted financial customers, especially those individuals belonging 
to the literacy workshops, educating approximately 6,000 clients on 
responsible borrowing and money management.
We continue to pursue a robust strategy for achieving the regulatory 
targets of Priority Sector Lending (PSL). The Bank strongly believes 
that PSL plays an important role in financial inclusion and sustainable 
development of the country. Hence, we continue to grow PSL 
advances across all business verticals that contribute towards overall 
PSL achievement for the Bank.
In FY 2023-24, our annual average PSL (including purchase and sale 
of PSL certificates), was 44.06% of the applicable adjusted net bank 
credit (ANBC) for the year. We met regulatory targets for PSL and its 
sub-categories, achieving 18.25% for agriculture, 10.40% for small 
and marginal farmers, 13.89% for non-corporate farmers and 9.94% 
for micro-enterprises. The annual average PSL achievement for 
weaker sections was ~14.55%. .
The ongoing transition to a low-carbon economy presents both 
challenges and opportunities for our sector. We believe that 
proactively working towards environmental sustainability aligns 
with our core values and contributes to the long-term resilience 
Integrating ESG in operations
Having comprehensively covered reporting of scope 1 
and 2 emissions for the Group, we are working towards 
managing our emission intensity. Apart from various energy 
saving measures, increasing the share of electricity from 
renewable sources will be a focus for us going forward. We 
have already taken decisive steps this year by using 2.6x 
renewable power in FY24 compared to the previous year.
Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Our financial inclusion strategy reflects our commitment to diversity 
and inclusion. We empower women through tailored offerings such 
as Joint Liability Group loans. Approximately, 33% of our total bank 
branches are located in the rural and semi-urban areas. 
The acquisition of Sonata Finance Pvt. Ltd., a microfinance institution, 
(Sonata) at the end of FY 2023-24, strengthens our presence in 
rural and semi-urban markets in northern India, furthering our goal 
of increasing financial access for women. Sonata has collaborated 
with impact investors and Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) 
like Water.org, UK AID, and SIDBI to enhance its capacity and 
reach. Through these partnerships, Sonata was able to disburse 
53,000+ WASH loans in FY 2023-24, promoting safe sanitation and 
drinking water access. The creation of a digital village in Amaniganj 
showcases Sonata’s efforts to promote digital financial transactions, 
reducing costs and improving accessibility. A compelling example is 
Annu from Gosainganj, who used a Sonata WASH loan of H 30,000 
to complete her family’s toilet construction, eliminating her need to 
use distant, unsanitary public facilities and significantly improving 
her quality of life.
and prosperity of our business and the communities we serve. 
We recognize the importance of transitioning towards ‘Phygital’ 
service delivery while adopting efficient and effective environmental 
management practices. Our focus remains on responsible resource 
utilization, conscious energy reduction measures and procurement 
practices aimed at minimising our environmental footprint.
Aligned with our ESG Policy Framework, our Environmental Policy 
prioritises reducing energy, emissions, water usage, and waste 
management, demonstrating our commitment to environmental 
responsibility. We implement effective procedures and improve 
monitoring mechanisms to track our environmental footprint as 
well as address any adverse impacts of our operations on the 
environment. This policy helps in ensuring regulatory compliance, 
effective environmental management, monitoring Greenhouse Gas 
emissions and environmental performance, utilisation of clean energy 
alternatives and emphasises on the need to conduct stakeholder 
awareness sessions. 
Aligned with the national goals, the Kotak Mahindra Bank has 
embarked on a journey towards developing a comprehensive 
decarbonisation strategy. We intend to address our carbon footprint 
across various facets of our operations. Besides operational eco-
efficiency, we are also aware of the climate related risks that our 
operations and portfolio are subject to and are attempting to address 
them. Details of how we approach climate risks can be found on  
page 51 of Risk Management section.
63
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Environmental Stewardship4
We are committed to environmental sustainability, with our CSR 
and ESG committee overseeing environmental management 
alongside other ESG areas. The Board of Directors actively ensure 
alignment with the Bank’s long-term sustainability goals, emphasising 
the transition towards low-carbon, climate-resilient business 
operations. Dedicated teams track environmental performance 
and we periodically monitor our environmental footprint across 
locations including subsidiaries. We have implemented initiatives 
to enhance environmental sustainability across corporate offices, 
branches and ATM network.
The Bank’s approach to minimise our operational environmental 
footprint revolves around four pillars:
 	
Digitalisation 
 	
Renewable energy procurement 
 	
Responsible resource utilisation 
 	
Waste management
Utilising available technologies for resource efficiency and clean 
energy sources is a priority at the Bank. We are using renewable 
energy at three of our larger corporate offices (accommodating over 
8,500 employees annually) amounting to 33,271 GJ in FY 2023-24, 
which is 2.6x compared to the renewable energy consumed in  
FY 2022-23. This contributes to more than 7% of the total purchased 
electricity at the Bank.
Our operations have grown in scale during the reporting period and 
some methodologies for collation of data have also been revised, 
which have helped us increase the boundary of reporting on certain 
parameters. Our commitment to enhance our environmental 
performance grows and expands along with our business. 
Pillars of minimizing operational 
environmental footprint
Waste recycling
Digitalisation 
Responsible 
resource utilisation
Renewable 
energy procurement
Energy Management7
Our energy consumption stems from purchased electricity being 
consumed at our corporate offices, bank branches and ATMs and 
independently managed subsidiary premises, along with fuel (diesel) 
consumed from diesel generators. The energy consumption from 
diesel for the Group is 17,256.2 GJ5.
Our electricity demands are met through a mix of renewable and 
non-renewable sources of energy. With the inclusion of new premises, 
our reporting boundary for energy covers 207 corporate offices, 1,948 
bank branches, 1,052 off-site ATMs which are managed by the Bank 
and 1,538 subsidiary branches. The energy intensity for the Group is 
4.86 GJ/FTE6. It is to be noted that electricity consumption covers 
only those premises that were operational for more than six months 
during the financial year, while fuel consumed has been accounted for 
all premises that have diesel generators.
4GRI 3-3 | 5GRI 302-1 | 6GRI 302-3 | 7GRI 302-4
Over the past few years, we have implemented various energy 
reduction initiatives to minimise emission generation from our 
operations. In the previous reporting period, we had completed the 
transition from traditional lighting systems to energy efficient lighting 
(LEDs) for our branches, achieving a total monthly reduction of 163 
GJ. These efforts continue to contribute to an annual avoidance of 
over 3,800 tCO2e of greenhouse gas emissions.
Furthermore, 12 of corporate offices are LEED/IGBC certified, where 
approximately 23% of the Bank’s workforce operates. LEED and 
IGBC certified buildings not only promote resource efficiency but 
also enhance better indoor air quality, contributing to the health and 
well-being of occupants. According to the LEED framework, such 
buildings typically achieve energy savings between 20 to 30% and 
water savings between 30 to 50%. These environmentally conscious 
designs enhance air quality, maximise natural light in indoor spaces 
and conserve natural resources, aligning with our commitment to 
sustainability and employee welfare. Additionally, we ran a pilot in 
April 2023 and installed power saving devices at 100 ATMs and 
achieved annual energy savings of 12%; we are further working 
towards expanding this pilot to 100 other locations.
Embracing Sustainability
In FY2024, we methodically monitored our energy consumption 
and other resource consumption across all our facilities to ensure 
efficient resource utilisation and minimise our environmental 
footprint. There has been a significant progress in our energy 
management efforts, with a notable increase in the quantity of green 
energy utilised in comparison to the previous year.
64
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5GRI 302-1 | 7GRI 302-4
Group’s Electricity Consumption (MWh)5
All Corporate Offices
Offsite ATMs
Bank Branches
Subsidiary Branches
Premise count is given on the left side of the bars
Renewable Energy
99,892
Total
116,870
Total
Total
152,325
 46,965 
 50,875 
 15,535 
 3,495 
 36,635 
 43,624 
 16,025 
 3,608 
 51,955 
 55,258 
 12,604 
9,242
 23,266 
Notes
 	 Coverage of reporting has been enhanced to include 37 new corporate 
offices, 240+ new bank branches and 1,000+ off-site ATMs and 840 
additional subsidiary premises from last year, and hence the data is not 
comparable to previous year 
 	 Inclusion of off-site ATMs alone contribute to 11% increase; In FY 2023-24, 
we have changed our methodology and reclassified 9,024.2 tCO2e emissions 
previously categorized under Scope 3 Upstream leased assets category to Scope 
2 as these are under the Bank’s operational control (for FY 2022-23 such amount 
was 6,273.73 tCo2e) 
 	 Energy consumption has increased across premises owing to more 
employees returning to work and due to enhancement of office space
 	 Electricity consumption covered only those premises that were operational 
for more than six months during the financial year
 	 It is to be noted that renewable energy procured for three of our large 
corporate offices through open access has gone up significantly to 2.6x 
compared to the previous year
 	 Until FY 22, the total electricity bill amount was used for estimating units of 
electricity consumed, wherever consumption data was not available. Since 
FY 23, electricity usage in kWh has been reported from those offices where 
the management has electricity usage information and for other offices the 
electricity usage has been calculated basis the average percentage paid 
towards energy charges through sampling of electricity bills sourced from 
various premises across regions
 	 For premises, where neither billing amount nor consumption data was available, 
we have estimated consumption based on data from similar premises
Energy efficiency and energy saving initiatives at Kotak 
Mahindra Bank7 
Here are the some of the energy conservation and emission 
reduction5 endeavours, which also include new initiatives 
introduced during this reporting period
Maintenance of temperature 
control around 240C for air 
conditioned premises at our 
larger offices
Implementation of sensor-
based lighting systems and 
timer-controlled lighting across 
facilities. Signages with timer-
control are being used across all 
our branches
All electronics are serviced 
regularly and any faulty or 
damaged appliances are 
replaced immediately
Pilot testing of an AI-driven 
module for monitoring 
energy consumption of air 
conditioners
Utilisation of non-emergency 
light fixtures with occupancy 
and daylight sensors to enable 
energy savings during non-
occupancy hours
Transition from physical 
servers to virtual servers 
that reduces both 
energy consumption 
and resource utilisation
Energy-efficient lighting 
systems, specifically LEDs 
replaced traditional lighting 
fixtures across all facilities
We seek to purchase energy-efficient electronic equipment to 
minimise our environmental impact
We regularly communicate 
with our branches to avoid 
unnecessary consumption and 
promptly address any significant 
increase in electricity bills 
Implementation of pressure-independent Variable Air Volume (VAV) 
systems for optimised air distribution to facilitate temperature control 
as per user requirements and ensure energy savings during non-
occupancy periods
FY 23
FY 22
FY 24
170
1,704
698
146
1,607
585
207
1,948
1,052
1,538
Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions
We have been expanding the coverage of premises for our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions gradually having achieved full coverage of all offices, 
branches and ATMs (where we have operational control). For this reason 
the GHG emissions for this year are not comparable with the previous 
year. We utilised actual consumption data for computing emissions, 
wherever available and have relied on representative data such as 
expenditure or asset inventory to estimate emissions from certain 
sources such as diesel and refrigerants. The details of Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions are covered in subsequent segments. We refer to 
the methodologies provided by the GHG Protocol and Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change for calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
emissions. 
Refer BRSR Principle 6, leadership indicator 1, page 408 for more details on 
Energy consumption of the Bank
65
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Embracing Sustainability
Kotak Mahindra Group’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions (tCO2e)
Bank Offices, Branches and offsite ATMs
Subsidiary Branches
Premise count is given on the left side of the bars
FY 22
FY 23
FY 24
70,711
13,173
1,753
585
81,356
11,340
1,874
698
 94,193 
 18,607 
3,207
1,538
83,884
Total
92,696
Total
112,800
Total
Notes
 	 Scope 1 emissions for the Bank for FY24 are estimated for all the premises 
together so we are representing total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the entire 
Bank together (without the premise breakdown) in the graph above.
 	 Inclusion of off-site ATMs has contributed a majority of the increase in 
emissions. Electricity consumption covered only those premises that were 
operational for more than six months during the financial year.
 	 It is to be noted that renewable energy procured for three of our large 
corporate offices through open access has gone up significantly to 2.6x 
compared to the previous year.
 	 Scope 1 coverage includes emissions from firefighting equipment, diesel 
consumed in DG sets and AC refrigerants. 
 	 Until FY 22, the total electricity bill amount was used for estimating units of 
electricity consumed, wherever consumption data was not available. Since 
FY 23, electricity usage in kWh has been reported from those offices where 
the management has electricity usage information and for other offices the 
electricity usage has been calculated basis the average percentage paid 
towards energy charges through sampling of electricity bills sourced from 
various premises across regions.
 	 For premises, where neither billing amount nor consumption data was 
available, we have estimated consumption based on data from similar 
premises.
	 Emission factors published in IPCC AR6 and CEA have been used for the 
calculation of total Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
	 Refrigerants from offices and branches have been estimated based on the 
annual leakage rate of total air conditioners in the premises.
	 In FY 2023-24, we have changed our methodology and reclassified 9,024.2 
tCO2e emissions previously categorized under Scope 3 Upstream leased assets 
category to Scope 2 as these are under the Bank’s operational control (for FY 
2022-23 such amount was 6,273.73 tCo2e)
Scope 2 emissions14
During the reporting period, our total Scope 27 emissions were 
1,02,447.5 tCO2e generated from purchased electricity from all 
corporate offices, branches and ATMs managed and operated by the 
Bank and independently managed subsidiary premises. In FY 2023-
24, off-site ATMs managed by the Bank are a new addition in Scope 2 
emissions for the Bank. For the previous reporting period these were 
being accounted under ‘Upstream leased assets’ category of Scope 
3. This alone has accounted for 11% increase in emissions and hence 
the data for this year is not comparable with the previous year. The 
ATM premises which are vendor managed are added to the ‘Purchased 
goods and services’ category of Scope 3. 
Our electricity consumption consists a mix of renewable (solar 
and wind) and non-renewable sources. The calculation of scope 2 
emissions for FY 2023-24 is based on the latest emission factor for 
electricity published by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) adjusted 
for cross-border electricity transfers including RES & Captive power 
injection into grid.  
 
Scope 1 and 2 Emission intensity
Kotak Mahindra Group observed an emission intensity of 0.97 tCO2e/
FTE, while the Bank’s emission intensity stood at 1.21 tCO2e/FTE, 
depicting an understandable increase from the preceding year. Refer 
BRSR Principle 6 Essential Indicator 7, page 410 for more details 
on GHG Emission intensity information related to the Bank. The 
Scope 1 emissions13
Our Scope 1 emissions include emissions from diesel consumption, 
refrigerant leakage in ACs and purchase of fire extinguishers from all 
Bank-managed premises such as corporate offices, branches and 
ATMs. In the financial year 2023-24, our total Scope 1 emissions for the 
Group amounted to 10,352.7 tCO2e. For FY 2023-24, we have estimated 
diesel consumption using amount spent on purchase of fuel and the 
average fuel rate across states. The methodology has been changed 
in the current year to include all offices and branches of the Bank and 
subsidiaries. Thus the data is not comparable to previous year.
We have also estimated emissions from refrigerants using the asset 
inventory for the cooling units using representative data from Bureau of 
Energy Efficiency and TERI. Similarly, we have estimated the emissions 
arising out of refrigerant leakage for subsidiaries, considering that 
each of the independently managed subsidiary premise has an AC of 
1.5 ton capacity. For fire extinguishers, data for the Bank was based 
on actual purchases of equipment, while we estimated the emissions 
for subsidiaries by considering 2 kg capacity fire extinguisher at each 
site with an equal split of appropriate type fire extinguisher across 
independently managed subsidiary premises. It is to be noted that fire 
extinguishers are replaced immediately after use or upon the expiration 
of their warranty. Refer BRSR Principle 6 Essential Indicator 7, page 
410 for more details on Scope 1 emissions information related to the 
Bank. Coverage of reporting has been enhanced to include 37 new 
corporate offices, 240+ new bank branches, 1000+ off-site ATMs, and 
840 additional subsidiary premises from last year. 
Scope 2 emissions for FY 2-23-24 is not comparable with previous 
year, as we additionally covered 1000 + offsite ATMs which were 
not part of Scope 2 emissions in the previous year. It may also be 
noted that there has been an increase in offices and branches across 
the Group. Estimating emissions from fuel via actual spending 
and covering emissions for refrigerants through using owned fixed 
assets improves the completeness and accuracy in our emission 
disclosures. This also serves as a refined baseline for our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions. Refer BRSR Principle 6 Essential Indicator 7,  
page 410 for more details on Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions of the Bank.
13GRI 305-1 | 14GRI 305-2
66
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 15GRI 305-3 | 16GRI 305-4
Notes
	 Coverage of reporting has been enhanced to include 37 new corporate 
offices, 240+ new Bank branches, 1,000+ off-site ATMs, and 840 additional 
subsidiary premises from last year. 
	 FTE refers to full time employees on board at the end of the financial year.
	 It is to be noted that emission intensity for Bank covers emissions from 
the Bank premises which also includes area shared with the subsidiaries, 
however only Bank employees are considered for calculating the intensity. 
Group intensity additionally covers independently managed subsidiaries and 
Group employees. 
	 Emissions have increased across premises owing to more employees 
returning to work and due to enhancement of office space. It is to be noted 
that renewable energy procured for three of our large corporate offices 
through open access has gone up significantly.
Group’s Emission Intensity16 Trend - FY 24	
tCO2e per/FTE
FY 22
0.93
FY 23
0.96
FY 24
0.97
Bank’s Emission Intensity16 Trend - FY 24	
tCO2e per/FTE
FY 22
1.06
FY 23
1.11
FY 24
1.21
We are actively shaping a forward-thinking decarbonisation strategy, 
in alignment with India’s environmental goals. Through a scenario 
analysis exercise conducted in FY 2022-23, we had projected our 
Scope 1 emissions and Scope 2 emissions over the short, medium 
and long term. This exercise helped us to gauge the efforts needed 
for emission reduction, such as ramping up renewable energy 
utilisation and adopting cleaner alternatives. One of the associate 
outcomes of this exercise is the increased uptake and utilisation of 
renewable energy at our larger corporate premises through the year. 
We also initiated the installation of roof-top solar across three bank-
owned sites in Karnataka, for a total capacity ~62 kWh. 
Scope 3 emissions15
In the fiscal year 2023-24, our Scope 3 emissions cover six categories 
including capital goods, fuel and energy-related emissions, purchased 
goods and services, business travel, company-enabled employee 
commute and waste generation. 
Total Scope 3 emissions amounted to 47,005.3 tCO2e, calculated in 
accordance with GHG Protocol guidelines. Major source of Scope 3 
emissions are from the waste disposed, capital goods such as 
vehicles procured for employee use and IT equipment, and business 
travel. While the assessment comprehensively captures significant 
emission sources, categories such as processing of sold products 
and downstream leased assets are currently not included. Our 
efforts continue to focus on refining methodologies to understand 
sources of indirect emissions and identifying opportunities for 
reduction to further environmental sustainability. Refer BRSR Principle 
6 Leadership Indicator 2, page 413 for more details on Scope 3 
emissions of the Bank.
Notes
	 In the current financial year, we have considered the boundary of scope 3 
emissions to be Bank on standalone basis
Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Scope 3 Emissions (tCO2e) - FY 2024
Total Scope 3:
47,005.3 tCO2e
Purchased Goods & Services
6.6%
Capital Goods
25.4% 
Fuel & Energy 
Related Activities
47.5%
Waste 
Generated in Operations
1.8%
Business Travel - Air & Rail
17.7%
Employee Commute
1.0%
Scope 3 categories explained
Category 1: Purchased Goods & Services cover paper related 
emissions. It also covers other consumables such as stationary 
supplies and emissions from purchased electricity from our 
vendor managed off-site ATMs. Supplier specific emission factors 
have been used to calculate emissions from paper and other 
consumables sourced from CEA. 
Category 2: Capital Goods cover IT equipment and ATM machines, 
vehicles procured for employee use, office fixtures & equipment 
and the services include civil & interior work fee and software and 
systems etc. Capital goods have been considered based on additions 
in Fixed Asset Register. World Input Output Database emission 
factors are being used to calculate the same. 
Category 3: Fuel & Energy Related Emissions cover emissions 
from the electricity lost due to AT&C Losses and emissions 
associated with extraction, transport, refining, purification and/or 
conversion of primary fuels (diesel) to direct usable form. Emissions 
have been calculated based on emission factors sourced from 
CEA and DEFRA 2022. 
Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations cover all the wastes 
generated from our operations under both hazardous and non-
hazardous categories such as paper and cardboard, plastic, metal, 
organic, construction & demolition, battery, biomedical, used oil and 
E-waste. Emission factor for treatment of all waste categories have 
been sourced from DEFRA 2022. For the computation of waste 
quantities please refer to the box covering methodologies used 
under waste management. 
Category 6: Business Travel covers emissions generated from air 
(domestic and international) and train travel. The distance travelled 
is estimated using sources available in the public domain. The 
applicable emission factors have been sourced from India Specific Air 
Transport Emission Factors, 2015 for domestic travel, DEFRA 2022 
for international travel and India Specific Rail Transport Emission 
Factors, 2015 for rail.  
Category 7: Employee Commute cover emissions generated from 
third party managed buses and cabs offered by the company. The 
applicable emission factors have been sourced from India GHG 
Programme 2015 and DEFRA 2022.
67
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Waste Management17,18
At Kotak Mahindra Bank, we are committed to sustainable practices, 
including efficient waste management across all our premises. Our 
waste management efforts primarily focus on e-waste and battery 
waste, stationary waste and organic waste from our canteens. Other 
categories such as construction waste, plastic waste, biomedical waste 
and scrap metal, may not be material to the financial services industry 
given the nature of our business. To facilitate waste segregation, we 
provide dedicated collection bins for dry and wet waste. We engage with 
authorised vendors for the disposal of e-waste, battery waste and other 
potential hazardous wastes (used oil while maintenance of generator 
sets) generated from our facilities.
A significant aspect of our waste management strategy is the utilisation 
of organic waste converters (OWCs) at six corporate office premises. 
These OWCs efficiently convert food waste into manure, which is utilised 
for landscaping within our premises and in specific areas, distributed to 
nearby housing societies. 
Our comprehensive coverage of waste generation data indicates 
generation of19 1,193.7 of tonnes of waste across all facilities. Of this, 
177.3 tonnes of the generated waste was either reused or recycled20. 
Notably, 10.3 tonnes of our hazardous waste, including used oil and 
e-waste, was recycled by authorized vendors and 1,016 tonnes was sent 
to landfill which includes the disposed plastic waste as well.13 Due 
to the comprehensive coverage of waste data in FY 2023-24, there 
is a significant increase compared to the previous year and is not 
comparable to the data presented for FY 2022-23.
Furthermore, 166.2 tonnes of non-hazardous waste was recycled20 or 
diverted from disposal, with 84.2 tonnes recycled on-site through OWCs. 
A minimal amount of hazardous bio-medical waste 0.003 tonnes was 
given to authorised vendors which was incinerated.13
We intend to work towards enhancing our data systems for waste, even 
as this topic is not considered material for the financial services sector. 
Details of waste generated can be found at page 411 of the report.
Water Management
Recognizing the importance of water management given India’s 
susceptibility to water risk, we address water consumption through 
various means. In our corporate offices located in major cities, water 
withdrawal primarily occurs from municipal corporations and tanker 
services, while a few larger offices have their own bore wells to draw 
water from the ground, which is not a significant amount. Given that 
our operations are not water-intensive and the primary use of water 
is for human consumption for drinking and for sanitary facilities, we 
have estimated the water withdrawal basis the Bank’s total employee 
head count considering 45 liters/day/person as the average water 
consumption provided by Indian Standard 1172: Code of Basic 
Requirements for Water Supply, Drainage and Sanitation (1993). 
This change in methodology has been adopted because most of our 
premises are leased and water consumption data is not accessible 
since it is paid as part of rent. Water consumption is calculated by 
subtracting water discharged from water withdrawal. The amount of 
water discharged was calculated by using the methodology indicated by 
Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).
The total water withdrawal10 for the Bank is 8,52,455.6 KL, inclusive 
of water usage for drinking and other purposes at all premises where 
employees are located. Furthermore, three of our largest corporate 
offices actively utilise recycled water in toilets, underscoring our 
commitment to water conservation and sustainability. We also have 
rainwater harvesting facilities available at five premises, which facilitate 
water conservation. The harvested water is mostly used to recharge 
10GRI 303-3 | 11GRI 303-4 | 12GRI 303-5 | 13GRI 306-5 | 17GRI 306-1 | 18GRI 306-2 | 19GRI 306-3 | 20 GRI 306-4 |
Embracing Sustainability
the ground water table and at select locations is used for flushing 
purpose or horticulture. 
In our ongoing efforts to reduce water consumption, we have 
implemented various initiatives, including the installation of low-flow 
plumbing fixtures in buildings. These fixtures help minimise water 
usage without compromising functionality or user experience. We also 
continuously prompt our employees to conserve water by avoiding 
misuse and encourage them to report any faulty taps or leaks in 
washrooms for prompt repairing or replacement. Water discharged 
is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on 
CPCB’s report ‘Status of water supply, wastewater generation and 
treatment in class-I cities & class-II towns of India’*. Accordingly, it is 
assumed that of the total water withdrawal, 20% is consumed12. 
In FY 2023-24, 6,81,964.5 KL of water has been discharged11 from 
the Bank premises.
Emission reduction Initiatives
Installation of electric vehicle 
charging stations at key offices 
to encourage the adoption of 
electric vehicles and support 
eco-friendly commuting options.
Adoption of CFC-free refrigerants 
like R134A in HVAC systems to 
reduce environmental footprint 
and comply with sustainable 
practices. 
Optimisation of air conditioner 
refrigerant emissions to 
minimise greenhouse gas 
emissions, aligning with our 
commitment to environmental 
stewardship.
Low-emission tubular batteries 
for power backup instead of 
traditional generators. 
Using Ceasefire fire 
extinguishers, preferably the 
MAP-90 model, which emits  
low carbon. 
Incorporation of low-VOC, low-emission 
materials in construction and maintenance 
activities across our premises to minimise 
environmental impact and ensure occupant 
health and safety.
Replacement of Precision Air 
Conditioners (PAC) with Hybrid 
Air Conditioners utilising R407C 
Refrigerant to further reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions and 
enhance energy efficiency. 
* dated December 24, 2009
68
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Waste Management Initiatives at Kotak Mahindra Bank
Prevention of Single Use Plastic 
(SUP)
Paper waste minimisation 
through technological 
intervention
Minimisation of food 
wastage 
Usage of Organic Waste 
Converters (OWC)
Responsible disposal of 
e-waste 
During the previous year, the data for various categories of 
waste was primarily reported for the corporate offices and bank 
branches based on available data. During the current year, we 
have adopted different methodology and our assumptions used 
to estimate and disclose such data are explained below: 
E-Waste- We are considering the quantity of e-waste recycled through 
authorised vendors to also reflect the e-waste generated through the 
year. It is to be noted that we maintain e-waste data to help us identify 
electronic items ready for disposal, which may be recycled out of the 
reporting period. 
Biomedical waste- This gets generated and disposed from only 
two of our corporate offices which have on-site medical facilities and 
has been estimated for one using the data shared by the other. This 
waste is given to the authorized vendors for safe disposal. 
Construction waste- we have calculated the average waste 
generated per square feet of renovation at our larger offices to 
estimate waste generated at other premises that underwent 
renovation during the year. This has led to significant increase and 
hence, the data is not comparable with the previous year 
Battery waste- This was disposed from select corporate offices 
and has been calculated using the same. This waste is given to the 
authorized vendors for safe disposal. 
Paper and cardboard waste- This is assumed to have come 
from total paper procured for our offices during the year. Recycled 
paper is taken at actuals and the rest is assumed to have 
gone to landfill. This change in methodology has led to significant 
increase in waste to landfill for FY 2023-24. Hence the data is  
not comparable with the previous year.  
Used Oil- For estimating used oil, we are relying on the average 
waste generated from the premises with this data based on the 
generator capacity, and extrapolated it for all other premises with 
owned electric power generators with similar capacity. 
Metal waste- This was generated from select corporate offices 
and has been calculated using the same. This waste is given to the 
authorized recyclers for safe disposal. 
Glass waste- This was generated from select corporate offices 
and has been calculated using the same.
Organic waste- Based on the food waste generated in our larger  
corporate offices we have estimated waste generated for other  
offices where data was not available. We have done a similar  
exercise to estimate plastic waste for corporate offices. This  
change in methodology over previous year has led to increase  
in waste to landfill for FY 2023-24. 
Due to the comprehensive coverage of waste data in FY 2023-24, 
there is a significant increase compared to the previous year and is 
not comparable to the data presented for FY 2022-23. 
At Kotak, we make conscious efforts to integrate ESG principles into 
our business operations. These principles help us in strategizing our 
risk management processes. Our actions, guided by the ESG policy 
framework, cover a vast spectrum of sustainability-related causes. We 
continue to expand our financial inclusion initiatives with the aim to 
empower the underserved and unbanked communities, ensuring equal 
opportunities for all. By engaging with regulators, industry bodies, and 
think tanks from time to time, we are committed to drive positive change. 
We will continue our initiatives to reduce resource consumption, 
including energy and water, and mitigate our operational impact on the 
environment through energy efficiency measures and increased usage of 
renewable energy. 
We maintain transparency in reporting our ESG performance and 
accountability mechanisms to ensure responsible practices. By adopting 
various initiatives in accordance with the evolving regulatory landscape, 
we are committed to creating lasting value for our stakeholders while 
simultaneously contributing to a sustainable future.
Other environmental initiatives
We engage with our suppliers to procure sustainably towards 
minimising environmental impact throughout our supply chain
We also conduct employee awareness sessions to strengthen the 
awareness on environmental principles across the organisation.
We have implemented default duplex printing on all printers and 
stopped the dispatch of physical account statements in envelopes. 
More than 2.5 crore sheets were saved due to this initiative. 
In FY 2023-24, 98% of our personal loan business transitioned to 
digital formats. This not only improved transaction processing time 
but also saved consumption of paper. 
1
2
4
3
Methodology for Waste Calculation
69
Embracing Sustainability
Sustainability at Kotak
Generating Value for Customers
Re-imagining customer 
experience
At Kotak, we are committed to nurturing and strengthening relationships with our customers. 
Our customer-centric approach integrates advanced digital capabilities with market insights 
to enhance customer satisfaction. Our suite of digital products and solutions cater to their 
diverse needs across various segments, enabling a “holistic customer experience” approach. 
We are dedicated to implementing robust systems and processes to safeguard customer data, aligning with leading industry practices. By 
combining innovation in digital solutions with data security, we strive to deliver efficient and reliable services that create value for our customers 
while strengthening Kotak’s position as a trusted brand committed to customer needs. 
Data Privacy
Customer Centricity
Brand Recognition 
Material Topics Covered
Capitals Covered
Key Highlights
Contribution to SDGs
Social and 
Relationship Capital
22% 
Growth in the Bank’s customer 
base from 41 million to 50 million
81% 
Customer grievances 
resolved within stipulated 
turnaround time
13 point
Increase in R-NPS score 
for consumer banking 
segment* 
22% 
Increase in Consumer 
Assets
YoY
*Improvement in score over the period December 2022 to January 2024
70
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
We believe that efficient, effective and periodic engagement with 
customers is crucial for building trust and gaining on-ground insights 
into their preferences. We have instituted and implemented multiple 
policies (as listed on Pg. 391 of the BRSR) to embed a responsible 
customer-centric approach in our business operations. 
Our Board-level Customer Service Committee (CSC) oversees 
performance related to customer experience and satisfaction. The 
Committee meets every quarter to analyse and provide guidance 
on measures to further strengthen performance. The CSC defines 
and closely monitors quantitative and qualitative targets specified 
for various parameters pertaining to customer service. The CSC 
conducts meetings with the relevant stakeholders regularly to 
discuss topics that span across engagement, technology, banking 
and products in context to customer feedback.
We have a comprehensive service framework to monitor a range of 
indicators for assessing both customer engagement and service 
delivery. Customer engagement metrics include the level of service 
and digital activation by customers, while service delivery indicators 
include complaint resolution effectiveness and first-contact 
resolution among others. We also keep track of how our customers 
perceive us, our services and our brand via social media platforms. 
This robust service framework maps these quality indicators to the 
performance of our employees specifically responsible for ensuring 
customer satisfaction.
Recognising the importance of customer experience as a key 
differentiator in a highly competitive market, we have developed 
our customer experience team into a center of excellence and a 
critical part of the Bank. The team is responsible for evaluating and 
addressing our customer feedback to identify areas of improvement 
across all customer segments. The team interacts with customers 
through various mediums viz phone calls, emails, in-person 
meetings at the branch and social media channels for independent 
feedback. Our commitment to delivering exceptional customer 
experience ensures this responsibility is shared across all functions 
and business units.
At Kotak, we track Net Promoter Score (NPS) to gauge customer 
satisfaction, which is monitored at two levels, Relationship NPS 
(R-NPS) and Transaction NPS (T-NPS). Tracking the R-NPS offers us 
insights into customers’ overall perception of the Bank. Regular NPS 
surveys help us measure satisfaction and identify areas for further 
enhancement, ensuring we consistently meet and exceed customer 
expectations. The Bank also has a philosophy of defining and closely 
monitoring quantitative targets specified for various parameters 
pertaining to customer services. 
We complement this with annual surveys that are conducted across 
wealth management, SME, commercial and wholesale banking 
segments. Retail banking surveys are conducted every six months to 
capture more frequent feedback. Mystery shopping service is utilised 
by private banking segment to evaluate the branches from multiple 
perspectives – service offerings, staff conduct and overall customer 
interactions. We aim to improve the experience of our consumers 
based on the feedback of such an exercise.
71
Generating Value for Customers
Sustainability at Kotak
Generating Value for Customers
Enhancing Customer Experience
We are focused on transforming our processes through 
digitalisation and being the preferred banking partner for our 
customers. At the Bank, we are actively implementing various 
customer experience and engagement initiatives to proactively 
address the evolving needs of our customers and enhance the 
quality of service we provide. For example, to improve customer 
services, the SME vertical of Wholesale Banking has undertaken 
various initiatives towards improving customer contactability, 
simplifying customer on-boarding process, and providing 
customers with digital platforms such as FYN. In consumer 
banking, we have initiated WhatsApp channel for certain loan 
products where loan related information is offered. These 
initiatives streamline communication and provide convenient 
self-service options. We also invest in training our front-line staff 
to engage with our customers effectively.
Our clients interact with various touchpoints across the Bank and 
its subsidiaries (KMPL, KMIL, Kotak Securities, KAAML, among 
others). The Customer Experience team ensures consistency 
across these interactions by continuously acting on feedback 
to improve omni channel experiences and bridge any gaps. Our 
relationship management teams, through physical branches 
and virtual Relationship Managers across the customer contact 
centres engage with customers telephonically and digitally. 
These interactions provide valuable insights into customers’ 
financial product usage and decision-making processes while 
allowing us to evaluate and refine our service delivery. Through 
these engagements, our customer-facing teams conduct 
root-cause analysis and identify potential process bottlenecks, 
enabling us to implement changes in policies, processes and 
technology, so as to make banking simple, safe, reliable and 
delightful for our customers. 
We recognise data analytics as the cornerstone of our growth 
strategy. It is integral to our operations across customer 
acquisition, on-boarding, servicing, upselling, cross-selling, risk 
assessment, fraud detection and process optimization. Our 
data infrastructure, spanning multiple market cycles, enables 
sophisticated modelling of customer behaviour patterns and 
preferences, significantly contributing to growth in lending and 
deposits. Aligning with our technology-driven innovation strategy, 
we have expanded our team with over a hundred data science 
and engineering experts, underscoring our commitment to 
personalised, data-led customer service. 
72
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Customer Grievance Redressal Mechanism1
A key component for customer centricity is to address concerns 
expressed by our customers and provide prompt and efficient 
service. The Bank follows a holistic approach towards setting up 
service standards and continuously improving customer experience 
based on market practice as well as customer feedback across 
multiple channels. We have a multi-channel robust customer 
grievance redressal mechanism for managing customer grievances 
across all our operations. Implementation of Salesforce CRM 
which has replaced multiple systems in the Bank, makes it easier 
for the frontline team to access information seamlessly thus 
helping address customer issues much faster. This system ensures 
acknowledgement, end-to-end tracking and categorisation of the 
complaints raised to enable root-cause analysis.
The Bank aims to ensure quick and effective handling of customer 
grievances, as well as prompt, corrective & preventive action 
(including correction of the process, wherever required) in order to 
avoid the recurrence of grievances. We have implemented a three-tier 
escalation system for complaints: Level 1 (Customer Experience 
Centre, Net Banking/Web form, Branch, PO Box), Level 2 (Nodal 
Officer), and Level 3 (Principal Nodal Officer). 
In accordance with RBI recommendations, we have established 
an Internal Ombudsman role. This independent authority reviews 
all customer grievances before any complaint is rejected. The 
Internal Ombudsman’s decision is binding on the Bank, ensuring an 
unbiased assessment of customer issues. If a customer remains 
unsatisfied with the Bank’s response or does not receive one 
within a month, they can escalate their complaint to the Banking 
Ombudsman. Information about this process is readily available 
on our website. We have specialized teams dedicated to handling 
complaints escalated to the Senior Management or the RBI Banking 
Ombudsman under our Grievance Redressal desk. This multi-tiered 
approach ensures thorough and fair resolution of all customer 
grievances, reinforcing our commitment to customer satisfaction 
and regulatory compliance. 
We also actively focus on resolving customer complaints in a timely 
manner. Every complaint has a specified turnaround time and 
customers are informed about it at the time of registering of the 
complaint. Customers are also provided educational communication 
on grievance redressal and the process for escalation. The emphasis 
is on direct communication with Relation/Service Managers and, 
pursuant to this, all the customer complaints are registered into our 
Salesforce system and tracked rigorously for resolution within the 
Turn Around Time (TAT). In FY 23-24, 81% of customer grievances 
resolved were resolved within stipulated TAT. To effectively track 
status on pending complaints, an outstanding complaints ageing 
report is published on a regular basis. An assigned team tracks and 
reports the analysis of complaints every quarter to the Board-level 
Customer Service Committee and the regulator. 
With the enhancements in our digital applications and growing 
social presence, customers are able to raise complaints from the 
mobile banking applications, company website and social media 
platforms. We also provide customers the flexibility to share their 
grievances through mediums comfortable to them. All our customer-
facing employees are trained to effectively handle customer 
communications via multiple mediums. 
This year we also launched the Care Index, a composite score that 
ranks branch performance on customer-focused metrics. This index 
provides insights by benchmarking each branch’s performance 
against internal expectations and other branches nationwide. 
These initiatives coupled with staff training, have yielded significant 
improvements in Consumer banking: an average 8% decrease in top 
6 call volumes received at our customer experience centre and a 5% 
drop per 1,000 customers in BO complaints.
Our subsidiaries have also put in place robust customer grievance 
redressal systems. KSL tracks and resolves complaints via Salesforce 
CRM, adhering to strict TAT. This year, KSL enhanced their digital 
self-service portal, resulting in 88% of requests for these services 
being sourced digitally. KSL also improved their statement request 
processing during ITR filing season, leading to over 18% drop in 
repeated request raised to the Customer Service. KSL has a dedicated 
Social Media team for tracking mentions across various platforms 
such as Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and more. This team 
monitors messages on these platforms and prioritizes resolving 
clients’ concerns. They also track the handles of Senior Leadership 
team members to ensure that clients receive superior service when 
they escalate any issues.
At Kotak, through our comprehensive approach to engagement, 
experience enhancement, and grievance resolution, we attempt 
to create lasting value for our customers. By leveraging our digital 
capabilities, data analytics, and robust service framework, we aim to 
meet the expectations of our customers. We focus on continuous 
improvement and personalised services to adapt to their evolving 
needs and strengthen our role as a trusted financial partner.
1GRI 2-25, GRI 2-26
73
Generating Value for Customers
Sustainability at Kotak
Overview of our workforce1
We value our colleagues and strive to foster an inclusive 
and collaborative environment. As on 31st March, 2024, the 
total employee strength of the Group was over 1.35 lakh, as 
compared to 1.26 lakh a year ago. In FY 2023-24, we hired 
74,576 employees at the Group, with 87% of them being full-
time employees. As on 31st March, 2024, about two-thirds of 
workforce in the Group are permanent employees while there are 
1.16 lakh full-time employees in the Group (excluding ~19,000 
part-time employees who work as an insurance brokers). Overall 
employee turnover at the Group reduced by 12% in FY2023-24 
compared to previous year.
Empowering Colleagues
Nurturing a  
people-first culture
At Kotak, our colleagues are the cornerstone of our Company’s success and the gateway to 
new growth opportunities. Our goal is to create a dynamic workplace that values diversity, 
promotes well-being, and helps our colleagues reach their full potential. 
1 GRI 3-3, GRI 2-7
1 Please refer page 387, BRSR, Section A, Question 20. 
Employee Health and Well-being
Employee Development and Engagement
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Material Topics Covered
Capitals Covered
Key Highlights
Contribution to SDGs
Human 
Capital
1.16 lakh+
Full-time Employees (FTE) at 
our Group
14%
y-o-y (46% to 40%) reduction 
in employee turnover at the 
Bank
~15 Years
Average tenure of senior 
management at the Bank
77,921
FTE of the Bank
26.2%
Women Employees at the 
Bank
We are committed to creating a future where our 
colleagues thrive through continuous learning and 
growth, a culture of appreciation and transparent 
communication, and comprehensive benefits. We are 
strengthening our strongest asset, our people, through 
our efforts to create a personalised value proposition for 
every colleague and to empower them to deliver value.
Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
74
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
At Kotak, we acknowledge the importance of technological 
preparedness to stay ahead of the curve. Our attempt is to equip 
ourselves with the right talent by identifying an agile and tech-
savvy workforce that can meet the needs of our customers. 
Our talent acquisition strategy, structured around Hire-Train Deploy 
(HTD) model, enables us to foster a robust pipeline of role-ready 
talent. We have also strengthened our off-campus and lateral hiring 
from top-tier organisations. We have launched the Kotak NextGen 
Bankers Programme in association with Manipal Academy of BFSI, 
where eligible graduates of any specialisation can apply. This is 
a 12-month Post Graduate Diploma programme in Relationship 
Banking wherein candidates undergo classroom and on-the-job 
training by industry experts. This is followed by an internship with the 
Bank, and post completion of the programme, students may join the 
permanent workforce of the Bank. 
As we strengthen our digital focus, we have undertaken 
transformative initiatives such as amplified intake from STEM 
(Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) campuses, and 
reorganised roles with a deep focus on improving digital capabilities. 
We aim to curate a more diverse workforce and encourage a stronger 
representation of women at Kotak by focusing on attaining female 
talent with diverse qualifications. 
There are now 77,921 FTE and 2 part-time employees at the Bank. 
Average tenure at the Bank for mid-management was above 6 
years in FY 2023-24, while among senior management, it was 
nearly 15 years. We provide opportunities for movement within the 
Group, and 300+ colleagues from within the Bank have realigned 
their career path. This year, we increased focus on employee 
wellness, engagement and development. This has led to a 14% 
y-o-y reduction (46% to 40%) in employee turnover2 rate at the 
Bank compared to FY 2022-23. Please refer to Section A-22, page 
388 in the BRSR for employee turnover of the Bank.
Our people strategy is centred on creating an inclusive and diverse 
workplace environment. Building vibrant, dynamic, and future 
ready talent at the Group is a crucial element of our strategy. 
We provide growth opportunities for our young workforce and 
currently have 750+ employees under the age of 30 who hold 
middle management positions at the Group. We have been 
witnessing a steady growth in our permanent workforce over 
the past two years from 57% to 69% at the Group. A significant 
portion of the Group’s workforce is young with nearly 50% under 
the age of 30 across temporary and permanent roles. Women 
colleagues make up 25.7% and 26.2% of the Group’s and Bank’s 
workforce respectively.
Our holistic approach to employees 
Attracting 
the right talent
Empowering 
our colleagues
Nurturing 
the workforce
1
2
3
1
Attracting 
the right talent
Our growing global workforce
Total employees
FY 21
96,022
41,610
17,339
10,124
26,949
43.3%
10.5%
18.1% 
28.1% 
Bank’s Workforce - Permanent
Subsidiaries Workforce - Permanent
Subsidiaries Workforce - Contractual
Bank’s Workforce - Contractual
FY 22
1,21,899
40.1%
14.4%
16.4% 
29.0% 
FY 23
1,26,192
56,115
 24,241 
17,366
 28,470 
44.5%
13.8%
19.2%
22.6%
FY 24
1,35,461
 60,438 
 32,403 
 17,485 
 25,135 
44.6%
12.9%
23.9%
18.6%
48,890
20,049
17,583
35,377
2 GRI 401-1
75
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
Empowering Colleagues
At the Bank, we invest in the careers of our colleagues and foster 
their professional development by providing training opportunities. 
From recruitment to retirement, we are committed to supporting 
colleague. We rely on data-driven systems to derive insights on 
employee engagement, development and satisfaction. Upon getting 
the feedback, we build resource strategies for our crucial roles, 
learning opportunities, and career advancement for our colleagues.
In addition to assisting with career development via training, 
we facilitate our colleagues’ advancement through a structured 
performance management system. The conversion of organsational 
goals into employee-driven outcomes is made possible by a goal-
setting framework. Special focus remains on strategic, leadership, 
and financial goals that are set during annual planning sessions. We 
assure openness and fairness in our performance review process 
by enabling feedback sessions on a periodic basis. We also train 
first time managers on sharing and receiving feedback from teams. 
All the Bank’s eligible colleagues received performance and career 
development assessments in FY 2023-24. As a result, 11% of our 
permanent workforce at the Bank were promoted to higher positions 
in the reporting period.3
We use our learning platform to provide training on a variety of 
policies implemented by the Bank, including information security 
awareness, Code of Conduct, AML Standards and KYC Norms, 
and Prevention of Sexual Harassment. We ensure all our new 
3 GRI 404-3: Please refer page 399, BRSR Section C, Principle 3, Essential Indicator 9
4GRI 404-2: Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator. 
* Please refer page 392. BRSR Section C, Principle 1, Essential Indicator 1
employees undergo these trainings while the existing employees 
are required to confirm adherence to the Code of Conduct via an 
annual acknowledgement.
At the Bank, our training approach has evolved to a hybrid mode 
in recent years. Our training programmes utilise state-of-the-art 
digital infrastructure that delivers a unified, seamless and consistent 
experience across both physical and virtual environments. These 
focuses on developing functional skills, soft skills, organisational 
culture, leadership capabilities and emerging opportunities. In 
FY 2023-24, 94% of Bank’s employees undertook at least one 
learning intervention*.
Induction training programs cover the fundamentals of roles and 
responsibilities, functional knowledge and company orientation. 
We also offer training programs aimed at enhancing colleagues’ 
communication, behavioural, managerial and leadership capabilities. 
In addition to the training initiatives that we have facilitated (listed 
in Table 01), we also offer programs such as digital and leadership 
courses covering use of Chat GPT, modules on interpersonal skills 
and personal brand building that workforce transitioning to new roles 
or functions or those nearing superannuation can undertake.4
We have introduced a new-age AI-based learning experience 
platform, Kotak MyLearn in November 2023, with a dedicated 
focus on continuous learning. This platform has a mobile 
version enabling our people to experience learning on the go. It 
includes a vast content library, tracks learning journeys and offers 
personalised recommendations.
2
Empowering 
our colleagues
KYLC Batch 2023-24
76
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Table 01- Key Training programmes for employee development
Kotak Young Leaders Council (KYLC)
Executive Education
DRONA
Quantum Leadership Programme, 5th Cohort
	
Program aimed at enhancing mind-sets, skill-sets and tool-
sets of young managers to navigate the banking industry’s 
challenges and opportunities
	
Participants are given the opportunity to shadow and 
receive mentorship from senior leaders
 	
Collaboration with multiple IIM campuses for 
skills upgradation
 	
Managerial program to build a culture of coaching and 
mentoring, and improve productivity 
 	
Highly appreciated and was rated 4.8/5 by the participants
 	
Leadership program for senior management aimed at 
developing strategic agility while dealing with disruption
 	
This guides them in navigating the challenges of current 
roles and prepares them for future roles
	
In FY 2023-24, 40+ applicants across the Bank were 
selected giving them an opportunity to develop specific 
individual development career plans
	
In FY 2023-24, 150 participants engaged in over 80 hours of 
curriculum to upskill themselves
 	
Emphasizes upskilling in four areas – Hire Right, Develop 
Talent, Nurture Talent and Retain Talent, via 4 tracks that 
cater to these skills – Manager as Mentor, Manager as 
Trainer, Manager as Assessor and Manager as Coach
 	
1,100+ managers have received the DRONA certification
 	
Topics such as Reinventing Innovation, Exponential Growth 
Strategies, Transformational Leadership and Customer 
Centricity are covered
 	
Participants rated this program 4.8/5 on an 
average across cohorts
Kotak Young Leaders Council	
	
The skills attained through this program act as catalysts 
for many Group level projects, driving both professional 
development and career enhancement.
 Shradha Salaria 
Associate Vice President, Financial Institutions Group-Sales 
Having the opportunity to interact directly with Kotak 
leadership has been truly enriching & fulfilling experience. 
It will surely help in preparing me for leadership 
roles in the future.
 Rashi Agarwal 
Senior Manager, Support Services-Human Resources
With the guidelines and structure of the program, I have 
found a new confidence in myself that continues to benefit 
me both personally and professionally.
 Shradhda Somkuwar 
Associate Vice President, Corporate Banking-Sales
77
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
Empowering Colleagues
Key training initiatives by our subsidiaries
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (‘KLI’) conducts 
Distribution Leadership Programs to equip their distribution 
partners with required skills for long-term career growth. They 
also offer Leadership Development Program powered by Cornell 
University to strengthen the organization’s talent pipeline 
focusing on executive coaching and design thinking. Programs 
such as KLICK 40 under 40 and Future School recognise and 
prepare internal talent. The retention rate of these programs 
is outstanding, recording 92% and 96% respectively at the end 
of 31st March, 2024.
Our subsidiaries involved in investment businesses like Kotak 
Mahindra Capital Company Limited (KMCC), and Kotak Alternate 
Assets Management Ltd (KAAML) offer functional trainings 
on financial modelling, valuation, business excellence, high-
impact presentation skills and artificial intelligence. Our larger 
microcredit subsidiary BSS Microfinance Limited (BSS) facilitates 
IIBF exam training and certification for its workforce.
Highlights of the Bank’s training efforts in FY 
2023-24
₹46 crore
99%
27,554
48%
was invested in training, 
leading to 41 training hours 
per employee5, 6, 7
of the training hours spent 
by colleagues were on 
developing functional skills
colleagues undertook 
trainings on responsible debt 
collection
of the total recorded 32 
lakhs learning hours are 
online self-paced sessions, 
with 52% offered by 
instructors across virtual 
and in-person modes5
Testimonials for Drona
6 The costs include cost of training staff, subscription for e-learning modules and conferences.
7 To track training hours conducted via digital mode through the Bank’s Learning Management system, we have assumed trainings to be of 45 minutes each for long 
duration courses and 15 minutes each for short duration courses.
5 GRI 404-1, Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
It has improved in various aspects, such as ability to 
present ideas and lead team huddles, showcasing 
tangible progress.
 Tushar Patil, Samir Gandhi 
Branch Manager, Ahmedabad
I was able to prevent attrition within my team by applying 
lessons from Drona, particularly in facilitating effective 
conversations and applying motivation techniques.
 Kaleem Khan 
Branch Manager, Bangalore
I have started introducing new elements such as video 
learning during morning huddles, making it more engaging 
and productive experience.
 Charmi Surmiya 
Manager, Thane
I have inculcated positive changes in my interactions with 
the team, especially in huddle sessions.
 Deepak Kalra 
Branch Manager- Delhi
78
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
We believe a healthy, happy, engaged and encouraged workforce 
fosters organisational success. To achieve this, we promote overall 
well-being of our colleagues through various initiatives. We have 
also enhanced our focus on building colleague value proposition 
and strengthening our employee engagement strategy. We are 
working on improving gender diversity and aspire to have at least 
a third of our workforce represented by women. Our larger offices 
are subject to an annual health & safety management assessment. 
In addition to this, we are committed to preventing any violation 
of human rights throughout our operations, supply chains, 
communities and business relationships.
Focus on Employee health 
We focus on creating a healthy work environment through our 
robust employee wellness programs. The group implemented an 
Annual Health Screening Policy for all Kotakites above 40 years of 
age belonging to certain grades. This pan-India program witnessed 
participation from 22% of our eligible workforce in FY 2023-24. 
Through multiple partnerships, this program was available at various 
clinics and benefitted about 2,000 people. We also offer health and 
wellness initiatives including yoga, meditation, Zumba and quiz 
sessions, online and onsite. Our “Health to the Power Infinity” website 
provides doctor consultations, nutritionist services, an Emotional 
Assistance Programme and pharmacy discounts with professionals 
available both on call and in-house. This year, about 250 employees 
and their family members availed the Emotional Assistance 
Programme for issues such as depression, anxiety, stress, and 
conflict management.
One of our subsidiaries, Kotak Securities Limited (KSL), encourages 
its staff members to take part in Stepathon, an annual health and 
fitness competition where employees work in teams to meet a daily 
step goal of 10,000 per person. HappyYou is a health and wellbeing 
app developed by KLI, which offers physical, mental and emotional 
wellbeing services and benefits for its employees and customers. 
Mental health counselling programs have also been launched by our 
subsidiaries KAAML and KMCC.
We provide a wide range of benefits to our permanent employees, 
some of which are offered based on their function and grade. These 
benefits consist of superannuation8, accident insurance, health 
insurance, parental benefits, provident fund and gratuity, details 
of which may be found under Principle 3 of Section C in BRSR. 
Stock ownership is offered to eligible employees. The Bank offers 
coverage to Kotakites under Term life, Personal accident policy 
and Health insurance policy. We also provide provide additional 
perks including a corporate credit card and business car for certain 
grades, and monthly fitness allowance, transfer allowance, house 
rent allowance and relocation fees to all colleagues. Additional 
incentives offered to women colleagues include customized 
learning programs, women-centric emotional support programs and 
travel entitlements.
8GRI 401-2
3
Nurturing 
the workforce
The meditation sessions and counselling resources have 
helped me manage stress more effectively, enhancing my 
productivity and work-life balance.
 Tanvi Divekar 
Product Manager
Kotak's regular wellness programs such as yoga sessions, 
health talks, and step challenges, have motivated me to 
adopt a healthier lifestyle.
 Shankar Nadar 
Housing Finance
I can conveniently get expert advice on any health concerns 
without taking time off work.
 Gaurav Shirdhankar 
Human Relations
79
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
Empowering Colleagues
KWW Meet
KLI’s Employee Wellness program focuses on creating awareness, 
providing resources and fostering a culture of psychological safety 
across four key areas, mental health, physical health, financial 
health, and social health. A Mental Health Café offers bi-monthly 
awareness sessions addressing several themes such as anxiety, 
depression and burnout. Over 1,200 employees attended these 
programmes. A significant number of leaders volunteered as 
Mental Health Champions and received certification to provide 
mental health first aid to peers and offer confidential one-on-one 
consultations. The Kotak Wellness Community, a group of 200+ 
employees, share health-related resources and suggestions via 
social media. Another employee group, the KLI Parents, facilitate 
monthly connections among parents and sessions with child 
psychologists and family counsellors to help families address 
modern day concerns.
Additionally, KMCC, KIE, and KAAML, along with conducting annual 
health check-ups have also launched “Care” initiative to address 
mental wellbeing of all employees. BSS with an employee base that 
is primarily field-based, conducts safety awareness campaigns with 
a particular focus on two-wheeler safety. 
Employee Engagement
At Kotak, we foster a collaborative and inclusive work environment 
that priortises Talent Engagement. We have introduced and are 
in the process of implementing the following 5 pillars, guiding our 
approach towards enhancing talent engagement. 
Providing the 
‘Best of Kotak’ 
for Kotakites and 
their families, 
offering differentiated and 
best-in-class products and 
services to colleagues
Culture of 
Appreciation 
by recognising and 
celebrating colleagues
Enhancing colleague 
value proposition 
for each distinctive employee group 
Transparent 
Communication 
Philosophy to promote 
openness and fairness
People development
through continuous learning, 
leadership development 
and skill enhancement
80
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
We conduct multiple annual surveys to gauge employee 
satisfaction. While we have begun strengthening our 
communication platform, we have also created an avenue, ‘My 
Kotak My Say’, for Kotakites to voice their concerns. This is a 
bi-annual engagement survey conducted in collaboration with the 
‘Great Place to Work Institute’. An overall 82% response rate was 
recorded across the Bank, with consistent positive feedback from 
79% of Kotakites (same as the previous year) believing that Kotak is 
a Great Place to Work®. With its undeterred efforts and employee 
centric initiatives, the Bank has been recognised among India’s 
top 25 ‘Best Workplaces in BFSI 2024’ and India’s ‘Best Employers 
among Nation Builders, 2024’ by the Great Place To Work® Institute 
(India). Kotak Mahindra Bank ranks 75 in Top 100 Best Companies 
to Work for 2024, India.
KLI approaches employee engagement with an aim to foster 
collaboration and organises cross-functional connects to break silos 
and improve cooperation. KLI’s MD holds a quarterly Town Hall, 
sharing crucial insights and encouraging open debate. It cultivates 
a vibrant corporate culture through various events such as Family 
Day, cricket tournaments, and festival celebrations. The GenNex and 
Rising Star program extends engagement beyond the workplace 
by recognizing employees’ children for academic excellence. These 
comprehensive efforts align employee and organizational needs, 
fostering a supportive and productive work environment. 
Kotak’s international subsidiaries promote cultural inclusivity 
and employee engagement through diverse initiatives. 
They enthusiastically celebrate festivals such as Diwali, 
Eid and Christmas. 
Further, KMCC and KAAML also implemented team-building 
activities, opened a K-library, and instituted Appreciation Tree. The 
Appreciation Tree is a visual representation of collective gratitude 
and appreciation for each other’s contribution, where employees 
write brief messages such as thank-you note, compliment or 
words of encouragement.
Kotak encourages innovation through our in-house idea generation 
portal, Europe. Colleagues can submit open ideas or propose 
solutions for specific business challenges related to cost 
optimisation, productivity improvement, process transformation, 
digital innovation and enhancing customer experience. From 
the 150+ ideas generated, we selected 50 for implementation in 
FY2023-24. In order to interact with tech enthusiasts and share our 
story of digital transformation, we utilize our social media platform, 
Tech at Kotak. This year, we proudly celebrated 38 years of Kotak 
Foundation Day on November 21, 2023. As part of the festivities, 
Kotak Karnival, dynamic and colourful event, was organised across 
10 offices nationwide.
Kotak Karnival Celebration
Kotak Cricket Tournament 
Kotak Diwali Celebration
81
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
Empowering Colleagues
Diversity and Inclusion10
We at the Bank recognize the value of diversity in our workforce 
and are committed to building an inclusive work environment. With 
our current gender diversity at 26.2%, the Bank has been actively 
focusing on increasing participation of women with an aspiration to 
have women represent at least a third of our workforce. Please refer 
to Section A -20, page 387 in the BRSR for diversity of governance 
bodies and employees of the Bank.
Our Diversity, Inclusion and Equity (DI&E) statement articulates 
the Group’s DE&I strategy governed by a Diversity and Inclusion 
Council, which is led by an Executive Director on the Board. As 
an equal opportunity employer, Kotak ensures significant women 
participation in its workforce through multiple recruitment drives 
across on and off-campus hiring programs. 
Culture of appreciation
We foster a culture of excellence by valuing and recognizing our collaborative and inclusive colleagues, creating a rewarding work 
environment. We have an online platform known as ‘K-Applaud’ that enables recognition and appreciation of Kotakites for their contribution, 
performance and achievements. Kotakites receive reward points every time they receive recognition from their managers. These points can be 
used to purchase products across 10,000 brands. As a part of this platform, we introduced the below-mentioned awards
This award enables employees to give 
appreciation badges to their colleagues. 
A special ‘Cheers for Peers for Inclusivity’ 
reward and recognition program focused on 
acknowledging the efforts made towards 
inclusivity at workplace.
The award programme established to 
honour business excellence, outstanding 
contributions and adherance to 
Kotak values. It involves selection by 
a diverse panel and the winners are 
announced on the Foundation Day.
Leaders nominate Kotakites who demonstrate 
behaviours aligned with our culture.
Additionally, we promote ongoing recognition 
through our SPOT and Heavy Lifters awards, 
part of our reward series. The awards 
are announced quarterly to honour high 
performers from the support teams.
Cheers for Peers
Kotak Infinity Awards
Kotak DNA Awards
At our subsidiary unit KLI, Kotak Life Appreciation System acknowledges outstanding performances across all levels and has recognised 
900+ employees who completed more than five years at KLI. Our microcredit subsidiary BSS also celebrated employee performance 
awards, long service awards, major festivals and the Foundation Day fostering a cohesive work environment across the organisation.
The company has an open culture and gives us the liberty 
and flexibility to work according to our mental well-being.
 Ankana Banerjee 
10 GRI 3-3 , GRI 405-1, Please refer, page 387 BRSR Section A-20 
Women employees at the Group
FY 21
16,743
9,112
FY 22
22,214
12,302
FY 23
24,573
9,124
FY 24
27,139
7,710
Full-time women employees
Part-time women employees
The Bank has aspiration to have 
women represent at least a third 
of our workforce from current 
26.2%. We shall continue taking 
measures like specific policies 
and initiatives that support the 
increased representation of 
women in our workforce. 
Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy is in alignment with 
the 2016 Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, and we have 52 
differently abled permanent employees in the Group. We have made 
provisions for ramps at some of our premises to make it easier for 
Persons with Disabilities (PwD) to access our branches and ATMs. 
More than 950 ATMs and more than 600 branches have disability 
accessible entrances. 
We facilitate flexible working conditions and contribute towards a 
better workplace environment for our women colleagues via a Part 
time working policy that offers flexibility in work schedules, without 
affecting career progression and growth, and a remote working policy 
that offers flexibility with respect to work location and schedule. 
Employee roles are classified into several categories to support 
hybrid-working conditions.
82
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
In FY 2023-24, we also introduced a cab facility, named ‘Travel Option 
for Kotak Wonder Women’ (KWW). For this initiative, the Bank has 
tied up with Uber to provide our women employees with safer travel 
options. We continue supporting KWW during critical life phases 
through our unique New Mother Benefit Policy which helps set up a 
reliable support system for mothers returning to work. In FY 2023-
24, 100+ women availed the benefits under this policy. To support 
working parents, the Bank has partnered with a leading day care 
benefit management provider, offering reliable crèche facilities under 
our Day Care Policy. 
Since last year, we have begun providing additional travel benefits so 
that our women colleagues may travel along with their child who is 
less than 1 years of age and a helper.
We offer opportunities and platforms for our colleagues to learn 
from each other irrespective of their cadres. Some of our flagship 
initiatives have proved successful in breaking stereotypes and 
building stronger networks to enable the growth and development of 
our diverse workforce.
KMCC, KIE and KAAML had initiated the “Bild-U Initiative” with an 
aim to increase engagement and create a better working culture for 
women employees. A series of workshops were conducted to ideate 
policies and programs to be implemented. BSS launched a pilot 
project in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, involving 250+ female staff 
across ~200 branches, and promoted hiring women for entry-level 
field operations positions. 
Health and Well-being11, 12
At Kotak, we provide a safe and healthy work environment for our 
employees. We have in place an Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System (OHSMS) at six of our larger corporate 
locations, each having undergone a third-party review and achieved 
ISO 45001: 2018 certification. We evaluate the implementation of the 
ISO standards internally for the certified premises and nearly 15% of 
our bank’s workforce operates out of these six accredited locations. 
Our OHSMS manual describes the governance structure and the 
oversight team’s action plan for conducting audits. It also offers 
standards for system administration in general and reporting 
frequency in particular11. The scope and duties of the teams in 
charge of managing the OHSMS are outlined in detail in the manual. 
A monitoring strategy that covers scope, locations, methods 
and metrics is in place. The senior management is in charge of 
supervising the assessment of OHS performance and evaluating the 
implementation success.
In accordance to the guidelines outlined in ISO 45001:2018, a Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) exercise is carried 
out in which all work-related hazards are recognized, risks are 
evaluated on a routine and non-routine basis, and their respective 
mitigation actions are recorded13. Every year, HIRA is examined and if 
necessary, updated considering any incidents. To make sure that the 
inputs obtained during the exercise act as a preventive measure, the 
amended documents are distributed to all of our locations.
To promote diversity and inclusion at workplace, KLI has 
implemented a range of initiatives. The Transcendence Leadership 
Development Journey, through specialised programs run by coaches 
and industry experts to develop the next generation of female 
leaders, has trained over 150 women leaders with a 90% retention 
rate. The Fem-Tribe committee, a women-managed internal think 
tank identifies organizational changes to support diversity. Women-
specific hiring drives designed to provide women a chance to re-
enter the workforce, have increased female representation to 28% at 
KLI. Furthermore, Project Surbhi focuses on recruiting more women 
through our proprietary distribution channel TIED, which now has 
33% women representation. KLI participated in career fairs for people 
with disabilities (PWD), hiring its first PwD employee and planning 
to recruit 12 more by FY 2024-25. The Able with Abilities program 
ensures smooth on-boarding for PWD employees through monthly 
check-ins, team orientations, and sensitization workshops, aiming for 
seamless workplace integration.
11 GRI 403-1,GRI 3-3, Please refer page 400 BRSR Section C, Principle 3, Essential Indicator 10  | 12 Please refer page 397 BRSR Section C, Principle 3, Essential 
Indicator 1a | 13GRI 403-2 , GRI 403-9
International Women’s Day Celebration
83
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
The work organization, social factors, leadership, organizational culture, 
activities and situations, past relevant incidents, potential emergency 
situations, actual and proposed changes regardless of the level and 
nature, and changes in knowledge and information about hazards 
are just a few of the elements we consider during the implementation 
process at our ISO 45001:2018 certified premises. The Management 
Representative for Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S), also known 
as HMR, ensures that hazard identification is carried out by individuals 
competent in pertinent hazard identification methodologies and 
techniques, and have the necessary expertise. All jobs carried out on 
our property are overseen by the HMR14. ‘Toolbox talks’ covering safety 
instructions and detailed procedures to be followed for protecting 
themselves from injuries or illness are provided as needed, to vendors 
working at our premises for both routine and non-routine jobs15. An 
OHSMS Hazard Identification Checklist is kept up to date. The scope, 
type, and timing of the methodology and criteria for assessing OH&S 
risks are specified, so that they may be applied methodically and are 
proactive in nature. In order to facilitate prompt and appropriate action, 
colleagues are also encouraged to report any hazardous situations by 
writing to a helpdesk specific to their area or by calling a designated 
helpline16. Our learning portal now also hosts digital lessons like 
“Prevention of and Safety Procedures in case of a Robbery, Bomb 
threat, and/or Fire.” In the FY 2023-24, 15,442 training hours were 
recorded for safety training, covering 20,603 employees.17, 18
We support employee involvement and collaboration in the creation, 
organization, execution, assessment of work performance, and 
ongoing enhancement of the OHSMS. Emails, signage, and nodal 
employees and personnel are all used for OHSMS communication. 
Trained fire wardens have been appointed across corporate offices 
to organise periodic fire evacuation drills17 and training sessions. In 
addition, we offer pre-emptive medical check-ups, in-house doctor 
consultations and ambulance facilities, and have slip proof floors and 
ergonomic seating facilities at major offices to ensure the safety and 
well-being of our employees. We also facilitate sessions on mental 
health, yoga and other health related aspects for ensuring the well-
being of the employees.13
bargaining agreements19. In addition to this, our HR team oversees 
our anti-discrimination policy and human rights commitments20.
Our goal is to provide an environment free from harassment at work. 
Our Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy’s main objective 
is to prevent, forbid and address any inappropriate behaviour in the 
workplace. We also uphold a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual 
misconduct. Our ethical code permits disciplinary action against 
harassment regardless of a person’s gender. An internal committee 
was established in accordance with the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace Act, 2013 to facilitate investigations and take measures 
if such incidents occur. Additional information is provided in the BRSR 
disclosure on page 406. Our staff participates in training sessions that 
cover workplace harassment and discrimination resolution techniques21.
We undertake proactive measures to safeguard human rights. Our 
survey, conducted in December 2023, included some questions to 
understand how human rights are implemented in the organization. 
These questions covered topics such as workplace discrimination based 
on gender, caste, religion and physical disability, workplace challenges 
related to health and safety, commute to work, growth opportunities and 
amenities, and learning and development such as skill development, 
mentorship programs and career sponsorship. The objective of the 
survey was to assess organizational effectiveness on parameters such 
as respect, camaraderie, pride, fairness, and credibility. 
We guarantee zero tolerance for workplace retaliation through 
provisions on confidentiality and anonymity in our Code of Conduct. 
All concerns and related investigations are handled in confidence and 
are subject to applicable rules and regulations, according to the CoC’s 
anonymity and confidentiality agreements.
At Kotak, we have a robust and effective grievance resolution 
structure based on a well-defined escalation process22. We receive 
grievances from colleagues through multiple channels – an online 
ServiceNow tool, HR helpdesk mail box or through HR Relationship 
Manager on email. We ensure that our colleagues are informed of 
the grievance procedures via email and through the publication of 
our Code of Conduct. Our awareness programs centre on the various 
channels that staff members can use to voice concerns, and the 
procedure for resolving issues.
In addition, we have a whistleblower policy and reporting framework 
in place that allows all of our stakeholders to use our digital platform 
to anonymously report any issues. At the Bank, we don’t take part 
in or tolerate any form of retaliation against people who in good 
faith, report suspected unethical or illegal activity such as fraud, 
securities law or regulatory violations, potential policy violations 
such as the Code of Conduct, or other inappropriate behaviour at 
work. An colleagues can report retaliation against them using the HR 
Helpdesk’s Employee Portal, Kotak Worklife, as well as by reporting 
the occurrence to the HR relationship manager.
Human Rights
We are committed to preventing any violation of human rights 
throughout our operations, supply chains, communities and business 
relationships. Our Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Policy aligns 
with national legislation, the International Labor Organization’s basic 
labour standards, and the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights. This policy guides our internal and external operations, 
emphasizing the value of upholding internationally recognized 
human rights such as equal opportunity, fair compensation, freedom 
of association, and prevention of child labour and forced labour. 
Furthermore, a separate trade union represents 1,385 (2.3%) of our 
permanent workforce at the Bank, protecting them by collective 
13GRI 403-6 14GRI 403-7 | 15GRI 403-8 | 16GRI 403-4 | 17GRI 403-5 | 18To track training hours conducted via digital mode through the Bank’s Learning Management system, 
we have assumed trainings to be of 45 minutes each for long duration courses and 15 minutes each for short duration courses.| 19 GRI 2-30, Please refer page 399 
BRSR Section C, Principle 3, Essential Indicator 7. | 20GRI 406-1 | 21Please refer page 405 BRSR Section C, Principle 5, Essential Indicator 1.| 22 GRI 2-25
Empowering Colleagues
84
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Employee volunteering forms an integral part of employee 
engagement, here, at Kotak. Kotakites completed 3,850+ hours of 
volunteering in this reporting period, across 27 different activities 
and in 19 different cities. The following testimonials affirm our belief 
in their importance
At Kotak, we believe our employees are at the forefront of driving our business success and unlocking new growth avenues. Through 
comprehensive approach to talent acquisition, training and development, diversity and inclusion, and engagement, we seek to establish an 
empowering work environment which ensures that each Kotakite can realise their full potential. Through digital transformation of internal 
processes, career development programs, recognition systems and wellness initiatives, we aim at nurturing our talent pool while building best-in 
class culture. We work towards creating a collaborative workplace that embraces diversity, values human rights, and ensures well-being of all 
employees and we continue to keep investing in our people to build an innovative and future-ready workforce that will drive the growth of our 
organization along with shaping individual careers.
River Clean-up Drive
Blood Donation
Volunteering events are a great way of connecting with 
the society and help elevate the situations of the people 
in need. Knowing that every single act is capable of 
making a difference motivates me to come forward and 
enthusiastically take part.
 Ekansh Sharma 
Caring Kotakite
Taking part in the Volunteering events is always a beautiful 
experience. I recently attended the Sapling plantation drive 
where we got a chance to connect with the environment and 
the farmers. I hope to attend more such events and make a 
considerable impact.
 Aditi Gupta 
Caring Kotakite
Along with my fellow Kotakites, I embarked on a mission 
to paint a school for underprivileged children. I am truly 
grateful for the chance to contribute to this transformative 
project, and moments like this fuel my determination to keep 
spreading positivity and making a difference.
 Akshay Aggarwal 
Caring Kotakite
85
Empowering Colleagues
Sustainability at Kotak
Supporting Communities
Fostering strong 
community relations1
Key Highlights
Beneficiaries** across our focus areas 
320 crore+ 
Total CSR Expenditure (Group)*
8.2 lakh+ 
beneficiaries for the Group
45,000+ 
Students received support 
towards formal education
132 
Athletes supported for 
pursuing excellence 
in their sport through 
training, nutrition and 
sports science
3.30 lakh+ 
Primary healthcare visits 
supported
13,800 
Youth upskilled, out of which 
2,000 were specially abled, 
through Skill Development 
Programmes
1,400
Youth were trained and 
mentored to become 
entrepreneurs
12,500+ 
Families supported through agri 
and livestock-based livelihood 
interventions
3,300 
Students and youth received 
scholarships to continue their 
higher education
5,900+ 
patients and 20,000+ 
screened for cancer
~1.2 lakh 
Patients supported through 
various eye care initiatives
12,100 
PwDs were provided 
rehabilitation services 
through early intervention, 
therapies and mobility aid 
distribution, etc.
Cancer treatment 
support extended to
Community Well-being
Financial Inclusion and Social Development
Regulatory Compliance
Business Ethics
Policy Advocacy
Material Topics Covered
Capitals Covered
Contribution to SDGs
Social and 
Relationship Capital
** Non unique beneficiary numbers as multiple projects in the 
same geography may have common beneficiary 
Education and Livelihood
Sports
Healthcare
8,300 
Families supported 
through various relief 
activities
Relief and 
Rehabilitation
1GRI 3-3 | *including transfer to Unspent CSR Account, administrative overheads and impact assessment.
86
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Driving holistic development
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of our business philosophy at Kotak. As a responsible corporate firm, we have 
undertaken multiple social initiatives for community development and upliftment of marginalised sections of society. By strategically aligning our 
efforts and continuously engaging with communities, we aim to create significant social value.
The key focus areas of our CSR are education, livelihood, healthcare, environment and sustainable development and sports. All of our initiatives 
are aligned with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Bank’s CSR policy describes our approach to the focus areas and is available on our website. Additional information regarding the Bank’s 
CSR initiatives for FY 2023-2024 can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 268. The Bank and its subsidiaries carry out CSR initiatives across 
India. The methodology and summary of the social impact assessments done for relevant CSR projects can also be found on our website.2 
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK’S CSR 
EXPENDITURE* DURING FY 2023-24
Education and Livelihood
H 141.8 Cr
Healthcare
H 50.7 Cr
Environment & 
Sustainable Development
H 18.5 Cr
Sports
H 15.2 Cr
Relief & Rehabilitation
H 1.0 Cr
*Excluding impact assessment and administrative overheads
For FY 2023-24, the mandated CSR expenditure for the Bank was  
₹ 230.2 crore and the actual CSR expenditure was ₹ 230.8 crore. 
The breakdown of actual CSR expenditure (excluding overheads and 
impact assessment costs) towards various themes is given above.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP’S CSR 
EXPENDITURE* DURING FY 2023-24
Education and Livelihood
H 176.4 Cr
Healthcare
H 102.8 Cr
Environment & 
Sustainable Development
H 18.8 Cr
Sports
H 15.2 Cr
Relief & Rehabilitation
H 1.2 Cr
*Excluding impact assessment and administrative overheads
For FY 2023-24, the mandated CSR expenditure for the Group was  
₹ 319.1 crore and the actual CSR expenditure was ₹ 320.2 crore. 
The breakdown of actual CSR expenditure (excluding overheads and 
impact assessment costs) towards various themes is given above.
CSR Focus Areas
 	
Improving learning 
outcomes in schools
 	
Supporting Higher 
Education
 	
Skill Development
 	
Entrepreneurship
 	
Promoting Rural  
Livelihoods
 	
Addressing gaps  
in the cancer 
care spectrum
 	
Improving 
access to healthcare
	
Augmenting healthcare 
infrastructure
 	
Enhancing water security
 	
Emission 
management and 
carbon sequestration
 	
Sports infrastructure 
development
 	
Supporting 
training of athletes
Education and  
Livelihood
Healthcare
Environment and 
Sustainable 
Development
Sports
2GRI 413-1
87
Supporting Communities
Sustainability at Kotak
Supporting Communities
A Close Look at Our Key Initiatives
Improving Learning Outcomes in Schools
We focus on improving learning outcomes through capacity building 
for teachers, promoting digital education and supporting learning 
needs of children both in the school and in their communities as 
well as augment infrastructure development. Across 160+ schools 
in Maharashtra and Gujarat, KEF works in areas such as school 
leadership, foundational literacy, numeracy, digital learning, teacher 
training and communicative English. With other implementing 
agencies, we enabled access to vernacular content in Science to 
government schools in rural UP and championed use of Information 
and Communication Technology (ICT) in teaching by training next 
generation educators. Through the Girl Child Education project, we 
are supporting mainstreaming of 3,000+ girls who dropped out 
of formal schooling. Apart from these initiatives, we supported 
early childhood education in Balwadis and through Creches at 
construction sites. Additionally, we renovated 13 government 
schools across Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and 
refurbished seven Anganwadis.
Kotak Education Foundation (KEF) is our primary 
implementation partner for education related CSR 
interventions. KEF has taken a holistic approach to education 
and supports children and young people from low-income 
families, by promoting school education, providing 
scholarships and supporting livelihoods. 
Education and livelihood
The following sub areas comprise our education and 
livelihood initiative- improving learning outcomes in 
schools, supporting higher education, vocational skill 
development, promoting entrepreneurship and rural 
livelihood enhancement. 
Project name - IIMPACT
Partnered with Lakhanpur Learning Centre
Lakhanpur village is located in Pakur District of Jharkhand. 
Schedule tribes and minority religion groups mainly inhabit 
the place and the region struggles with severe poverty, lack of 
education and over population, resulting in poor health, child 
marriage and child labour. 
Rasmin Khan is an active and cheerful student at the Lakhanpur 
Learning Centre that was supported by the Bank. Initially, our 
representatives had a difficult time in convincing her parents to 
send her to the centre. She was shy, inactive and disinterested 
in class due to her difficult upbringing, often showing disrespect 
to others, but she has since become more engaged and positive. 
And as days passed by, Rasmin had delivered a remarkable 
transformation in behaviour and culture. Her parents are proud of 
their daughter as she is the first among their family to learn how 
to read and write.
88
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Supporting Higher Education
We supported ~3,300 students through Scholarship programmes. 
While Kotak Shiksha Nidhi intervention continues to provide financial 
assistance to students who lost a primary earning member to 
COVID-19, Kotak Kanya supports career aspirations of meritorious 
girls from financially weaker backgrounds.
We are also supporting higher education and research work that 
caters to immediate and long term needs of the nation. We have been 
supporting Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to establish a Centre 
for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI-ML Centre) in 
Bengaluru since FY 2021-22. 
In FY 2023-24, we extended support to IIT Kanpur to launch Kotak School 
of Sustainability, a one-of-a-kind, inter-disciplinary school with an aim 
to propel sustainability education. It is India’s first integrated School of 
sustainability with a vision to promote pedigree education, research and 
outreach. This school is poised to offer thought leadership solutions 
towards sustainability actions and prepare future generations to take lead 
on sustainable development. The school brings together departments 
and centres of excellence at IIT Kanpur with an aim to provide an 
enabling environment for collaborative research across multiple facets 
of sustainability such as clean energy, environment, ecology, circular 
economy, climate finance, sustainable societies and policy.
Skill Development
We supported multiple organisations to provide sector specific skill 
development to youths to enhance their employability. In FY 2023-24, 
over 13,200 youths were trained, of which 60% were either successfully 
placed with different organisations or became entrepreneurs.
Entrepreneurship
We have actively promoted entrepreneurship amongst women (including 
those from tier-2 and tier-3 Indian cities) through Women’s Startup 
Programme that is managed by IIM Bangalore. Around 269 ventures led 
by women were nurtured through mentoring and advisory support. 
Promoting rural livelihoods
We are implementing diverse activities focused on agriculture, 
livestock and Non-Timber Forest Product, aiming to improve income 
for farmers. Through multiple organisaitons, have benefitted over 
12,500 farmers in FY2023-24. 
We also provided monitoring and training to 74 enterprises in rural 
Maharashtra for small businesses. ~370 women farmers in Mandla, 
Madhya Pradesh were educated on oilseeds to incorporate value add 
elements post crop production. We are also developing community 
managed institutions in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar. 
Project name - Science programme
Partnered with Khan Academy
KEF (Scholarship)
The Khan Academy’s Science Program, supported by Kotak 
Mahindra Bank, plans to reach about 700 Kasturba Gandhi 
Balika Vidyalaya’s (an all-girls residential school for girls from 
disadvantaged communities) and 1,500+ Madhyamik schools in the 
state of Uttar Pradesh. 
The CSR project leverages NCERT aligned core science content 
offering for Grades 9-12 which was created with support of the 
Bank and customised in accordance with UPSCERT. During the 
project period, KAI Science Program was rolled out in 698 school, 
reaching over 59,000 students. KAI trained more than 750 teachers, 
70 District Coordinators, and more than 100 science mentor 
teachers. KAI track the progress using the Skills to Proficiency (STP) 
metric on the Khan Academy platform, recommending 30 minutes 
of use per week. The project operates at the unique intersection of 
technology, gender and capacity building of public school systems.
Shravani’s story reflects her resilience and strong determination, 
shaped by her challenging family dynamics. She and her younger 
sister were raised solely by their mother (till she remarried). 
Despite upheavals, Shravani pursued her dream of becoming a 
doctor, focusing on the NEET examination. Her mentor recognized 
her potential, playing a crucial role in developing her talents and 
bolstering her confidence. With her mentor’s support, Shravani 
managed to balance her studies with her extracurricular activities. 
Although initially overwhelmed by the demands of science 
subjects and struggling with time management, her mentor’s 
advice and support helped her overcome feelings of insecurity and 
discouragement. Encouraged by her mentor, Shravani’s confidence 
grew and she began to see a promising future in medicine. 
Shravani’s mentor, through discussions with Shravani and her 
mother, emphasised the opportunities in the medical field, 
strengthening her resolve. This deepened the bond between 
them, providing Shravani a platform to share her successes and 
challenges, reinforcing her sense of belonging and commitment to 
her goals. Following her mentor’s advice, Shravani intensified her 
efforts, excelling academically and continuing her extracurricular 
involvement. She improved her time management and focused 
more on her studies, which helped her advance towards her goal 
of a medical career. Shravani’s journey highlights the impact of 
mentorship and persistent dedication, even in difficult times.
Interventions for the Differently-Abled
We worked with multiple agencies to provide sector specific skill 
training to over 2,000 Persons with Disabilities (PwD). In FY2023-
24, nearly 1500 people were placed in different organisations, 
making them financially independent. We also supported 211 deaf 
youth to pursue higher education.
We continued to support development of an AI-enabled job 
platform for PwDs, which has already seen participation from 
over 1.64 lakh aspirants and 1,293 companies. In FY2023-24, over 
1,600 PwDs received placement through this job portal. To further 
support parents of children with special needs, we have developed 
and upgraded an online resource platform which recorded over 2 
lakh unique users in FY2023-24. 
89
Supporting Communities
Sustainability at Kotak
Supporting Communities
Healthcare
Three sub-areas comprise our healthcare interventions: addressing 
gaps in the cancer care spectrum, improving access to healthcare and 
improving infrastructure for healthcare. 
Addressing gaps in cancer care spectrum
Our interventions in cancer care span across earlier detection, 
treatment support (including accommodation and nutrition) and 
hospice care. Through our collaborations, we were able to aid more 
than 5,900 cancer patients in FY 2023–24, of which 4,100 were 
paediatric patients.
Project name – Cancer Care
Partnered with Cuddles Foundation
16-year-old Lazina was diagnosed with Ewings sarcoma, a 
type of cancer that affects a person’s bones. When Cuddles 
nutritionist first met her, she was severely thin and weak. 
As a result, Cuddles Nutritionist put her on to supplements, 
ration, In-meals programmes. This helped her family 
financially as they were already struggling under the weight 
of a housing loan and unemployment. Lazina is looking 
forward future now that her nutritional status has taken a 
positive turn, and her cancer treatment is done - “I can’t wait 
to get back to my science textbooks! I want to work hard and 
become a good doctor!”
Project name – Touch Freedom
Partnered with Ganga Foundation
The Touch Freedom program was designed for individuals with 
spinal cord injuries, empowering them to manage their daily 
activities autonomously. The assessment aims in identifying 
the individuals’ specific requirements and goals, and enabling 
personalized rehabilitation plans tailored to each participant’s 
requirements. The Touch Freedom has a well-structured 
methodology for supporting individuals like Rameshwar Rai. 
With the onboarding of Rameshwar Rai to the Touch Freedom’s 
personalised training, Rameshwar Rai was able to gain 
confidence and necessary skills to reclaim independence in 
his daily life. By minimising the reliance on his family for basic 
needs, his involvement in Touch Freedom helped him transform 
his personal outlook and alleviated the burden on his caregivers, 
fostering greater family harmony and support. 
Rameshwar Rai is now completely self-reliant. Furthermore, 
significant life changes were experienced by his newfound 
confidence and improved mobility. This change has not only 
demonstrated his personal growth and achievement but has 
also underscored the transformation of the Touch Freedom 
initiative for restoring the autonomy and empowering his 
entrepreneurial growth. 
Improving access to healthcare
We provide access to affordable health care facilities to rural 
communities and low-income households through mobile medical 
vans, eye check-up camps and oral cancer screening camps. We 
reached 3.3 lakh beneficiaries for primary healthcare and 1.2+ lakh 
through eye care camps, surgery and treatment that included school 
students and senior citizens. 
We also conducted Oral Cancer Screening camps at six markets 
under the Agricultural Produce Market Committee and also for police 
personnel in Mumbai. Through various initiatives, we have also 
provided early interventions, rehabilitation and mobility solutions for 
PwDs and supported treatment of over 6,700 children with clubfoot in 
45 districts of Uttar Pradesh.
90
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Environment and Sustainable Development
We use ecosystem restoration to support initiatives that 
replenish water, reduce carbon and benefit communities. Using 
an ecosystem restoration approach, we support initiatives 
that replenish water, reduce carbon and benefit communities. 
We have ventured into projects in both rural and urban 
landscapes with biodiversity and improving livelihoods as our 
overarching themes.
Sports
We partnered with Pullela Gopichand Badminton Foundation to 
develop a world-class badminton training facility in Hyderabad. 
In FY 2023-24, we supported 30 Athletes with training, 
nutrition, sports science and other mental and physical 
wellbeing related services. Additionally, we partnered with 
the Inspire Institute of Sport, to implement a Boxing training 
programme. 100+ junior and elite boxers were supported under 
the programme who won 90 medals across domestic and 
international competitions. 
Improving healthcare infrastructure
We are cognizant of the need for state-of-the-art healthcare 
infrastructure to ensure holistic and quality healthcare. We have 
provided support to organisations such as Ramakrishna Mission, 
Eastern India Heart Care and Research Foundation, Mahamana 
Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya Cancer Hospital and Shri Vithalrao 
Joshi Charities Trust (Walawalkar Hospital at Chiplun) for critical 
healthcare infrastructure
expected to act as a microhabitat for biodiversity and a recreational 
space for community to connect with nature.
Emission management and carbon sequestration
To improve the energy efficiency of the Indian MSME sector, 
energy audits were carried out for 120+ SMEs in collaboration 
with IIT Madras and six other IITs across India. Adoption of audit 
recommendations contributed to reduction in energy consumption 
and emissions (~equivalent to 29,000 MtCO2 per annum). 
~1.5 lakh trees are under plantation in urban pockets through 
Miyawaki technique across 15 acres in 3 cities - Pune, Ahmedabad 
and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).
We work towards transforming the communities we operate 
in, through impactful Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, 
focusing on education, livelihood, healthcare, environment, and 
sports. By developing strong relationships with a wide network 
of non-governmental organisations and foundations, our CSR 
initiatives attempt to create tangible positive outcomes for 
diverse communities. 
Enhancing Water security 
Ensuring Water security in Rural India - The Bank worked with 
around 9,000 farmers and their communities in water stressed 
regions across India, focusing on building water security and 
improving crop production through soil and water conservation 
measures and de-siltation of traditional water reservoirs. About 
~6,000 Ha of land has been positively impacted and a water 
harvesting capacity of 340 crore liters has been created. The 
structural barriers and conservation measures are expected to 
increase the overall groundwater levels over time. These above 
measures along with income diversification efforts is expected to 
improve farmer income by ~30%. 
Reviving Urban Water Assets - Waterbodies such as lakes and major 
drain lines are often at risk of encroachment, illegal waste dumping 
and degradation. To address some of these risks, we are rejuvenating 
5 lakes and a 0.8 km stretch of a creek by clearing garbage and 
weeds. This restoration is across a total area of ~370 acres and is 
91
Supporting Communities
Sustainability at Kotak
Financial 
Statements 
and Statutory 
Reports
Financial Performance
An overview of the financial performance of the Group.
Financial highlights
Consolidated and Standalone
94
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated 
Financial Statements
97
Consolidated Financial Statements
110
Financial Information of Subsidiaries and Basel III 
(Pillar 3) Disclosures
160
Independent Auditor’s Report on Standalone 
Financial Statements
162
Standalone Financial Statements
168
Statutory reports
Directors’ Report and Annexures
249
Report on Corporate Governance
294
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
343
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR)
386
Annexures
ESG Data Tables
422
GRI Index
428
TCFD Index
430
Assurance Statements
431
94
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidated Financial Highlights 2023-2024
(` in crore) 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 FY 2019-20
 FY 2020-21
 FY 2021-22
 FY 2022-23
 FY 2023-24
Advances
 249,859
 252,170
 304,474
 359,107
 430,352
Investments*
 81,334
 116,565
 115,907
 139,359
 175,302
Total Assets
 443,153
 478,854
 546,498
 620,430
 767,667
Net Profit
 8,593
 9,990
 12,089
 14,925
 18,213
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Net Interest Margin (NIM)^
4.6%
4.5%
4.7%
5.4%
5.3%
Return on Average Assets (RoAA)
2.1%
2.2%
2.4%
2.6%
2.7%
Book Value Per Share (`)
 348
 426
 487
 563
 653
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) Face Value ` 5 per share
 44.7
 50.5
 60.8
 75.0
 91.5
Return on Equity (RoE)
13.7%
12.8%
13.4%
14.4%
15.1%
Capital Adequacy Ratio
19.8%
23.4%
23.7%
23.3%
21.8%
Gross NPA (` crore)
 5,488
 8,276
 7,334
 6,419
 6,003
Net NPA (` crore)
 1,745
 3,106
 2,149
 1,479
 1,567
Gross NPA Ratio
2.2%
3.2%
2.4%
1.8%
1.4%
Net NPA Ratio
0.7%
1.2%
0.7%
0.4%
0.4%
* Excludes Policyholders' investments
^ Excluding dividend and interest on income tax refunds.
MARKET RELATED RATIOS
 FY 2019-20
 FY 2020-21
 FY 2021-22
 FY 2022-23
 FY 2023-24
Market Price (`)
 1,296
 1,753
 1,754
 1,733
 1,786
Market Capitalisation (` crore)
 247,939
 347,416
 348,080
 344,240
 354,943
Price to Book Ratio
 3.7 
 4.1 
 3.6 
 3.1 
 2.7 
Price to Earnings Ratio
 29.0 
 34.7 
 28.9 
 23.1 
 19.5 
95
Consolidated & Standalone
Consolidated & Standalone
Standalone Financial Highlights 2023-2024
(` in crore) 
Financial Highlights
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
Deposits
 262,821
 280,100
 311,684
 363,096
 448,954
Advances
 219,728
 223,670
 271,254
 319,861
 376,075
Investments
 75,052
 105,099
 100,580
 121,404
 155,404
Total Assets
 360,232
 383,470
 429,428
 489,862
 600,357
Net Interest Income
 13,500
 15,340
 16,818
 21,552
 25,993
Fee Income
 3,421
 3,145
 4,201
 5,440
 7,049
Other Non Interest Income
 1,517
 1,606
 1,785
 1,643
 3,224
Operating profit
 9,960
 11,762
 12,051
 14,848
 19,587
Provisions and Contingencies
 2,156
 2,459
 690
 457
 1,574
Tax Provision
 1,857
 2,338
 2,789
 3,452
 4,232
Net Profit
 5,947
 6,965
 8,573
 10,939
 13,782
Key Financial Indicators
Net Interest Margins
4.6%
4.4%
4.6%
5.3%
5.3%
Cost to Income Ratio
46%
41%
47%
48%
46%
Return on Average Assets
1.9%
1.9%
2.1%
2.5%
2.6%
Fee / NII Plus other Income
18.6%
15.7%
18.4%
19.0%
19.4%
NII / NII Plus other Income
73.2%
76.4%
73.8%
75.3%
71.7%
Capital Adequacy Ratio
17.9%
22.3%
22.7%
21.8%
20.5%
Tier I
17.3%
21.4%
21.7%
20.8%
19.2%
Gross NPA Ratio
2.3%
3.3%
2.3%
1.8%
1.4%
Net NPA Ratio
0.7%
1.2%
0.6%
0.4%
0.3%
Note: Prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation
Financial Highlights
96
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidation at a Glance
(` in crore) 
 2023-24
 2022-2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
 Profit 
before Tax
 Profit 
after Tax
Profit 
before Tax
 Profit 
after Tax
 Capital & 
Reserves 
and Surplus
 Capital & 
Reserves 
and 
Surplus*
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
 18,013.72
 13,781.58
 14,390.99
 10,939.30
 96,639.46
 83,459.95
Subsidiaries
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
 1,188.36
 888.06
 1,110.06
 828.96
 9,176.48
 8,305.90
Kotak Securities Limited
 1,635.18
 1,226.17
 1,150.19
 865.22
 8,286.15
 7,107.98
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
 276.69
 215.01
 192.48
 149.28
 1,181.03
 1,000.38
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
 1,041.24
 688.62
 1,462.72
 1,053.31
 5,863.23
 5,327.70
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
 (88.95)
 (88.95)
 (117.28)
 (117.28)
 447.12
 341.07
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
 690.51
 514.21
 439.32
 326.26
 3,329.02
 2,814.81
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
 570.64
 424.41
 605.85
 474.77
 1,995.62
 1,682.96
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
 135.20
 100.77
 107.48
 79.99
 525.32
 424.55
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
 65.82
 64.28
 13.36
 12.41
 1,001.34
 922.93
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
 55.24
 38.63
 21.52
 15.07
 495.19
 449.79
Kotak Mahindra, Inc.
 13.95
 11.08
 15.03
 13.25
 98.79
 86.33
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (formerly 
known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
 76.87
 58.84
 51.95
 42.27
 864.58
 805.72
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
 7.68
 5.87
 3.52
 2.63
 35.00
 29.13
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
 43.40
 43.40
 27.83
 27.83
 519.61
 476.20
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
 (0.21)
 (0.21)
 (3.49)
 (3.49)
 52.40
 52.61
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
 (0.59)
 (0.59)
 (3.08)
 (3.08)
 3.05
 3.59
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
 85.32
 75.32
 43.49
 38.66
 363.99
 283.85
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
 0.44
 0.33
 0.24
 0.16
 6.69
 6.36
BSS Microfinance Limited
 509.04
 383.22
 396.29
 297.21
 1,009.85
 626.63
Sonata Finance Private Limited (w.e.f 28th March, 2024)
 (16.64)
 (13.71)
 NA
 NA
 389.41
 NA
Total
 24,302.91
 18,416.34
 19,908.47
 15,042.73
 132,283.33
 114,208.44
Add: Associates
 236.38
 144.57
 1,587.34
 1,350.96
Less: Dividend, Inter company and other adjustment
 439.51
 262.29
 3,978.28
 3,305.31
Consolidated Profit After Tax / Capital & Reserves and 
Surplus
 18,213.21
 14,925.01
 129,892.39
 112,254.09
Consolidated Earnings per Share (₹)
 91.45
 74.94
Consolidated Book Value per Share (₹)
 653.41
 562.55
* Capital & Reserves and Surplus includes Preference Share Capital
On 26thJune, 2023, the Bank has incorporated "Kotak Karma Foundation" (“the Foundation”) under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, as a wholly owned 
subsidiary for setting up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Bank for furtherance of part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives. Being a 
Section 8 Company and as per terms of articles, the Foundation would operate with restrictions to transfer funds to the parent, hence in accordance with 
the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on “Consolidated Financial Statements”, the Company shall be excluded from consolidation.
97
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
OPINION
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Bank’ or ‘the Holding Company’), its 
subsidiaries (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’), and its associates, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2024, the Consolidated Profit and Loss account, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended and notes to the 
consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘the Consolidated Financial Statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports of 
the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries and associates, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘ the Act’), and circulars 
and guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India (‘the RBI’), in the manner so required for banking companies and give a true and fair view, in conformity 
with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associates as at 31 March 2024, and their 
consolidated profit, and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
BASIS FOR OPINION
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group and its associates in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act, and 
the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained along with the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred to in the “Other Matters” section 
below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, and based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on 
separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and its associates were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
	
Identification of and Provisioning against Non-performing Assets (‘NPAs’):
	
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2024: Rs. 376,075.27 Crores 
	
Provision for NPAs as at 31 March 2024: Rs. 4,004.21 Crores
	
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(C)(2) and Schedule 18(A), note 9 and note 11 of Standalone Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining to 
Advances’ (the’ IRAC norms’) and amendments thereto which prescribes 
the guidelines for identification and classification of Non-performing 
Assets (‘NPAs’) and the minimum provision required for such assets. 
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the 
identification and provision required against NPAs considering various 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
The identification of NPAs is also affected by factors like stress and 
liquidity concerns in certain sectors.
Our audit procedures included the following:
	
Understood the process and controls, and tested the design and 
operating effectiveness of key controls, including Information 
Technology based controls, and focused on the following:
	
¡	
Approval of new lending facilities in accordance with the 
Bank’s credit policies.
	
¡	
Performance of annual review/renewal of loan accounts.
Financial Statements
98
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The provision for identified NPAs is estimated based on ageing and 
classification of NPAs, value of security, recovery estimates etc. and 
is also subject to the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI.
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires 
considerable level of management estimation, application of various 
regulatory requirements and its significance to the overall audit, we 
have identified this as a key audit matter.
	
¡	
Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things 
includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts, drawing 
power limit and pending security creation; and
	
¡	
Identification and classification of NPAs in accordance with 
IRAC norms, other regulatory guidelines issued by the RBI 
and consideration of qualitative aspects.
	
Tested the Bank’s process for identification of loans with default 
events and/ or breach of other qualitative factors, and for a 
sample of performing loans, independently assessed as to 
whether there was a need to classify such loans as NPAs.
	
On a test check basis, verified the accounts classified by the Bank 
as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’) in RBI’s Central Repository 
of Information on Large Credits (‘CRILC’).
	
With respect to provisions recognised towards NPAs, we 
reperformed the provision calculations on a sample basis 
taking into consideration the value of security, where applicable, 
the IRAC norms and NPA policy of the Bank, and compared 
our outcome to that prepared by the management and tested 
relevant assumptions and judgements which were used by the 
management.
	
Information Technology (‘IT’) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves many 
independent and interdependent IT systems used in the operations of 
the Bank for processing and recording a large volume of transactions. 
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on such 
IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank.
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are required 
to ensure that such IT systems can process the data as required, 
completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
We identified certain key IT systems (‘in-scope’ IT systems) which have 
an impact on the financial reporting process, and the related control 
testing as a key audit matter because of the high level of automation, 
significant number of systems being used by the Bank for processing 
financial transactions, and the complexity of the IT architecture.
As described in Note 21 of Schedule 18B to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, a supervisory action was undertaken against the Bank 
under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) subsequent to the year end on 24 April 2024 arising 
from an IT examination conducted by the RBI, and the related reports 
containing its observations was issued by the RBI.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we involved 
our technology specialists to understand the IT environment, IT 
infrastructure and IT systems.
We evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls and IT application 
controls of the ‘in-scope’ IT systems identified as relevant for our audit 
of the standalone financial statements and financial reporting process 
of the Bank.
On such ‘in-scope’ IT systems, we have tested key IT general controls 
and evaluated the same with respect to the following domains:
	
Program change management, which includes that program 
changes are moved to the production environment as per defined 
approvals and relevant segregation of environment is ensured.
	
User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, 
de-provisioning, 
access 
review, 
password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation of duties 
to ensure that privilege access to applications and its related 
operating system and databases in the production environment 
were granted only to authorized personnel.
	
Other areas under the IT control environment which includes 
backup management, business continuity, disaster recovery 
drill in-line with the bank’s disaster recovery plan, incident 
management, batch processing and monitoring.
99
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of key IT application controls within key business processes, which 
included testing automated calculations, automated accounting 
processes, system interfaces, system reconciliation controls and key 
system generated reports, as applicable.
Where control deficiencies were identified related to internal controls 
over financial reporting, we tested compensating controls or performed 
alternative audit procedures, where necessary.
We evaluated the management’s assessment of the observations noted 
by the RBI arising in their IT examination report and the impact of those 
observations on the standalone financial statements and on internal 
controls with reference to financial statements and also communicated 
with those charged with governance and sought their assessment of 
the impact of the observations.
5.	
The following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report dated 27 April 2024 containing an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose 
financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited, a subsidiary of the Holding Company issued by Kalyaniwalla & Mistry LLP, an independent 
firm of Chartered Accountants reproduced by us as under:
	
Provision for Non-performing assets (NPA) in respect of Loans and Advance (including credit substitutes)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Gross Non- Performing Assets aggregating to Rs. 2,704.57 lakhs and 
associated provision for non- performing assets (‘NPA Provision’) 
aggregating to Rs. 1,776.64 lakhs are significant to the financial 
statements and involves judgement around the calculation of the NPA 
provision.
The Reserve Bank of India’s (‘RBI’) guidelines prescribe the prudential 
norms for identification and classification of NPAs and the minimum 
provision required for such assets. The Company is also required 
to apply its judgement to determine the identification and provision 
required against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as qualitative 
factors. The provisioning for identified NPAs is estimated based on 
ageing and classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, value of security 
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning 
norms specified by RBI.
The Company has detailed its accounting policy in this regard in 
Significant accounting policies disclosed in the financial statements. 
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require 
significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall 
audit, we have ascertained identification and provisioning for NPAs as 
a key audit matter.
The key audit procedures performed:
	
We understood and evaluated the design effectiveness and 
tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls over the 
identification of NPAs and computation of NPA provision.
	
We independently assessed the appropriateness of NPA 
provisioning methodologies and policies followed by the 
Management and verified the compliance of the same vis a vis 
RBI norms.
	
Performing other procedures including substantive audit 
procedures covering the identification of NPAs by the Company. 
These procedures included: Reviewing borrower accounts and 
other related information on a sample basis, selected based on 
quantitative and qualitative risk factors.
	
Review of the security pledged to the Company for a selected 
sample by verifying the valuation reports etc. for the collateral.
	
With respect to provisioning of advances, we recomputed the 
NPA provision to ensure arithmetical accuracy and compliance 
with RBI guidelines.
Financial Statements
100
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
6.	
The following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report dated 26 April 2024 containing an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose 
financial statements of Kotak Securities Limited, a subsidiary of the Holding Company issued by Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, an independent firm of 
Chartered Accountants reproduced by us as under:
	
Key Information technology {IT} systems used in financial reporting process
Key Audit Matter
Auditor's Response
The Company’s operational and financial processes are dependent on 
IT systems due to large volume of transactions that are processed daily.
The Company uses Oracle system as the General Ledger for overall 
financial reporting which is interfaced with other systems that process 
transactions, which impacts significant account balances.
The Company relies on automated processes and controls for 
recordings of its transactions and accordingly our audit was focused 
on Key IT systems and controls due to pervasive impact on the financial 
statements.
Principal Audit procedures:
We involved our IT specialists to obtain an understanding of the 
entity’s IT related control environment. Furthermore, we conducted a 
risk assessment identified IT applications, databases and operating 
systems that are relevant to our audit.
For the key IT systems relevant to financial reporting, our areas of audit 
focus included Access Security (including controls over privileged 
access), Program Change controls and network operations. In 
Particulars:
	
we obtained an understanding of the entity’s IT environment and 
key changes if any during the audit period that may be relevant to 
the audit;
	
we tested the design, implementation and operative effectiveness 
of the general IT control over the key IT systems that are critical 
to the financial reporting. This included evaluation of entity’s 
controls to ensure segregation of duties and access rights being 
provisioned / modified based on duly approved requests, access 
for exit cases being revoked in a timely manner and access of 
all users being re-certified during the period of audit. Further, 
controls related to program change were evaluated to verify 
whether the changes were approved, tested in an environment 
that was segregated from production and moved to production 
by appropriate users;
	
we tested key automated business cycle controls, related 
interfaces and logics for system generated reports relevant to 
the audit for evaluating completeness and accuracy;
	
we also tested the controls over network segmentation, restriction 
of remote access to the entity’s network, controls over firewall 
configurations and mechanisms implemented by the entity to 
prevent, detect and respond to network security incidents; and we 
tested compensating controls or performed alternate procedures 
to assess whether there were any unaddressed Significant IT 
risks that would materially impact the financial statements.
101
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
The following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit report dated 25 April 2024 containing an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose 
financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited, a subsidiary of the Holding Company, issued by joint auditors M M Nissim & Co LLP and 
Mukund M. Chitale & Co., an independent firm of Chartered Accountants reproduced by us as under:
	
Assessment of Provision for Non-Performing Assets (NPA) in respect of Loans and Advances
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
(Refer Notes 14, 19 and 25 of the special purpose financial 
statements)
The loan balances (including credit substitutes) towards Vehicle 
Finance, Loans against Securities / Collaterals, Structured Loans, 
Personal and other Loans aggregates to Rs. 3,456,715 lakhs, which also 
include Gross Non-Performing Assets Rs.67,319 lakhs. These balances 
are significant to the special purpose financial statements and involves 
judgement around the calculation of the NPA provision of Rs. 39,412 
lakhs.
NPA provision represents management’s estimate of losses incurred 
within the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date and are inherently 
judgmental.
NPA provision is calculated in accordance with the NPA policy which 
is in compliance with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines read 
with the notifications issued by the RBI. Qualitative factors like nature 
of loan, deterioration in credit quality, reduction in the value of collateral, 
uncertainty over realisability of collateral, erosion over time and other 
related factors are taken into consideration to assess need and extent 
of NPA provision.
Given the significant judgement and the complexity of audit procedures 
involved, we determined this to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures on the NPA provision included the following –
i)	
We performed end to end process walkthroughs to identify 
the key systems, applications and controls used in the NPA 
provisioning processes.
ii)	
We understood and evaluated the design effectiveness and 
tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls over the 
assessment and computation of NPA provision.
iii)	
We independently assessed the appropriateness of NPA 
provisioning policies and methodologies followed by the 
Management.
iv)	
For sample of loans across the portfolio, we recomputed the NPA 
provision to ensure arithmetical accuracy and compliance with 
the NPA policy as referred to in the Component’s special purpose 
financial statements.
v)	
We evaluated the adequacy of  presentation and disclosures 
in relation to NPA provisions in the special purpose financial 
statements.
8.	
The following Key Audit Matter was reported to us by the auditor Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, an independent firm of Chartered 
Accountants of Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Holding Company vide their communication dated 29 April 
2024 which are reproduced by us as under:
	
Revenue Recognition – Management fees and portfolio management services
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Company recognizes revenue from management fees from 
mutual fund schemes and Portfolio Management Services rendered to 
customers, the amounts of which are material to the special purpose 
standalone financial statements.
There are inherent risks of material misstatement since management 
fee / portfolio management services fee depending upon contractual 
terms. Accordingly, recognition of revenue is considered to be a key 
audit matter.
Our audit procedures included:
	
Obtained understanding of the revenue recognition in respect of 
Management fees and portfolio management services
	
Evaluated the design effectiveness and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant controls in place in relation to revenue 
recognition of Management fees and Portfolio Management 
Services.
	
Reviewed the terms of the contracts for Management fees and 
Portfolio Management Services.
	
Obtained the computation details of Management fees and 
portfolio management services from the Management and 
recomputed the same on a test check basis.
	
Verified invoices raised by the Company and traced collection to 
the bank statements on a test check basis.
Financial Statements
102
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
	
Verified that changes in the rate structure of the management 
fee and portfolio management services with the approvals of the 
authorised personnel to ensure that the invoices are raised at the 
correct amounts.
	
Verified the management fees on scheme level with the certificate 
issued by the statutory auditors of scheme mutual fund.
	
In respect of management fees and portfolio management 
fee receivable at the end of the year tested, the subsequent 
realisation on a test check basis.
Basis the above procedures performed, we did not note any exceptions 
with respect to the management fees and portfolio management 
services.
INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITOR’S REPORT THEREON
9.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the 
Basel III – Pillar 3 disclosures and Bank’s Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The other information included is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report except Basel III – Pillar 3 disclosures which 
was made available prior to the date of our auditor’s report.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10.	
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors. The Bank’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows 
of the Group including its associates, in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards 
specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standard) Rules, 2021, provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time (‘the RBI Guidelines’). The respective Board of Directors 
of the Holding Company and the subsidiary companies included in the Group and its associate companies are responsible for maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of 
its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have 
been used for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Management and Directors of the Holding Company, as 
aforesaid.
11.	
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates 
are responsible for assessing the ability of the respective companies included in the Group and of its associates, to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the companies included in the Group and its associates or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
12.	
The respective Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the subsidiary companies included in the 
Group and of its associates.
103
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
14.	
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
	
	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
	
	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 
management;
	
	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associates 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its 
associates to cease to continue as a going concern;
	
	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
	
	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities within the Group and its associates, to express an 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of financial 
statement of such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by the other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for 
the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
15.	
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
16.	
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
17.	
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
OTHER MATTER
18.	
We did not audit the financial statements of 18 subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ₹ 91,263.13 crores (before consolidation 
adjustments) and net assets of ₹ 28,916.06 crores (before consolidation adjustments) as at 31 March 2024, total revenues of ₹ 13,913.47 crores 
(before consolidation adjustments) and net cash flows amounting to ₹ 4,156.67 crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The Consolidated Financial Statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of ₹ 236.38 crores for the 
year ended 31 March 2024 in respect of 2 associates whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section 
(3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
Financial Statements
104
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Further, of these subsidiaries, 5 subsidiaries are located outside India, whose annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries, and which have been audited by other auditors under the respective auditing 
standards used by the component auditors, as applicable in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s management has converted the 
financial statements of such subsidiaries from accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally 
accepted in India. An Independent firm of Chartered Accountants appointed by the Holding Company’s management in India have audited these 
conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries, is based on the audit reports of other auditors and the conversion adjustments prepared by the management of the 
Holding Company and audited by the Independent firm of Chartered Accountants appointed by the Holding Company’s management in India.
	
Our opinion above on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in 
respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done by and the reports of the other auditors.
19.	
Further, one of the subsidiary company whose financial statement reflects total assets of ₹ 81,649.97 crores (before consolidation adjustments) and 
net assets of ₹ 5,863.23 crores (before consolidation adjustments) as at 31 March 2024, total revenues of ₹ 26,867.39 crores (before consolidation 
adjustments) and net cash flows of ₹ (70.98) crores for the year ended 31 March 2024, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which 
have been audited by Price Waterhouse LLP, one of the joint auditors of the Bank, along with other joint auditors of the subsidiary company, whose 
reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts 
and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far 
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary, is based solely on the reports of the joint auditors of subsidiary company.
	
Our opinion above on Consolidated Financial Statements is not modified in respect of this matter.
20.	
Further, one of the subsidiary company whose financial statement reflects total assets of ₹ 1,428.74 crores (before consolidation adjustments) 
and net assets of ₹ 864.58 crores (before consolidation adjustments) as at 31 March 2024, total revenues of ₹ 407.70 crores (before consolidation 
adjustments) and net cash flows of ₹ (129.31) crores for the year ended 31 March 2024, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
which have been audited by Price Waterhouse LLP, one of the joint auditors of the Bank, whose reports have been furnished to us by the management 
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary, is 
based solely on the reports of the auditor of subsidiary company.
	
Our opinion above on Consolidated Financial Statements is not modified in respect of this matter.
21.	
The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (‘KLIFE’) the subsidiary 
of the Bank, issued by the joint auditors of KLIFE vide their report dated 26 April 2024:
	
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 
March 31, 2024 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”), which has been certified by the Appointed Actuary 
in accordance with regulations, as mentioned in the paragraph 10 below. Accordingly, we have relied upon Appointed Actuary’s certificate for forming 
our opinion on the financial statements of the Company. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.”
	
The following paragraph ‘paragraph 10’ was included in the audit report of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited, reproduced by us as 
under:
	
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 
March 31, 2024 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities as at 
March 31, 2024 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the actuarial liabilities have been calculated in accordance with 
generally accepted actuarial principles, the requirements of the Insurance Act, 1938, Insurance Act (as amended from time to time), relevant IRDA 
regulations and the Actuarial Practice Standards and Guidance Notes issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI.”
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
22.	
The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report of Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (‘KMGICL’), the 
subsidiary of the Bank, issued by the joint auditors of KMGICL vide their report dated 24 April 2024:
	
“Pursuant to IRDAI (Appointed Actuary) Regulations 2017, the actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of claims Incurred But Not Reported (“IBNR”), 
claims Incurred But Not Enough Reported (“IBNER”) and Premium Deficiency Reserve (“PDR”) as at March 31, 2024, has been duly certified by the 
Appointed Actuary. They have also certified that assumptions used for such valuation are appropriate and in accordance with the guidelines and 
norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI. Accordingly, we have relied upon the aforesaid 
certificate from the Appointed Actuary while forming our opinion on the financial statements of the Company.”
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
105
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
23.	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of section 29 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and the relevant rules issued thereunder.
24.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section 197 of the Act are not 
applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act 
regarding payment/ provision for managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
	
Based on the consideration of audit report of the statutory auditors of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited and Kotak Mahindra General 
Insurance Company Limited, the subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid to their directors during the year ended 31 March 2024 was in 
accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act, read with section 34A of the Insurance Act, 1938. Further, based on the consideration of 
audit reports of the statutory auditors of twelve subsidiaries reported to us namely, Kotak Securities Limited, Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services 
Limited, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited, Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited, Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited and Kotak Mahindra 
Pension Fund Limited, BSS Microfinance Limited, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited, Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited, Kotak 
Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited, Sonata Finance Private Limited, Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited, the remuneration paid to their directors 
during the year ended 31 March 2024 was in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
	
Based on the consideration of audit report of the statutory auditors of IVY Products Intermediaries Limited, subsidiary company, Phoenix ARC Private 
Limited and Infina Finance Private Limited, the associate companies, the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, are not applicable 
to it for the year ended 31 March 2024.
25.	
Further, as required by section 143 (3) of the Act, based on our audit, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements;
	
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors; except for the matters stated in paragraph 
25(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
	
c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this 
report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements;
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Accounting Standard) Rules, 2021, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by 
RBI;
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company and taken on record by the Board of Directors 
of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies and associate companies incorporated in India, 
none of the directors of the Group companies and its associate companies incorporated in India, are disqualified as on 31 March 2024 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act;
	
f)	
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our remarks in paragraph 25(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 25(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended);.
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary and its associate companies incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report 
in ‘Annexure A’ wherein we have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of audit reports of other auditors on separate financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates, as noted in the “Other 
Matters” paragraph:
	
	
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2024 on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group, and its associates as detailed in Refer - Schedule 12.I, Schedule 17 - Note 2(X) and Schedule 17 - Note 9 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements;
Financial Statements
106
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
ii.	
Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 March 2024, as required under the applicable law or the 
Accounting Standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts as at 31March 2024 
as detailed in Refer (a) - Schedule 12.II, 12.V(i), 12.V(ii), Schedule 17 – Note 2(G), Schedule 17 – Note 2(X) and Schedule 17 – Note 7 
and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in respect of such items as it relates to the Schedule 17 – Note 19 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of the Group’s share of net profit of its associates;
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding 
Company, and its subsidiary companies, and associate companies incorporated in India, as applicable, during the year ended 31 March 
2024.
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The respective Managements of the Bank, subsidiaries and its associates which are companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us, and the other auditors of such subsidiaries and 
associates respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule 17 – Note 24, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and associates to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and associates (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The respective Managements of the Bank, its subsidiaries and associate which are companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries and 
associates respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule 17 – Note 24, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company or any of such subsidiaries and 
associates from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and associates shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
c.	
Based on the audit procedures, that which we have has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries and associates which are companies incorporated in 
India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has 
caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any material 
misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank and its subsidiaries and associates is in compliance with Section 123 of the 
Act.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by respective auditors of the subsidiaries and associates, 
which are the companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, except for the instances 
mentioned below in respect of the Bank and its subsidiaries and associates, the Bank, its subsidiaries and associates have used 
accounting software for maintaining books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) and that has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software.
Description of Instances
Number of instances
Instances of inability of the auditor to comment on certain 
software in the absence of service organization controls auditors’ 
report covering the audit trail requirement for the period 01 April 
2023 to 31 March 2024.
One instance of Bank, twelve instances of twelve subsidiaries and 
one instance of one associate
Instances where the audit trail feature is either not enabled, or 
feature is enabled but not operated for some applications used 
for maintaining records relating to certain transactions for part 
of the year.
Three instances of two subsidiaries and one instance of one 
associate
Instances where audit trail has not been enabled at the database 
level to log any direct data changes for certain accounting 
software.
Six instances of Bank, six instances of three subsidiaries and 
certain instances of one subsidiary
107
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
	
	
	
During the course of performing our procedures, for the accounting software other than the aforesaid software/ databases where the 
question of our commenting does not arise, we and respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries and associates did not notice 
any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 301112E/ E300264
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Russell I Parera
Gautam Shah
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 042190
Membership Number: 117348
UDIN: 24042190BKFFOR5344
UDIN: 24117348BKBZWL1408
Place	 :	 Mumbai
Place	 :	 Mumbai
Date	 :	 04 May 2024
Date	 :	 04 May 2024
Financial Statements
108
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF KOTAK 
MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 25(g) UNDER ‘REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’ SECTION OF OUR REPORT OF 
EVEN DATE
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries 
(the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’), and its associates as at and for the year ended 31 March 2024, we have 
audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its 
associate companies, which are companies covered under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, to whom reporting under clause (i) 
of sub-section 143 of the Act in respect of adequacy of the internal control with reference to financial statements is applicable, which are companies 
incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, as aforesaid, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) issued by the ICAI and prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to 
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those SAs and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
includes obtaining an understanding of such internal financial controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the 
“Other Matters” paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
6.	
A Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements include those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 
the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that 
the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
109
Independent Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the subsidiary companies and associate companies, which are companies covered under the Act, have in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and such controls were operating effectively 
as at 31 March 2024, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India.
Other Matters
9.	
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to fifteen subsidiary companies and two associate companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
10.	
The following other matter paragraph has been included in the Annexure ‘A’ to the audit report of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited 
(‘KLIFE’) the subsidiary of the Bank, issued by the joint auditors of KLIFE vide their report dated 26 April 2024:
	
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 
31st March 2024 is required to be certified by Appointed Actuary as per the regulations and has been relied upon by us, as mentioned in para 4 and 
10 of our audit report on the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024.Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial control over 
financial reporting does not include reporting on the operating effectiveness of the management’s internal controls over the valuation and accuracy 
of the aforesaid actuarial valaution.”
	
The following paragraph ‘paragraph 4’ was included in the audit report of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited, reproduced by us as under:
	
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as 
at 31st March 2024 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”), which has been certified by the Appointed 
Actuary in accordance with regulations, as mentioned in the paragraph 10 below. Accordingly, we have relied upon Appointed Actuary’s certificate for 
forming our opinion on the financial statements of the Company. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.”
	
The following paragraph ‘paragraph 10’ was included in the audit report of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited, reproduced by us as under:
	
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 
31st March 2024 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities as at 
March 31, 2024 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the actuarial liabilities have been calculated in accordance with 
generally accepted actuarial principles, the requirements of the Insurance Act, 1938, Insurance Act (as amended from time to time), relevant IRDA 
regulations and the Actuarial Practice Standards and Guidance Notes issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI.”
	
Our opinion above is not modified in respect of this matter.
11.	
The following other matter paragraph has been included in the Annexure ‘A’ to the audit report of Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited, 
(‘KMGICL’) the subsidiary of the Bank, issued by the joint auditors of KMGICL vide their report dated 24 April 2024:
	
“Pursuant to IRDAI (Appointed Actuary) Regulations 2017, the actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of claims Incurred But Not Reported (“IBNR”), 
claims Incurred But Not Enough Reported (“IBNER”) and Premium Deficiency Reserve (“PDR”) as at March 31, 2024, has been duly certified by the 
Appointed Actuary. They have also certified that assumptions used for such valuation are appropriate and in accordance with the guidelines and 
norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI. We have relied upon the aforesaid certificate from the 
Appointed Actuary while forming our opinion on the financial statements of the Company as mentioned in Other Matter paragraph in our audit report 
on the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements does not include reporting on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal control over the valuation and accuracy of the 
aforesaid actuarial liabilities.”
	
Our opinion above is not modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 301112E/ E300264
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Russell I Parera
Gautam Shah
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 042190
Membership Number: 117348
UDIN: 24042190BKFFOR5344
UDIN: 24117348BKBZWL1408
Place	 :	 Mumbai
Place	 :	 Mumbai
Date	 :	 04 May 2024
Date	 :	 04 May 2024
Financial Statements
110
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2024
(₹ in thousands)
Schedule
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
 9,939,604 
 14,932,783 
Employees' Stock Options (Grants) Outstanding
 792,938 
 603,058 
Reserves and Surplus
2
 1,288,984,358 
 1,107,608,142 
Deposits
3
 4,452,687,613 
 3,612,726,221 
Borrowings
4
 751,056,062 
 570,339,234 
Policyholders' Funds
 733,755,969 
 579,794,726 
Other Liabilities and Provisions
5
 439,453,046 
 318,293,184 
Total
 7,676,669,590 
 6,204,297,348 
ASSETS
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
 362,867,354 
 199,852,047 
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
7
 289,196,520 
 229,401,424 
Investments
8
 2,464,457,213 
 1,953,379,702 
Advances
9
 4,303,515,813 
 3,591,074,627 
Fixed Assets
10
 25,625,078 
 22,612,045 
Other Assets
11
 221,530,045 
 199,839,973 
Goodwill on Consolidation
 9,477,567 
 8,137,530 
Total
 7,676,669,590 
 6,204,297,348 
Contingent Liabilities
12
 7,340,573,761 
 4,676,403,766 
Bills for Collection
 474,677,060 
 446,552,442 
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
17
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of this Consolidated Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
111
Consolidated Balance Sheet & Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account1 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(₹ in thousands)
Schedule
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
For the year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
INCOME
Interest Earned
13
 562,366,323 
 421,510,612 
Other Income
14
 380,372,782 
 259,909,660 
Total
 942,739,105 
 681,420,272 
II.
EXPENDITURE
Interest Expended
15
 225,672,371 
 144,111,322 
Operating Expenses
16
 458,708,240 
 336,450,287 
Provisions and Contingencies (Refer Note 7.A - Schedule 17)
 78,590,241 
 53,054,242 
Total
 762,970,852 
 533,615,851 
III.
PROFIT
Net Profit for the year
 179,768,253 
 147,804,421 
Add: Share in profit / (loss) of Associates
 2,363,822 
 1,445,675 
Consolidated Profit for the year attributable to the Group
 182,132,075 
 149,250,096 
Add : Balance in Profit and Loss Account brought forward from previous year
 635,331,703 
 524,804,324 
Total
 817,463,778 
 674,054,420 
IV.
APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 34,454,000 
 27,348,300 
Transfer to Special Reserve u/s 45 IC of RBI Act, 1934
 2,959,203 
 2,211,161 
Transfer to Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961
 1,250,000 
 1,150,000 
Transfer to Debenture Redemption Reserve
 75,000 
 161,000 
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve
 5,000,000 
 - 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 - 
 9,900 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account
 8,316,321 
 - 
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve Account
 12,000,000 
 5,253,150 
Dividend
 3,366,210 
 2,589,206 
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
 750,043,044 
 635,331,703 
Total
 817,463,778 
 674,054,420 
V.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (Refer Note 10 - Schedule 17)
Basic (₹)
91.45
74.96
Diluted (₹)
91.45
74.94
Face value per share (₹)
 5.00
 5.00
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
17
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of this Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
1GRI 201-1
Financial Statements
112
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(₹ in thousands)
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Profit before share in profit / (loss) of Associates
 179,768,253 
 147,804,421 
Add: Provision for tax
 58,865,554 
 48,657,419 
Net Profit before taxes
 238,633,807 
 196,461,840 
Adjustments for :-
Employee Stock Options Expense
 449,476 
 456,424 
Depreciation on Group's property
 7,917,534 
 5,992,592 
Provision for Diminution / (Write back) in the value of Investments
 742,296 
 (181,638)
(Profit) / Loss on revaluation of Investments (net)
 (46,437,867)
 14,077,645 
(Profit) / Loss on sale of Investments (net)
 (27,735,517)
 (9,068,640)
Amortisation of Premium on Investments
 2,714,066 
 5,776,307 
Provision for Non Performing Assets, Standard Assets and Other Provisions
 18,982,391 
 4,578,461 
Profit on sale of Fixed assets
 (71,379)
 (107,784)
 195,194,807 
 217,985,207 
Adjustments for :-
(Increase) / Decrease in Investments - Available for Sale, Held for Trading and Stock-in-Trade
 (363,267,540)
 (221,348,255)
(Increase) in Advances
 (708,186,386)
 (551,423,212)
(Increase) / Decrease in Other Assets
 (18,755,386)
 22,496,950 
Increase in Deposits
 839,961,392 
 511,857,293 
Increase in Policyholders' Funds
 153,961,243 
 73,126,825 
Increase / (Decrease) in Other Liabilities and Provisions
 118,317,766 
 (17,465,333)
Sub-total
 22,031,089 
 (182,755,732)
Direct Taxes Paid
 (60,375,926)
 (47,653,776)
NET CASH FLOW FROM/ (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (A)
 156,849,970 
 (12,424,301)
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of Fixed assets
 (11,266,882)
 (9,867,647)
Sale of Fixed assets
 346,136 
 261,269 
Acquisition of equity shares in subsidiary
 (5,319,411)
 - 
(Increase) in Other Investments (including investments in HTM securities)
 (74,729,127)
 (95,895,379)
NET CASH FLOW FROM/ (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES (B)
 (90,969,284)
 (105,501,757)
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
113
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
(₹ in thousands)
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid
 (3,366,210)
 (2,589,206)
Money received on issue of Equity Shares / exercise of stock options
 1,992,348 
 2,678,633 
Redemption of Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares
 (5,000,000)
 - 
Increase in borrowings
 161,524,930 
 18,740,583 
NET CASH FLOW FROM / (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (C)
 155,151,068 
 18,830,010 
Increase in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (D)
 365,228 
 1,694,676 
Net Cash and Cash Equivalent on Acquisition of Subsidiary (E)
 1,413,421 
 - 
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A + B + C + D + E)
 222,810,403 
 (97,401,372)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR (REFER NOTE BELOW)
 429,253,471 
 526,654,843 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR (REFER NOTE BELOW)
 652,063,874 
 429,253,471 
Note:
Balance with banks in India in Other Deposit Accounts (As per Schedule 7 I (i) (b))
 103,217,847 
 78,897,269 
Balance with banks in India in Current Account (As per Schedule 7 I (i) (a))
 5,151,790 
 4,546,355 
Money at call and short notice in India with Banks (As per Schedule 7 I (ii) (a))
 15,727,551 
 98,035,628 
Money at call and short notice in India with Other Agencies (As per Schedule 7 I (ii) (b))
 114,806,704 
 1,500,000 
Cash in hand (As per Schedule 6 I)
 20,257,279 
 19,020,194 
Balance with RBI in Current Account (As per Schedule 6 II (i))
 192,100,075 
 180,831,853 
Balance with RBI in Other Account (As per Schedule 6 II (ii))
 150,510,000 
 - 
Balance with banks Outside India:
(i)
In Current Account (As per Schedule 7 II (i))
 28,511,274 
 24,488,381 
(ii)
In Other Deposit Accounts (As per Schedule 7 II (ii))
 21,781,354 
 21,933,791 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR
 652,063,874 
 429,253,471 
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Financial Statements
114
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Schedules
forming part of Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2024
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Authorised Capital
2,800,000,000 Equity Shares of ₹ 5/- each
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
2,800,000,000 (31st March, 2023: 2,800,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5/- each)
1,000,000,000 (31st March, 2023: 1,000,000,000) Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Shares of ` 5/- each
 5,000,000 
 5,000,000 
 19,000,000 
 19,000,000 
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
1,987,920,898 (31st March, 2023: 1,986,556,582) Equity Shares of ` 5/- each fully paid-up
 9,939,604 
 9,932,783 
Nil (31st March, 2023: 1,000,000,000) Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Shares of ` 5/- each fully 
paid-up
 -
 5,000,000 
Total
 9,939,604 
 14,932,783 
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 148,317,983 
 120,969,683 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 34,454,000 
 27,348,300 
Total
 182,771,983 
 148,317,983 
II.
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
 3,531,886 
 3,521,986 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
-
 9,900 
Total
 3,531,886 
 3,531,886 
III.
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 6,561,992 
 6,540,937 
Add: Amount transferred on Employee's Stock Options (Grants) Outstanding lapsed
 69,716 
 21,055 
Add: Transfer from Debenture Redemption Reserve
 118,000 
 - 
Total
 6,749,708 
 6,561,992 
IV.
Securities Premium Account
Opening Balance
 253,154,188 
 250,339,655 
Add: Received during the year
 2,175,407 
 2,814,533 
Total
 255,329,595 
 253,154,188 
V.
Special Reserve under Section 45 IC of the RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
 20,513,408 
 18,302,247 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 2,959,203 
 2,211,161 
Total
 23,472,611 
 20,513,408 
VI.
Capital Reserve on Consolidation
Opening Balance
 1,475,671 
 1,475,671 
Total
 1,475,671 
 1,475,671 
VII.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (Refer Note 2(G)(viii) and (xii)- Schedule 17)
Opening Balance
 5,074,965 
 3,380,289 
Increase / (Decrease) during the year
 365,228 
 1,694,676 
Total
 5,440,193 
 5,074,965 
115
Consolidated Schedules
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
VIII.
Investment Reserve Account
Opening Balance
-
 -
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 8,316,321 
 -
Total
 8,316,321 
 -
IX.
Special Reserve under Section 36(1)(viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
Opening Balance
 8,942,000 
 7,792,000 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 1,250,000 
 1,150,000 
Total
 10,192,000 
 8,942,000 
X.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance
 23,000,000 
 17,746,850 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 12,000,000 
 5,253,150 
Total
 35,000,000 
 23,000,000 
XI.
Capital Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
 101,800 
 101,800 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 5,000,000 
 - 
Total
 5,101,800 
 101,800 
XII.
Amalgamation Reserve
Opening Balance
 1,224,046 
 1,224,046 
Total
 1,224,046 
 1,224,046 
XIII.
Investment Allowance (Utilised) Reserve
Opening Balance
 500
 500
Total
 500
 500
XIV.
Debenture Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
 378,000 
 217,000 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 75,000 
 161,000 
Less: Transfer to General Reserve
 (118,000)
 - 
Total
 335,000 
 378,000 
XV.
Balance in the Profit and Loss Account
 750,043,044 
 635,331,703 
Total (I to XV)
 1,288,984,358 
 1,107,608,142 
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A.
I.
Demand Deposits
i.	 From Banks
 3,068,958 
 2,435,164 
ii.	 From Others
 731,268,682 
 686,434,025 
Total
 734,337,640 
 688,869,189 
II.
Savings Bank Deposits
 1,290,951,628 
 1,217,850,232 
III.
Term Deposits
i.	 From Banks
 96,581,087 
 26,074,227 
ii.	 From Others
 2,330,817,258 
 1,679,932,573 
Total
 2,427,398,345 
 1,706,006,800 
Total Deposits (I to III)
 4,452,687,613 
 3,612,726,221 
B.
I.
Deposits of Branches in India
 4,424,292,712 
 3,594,616,365 
II.
Deposits of Branches Outside India
 28,394,901 
 18,109,856 
Total Deposits (I + II)
 4,452,687,613 
 3,612,726,221 
Financial Statements
116
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Borrowings in India
(i)	
Reserve Bank of India
 - 
 47,000,000 
(ii)	
Other Banks
 193,774,035 
 167,075,151 
(iii)	
Other Institutions and Agencies (Refer Note 12 - Schedule 17)
 483,302,871 
 311,361,791 
Total
 677,076,906 
 525,436,942 
II.
Borrowings outside India
Banks and Other Institutions
 73,979,156 
 44,902,292 
Total
 73,979,156 
 44,902,292 
Total Borrowings (I + II)
 751,056,062 
 570,339,234 
Secured Borrowings (other than CBLO and Repo Borrowings included in I above)
 326,521,665 
 235,428,305 
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Bills Payable
 36,051,339 
 30,880,205 
II.
Interest Accrued
 30,324,751 
 15,559,185 
III.
Provision for tax (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source)
 8,784,143 
 8,458,029 
IV.
Standard Asset provision
 20,029,538 
 17,157,419 
V.
Others (including provisions) (Refer Note 3, 6 and 23 (a) - Schedule 17)
 344,263,275 
 246,238,346 
Total
 439,453,046 
 318,293,184 
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 20,257,279 
 19,020,194 
II.
Balances with RBI
(i)	
in Current Account
 192,100,075 
 180,831,853 
(ii)	
in Other Account
 150,510,000 
 - 
Total
 362,867,354 
 199,852,047 
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
In India
(i)	
Balances with Banks
	
(a)	
In Current Accounts
 5,151,790 
 4,546,355 
	
(b)	
In Other Deposit Accounts (Refer Note 4 - Schedule 17)
 103,217,847 
 78,897,269 
Total
 108,369,637 
 83,443,624 
(ii)	
Money at Call and Short Notice
	
(a)	
With Banks
 15,727,551 
 98,035,628 
	
(b)	
With Other Agencies
 114,806,704 
 1,500,000 
Total
 130,534,255 
 99,535,628 
Total (i + ii)
 238,903,892 
 182,979,252 
II.
Outside India
(i)	
In Current Accounts
 28,511,274 
 24,488,381 
(ii)	
In Other Deposit Accounts
 21,781,354 
 21,933,791 
Total (i + ii)
 50,292,628 
 46,422,172 
Total (I + II)
 289,196,520 
 229,401,424 
117
Consolidated Schedules
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Investments in India in (Refer Note 5 - Schedule 17)
i.
Government Securities
 1,562,220,211 
 1,239,635,493 
ii.
Other approved Securities
 - 
 - 
iii.
Shares
 246,082,121 
 180,795,864 
iv.
Debentures and Bonds
 367,256,537 
 359,616,543 
v.
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures (Refer Note 25 - Schedule 17)
 10,000 
 - 
vi.
Associates *
 16,884,672 
 14,520,850 
vii.
Others [Units, Certificate of Deposits (CD), Commercial Paper (CP), Security Receipts,
 254,721,020 
 146,347,053 
Pass Through Certificates (PTC), Alternate Asset and Other similar funds]
Total
 2,447,174,561 
 1,940,915,803 
II.
Investments Outside India in
i.
Government Securities
 2,892,369 
 1,464,844 
ii.
Shares
 18,052 
 12,472 
iii.
Debentures and Bonds
 14,011,382 
 10,335,499 
iv.
Others [Venture, Private Equity and other similar funds]
 360,849 
 651,084 
Total
 17,282,652 
 12,463,899 
Total Investments (I + II)
 2,464,457,213 
 1,953,379,702 
* Investment in Associates
Equity Investment in Associates
 1,012,900 
 1,012,900 
Less: Capital reserve on Consolidation (Share of pre-acquisition profits)
 1,651 
 1,651 
Cost of Investment in Associates
 1,011,249 
 1,011,249 
Add: Post-acquisition profit / (loss) and Reserve of Associates (Equity method)
 15,873,423 
 13,509,601 
Total
 16,884,672 
 14,520,850 
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A.
(i)	
Bills purchased and discounted #
 75,847,475 
 55,508,802 
(ii)	
Cash Credits, Overdrafts and Loans repayable on demand^
 1,204,741,113 
 980,676,164 
(iii)	
Term Loans@
 3,022,927,225 
 2,554,889,661 
Total
 4,303,515,813 
 3,591,074,627 
# Bills purchased and discounted is net of bills rediscounted H 2,723.66 crore (previous year H 1,475.84 crore)
^ net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participatory certificates of H 2.54 crore (Previous Year H 220.00 crore)
@ net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participatory certificates of H 12,787.26 crore (Previous Year H 3,986.26 crore)
B.
(i)	
Secured by tangible assets *
 3,362,281,542 
 2,825,103,083 
(ii)	
Covered by Bank / Government guarantees
 33,710,160 
 69,720,473 
(iii)	
Unsecured
 907,524,111 
 696,251,071 
Total
 4,303,515,813 
 3,591,074,627 
* including advances secured against book debts
C. I
Advances in India
(i)	
Priority Sector
 1,677,430,941 
 1,471,534,973 
(ii)	
Public Sector
 23,509,188 
 4,093,487 
(iii)	
Banks
 13,650,218 
 2,077 
(iv)	
Others
 2,528,418,889 
 2,066,902,228 
Total
 4,243,009,236 
 3,542,532,765 
C. II
Advances outside India
(i)	
Due from banks
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Due from others
	
a)	
Bills purchased and discounted
 - 
 - 
	
b)	
Syndicated and term loans
 60,506,577 
 48,541,862 
	
c)	
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 60,506,577 
 48,541,862 
Grand Total (C.I and C.II)
 4,303,515,813 
 3,591,074,627 
Financial Statements
118
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A.
Premises (Including Land)
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 11,324,469 
 11,318,275 
Add: Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year
 2,240 
 11,563 
Less: Deductions during the year
 13 
 5,369 
Total
 11,326,696 
 11,324,469 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 2,546,441 
 2,360,672 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 187,192 
 186,963 
Less: Deductions during the year
 - 
 1,194 
Depreciation to date
 2,733,633 
 2,546,441 
Net Block
 8,593,063 
 8,778,028 
B.
Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 42,967,959 
 37,742,550 
Add: Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year (including on acquisitions)
 11,203,084 
 9,650,804 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,481,891 
 4,425,395 
Total
 52,689,152 
 42,967,959 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 29,290,926 
 27,760,823 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 7,730,342 
 5,805,629 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,364,131 
 4,275,526 
Depreciation to date
 35,657,137 
 29,290,926 
Net Block (Refer Note 21 - Schedule 17)
 17,032,015 
 13,677,033 
C.
Leased Fixed Assets
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 1,540,585 
 1,540,585 
Add: Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year
 - 
 - 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,540,585 
 - 
Total
 - 
 1,540,585 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 1,383,601 
 1,383,601 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,383,601 
 - 
Depreciation to date
 - 
 1,383,601 
Net Block
 - 
 156,984 
Total (A) + (B) + (C)
 25,625,078 
 22,612,045 
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest accrued
 62,252,623 
 53,859,399 
II.
Advance tax (net of provision for tax)
 2,634,973 
 1,066,886 
III.
Stationery and stamps
 102,605 
 114,152 
IV.
Others* (Refer Note 3, 20 and 23 (b) - Schedule 17)
 156,539,844 
 144,799,536 
Total
 221,530,045 
 199,839,973 
* Includes Deposits placed with NABARD/ SIDBI H 3,253.85 crore (Previous year H 4,544.48 crore)
119
Consolidated Schedules
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(₹ in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Claims not acknowledged as debts
 9,881,398 
 8,699,391 
II.
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
 5,019,201,824 
 2,991,383,200 
III.
Guarantees on behalf of constituents
i)	
In India
 321,157,013 
 279,634,388 
ii)	
Outside India
 124,606 
 124,704 
IV.
Acceptances, Endorsements and Other Obligations
 262,663,257 
 244,573,710 
V.
Other items for which the Group is contingently liable:
i)	
Liability in respect of interest rate, currency swaps and forward rate agreements
 1,565,132,212 
 1,067,674,426 
ii)	
Liability in respect of other derivative contracts
 118,435,081 
 38,378,490 
iii)	
Capital commitments not provided
 39,858,367 
 42,371,214 
iv)	
Unclaimed customer balances *
 4,120,003 
 3,564,243 
Total
 7,340,573,761 
 4,676,403,766 
* includes amount transferred to RBI DEA Fund Scheme
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
(₹ in thousands)
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest / discount on advances / bills
 408,661,623 
 307,350,622 
II.
Income on investments
 132,966,020 
 98,944,138 
III.
Interest on balances with RBI and other inter-bank funds
 15,423,610 
 10,293,531 
IV.
Others
 5,315,070 
 4,922,321 
Total
 562,366,323 
 421,510,612 
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
(₹ in thousands)
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 103,827,061 
 82,368,296 
II.
Profit on sale of Investments (net)
 27,735,517 
 9,068,640 
III.
Profit / (Loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
 46,437,867 
 (14,077,645)
IV.
Profit on sale of building and other assets (net)
 71,379 
 107,784 
V.
Profit on exchange on transactions (net) (including derivatives)
 12,687,959 
 17,038,445 
VI.
Premium on Insurance business
 184,253,086 
 157,998,624 
VII.
Profit on recoveries of non-performing assets acquired
 3,217,957 
 3,651,752 
VIII.
Miscellaneous Income (Refer Note 23 (c) - Schedule 17)
 2,141,956 
 3,753,764 
Total
 380,372,782 
 259,909,660 
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
(₹ in thousands)
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest on Deposits
 182,285,015 
 117,657,645 
II.
Interest on RBI / Inter-Bank Borrowings
 15,815,528 
 9,951,319 
III.
Others (Refer Note 13 - Schedule 17)
 27,571,828 
 16,502,358 
Total
 225,672,371 
 144,111,322 
Financial Statements
120
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
(₹ in thousands)
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
For the Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Payments to and provision for employees (Refer Note 3 and 11 - Schedule 17)
 103,473,126 
 84,790,295 
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting (Refer Note 15 - Schedule 17)
 9,687,465 
 9,357,718 
III.
Printing and Stationery
 2,232,761 
 1,988,796 
IV.
Advertisement, Publicity and Promotion
 15,563,775 
 11,976,963 
V.
Depreciation on Group's property
 7,917,534 
 5,992,592 
VI.
Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
 146,585 
 82,953 
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses
Statutory Audit fees
 122,850 
 115,043 
Other Matters
 11,004 
 8,910 
VIII.
Law Charges
 461,806 
 553,947 
IX.
Postage, telephones etc.
 5,317,349 
 4,585,880 
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 14,393,747 
 12,071,736 
XI.
Insurance
 4,739,689 
 3,943,982 
XII.
Policyholders' reserve cost
 152,734,888 
 74,378,486 
XIII.
Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business
 78,320,590 
 68,350,041 
XIV.
Other Expenditure (Refer Note 23 (d) - Schedule 17)
 63,585,071 
 58,252,945 
Total
 458,708,240 
 336,450,287 
121
Consolidated Schedules
SCHEDULE 17 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.	
GENERAL:
	
Overview
	
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Bank’ or ‘KMBL’), together with its subsidiaries (collectively, ‘the Group’), is a diversified financial services group 
providing a wide range of banking and financial services including Consumer Banking, Commercial Banking, Treasury and Corporate Banking, 
Investment Banking, Stock Broking, Vehicle Finance, Advisory Services, Asset Management, Life Insurance and General Insurance. The Bank set up 
and commenced operations in May 2016, at its International Financial Services Center Banking Unit (‘IBU’) in Gujarat International Finance Tec (‘GIFT’) 
City, Gujarat. The Bank has commenced operations in October 2019 at its first overseas branch at the Dubai International Financial Centre (‘DIFC’), 
Dubai, UAE.
	
Basis of Consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with Accounting Standard 21  (AS-21), “Consolidated Financial 
Statements”. Investment in Associates are accounted by the Group under the equity method in accordance with Accounting Standard 23 (AS-23), 
“Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements” specified under Section 133 and the relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 in so far as they apply to the Group as amended from time 
to time. The Bank consolidates entities in which it holds, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than 50% of the voting rights or where 
it exercises control, on a line by line basis by adding together like items of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in accordance with AS-21. The 
Goodwill or Capital Reserve on consolidation represents the difference between the Group’s share in the networth of the subsidiary and the cost of 
acquisition at the time of making investment in the subsidiary. Intragroup balances, intragroup transactions and resulting unrealised profits, if any, 
are eliminated in full. Unrealised losses resulting from intragroup transactions are also eliminated unless cost cannot be recovered. Goodwill on 
consolidation is not amortised. Assessment is done at each balance sheet date as to whether there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired.
	
Minority interest representing the part of net results of operations and of the net assets of subsidiary attributable to interests not owned directly or 
indirectly through subsidiaries is presented separately from liabilities and the equity. Further, the Group accounts for investments in entities where it 
holds 20% to 50% of the voting rights or exercises significant influence by the equity method of accounting in accordance with AS-23. The financial 
statements of the subsidiaries and associates used in consolidation are drawn up to the same reporting date as that of the holding Company i.e. 31st 
March, 2024.
	
a.	
The list of subsidiaries is as under: 
Name of the Subsidiary
Country of Origin
% Shareholding 
of Group 
(31st March, 2024)
% Shareholding 
of Group 
(31st March, 2023)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Securities Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
Mauritius
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
UK
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra, Inc.
USA
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (formerly known as Kotak 
Investment Advisors Limited)
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
India
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
UAE
 100.00
 100.00
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) PTE. Limited
Singapore
100.00
100.00
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
India
100.00
100.00
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
India
100.00
100.00
BSS Microfinance Limited
India
100.00
100.00
Sonata Finance Private Limited (w.e.f 28th March, 2024) (Refer Note 25 
of Schedule 17)
India
100.00
-
Financial Statements
122
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
On 26th June, 2023, the Bank has incorporated “Kotak Karma Foundation” (“the Foundation”) under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, as a 
wholly owned subsidiary for setting up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Bank for furtherance of part of its Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Initiatives. Being a Section 8 Company and as per terms of articles, the Foundation would operate with restrictions to transfer funds to 
the parent, hence in accordance with the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on “Consolidated Financial Statements”, the Company shall 
be excluded from consolidation.
	
b.	
As per AS-23, the Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the audited results of the following associates except as indicated.
Name of the Associate
Country of Origin
% Shareholding 
of Group 
(31st March, 2024)
% Shareholding 
of Group 
(31st March, 2023)
Infina Finance Private Limited
India
 49.99
 49.99
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
India
 49.90
 49.90
2.	
ACCOUNTING METHODOLOGY AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
	
A.	
Accounting Methodology
	
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on historical cost basis of accounting. The Group adopts the accrual method of 
accounting and historical cost convention unless stated otherwise. The Group has prepared these consolidated financial statements to comply 
in all material respects with the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 in so far as they apply to the Group and the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI), Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) from time to time as applicable and the generally accepted 
accounting principles prevailing in India. The financial statements of Indian subsidiaries (excluding insurance companies) and associates are 
prepared as per Indian Accounting Standards in accordance with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries located outside India are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective 
countries. However, for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results, the results of subsidiaries and associates are prepared 
in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’) specified under Section 133 and relevant provision of Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Companies Accounting Standard Rules, 2021. In case the accounting policies followed by consolidating entities are 
different from those followed by Bank, the same have been disclosed separately.
	
B.	
Use of Estimates
	
	
The preparation of financial statements requires the management to make estimates and assumptions in the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expenses during the reporting 
period. Management believes that the estimates used in preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results 
could differ from these estimates. Any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
	
C.	
Revenue Recognition
	
	
a.	
Lending / Investing:
	
	
	
i.	
Interest income is recognised on accrual basis.
	
	
	
ii.	
Interest income in respect of retail advances is accounted for by using the internal rate of return method to provide a constant 
periodic rate of return.
	
	
	
iii.	
Interest income on investments in Pass-Through-Certificates (PTCs) and loans bought out through the direct assignment route is 
recognised at their effective interest rate.
	
	
	
iv.	
Service charges, fees and commission income are recognised when due. The guarantee commission and letter of credit 
commission is recognised over the period of the guarantee and letter of credit respectively. Syndication / arranger fee is recognised 
as income as per the terms of engagement.
	
	
	
v.	
Interest income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instruments so as to provide a constant periodic 
rate of return.
	
	
	
vi.	
Upon an asset becoming non-performing assets (NPAs) the income accrued gets reversed, and is recognised only on realisation, as 
per the RBI guidelines. Penal interest is recognised as income on realisation other than on running accounts where it is recognised 
when due.
	
	
	
vii.	
Gain on account of securitisation of assets is amortised over the life of the securities issued in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by the RBI. Loss on account of securitisation of assets is recognised immediately in profit and loss account.
	
	
	
viii.	
Gain on account of assignment of assets on bilateral basis is recognised based on the difference between the book value of the 
assigned assets and sale consideration received.
	
	
	
ix.	
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
123
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
	
x.	
In respect of non-performing assets acquired from other Banks / FIs and NBFCs, collections in excess of the consideration paid at 
each asset level or portfolio level is treated as income in accordance with the RBI guidelines and clarifications.
	
	
	
xi.	
Fees received on sale of Priority Sector Lending Certificates is considered as Miscellaneous Income, while fees paid for purchase 
is recognised as expense under other expenses in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI.
	
	
	
xii.	
Other fees are recognised when due, where it is reasonably certain of ultimate collection.
	
	
b.	
Investment Banking:
	
	
	
i.	
Issue management fees and placement fees, underwriting commission, referral fees and financial advisory fees are accounted on 
completion of milestones specified in the contract.
	
	
c.	
Life Insurance:
	
	
	
i.	
Premium including rider (net of GST) is recognised as income when it is due from policyholders except on unit linked policies, 
where the premium is recognised when associated units are created.
	
	
	
ii.	
In accordance with the terms of insurance policies, uncollected premium on lapsed policies is not recognised as income until 
revived.
	
	
	
iii.	
Top Up / Lump sum contributions are accounted as a part of the single premium.
	
	
	
iv.	
Income from unit linked policies, which include fund management fees, policy administration charges, mortality charges and other 
charges, if any, are recovered from the linked fund in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance contracts and is 
accounted for as income when due.
	
	
	
v.	
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted on due basis at the time when related premium income is accounted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the relevant treaties with the reinsurer. Profit commission on reinsurance ceded is accounted as 
income in the year of final determination of profit. Profit commission on reinsurance ceded is netted off against premium ceded on 
reinsurance.
	
	
d.	
General Insurance:
	
	
	
i.	
Interest income is recognised on accrual basis. Accretion of discount and amortisation of premium relating to debt securities is 
recognised over the maturity period of such securities on a constant yield.
	
	
	
ii.	
Premium net of indirect tax (including reinsurance accepted) is recognised on commencement of the risk.In case of policies 
where payments are received in installment, the revenue is recognized at the time of receipt of installment. Premium earnings are 
recognised over the period of the policy or period of risk. Any revisions in premium amount are recognised in the year in which they 
occur and over the remaining period of the policy. Any subsequent cancellations of policies are recognised in the period in which 
they occur.
	
	
	
iii.	
Commission on reinsurance ceded is recognised as income on ceding of reinsurance premium. Profit commission under 
reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is recognised in the year of final determination of the profits and as intimated by the 
reinsurer.
	
	
	
iv.	
Proportional Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted on due basis at the time when related premium income is accounted 
for. Non-proportional reinsurance cost is accounted as per terms of the reinsurance arrangements. Any revisions in reinsurance 
premium ceded are recognised in the period in which it occur. On cancellation of policies, related reinsurance premium ceded are 
recognised in the same period in which it occur. Reinsurance inward acceptances are accounted for on the basis of reinsurance 
slips, accepted from the reinsurer.
	
	
	
v.	
In respect of policies booked where risk inception date is subsequent to the balance sheet date, the premium collected is presented 
in balance sheet as premium received in advance.
	
	
	
vi.	
Premium deficiency is recognised when sum of expected claim cost, related expenses and maintenance cost (related to claims 
handling) exceed related reserve for unexpired risk. It is recognised on an annual basis and at segment level for the insurance 
company viz., fire, marine and miscellaneous. Premium deficiency reserve is estimated and certified by the appointed actuary.
	
	
e.	
Broking:
	
	
	
i.	
Placement and other fee based income are accounted for on the basis of the progress of the assignment.
	
	
	
ii.	
Brokerage Income (net of indirect tax):
	
	
	
	
¡	
On primary market subscription / mobilisation is accounted on receipt of intimation of allotment.
	
	
	
	
¡	
On secondary market transaction is recognised upon completion of brokerage services to customers.
Financial Statements
124
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
	
iii.	
Depository Fees (net of indirect tax), is recognised on accrual basis and as per terms agreed with the customers. Other charges 
recovered from secondary broking customers are recognised upon completion of services.
	
	
	
iv.	
Securities lending or borrowing fees are recognised on pro-rata basis over the tenure of the contract.
	
	
f.	
Asset Management and Advisory Services:
	
	
	
i.	
Investment management fees are recognised on rendering of services and are dependent on the net asset value and expenses as 
recorded by the schemes of the funds.
	
	
	
ii.	
Management fee (net of indirect tax) from venture funds, private equity funds and other similar funds is recognised on accrual 
basis at the rates specified in the investment management agreement from the date of initial closing of funds under management. 
Advisory fees (net of indirect tax) is recognised on accrual basis as per the terms of contract.
	
	
	
iii.	
Revenue from rendering of investment advisory business is recognised on a straight line basis over the period when services 
are rendered, which is in accordance with the terms of the mandate letters entered between the company and the high networth 
individual client.
	
	
	
iv.	
Portfolio advisory service fees are recognised on accrual basis in accordance with the terms of agreement.
	
	
	
v.	
Portfolio management service fees are recognised on accrual basis in accordance with the terms of agreement between the 
Company and the respective clients.
	
	
	
vi.	
Income on account of distribution from venture capital funds/ alternate investment fund is recognised on the receipt of the 
distribution letter or when right to receive is established.
	
	
	
vii.	
The Group receives fees for providing research to clients and records the income at the time services are provided.
	
D.	
Fixed Assets (Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets)
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets have been stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation and adjusted 
for impairment, if any. Cost includes cost of purchase inclusive of freight, duties and other incidental expenses and all expenditure like site 
preparation, installation costs and professional fees incurred on the asset before it is ready to put to use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on 
assets put to use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets. Gain or loss arising from 
the retirement or disposal of a Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible asset are determined as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of assets and recognised as income or expense in the profit and loss account. Profit on sale of premises of 
the Bank, net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated to capital reserve as per the RBI guidelines.
	
	
Depreciation / Amortisation
	
	
Depreciation / amortisation is provided on a pro-rata basis on a straight line method over the estimated useful life of the assets at rates which 
are equal to or higher than the rates prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 in order to reflect the actual usage of the assets. 
The estimated useful lives of assets based on technical evaluation by management are as follows:
Asset Type
Useful life in years
Premises
58
Leasehold land
Over the lease period
Improvement to leasehold premises
Over the period of lease subject to a maximum of 6 years
Office equipments (High capacity chillers, Transformers, UPS,  
DG set, Fire Suppression, HVAC, PAC & Elevators)
10
Office equipments (other than above)
5
Computers
3
Furniture and Fixtures
6
Motor Vehicles
4
ATMs
5
Software (including development) expenditure
3
Goodwill (Other than on consolidation)
5
Membership Card of the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited
20
Asset Management Rights
5
	
	
Used assets purchased are depreciated over the residual useful life from the date of purchase.
	
	
Assets costing less than ₹ 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
125
Consolidated Schedules
	
E.	
Employee Benefits
	
	
i. 	
Defined Benefit Plans:
	
	
	
Gratuity:
	
	
	
The Group provides for gratuity covering employees in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, service regulations and 
service awards as the case may be. The Group’s liability is actuarially determined using projected unit credit method at the balance 
sheet date. The Bank and seven of its subsidiaries make contributions to a gratuity fund administered by trustees and managed by Life 
Insurance companies. In other subsidiaries gratuity obligation is wholly unfunded. The contribution made to the trusts is recognised as 
planned assets.
	
	
	
Pension:
	
	
	
In respect of pension payable to certain employees of erstwhile ING Vysya Bank Limited (eIVBL) under Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) 
structure, the Bank contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension fund and the difference between the contribution and the amount 
actuarially determined by an independent actuary is trued up based on actuarial valuation conducted as at the balance sheet date. The 
pension fund is managed by a Life Insurance company. The present value of the Bank’s defined pension obligation is determined using 
the projected unit credit method as at the balance sheet date.
	
	
	
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
	
	
	
The contribution made to the pension fund is recognised as planned assets.
	
	
	
The defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced 
by the fair value of the plan assets.
	
	
	
Actuarial gains or losses in respect of all defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account in the year in 
which they are incurred.
	
	
ii. 	
Defined Contribution Plans:
	
	
	
Provident Fund:
	
	
	
Contribution as required by the statute made to the government provident fund or to a fund set up by the Bank and administered by 
a board of trustees is debited to the profit and loss account when an employee renders the related service. The Group has no further 
obligations.
	
	
	
Superannuation Fund:
	
	
	
The Group makes contributions in respect of eligible employees, subject to a maximum of ₹ 0.01 crore per employee per annum to a fund 
administered by trustees and managed by Life Insurance companies. The Group recognises such contributions as an expense in the year 
when an employee renders the related service. The Group has no further obligations.
	
	
	
New Pension Scheme:
	
	
	
The Group contributes upto 10% of eligible employees’ salary per annum, to the New Pension Fund administered by a Pension Fund 
Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) appointed pension fund manager. The Group recognises such contributions as an 
expense in the year when an employee renders the related service.
	
	
	
DIFC Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS):
	
	
	
The Bank’s branch in DIFC contributes up to 8.33% of eligible branch employees’ salary per annum to the DIFC Employee Workplace 
Savings Scheme (DEWS). The Bank recognises such contributions as an expense in the year when an employee renders the related 
service. The Bank has no further obligation.
	
	
iii.	
Compensated Absences: Other Long-Term Employee Benefits:
	
	
	
The Group accrues the liability for compensated absences based on the actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date conducted by 
an independent actuary, which includes assumptions about demographics, early retirement, salary increases, interest rates and leave 
utilisation. The net present value of the Group’s obligation is determined using the projected unit credit method as at the balance sheet 
date. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
	
	
iv.	
Other Employee Benefits:
	
	
	
As per the Group policy, employees are eligible for an award after completion of a specified number of years of service with the Group. 
The obligation is measured at the balance sheet date on the basis of an actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method.
	
	
	
The undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered by employees is 
recognised during the period when the employee renders the service. These benefits include performance incentives.
Financial Statements
126
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
F.	
Investments
	
	
For the Bank:
	
	
1.	
Classification:
	
	
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation, investments are classified on the date of purchase 
into Held for Trading (HFT), Available for Sale (AFS) and Held to Maturity (HTM) categories (hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent 
shifting amongst the categories is done in accordance with the RBI guidelines at the lower of the acquisition cost or carrying value and 
market value on the date of the transfer and depreciation, if any, on such transfer is fully provided.
	
	
	
Under each of these categories, investments are further classified under six groups (hereinafter called “group/ groups”) - government 
securities, other approved securities, shares, debentures and bonds, investments in associates and other investments for the purposes 
of disclosure in the balance sheet.
	
	
	
The Bank follows ‘Settlement Date’ accounting for recording purchase and sale transactions in securities, except in the case of equity 
shares where ‘Trade Date’ accounting is followed.
	
	
	
Basis of classification:
	
	
	
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified under HFT category. As per the RBI 
guidelines, HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are reclassified as AFS securities as on that date. Investments 
which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities in accordance with the RBI regulations. Investments which 
are not classified in either of the above two categories are classified under AFS category.
	
	
2.	
Acquisition Cost:
	
	
	
The cost of investments is determined on a weighted average basis. Broken period interest on debt instruments and government 
securities are considered as a revenue item. The transaction costs including brokerage, commission etc. paid at the time of acquisition 
of investments are recognised in profit and loss account.
	
	
3.	
Disposal of investments:
	
	
	
	
Investments classified as HFT or AFS - Profit or loss on sale or redemption is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
	
	
Investments classified as HTM - Profit on sale or redemption of investments is recognised in the profit and loss account and is 
appropriated to capital reserve after adjustments for tax and transfer to statutory reserve. Loss on sale or redemption is recognised 
in the profit and loss account.
	
	
4.	
Short Sale:
	
	
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in central government dated securities in accordance with the RBI guidelines. The short 
position is categorised under HFT category and netted off from investments in the balance sheet. The short position is marked to market 
and loss, if any, is charged to the profit and loss account while gain, if any, is ignored. Gain or loss on settlement of the short position is 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
5.	
Valuation:
	
	
	
The valuation of investments is performed in accordance with the RBI guidelines as follows:
	
	
	
a.	
Investments classified as HTM – These are carried at their acquisition cost. Any premium on acquisition of debt instruments / 
government securities is amortised over the balance maturity of the security on a straight line basis. Any diminution, other than 
temporary, in the value of such securities is provided.
	
	
	
b.	
Investments classified as HFT or AFS – Investments in these categories are marked to market and the net depreciation, if any, 
within each group is recognised in the profit and loss account. Net appreciation, if any, is ignored. Further, provision for other than 
temporary diminution is made at the individual security level. Except in cases where provision for other than temporary diminution 
is made, the book value of the individual securities is not changed as a result of periodic valuations.
	
	
	
c.	
The market or fair value of quoted investments included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories is measured with respect to the market 
price of the scrip as available from the trades or quotes on the stock exchanges, SGL account transactions, price list of RBI or 
prices declared on Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA) website by Financial Benchmark 
India Private Limited (FBIL) as at the year end.
	
	
	
d.	
Treasury bills, exchange funded bills, commercial paper and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at 
carrying cost.
127
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
	
e.	
Market value of units of mutual funds is based on the latest net asset value declared by the mutual fund.
	
	
	
f.	
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available are determined as per the norms prescribed by the RBI as 
under:
	
	
	
	
	
In case of unquoted bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest/dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue 
beyond 90 days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to maturity for Government Securities as published by 
FIMMDA/ FBIL and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix for credit 
risk mark-up for each categories and credit ratings along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA/ FBIL is adopted for this 
purpose;
	
	
	
	
	
In case of bonds and debentures (including PTCs) where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 days), the 
valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI. Interest on such securities is not 
recognised in the profit and loss account until received;
	
	
	
	
	
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock exchanges, are 
valued at break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained from the company’s latest 
balance sheet. In case the latest balance sheet is not available, the shares are valued at ₹1 per investee company;
	
	
	
	
	
Units of Venture Capital Funds (VCF) held under AFS category where current valuations are not available are marked to 
market based on the Net Asset Value (NAV) shown by VCF as per the latest audited financials of the fund. In case the audited 
financials are not available for a period beyond 18 months, the investments are valued at ₹1 per VCF. Investment in unquoted 
VCF made after 23rd August, 2006 are categorised under HTM category for an initial period of three years and valued at cost 
as per the RBI guidelines. Such investments are required to be transferred to AFS thereafter;
	
	
	
	
	
Security receipts are valued as per the NAV obtained from the issuing Asset Reconstruction Company or Securitisation 
Company or estimated recoverable value, whichever is lower. The Bank has classified Security Receipts whose tenure has 
exceeded 8 years, as “Non Performing investments”
	
	
	
	
	
The Bank provides for investments in Alternate Investments Funds (AIF) in in accordance with RBI circular dated 19th 
December, 2023 and 27th March 2024.
	
	
	
g.	
Non-performing investments are identified and provision is made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The provision on such 
non-performing investments are not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing securities. Interest on non-
performing investments is not recognized in the profit and loss account until realised.
	
	
	
h.	
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions – Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (Repos) and securities 
purchased under agreements to resell (Reverse Repos) are accounted as collateralised borrowing and lending transactions 
respectively. The difference between the consideration amount of the first leg and the second leg of the repo is recognised as 
interest income or interest expense over the period of the transaction.
	
	
For the Life Insurance Company:
	
	
a.	
Investments are recorded at cost on trade date which includes brokerage, transfer charges, transaction taxes as applicable, etc. but 
excludes pre-acquisition interest, if any and indirect tax on brokerage where input tax credit is being claimed.
	
	
b.	
Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on the ‘ex-bonus date’. Rights entitlements are recognised as investments on the ‘ex-
rights date’.
	
	
c.	
Gain / Loss on transfer or sale of securities is the difference between the transfer or sale price and the net amortised cost / carrying value 
which is computed on a weighted average basis as on the date of transfer or sale. Sale consideration for the purpose of realised gain / 
loss is net of brokerage and taxes, if any.
	
	
Valuation – Shareholders’ Investments and non-linked policy-holders’ investments
	
	
d.	
All debt securities are classified as “HTM” for the purpose of valuation and are accordingly recorded at historical cost (excluding interest 
paid, if any). Debt securities including government securities are stated at net amortised cost. Money market instruments are valued at 
historical cost subject to accretion of discount. The premium or discount, if any, on purchase of debt securities is amortised or accreted 
over the period to maturity on an internal rate of return basis.
	
	
e.	
Listed equity shares as at the balance sheet dates are stated at fair value being the quoted closing price on National Stock Exchange 
Limited (NSE). If an equity share is not listed or traded on NSE, then closing share price on BSE (formerly known as Bombay Stock 
Exchange) is used. Unlisted shares or shares awaiting listing are stated at historical cost subject to provision for diminution, if any. In 
case of Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvIT), where market quote is not available for the last 30 days, the units shall be valued as per 
the latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) of the units published by the trust. All redeemable unlisted preference shares are classified 
as held to maturity and stated at historical cost.
Financial Statements
128
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
	
In case of diminution in the value of investment as at the balance sheet date which is other than temporary, the amount of such diminution 
is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account to the extent of difference between the remeasured fair value of the investment 
and its acquisition cost as reduced by any previous impairment loss recognised in profit and loss account. Any reversal of impairment 
loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
f.	
Investments in mutual funds are valued at the latest NAV of the funds in which they are invested. Investments in Alternative Investment 
Funds are valued at the latest NAV.
	
	
	
The investment in Additional Tier 1 Bonds are valued at an applicable market yield rates provided by Credit Rating Information Services 
of India Limited (CRISIL) on the basis of CRISIL Bond Valuer.
	
	
g.	
Unrealised gains due to change in the fair value of the investments is taken to a fair value change account and is adjusted in the 
carrying value of investment. The unrealised loss due to change in the fair value of investments, other than due to reversal of the gains 
recognised in fair value change account, is recognised in the profit and loss account. The gain or loss on sale of investments includes the 
accumulated changes in the fair value change account.
	
	
h.	
Real estate investment property represents building held for investment purpose to earn rental income or for capital appreciation and 
is not occupied. Such investment property is initially valued at cost including any direct attributable cost. Investment in the real estate 
investment property is valued at historical cost plus revaluation, if any. Revaluation of the investment property is done at least once in 
three years. Any change in the carrying amount of the investment property is accounted to revaluation reserve forming part of “Reserves 
and Surplus”. Impairment loss, if any, exceeding revaluation reserve is recognised as expense in the profit and loss account
	
	
	
Unlisted units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REIT) awaiting listing are stated at historical cost subject to provision for diminution, if 
any. Investment in units of REIT are valued at market value (last quoted price should not be later than 30 days). Where market quote is not 
available for the last 30 days, the units shall be valued as per the latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) of the units published by the trust.
	
	
i.	
Certain guaranteed products offered by the Life Insurance subsidiary assure the policy holders a fixed rate of return for premiums to be 
received in the future and the Life Insurance subsidiary is exposed to interest rate risk on account of re-investment of interest & principal 
maturities at future date & guarantee risk on premiums from already written policies. The Life Insurance subsidiary is following hedge 
accounting for all derivative transactions.
	
	
	
For derivatives which are designated as a cash flow hedge in a hedging relationship, hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of 
inception of the hedge and periodically.
	
	
	
	
The portion of fair value gain / loss on interest rate derivative that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized directly in 
policyholders’ funds.
	
	
	
	
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of such instruments is recognized in profit and loss account in the period in which 
they arise.
	
	
	
	
If the hedging relationship ceases to be effective or it becomes probable that the expected forecasted transaction will no longer 
occur, hedge accounting is discontinued and the cumulative gains or losses that were recognized earlier in balance sheet shall be 
reclassified to the profit and loss account in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted cash flows affect the 
profit and loss account.
	
	
	
Recognition of Derivatives in Balance Sheet
	
	
	
	
Initial Recognition: All derivatives are initially recognized in the Balance sheet at their fair value, which usually represents their cost.
	
	
	
	
Subsequent Recognition: All derivatives are subsequently re-measured at their fair value, with change in fair value is recognized as 
per hedge accounting principles. All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the 
fair values are negative.
	
	
j.	
All assets where the interest and/or instalment of principal repayment remain overdue for more than 90 days at the balance sheet date 
are classified as NPA and provided for in the manner required by the IRDAI regulations in this regard.
	
	
Valuation – Unit linked Business
	
	
k.	
All Government securities, except treasury bills, held in linked business are valued at prices obtained from CRISIL. Debt securities other 
than government securities are valued on the basis of CRISIL bond valuer. The discount on purchase of treasury bills, certificate of 
deposit, commercial papers and triparty repo is accreted over the period to maturity on an internal rate of return basis. Listed shares and 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) are valued at fair value, being the last quoted closing price on the NSE (In case of securities not listed on 
NSE, the last quoted closing price on the BSE is used). Equity shares awaiting listing are stated at historical cost subject to provision for 
diminution, if any, in the value of such investments. Such diminution is determined separately for each individual investment. Unrealised 
gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
129
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
l.	
Mutual fund units are valued at the latest NAV of the fund in which they are invested.
	
	
m.	
All unlisted redeemable preference shares are considered as held to maturity and stated at historical cost.
	
	
n.	
Transfer of investments (other than debt securities) from Shareholders’ fund to the Policyholders’ fund is at book value or market price, 
whichever is lower. Transfer of debt securities from Shareholders’ to Policyholders’ fund is transacted at the lower of net amortised cost 
or market value. Transfers of investments between unit-linked funds are done at prevailing market price.
	
	
For General Insurance Company:
	
	
a.	
Investments are recorded at cost and include brokerage, transfer charges, stamps etc., and exclude pre acquisition interest, if any.
	
	
b.	
Debt securities and non-convertible preference shares are considered as ‘HTM’ and stated at historical cost adjusted for amortisation of 
premium or accretion of discount determined on constant yield to maturity basis over the holding / maturity period.
	
	
c.	
Mutual fund units are stated at their NAV as at the balance sheet date. Any unrealised gain / loss is accounted for under fair value change 
account and is included in the carrying value of investment. In case of any net mark to market loss, the additional provision to the extent 
of the loss in fair value change account on the balance sheet date is recognised in profit and loss account.
	
	
d.	
Gain / loss on transfer or sale of securities is the difference between the transfer or sale price and the net amortised cost / carrying value 
which is computed on a Weighted average cost basis as on the date of transfer or sale. Sale consideration for the purpose of realised 
gain / loss is net of brokerage and taxes, if any.
	
	
e.	
The realised gain or loss on mutual funds is the difference between sale consideration and carrying cost as on the date of sale, determined 
on a weighted average cost basis. Any unrealised gain or loss in respect of mutual funds are recognised in ‘fair value change account’ in 
balance sheet and are included in the carrying value of investment.
	
	
For other entities:
	
	
Investments, other than stock-in-trade are classified into long term investments and current investments in accordance with Accounting 
Standard 13 (AS-13) “Accounting for Investments”. Investments, which are intended to be held for more than one year from the date, on which 
the investments are made, are classified as long term investments and investments, which are intended to be held for less than one year from 
the date, on which the investments are made, are classified as current investments. Long term investments are carried at cost and provision 
for diminution in value is made to recognise a decline other than temporary in the value of investment, such reduction being determined and 
made for each investment individually.
	
	
Current investments are valued at cost (calculated by applying weighted average cost method) or market/ fair value whichever is lower. In case 
of investments in units of a mutual fund, the NAV of units is considered as market or fair value. The fair value of PTC is determined based on 
the yield to maturity for government securities as published by FIMMDA and suitably marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of 
the instrument. The securities acquired with the intention to trade are classified as Stock-in-Trade. Investments classified as “Stock-in-Trade” 
by some of the subsidiaries are valued at cost (calculated by applying weighted average cost method) or market price, whichever is lower 
determined by the category of investments. Brokerage, stamping and additional charges paid are included in the cost of investments. The profit 
or loss on sale of investments (including Stock-in-trade) is recognised on trade date in the profit and loss account.
	
	
NBFCs provides for investments in Alternate Investments Funds (AIF) in accordance with RBI circular dated 19th December, 2023 and 27th 
March 2024.
	
G.	
Foreign Currency and Derivative Transactions
	
	
For the Bank:
	
	
i.	
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated as at the balance sheet date at rates notified by the Foreign Exchange 
Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) and the resultant gain or loss is accounted in the profit and loss account.
	
	
ii.	
Income and expenditure items are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction except for representative 
office (which are integral in nature) expenses, which are translated at the monthly average rate of exchange.
	
	
iii.	
Outstanding forward (other than deposit and placement swaps) and spot foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the balance sheet 
date are revalued at rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at the interpolated rates of interim maturities. In case of forward 
contracts of greater maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI are revalued at the forward exchange rates implied by the 
swap curves in respective currencies. The forward profits or losses on the forward contracts are discounted using discount rates and the 
resulting profits or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account as per the regulations stipulated by the RBI.
Financial Statements
130
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
iv.	
Foreign exchange swaps “linked” to foreign currency deposits and placements are translated at the prevailing spot rate at the time of 
swap. The premium or discount on the swap arising out of the difference in the exchange rate of the swap date and the maturity date of 
the underlying forward contract is amortised over the period of the swap and the same is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
v.	
Contingent liabilities on account of letters of credit, bank guarantees and acceptances and endorsements outstanding as at the balance 
sheet date denominated in foreign currencies and other foreign exchange contracts are translated at year-end rates notified by FEDAI.
	
	
vi.	
Notional amounts of derivative transactions comprising of swaps, futures and options are disclosed as off balance sheet exposures. 
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts (other than those designated as hedges) at fair value, on the date on which the derivative 
contracts are entered into and are re-measured at fair value as at the balance sheet date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the 
fair value is positive (positive marked to market) or as liabilities when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market). Changes in 
the fair value of derivatives other than those designated as hedges are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
vii.	
Outstanding derivative transactions designated as “Hedges” are accounted in accordance with hedging instrument on an accrual basis 
over the life of the underlying instrument. Option premium paid or received is recognised in the profit and loss account on expiry of the 
option. Option contracts are marked to market on every reporting date.
	
	
viii.	
The financial statements of IBU and DIFC branch which are in the nature of non-integral overseas operations are translated on the 
following basis: (a) Income and expenses are converted at the average rate of exchange during the year and (b) All assets and liabilities 
are translated at closing rate as at Balance sheet date. The exchange difference arising out of year end translation is debited or credited 
as “Foreign Currency Translation Reserve” forming part of “Reserves and Surplus”.
	
	
For other entities:
	
	
ix.	
On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded by applying to the foreign currency amount exchange rate between 
the reporting currency and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction.
	
	
x.	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported using the closing rate of exchange as at the balance sheet 
date.
	
	
xi.	
Exchange differences arising on settlement of the transaction and on account of restatement of monetary assets and liabilities are 
recognised in the profit and loss account. In case of items which are covered by forward exchange contracts entered to hedge the foreign 
currency risk, the difference between the year-end rate and the rate on the date of the contract is recognised as exchange difference in 
the profit and loss account and the premium paid or received on forward exchange contracts is amortised as expense or income over the 
life of the contract. Any profit or loss on cancellation or renewal of such a forward exchange contract is recognised in the profit and loss 
account.
	
	
xii.	
The financial statements of all subsidiaries incorporated outside India which are in the nature of non-integral foreign operations are 
translated on the following basis: (a) Income and expenses are converted at the average rate of exchange applicable for the year and (b) 
All assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate as at the balance sheet date. The exchange difference arising out of year end 
translation is debited or credited as “Foreign Currency Translation Reserve” forming part of “Reserves and Surplus”.
	
	
	
On the disposal / partial disposal of a non-integral foreign operation, the cumulative / proportionate amount of the exchange differences 
which has been accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve and which relates to that operation are recognised as income or 
expenses in the same period in which gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
	
	
Currency / Interest rate derivatives / Equity index / equity futures, equity index / equity options, embedded derivatives / other 
derivatives (Not designated as hedges):
	
	
xiii.	
Outstanding derivative contracts, including embedded derivatives, are measured at fair value as at each balance sheet date. Fair value 
of derivatives is determined using quoted market prices in an actively traded market, for the instrument, wherever available, as the best 
evidence of fair value. In the absence of quoted market prices in an actively traded market, a valuation technique is used to determine the 
fair value. In most cases the valuation techniques use observable market data as input parameters in order to ensure reliability of the fair 
value measure.
	
	
xiv.	
Initial Margin - Derivative Instrument representing the initial margin paid and / or additional margin paid over and above the initial margin, 
for entering into contracts for equity index / stock futures and equity index / stock options / other derivatives, which are released on final 
settlement / squaring-up of the underlying contracts, are disclosed under Other Assets. “Deposit for Marked to Market Margin - Derivative 
Instrument” representing the deposit paid in respect of marked to market margin is disclosed under other assets.
	
	
xv.	
On final settlement or squaring up of contracts for equity index / stock futures / other derivatives, the realised profit or loss after adjusting 
the unrealised loss already accounted, if any, is recognised in the profit and loss account and shown as profit on exchange transactions 
(net) (including derivatives).
	
	
xvi.	
On settlement or squaring up of equity index / stock options / other derivatives before expiry, the premium prevailing in option contracts 
on that date is recognised in the profit and loss account.
131
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
xvii.	 When more than one contract in respect of the relevant series of equity index / stock futures or equity index / stock options / other derivatives 
contract to which the squared-up contract pertains is outstanding at the time of the squaring-up of the contract, the contract price of the 
contract so squared-up is determined using the weighted average cost method for calculating the profit or loss on squaring-up.
	
H.	
Advances
	
	
Classification:
	
	
i.	
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing advances (NPAs) based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills 
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific provisions, interest in suspense and claims received from Export Credit 
Guarantee Corporation and Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) with respect to non-performing advances, provisions 
for funded interest term loan and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. Also, NPAs are classified into 
sub-standard, doubtful and loss as required by the RBI guidelines. Interest on NPAs remaining uncollected is transferred to an interest 
suspense account and not recognised in the profit and loss account until received.
	
	
ii.	
Amounts paid for acquiring non-performing assets from other Banks and NBFCs are considered as advances. Actual collections received 
on such non-performing assets are compared with the cash flows estimated while purchasing the asset to ascertain over dues. If such 
over dues are in excess of 90 days, the Group classifies such assets into sub-standard, doubtful or loss as required by the RBI guidelines 
on purchase of non-performing assets.
	
	
iii.	
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI guidelines, in the case 
of participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is reduced from advances and where the Bank 
is participating, the aggregate amount of the participation is classified under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the 
aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate 
amount of participation is shown as due from banks under advances
	
	
For Bank and NBFC subsidiaries- Provisioning:
	
	
iv.	
Provision for non-performing assets comprising sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets is made in accordance with the RBI guidelines. 
In addition, the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries consider accelerated specific provisioning that is based on past experience, evaluation of 
security and other related factors. Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing advances are charged to the profit and loss 
account. Any recoveries made in case of NPAs written off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
v.	
The Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries consider a restructured account as one where the Bank, for economic or legal reasons relating to the 
borrower’s financial difficulty, grants to the borrower concessions that they would not otherwise consider. Restructuring would normally 
involve modification of terms of the advance / securities, which would generally include, among others, alteration of repayment period / 
repayable amount / the amount of installments / rate of interest (due to reasons other than competitive reasons). Restructured accounts 
are classified as such only upon approval and implementation of the restructuring package. Necessary provision for diminution in the fair 
value of a restructured account is made.
	
	
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries create general provision on standard assets including credit 
exposures computed as per the current marked to market values of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, and gold 
at levels stipulated by the RBI from time to time. The Bank also creates additional standard asset provision for overseas step down 
subsidiaries of Indian corporates and standard provision at higher than the prescribed rates in respect of advances to stressed sectors 
as per the framework approved by Board of Directors. In case of frauds, the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries makes provision for amounts 
it is liable for in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI.
	
	
vi.	
Further to provisions required as per the asset classification status, provisions are held by Bank for individual country exposure (except for 
home country) as per the RBI guidelines. Exposure is classified in the seven risk categories as mentioned in the Export Credit Guarantee 
Corporation of India Limited (ECGC) guidelines and provisioning is done for that country if the net funded exposure is one percent or more 
of the Bank’s total assets based on the rates laid down by the RBI.
	
	
vii.	
Provisions for Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure of borrowers are made by the Bank as per the RBI guidelines.
	
	
viii.	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines relating to COVID-19 Regulatory Package dated 27th March, 2020, 17th April, 2020 and 23rd May, 
2020 and clarification issued by the RBI through Indian Bankers Association dated 6th May, 2020, the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries have 
granted a moratorium on the payment of instalments and / or interest, as applicable, falling due between 1st March, 2020 and 31st August, 
2020 (‘moratorium period’) to eligible borrowers classified as Standard, even if overdue, as on 29th February, 2020. In accordance with 
the RBI guidelines, the moratorium period, wherever granted, is excluded by the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries from the number of days 
past-due for the purpose of asset classification under RBI’s Income Recognition and Asset Classification norms. A general provision on 
the entire amount outstanding from borrowers who had an overdue on 29th February, 2020 and to whom moratorium was given is made 
by Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries. In accordance with the said guidelines, such accounts where moratorium has been granted are not 
considered as restructured.
Financial Statements
132
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
ix.	
In respect of borrowers restructured under the Resolution Framework – 1.0 and Resolution Framework 2.0 for COVID-19 related stress, 
the Bank and its NBFC subsidiaries holds provisions higher than the provisions as required by the RBI guidelines.The Bank classifies 
its advances, investments and overdues from crystallised derivatives including those at overseas branches into performing and non 
performing in accordance with guidelines issued by the RBI
	
	
For other entities:
	
	
x.	
Receivables / Sundry Debtors (included in Schedule 11-Other assets) are stated at original invoice amount less provision for any 
uncollectible amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are 
written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
	
I.	
Structured Liabilities
	
	
The Group has issued structured liabilities wherein the return on these liabilities is linked to non-interest benchmarks. Such structured liabilities 
have an embedded derivative which is the non-interest related return component. The embedded derivative is separated from the host contract 
and accounted separately {Refer Note 2 (G)(xiii)}.
	
	
The resultant debt component of such structured liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet under borrowings and is measured at amortised 
cost on a yield to maturity basis.
	
J.	
Liability For Policies
	
	
i 	
Provision is made for policy liabilities in respect of all “in force” policies and “lapsed policies” that are likely to be revived in future based on 
actuarial valuation done by the appointed actuary in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices, requirements of IRDAI and 
the Institute of Actuaries of India.
	
	
ii	
Liabilities in respect of funds arising from discontinued policies are shown as ‘Policyholders’ Funds’.
	
	
iii	
Linked liabilities comprise of unit liability representing fund value of policies and are shown as ‘Policyholders’ Funds’.
	
K.	
Actuarial Method – Life Insurance
	
	
i 	
Actuarial method and assumptions: The actuarial liabilities have been calculated by the appointed actuary in accordance with generally 
accepted actuarial principles, the requirements of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, 
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 and the regulations framed thereunder, the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority (Preparation of Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report of Insurance Companies) Regulations, 2002, the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Assets, Liabilities and Solvency Margin of Life Insurance Business) Regulations, 
2016, and other relevant regulations, orders / directions issued by IRDAI in this regard and the prescribed guidance notes issued by the 
Institute of Actuaries of India. In respect of unit linked policies, a unit reserve equal to the value of units as at the balance sheet date 
and an additional non-unit reserve calculated on gross premium prospective valuation method is created. The method adopted for par 
policies (accumulation contracts) is the value of the accumulated fund and an additional non-unit reserve calculated on gross premium 
prospective valuation method. In respect of individual conventional business / Group business where premiums are guaranteed for more 
than one year, gross premium prospective method is used. Additional reserve on lapsed unit-linked policies is created and shown as 
‘Policyholders’ Funds’.
	
	
ii 	
The assumptions used in the gross premium valuation are based on best estimates together with appropriate margins for adverse 
deviations from experience. The principal assumptions are interest, inflation, return to policyholders’ accounts, lapses, expenses, 
mortality and morbidity.
	
	
iii	
Reserves for group life one year renewable policies are calculated as the risk premium for the unexpired term with an allowance for 
expenses and a margin for adverse deviations. The actuarial liability for Group fund based is equal to account value as at valuation date 
plus a non-unit reserve to provide for expenses and mortality benefits.
	
	
iv 	
Reserve for freelook cancellation is held to meet any premium refunds from policy freelook cancellations. The reserve held is equal to 
assumed probability of freelook cancellations.
	
	
v 	
The Life Insurance subsidiary reinsures mortality with an optimum level of retention on guaranteed premiums bases, with financially 
strong reinsurers. They also carry out resilience test on balance sheet and its impact on solvency margin.
133
Consolidated Schedules
	
L.	
Reserve for Unexpired Risk – General Insurance
	
	
Reserve for unexpired risk is recognised net of reinsurance ceded and represents premium written that is attributable and to be allocated to 
succeeding accounting periods for risks to be borne by the Group under contractual obligations over a contract period basis or period of risk, 
whichever is applicable. As per circular vide IRDA/F&A/CIR/CPM/056/03/2016 dated 4th April, 2016 such reserves are calculated on a pro-rata 
basis under 1/365 basis subject to 100% for marine hull business, on all unexpired policies at balance sheet date.
	
M.	
Discounted Instruments
	
	
The liability is recognised at face value at the time of issuance of discounted instruments, less unexpired discount. The discount on the issue 
is amortised over the tenure of the instrument.
	
N.	
Acquisition Costs of Insurance Contracts
	
	
Acquisition costs such as commission and medical fees are costs that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal 
insurance contracts. Such costs are recognised in the year in which they are incurred.
	
O.	
Securities Lending and Borrowing
	
	
The broking subsidiary enters into security lending and borrowing transaction which is accounted as below:
	
	
a.	
Initial margin and / or additional margin paid over and above the initial margin, for entering into contracts for equity shares which are 
released on final settlement / squaring – up of the underlying contracts, are disclosed under other assets.
	
	
b.	
On final settlement or squaring up of contracts for equity shares the realised profit or loss after adjusting the unrealised profit or loss 
already accounted, if any, is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
P.	
Bullion
	
	
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on a consignment basis for selling to its wholesale customers. The difference between 
the sale price to customers and actual price quoted by supplier is reflected under other income.
	
	
The Bank also borrows and lends gold, which is treated as borrowings or lending as the case may be in accordance with the RBI guidelines and 
the interest paid or received is classified as interest expense or income and is accounted on an accrual basis.
	
Q.	
Taxes on Income
	
	
The income tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid in India in respect 
of taxable income for the year in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 enacted in India. Tax expenses relating to overseas subsidiaries 
are determined in accordance with the tax laws applicable in countries where such subsidiaries are domiciled.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of timing differences being the difference between the taxable 
income and the accounting income that originate in one period and are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent period.
	
	
Deferred tax assets on account of timing differences are recognised only to the extent there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable 
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. In case of carry forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation, 
under tax laws, all the deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that 
sufficient future taxable income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. Changes in deferred tax assets / liabilities on account of changes in enacted tax rates are given effect to in the profit and loss 
account in the period of the change. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date. The Group writes-
down the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is no longer reasonably certain or virtually certain, as the case may be, 
that sufficient future taxable income will be available against which deferred tax asset can be realised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are off set when there is legally enforceable right to set-off assets against liabilities representing 
current tax and where the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to taxes on income levied by the same governing taxation laws. 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities across various entities are not set off against each other as the Group does not have a legal right 
to do so.
Financial Statements
134
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
R.	
Segment Reporting
	
	
In accordance with guidelines issued by the RBI and Accounting Standard 17 (AS-17) on “Segment Reporting”; the Group’s business has been 
segregated into the following segments whose principal activities are as under:
Segment
Principal activity
Corporate / Wholesale 
Banking
Wholesale borrowings and lending and other related services to the corporate sector which are not included 
in Retail Banking.
Retail Banking
Comprises of:
Digital Banking
Business involving digital banking products acquired by Digital Banking Unit including existing digital 
banking products as identified by the Management in accordance with the instructions of the RBI vide its 
circular dated 7th April, 2022.
Other Retail Banking
Includes (other than covered under Digital Banking above):
1.	
Lending
	
Commercial vehicle finance, personal loans, home loans, agriculture finance, other loans / services 
and exposures which fulfill the four criteria for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision document “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards: A Revised Framework”.
2.	
Branch Banking
	
Retail borrowings covering savings, current and term deposit accounts and Branch Banking network 
and services including distribution of financial products.
3.	
Credit Cards
	
Receivables / loans relating to credit card business.
Treasury, BMU and 
Corporate centre
Money market, forex market, derivatives and investments and primary dealership of Government securities 
and Balance Sheet Management unit (BMU) responsible for Asset Liability Management and Corporate 
Centre which primarily comprises of support functions.
Vehicle Financing
Retail vehicle finance and wholesale trade finance to auto dealers from its Subsidiary Company.
Other Lending Activities
Securitisation and other loans / services not included under Retail Banking and Corporate / Wholesale 
Banking from its Subsidiary Companies.
Broking
Brokerage income on market transactions done on behalf of clients, interest on delayed payments, 
distribution of financial products from its Subsidiary Company.
Advisory and Transactional 
Services
Providing financial advisory and transactional services such as mergers and acquisition advice, equity / debt 
issue management services and Business Correspondent services from its Subsidiary Companies.
Asset Management
Management of funds and investments on behalf of clients and investment distribution (Cherry) from its 
Subsidiary Companies.
Insurance
Life and General Insurance business of its Subsidiary Companies.
	
	
A transfer pricing mechanism between segments has been established by Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) for allocation of interest cost to 
its segments based on borrowing costs, maturity profile of assets / liabilities etc. and which is disclosed as part of segment revenue.
	
	
Segment revenues consist of earnings from external customers and inter-segment revenue as stated above. Segment expenses consist of 
interest expenses including those allocated, operating expenses and provisions.
	
	
Segment results are net of segment revenue and segment expenses including interdivisional items.
	
	
Segment assets include assets related to segments and exclude tax related assets. Segment liabilities include liabilities related to the segment 
excluding net worth, minority interest and employees’ stock option (grants outstanding).
	
	
Since the business operations of the Group are primarily concentrated in India, the Group is considered to operate only in the domestic segment.
135
Consolidated Schedules
	
S.	
Employee Share Based Payments
	
	
Equity-settled:
	
	
The Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOSs) of the Bank are in accordance with SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021. The schemes provide for grant of options to employees of the Group to acquire the equity shares of the Bank that vest in 
cliff vesting or in a graded manner and that are to be exercised within a specified period.
	
	
RBI, vide its clarification dated 30th August, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the date of grant should be recognised 
as an expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending 31st March, 2021.
	
	
In accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and the Guidance Note on “Accounting 
for Employee Share-based payments” issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the cost of equity-settled transactions is 
measured using the intrinsic value method for all options granted on or before 31st March, 2021. The intrinsic value being the excess, if any, of 
the fair market price of the share under ESOSs over the exercise price of the option is recognised as deferred employee compensation with a 
credit to Employee’s Stock Option (Grant) Outstanding account.
	
	
In accordance with the RBI guidance, for all options granted after 31st March, 2021 the fair value of the option is estimated on the date of 
grant using Black-Scholes model and is recognised as deferred employee compensation with a credit to Employee’s Stock Option (Grant) 
Outstanding account.
	
	
The deferred employee compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option. The cumulative expense 
recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the number of equity instruments that are outstanding.
	
	
The options that do not vest because of failure to satisfy vesting condition are reversed by a credit to employee compensation expense 
in “Payment to and provision for employee”, equal to the amortised portion of the cost of lapsed option and credit to deferred employee 
compensation equal to the unamortised portion. In respect of the options which expire unexercised the balance standing to the credit of 
Employee’s Stock Option (Grant) Outstanding account is transferred to General Reserve. The fair market price is the latest available closing 
price, preceding the date of grant of the option, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are listed.
	
	
Where the terms of an equity–settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised in ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ is 
the expense as if the terms had not been modified. An additional expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total intrinsic/ 
fair value of the share–based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
	
	
Cash-settled:
	
	
The cost of cash-settled transactions, stock appreciation rights (SARs) having grant date on or before 31st March 2021 is measured initially 
using intrinsic value method at the grant date taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. Similar 
to Equity settled options, SARs granted after 31st March, 2021 are measured on fair value basis.
	
	
The intrinsic / fair value is amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a recognition of corresponding liability. This liability 
is remeasured at each balance sheet date up to and including the vesting date with changes in intrinsic / fair value recognised in the profit 
and loss account in ‘Payments to and provision for employees’.The SARs that do not vest because of failure to satisfy vesting conditions are 
reversed by a credit to employee compensation expense, equal to the amortised cost in respect of the lapsed portion.
	
T.	
Claims / Benefits
	
	
In respect of Life Insurance subsidiary, benefits paid comprise of policy death benefit, maturity, surrenders, survival benefits, discontinuance 
and other policy related claims and change in the outstanding provision for claims at the year end. Claims by death and surrender are accounted 
when intimated. Survival benefits are accounted when due. Maturity claims are accounted on the date of maturity. Amounts recoverable from 
reinsurers are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. Repudiated claims disputed before judicial authorities are provided for, 
based on the best judgement of the management considering the facts and evidence in respect of each such claim. Withdrawals under unit-
linked policies are accounted in respective schemes when the associated units are cancelled. Death claim benefit includes specific claim 
settlement costs wherever applicable.
	
	
In respect of General Insurance subsidiary, claims incurred includes claims paid net of reinsurance recovery and salvage value retained by 
the insured, change in loss reserve during the period, change in claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) & change in claims incurred but not 
enough reported (IBNER). Claims incurred also include survey fees, legal fees and other expenses directly attributable to claim cost. Claims are 
recognised as and when intimation of it is received and provision is determined (net of reinsurance recovery) by the management on the best 
estimate of claims likely to be paid based on survey reports, based on information received from various sources and from past experience.
	
	
Any subsequent information may result in revision of likely amount of final claim payment and accordingly provision for outstanding claims 
gets restated.
	
	
Estimated liability for IBNR and IBNER has been estimated by the appointed actuary in compliance with the relevant regulations and guidelines 
issued by IRDAI and the same is duly certified by the appointed actuary.
Financial Statements
136
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
U.	
Loss on Sale of Advances to Asset Reconstruction Company
	
	
Loss on sale of Advances sold to Asset Reconstruction Company is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
	
V.	
Securitisation
	
	
The Group enters into purchase / sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment / Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). In most 
cases, post securitisation, the Group continues to service the loans transferred to the SPV. The Group also provides credit enhancement in the 
form of cash collaterals and / or by subordination of cash flows to senior PTCs holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or recourse 
obligations (projected delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Group, appropriate provision / disclosure is made at the time of sale 
in accordance with Accounting Standard 29, (AS-29) “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”.
	
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets dated 24th September 2021, the profit, loss or premium on account 
of securitisation of assets at the time of sale is computed as the difference between the sale consideration and the book value of the securitised 
asset. Any resultant profit, loss or premium realised on account of securitisation is recognised to the Profit and Loss Account in the period in 
which the sale is completed.
	
W.	
Leases
	
	
As Lessee:
	
	
Leases where all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are 
recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
	
As Lessor:
	
	
Leases where the Group has substantially retained all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases and included in 
fixed assets. Lease income is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
	
Initial direct costs in respect of operating leases such as legal costs, brokerage costs, etc. are recognised as expense immediately in the profit 
and loss account.
	
	
In respect of leases of tangible assets where the Group has substantially transferred all the risks and rewards incidental to legal ownership, 
such leases are classified as finance leases. Such assets are recognised as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. 
The lease payment is apportioned between finance income and the repayment of principle i.e. the net investment in the lease.
	
X.	
Accounting for Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
	
	
The Group has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, proceedings pending with tax 
authorities and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In accordance with Accounting Standard - 29 on ‘Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, the Group recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation 
as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable 
estimate can be made. Provisions are not discounted to its present value and are measured based on best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates.
	
	
In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot 
be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Group does not expect 
the outcome of these contingencies to have a materially adverse effect on its financial results. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor 
disclosed in the financial statements.
	
	
The Bank estimates the liability for credit card reward points and cost per point using actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary, 
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption and spends.
	
Y.	
Scheme Expenses
	
	
New fund offer expenses and other expenses not chargeable to schemes, in accordance with applicable circulars and guidelines issued by SEBI 
and Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) are borne by the Asset management company of the Group. Brokerage paid for close ended 
schemes before 22nd October, 2018 circular issued by SEBI in relation to upfront brokerage are amortised by the Asset Management Company 
of the Group over the tenor of each scheme on a straight line basis.
137
Consolidated Schedules
	
Z.	
Contribution to Pool-For General Insurance Subsidiary
	
	
Terrorism Risk Insurance Pool
	
	
In accordance with the requirements of IRDAI, the General Insurance subsidiary, together with other insurance companies, participated in the 
Terrorism Pool. This Pool is managed by General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC). In accordance with the terms of the agreement, GIC retro 
cedes, to the Group, terrorism premium to the extent of shares agreed to be borne by the Group in the risk which is recorded as reinsurance 
accepted. Such Insurance accepted is recorded based on quarterly confirmation received from GIC. Reinsurance accepted on account of 
Terrorism Pool is recorded based on statement received from GIC.
	
	
The entire amount of reinsurance accepted for the current year on this account, net of claims and expenses up to the above date, is carried 
forward to the subsequent accounting period as changes in unearned premium for subsequent risks, if any, to be borne by the Group.
	
	
Marine Cargo for Excluded Territories POOL (MCET Pool)
	
	
With the need for covering loss against shipment of fertilizers and other commodities, while under transit in marine cargo against Russia, 
Ukraine, Belarus (referred as ‘excluded territories), the Company together with other insurance company, participated in Marine Cargo Pool for 
Excluded Territories (referred as MCET Pool) which is managed by General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC Re). In accordance with the 
terms of the agreement, the Company accepts retrocession risk as per shares specified in the Schedule of agreement, which is recorded as 
reinsurance accepted. Such Insurance accepted is recorded based on quarterly confirmation received from GIC Re. Accordingly, reinsurance 
accepted on account of MCET Pool has been recorded in accordance with the latest statement received from GIC Re.
	
	
The entire amount of reinsurance accepted for the current year on this account has been carried forward to the subsequent accounting period 
as Changes in unearned premium under Insurance Contract Liabilities for subsequent risks, if any, to be borne by the company.
	
AA.	 Contribution to Solatium Fund
	
	
As per the requirements of IRDAI, the General Insurance subsidiary provides for contribution to solatium fund at 0.10% on the gross direct 
premium of motor third party policies.
	
AB.	 Share Issue Expenses
	
	
Share issue expenses are adjusted from securities premium account as permitted by section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
AC.	 Earnings per Share
	
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders (after deducting 
attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year is adjusted for events of bonus issue and stock split.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Diluted earnings per 
share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue equity shares were exercised or converted during the 
year.
	
AD.	 Impairment
	
	
The carrying amount of assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date if there is any indication of impairment based on internal / external 
factors. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the profit and loss account to the extent carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
	
AE.	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise Cash in hand, Balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with Banks and 
Money at Call and Short Notice (including the effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents in foreign currency).
Financial Statements
138
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
NOTES TO ACCOUNTS
3.	
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
	
a.	
The Group has recognised the following amounts in the profit and loss account towards contributions to provident fund and other funds.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Provident Fund
402.19
336.37
Superannuation Fund
1.38
1.35
New Pension Fund
18.13
14.75
DIFC Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS)
0.70
0.72
	
b.	
Gratuity1
	
	
The gratuity plan provides a lumpsum payment to vested employees at retirement or on termination of employment based on respective 
employee’s salary and years of employment with the Group subject to a maximum of ₹ 0.20 crore. There is no ceiling on gratuity payable to 
directors and certain categories of employees subject to service regulations and service awards.
	
	
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined benefit obligation for gratuity benefits is given below.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Funded
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
Change in benefit obligations
Liability as at the beginning of the year
656.04
11.71
641.34
10.36
Transfer from Unfunded to Funded
-
-
-
-
Current Service cost
112.97
2.20
98.04
1.99
Interest cost
50.45
0.91
45.23
0.77
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations
24.82
0.98
(11.19)
0.50
Past Service cost
5.87
-
-
-
Addition due to acquisition
14.43
-
-
-
Liabilities assumed on acquisition / (settled on 
divestiture)
0.24
(0.30)
0.68
(0.58)
Benefits paid
(116.51)
(1.54)
(118.06)
(1.33)
Liability as at the end of the year
748.31
13.96
656.04
11.71
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the year
630.59
-
704.79
-
Expected return on plan assets
41.23
-
47.60
-
Actuarial Gain / (loss)
77.83
-
(47.94)
-
Addition due to amalgamation
12.94
-
-
-
Benefits paid
(116.51)
(1.54)
(118.06)
(1.33)
Employer contributions
159.75
1.54
44.20
1.33
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
805.83
-
630.59
-
1GRI 201-3
139
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
Reconciliation of present value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan Assets
 (₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Funded
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
805.83
-
630.59
-
Liability as at the end of the year
748.31
13.96
656.04
11.71
Net Asset / (Liability) included in “Others” under 
“Other Assets”/ “Other Liabilities”
57.52
(13.96)
(25.45)
(11.71)
Expenses recognised for the year
Current service cost
112.97
2.20
98.04
1.99
Interest cost
50.45
0.91
45.23
0.77
Expected return on plan assets
(41.23)
-
(47.60)
-
Actuarial (gain) / loss
(53.01)
0.98
36.75
0.50
Past Service Cost
5.87
-
-
-
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
-
-
Net gratuity expense recognised in Schedule 16.I
75.05
4.09
132.42
3.26
Actual return on plan assets
119.06
-
(0.33)
-
	
	
Reconciliation of the Liability recognised in the Balance Sheet
 (₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Funded
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
Net (Asset) / Liability as at the beginning of the year
25.45
11.71
(63.45)
10.36
Transfer from Unfunded to Funded
1.49
-
-
-
Expense recognized
75.05
4.09
132.42
3.26
Liabilities assumed on acquisition / (settled on 
divestiture)
0.24
(0.30)
0.68
(0.58)
Employer contributions
(159.75)
(1.54)
(44.20)
(1.33)
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
-
-
Net (Asset) / Liability included in “Others” under 
“Other Assets” or “Other Liabilities”
(57.52)
13.96
25.45
11.71
	
	
Investment details of plan assets
	
	
The plan assets are invested in insurer managed funds. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets:
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024 
%
As at 
31st March, 2023 
%
Equity shares
51.55
12.15
Government securities
26.92
49.59
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments
14.48
22.80
LIC managed funds#
1.87
0.24
Money market instruments and other assets
5.18
15.22
Total
100.00
100.00
	
	
# The plan assets are invested in a fund managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. In the absence of detailed information regarding plan assets of the fund, the 
composition of each major category of plan assets, the percentage or amount for each category of the fair value of plan assets has not been disclosed.
Financial Statements
140
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
Actuarial assumptions used
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Discount rate
7.15% to 7.18% p.a.
7.25% to 7.39% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.50% p.a. – (IBA)
7.00% to 9.00% p.a. – (Others)
5.50% p.a. (IBA)
7.00% to 8.00% p.a. (Others)
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.00% to 7.50 % p.a.
7.00% to 7.25 % p.a.
	
	
The estimates of future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors.
	
	
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on investments of the Fund 
during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
	
Experience adjustments
	
	
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows:
(₹ in crore)
Gratuity
Year ended 31st March,
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Defined benefit obligation
762.27
667.77
651.68
 618.14
559.07
Plan assets
805.83
630.61
704.80
666.73
498.16
Surplus / (deficit)
43.56
(37.16)
53.12
48.59
(60.91)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
19.61
8.68
28.32
12.38
42.40
Experience adjustments on plan assets
77.64
(47.93)
38.56
65.23
(43.65)
	
	
The Group expects to contribute ₹ 69.09 crore to gratuity fund in financial year 2024-25.
	
	
The above information is as certified by the actuaries of the respective companies and relied upon by the auditors.
	
 c.	
Pension
	
	
Pension liability relates to employees of eIVBL.
	
	
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined benefit obligation for pension benefits is given below.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Funded
Funded
Change in benefit obligations
Liability as at the beginning of the year
1,912.65
1,909.31
Current Service cost
74.28
63.16
Interest cost
135.35
134.05
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations
171.29
40.66
Past Service cost
-
-
Benefits paid
(181.90)
(234.53)
Liability as at the end of the year
2,111.67
1,912.65
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the year
1,873.26
1,953.43
Expected return on plan assets
126.45
133.47
Actuarial Gain / (loss)
13.37
11.27
Benefits paid
(181.90)
(234.53)
Employer contributions
48.13
9.62
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
1,879.31
1,873.26
141
Consolidated Schedules
	
	
Reconciliation of present value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan Assets
 (₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Funded
Funded
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
1,879.31
1,873.26
Liability as at the end of the year
2,111.67
1,912.65
Net Asset/ (Liability) included in “Others” under “Other Assets” or “Other Liabilities”
(232.36)
(39.39)
Expenses recognised for the year
Current service cost
74.28
63.16
Interest cost
135.35
134.05
Expected return on plan assets
(126.45)
(133.47)
Actuarial (gain) / loss
157.92
29.39
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
Net pension expense recognized in Schedule 16.I
241.10
93.13
Actual return on plan assets
139.81
144.74
	
	
Reconciliation of the Liability recognised in the Balance Sheet
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Funded
Funded
Net (Asset) / Liability as at the beginning of the year
39.39
(44.12)
Expense recognized
241.10
93.13
Employer contributions
(48.13)
(9.62)
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
Net (Asset)/ Liability included in “Others” under “Other Assets” or “Other Liabilities”
232.36
39.39
	
	
Investment details of plan assets
	
	
The plan assets are invested in a fund managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. In the absence of detailed information regarding plan 
assets of the fund, the composition of each major category of plan assets, the percentage or amount for each category to the fair value of plan 
assets has not been disclosed.
	
	
Actuarial assumptions used
Particulars
As at 
 31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Discount rate
7.19% p.a.
7.39% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.50% p.a.
5.50% p.a.
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.50% p.a.
7.50% p.a.
Inflation
10.00% p.a.
10.00% p.a.
	
	
The estimates of future salary increase, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors like settlement with employee unions.
	
	
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on investments of the Fund 
during the estimated term of the obligations.
Financial Statements
142
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
Experience adjustments
	
	
Amounts for the current year and previous years are as follows:
 (₹ in crore)
Pension
Year ended 31st March,
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Defined benefit obligation
2,111.67
1,912.65
1,909.31
1,891.94
1,600.48
Plan assets
1,879.31
1,873.26
1,953.43
1,872.49
1,514.35
Surplus / (deficit)
(232.36)
(39.39)
44.12
(19.45)
(86.13)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
133.49
140.78
248.33
199.72
440.57
Experience adjustments on plan assets
13.37
11.27
34.13
(1.52)
(7.85)
	
	
The Bank expects to contribute ₹ 228.21 crore to pension fund in financial year 2024-2025.
	
d.	
Compensated absences
	
	
The actuarially determined liability for compensated absences (accumulated leave) of the employees of the Group is given below:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Total actuarial liability
184.57
149.38
Assumptions:
Discount rate
7.15% to 7.18% p.a.
7.25% to 7.39% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.50% p.a. (IBA)
7.00% to 9% p.a. (Others)
5.50% p.a. (IBA)
7.00% to 8% p.a. (Others)
	
e.	
Long Service Award
	
	
The actuarially determined liability in respect of Long Service Award of the employees of the Group is given below:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Total actuarial liability
13.56
13.71
Assumptions:
Discount rate
7.15% to 7.19%
7.30% p.a.
4.	
DEPOSIT UNDER LIEN
	
Balance with Banks in other deposit accounts include ₹ 9,460.81 crore (previous year ₹ 6,480.75 crore) which are under lien.
5.	
SECURITIES PLEDGED AND ENCUMBERED
	
(a)	
Investments include Government Securities with face value of ₹ 4,327.45 crore (previous year ₹ 8,447.61 crore) pledged and encumbered for 
availment of fund transfer facility, clearing facility, margin requirements and with the RBI for liquidity adjustment facility (LAF).
	
(b)	
Investments pledged with National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited towards exposure in derivatives segment as at 31st March, 2024 
₹ 560.17 crore (previous year ₹ 319.85 crore).
	
(c)	
Investments pledged with Clearing Corporation of India Limited and Stock Exchange towards margin requirements as at 31st March, 2024 
₹ 328.26 crore (previous year ₹ 306.04 crore).
143
Consolidated Schedules
6.	
“Others” in Other Liabilities and Provisions (Schedule 5) include the following items of provisions in respect of contingencies and other 
provisions, which have been recognised in the accounts in respect of obligations arising from past event, the settlement of which is expected 
to result in an outflow embodying economic benefits.
	
a)	
Provision for Credit Card and Debit Card Reward Points
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in actuarially determined provision for credit card and debit card account 
reward points:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening provision for reward points
68.26
28.51
Provision for reward points made during the year
267.06
171.87
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points
(211.20)
(132.12)
Closing provision for reward points*
124.12
68.26
	
	
* This amount will be utilised towards redemption of the credit card and debit card accounts reward points.
	
 b)	
Legal:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening Provision
43.01
43.78
Add: Addition during the year
0.56
2.27
Less: Reduction during the year
(6.98)
(3.04)
Closing Provision
36.59
43.01
	
c)	
Fraud and Other Provisions:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening Provision
39.04
45.11
Add: Addition during the year
27.74
4.78
Less: Reduction during the year
(19.82)
(10.85)
Closing Provision
46.96
39.04
7.	
A.	
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES:
	
	
Breakup of “Provisions and Contingencies” shown under the head Expenditure in Profit and Loss Account:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Provision for Taxation (Refer Note 8 below)
5,886.55
4,865.74
Provision for Non-performing Assets (including write-offs and net of recoveries)
1,691.65
508.45
Provision for Standard Assets
247.90
185.84
General Provision – COVID-19 Deferment Cases*
(126.29)
(170.98)
Provision for Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure
10.71
(11.09)
Provision for Diminution in value of Investments# $
74.23
(18.15)
Provision for country risk exposure
-
(4.79)
Other Provision and Contingencies
74.27
(49.60)
Total
7,859.02
5,305.42
	
	
*	
Provision/ (write-back) in respect of borrowers for which moratorium is granted by the Bank (H 124.90) crore (previous year H 159.55 crore) and its NBFC 
subsidiaries (H 1.39) crore (previous year H 11.43 crore) in accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
	
#	
 Provision in respect of security receipts of H 64.91 crore for the year ended 31st March 2024 was re-classified as Non Performing Investments (NPI). The 
same was earlier accounted as Mark to Market Loss under “Other Income”. Such reclassification has no impact on the result of the respective periods.
	
	
$	
Includes provision of H 33.13 crore on applicable Alternate Investments Funds (AIF) Investments in accordance with RBI circular dated 19th December, 2023 
and 27th March 2024.
	
B.	
The Bank and its subsidiaries held an aggregate COVID-19 related provision of ₹ 389.62 crore as of 31st March, 2023. Based on the improved 
outlook and on actual collections, the Bank and its subsidiaries have reversed provisions amounting to ₹ 126.29 crore during the year ended 
31st March, 2024 and continue to hold provisions aggregating to ₹ 263.33 crore as at 31st March, 2024.
Financial Statements
144
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
8.	
PROVISION MADE FOR TAXES DURING THE YEAR:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Current tax
5,885.31
4,842.98
Deferred tax
1.24
22.76
Total
5,886.55
4,865.74
9.	
DESCRIPTION OF CONTINGENT LIABILITIES:
Sr. 
No.
Contingent Liability*
Brief Description
1.
Claims not acknowledged as 
debts
This includes liability on account of Direct and Indirect tax demands and legal cases filed against 
the Group.
The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Group 
does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
financial conditions, result of operations or cash flows. In respect of appeals filed by the Income Tax 
department with higher authorities, where the matter was settled in favour of the Group at the first 
appellate stage, and where in view of the Management, it gives rise to an item of timing difference, no 
contingent liability is envisaged by the Group.
2.
Liability on account of outstanding 
forward exchange contracts
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts with inter-bank participants and with its customers. 
Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the 
contracted rate.
3.
Guarantees on behalf of 
constituents in and outside India
Primarily as part of its banking activities, the Group issues guarantees on behalf of its customers. 
Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the 
event of customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
4.
Acceptances, endorsements and 
other obligations
These include:
	
Documentary credit such as letters of obligations, enhance the credit standing of the customers 
of the Group
	
Bills re-discounted by the Group and cash collateral provided by the Group on assets which 
have been securitised.
	
Underwriting commitments in respect of Debt Syndication
5.
Other items for which the Group is 
contingently liable
These include:
	
Liabilities in respect of interest rate swaps, currency swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, 
options and other derivative contracts. The Bank enters into these transactions with inter 
Bank participants and its customers. Currency Swaps are commitments to exchange cash 
flows by way of interest/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined 
rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash 
flows. The notional amounts that are recorded as contingent liabilities are amounts used as a 
benchmark for the calculation of interest component of the contracts.
	
Liability in respect of capital commitments relating to fixed assets and undrawn commitments 
in respect of investments.
	
Amount Transferred to RBI under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (‘DEA Fund’).
	
* Also refer Schedule 12 – Contingent Liabilities
10.	 EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE:
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share:
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computation of basic earnings per share
1,987,326,015
1,985,666,543
Effect of potential equity shares for stock options outstanding
150,565
502,301
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share
1,987,476,580
1,986,168,844
Following is the reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share:
Nominal value per share (₹)
5.00
5.00
Basic earnings per share (₹)
91.45
74.96
Effect of potential equity shares for stock options (₹)
0.00
0.02
Diluted earnings per share (₹)
91.45
74.94
Profit for the year after tax (₹ in crore)
18,213.21
14,925.01
Less : Preference dividend including tax (₹ in crore)
38.51
40.50
Earnings used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (₹ in crore)
18,174.70
14,884.51
145
Consolidated Schedules
11.	 EMPLOYEE SHARE BASED PAYMENTS:
	
The shareholders of the Bank had passed Special Resolutions in the General meeting dated 29th June, 2015 and 22nd December 2023, to grant options 
to the eligible employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to these resolutions, the Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 and Kotak 
Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023 have been formulated and adopted, respectively. The Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 is operational 
only to the extent of treatment of options granted till 22nd December 2023 and Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023 is currently in force.
	
Equity-settled options
	
The Bank has granted options to employees of the Group vide various employee stock option schemes. During the year ended 31st March, 2024, the 
following schemes were in operation:
Particulars
Plan 2015
Plan 2023
Date of grant
Various Dates
Various Dates
Date of Board Approval
Various Dates
Various Dates
Date of Shareholder’s approval
29th June, 2015
22nd December, 2023
Number of options granted
21,080,963
108,417
Method of Settlement (Cash / Equity)
Equity
Equity
Vesting Period
0.01 – 4.16 years
1.03 – 3.40 years
Exercise Period
0.03 – 1 year
0.50 year
Vesting Conditions
Graded / Cliff vesting
Graded / Cliff vesting
	
The details of activity under Plan 2015 have been summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Number of 
Shares
Weighted Average 
Exercise Price (`)
Number of 
Shares
Weighted Average 
Exercise Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
3,573,225
1,642.98
4,270,658
1,485.35
Granted during the year
 1,112,490
 1,939.00
1,474,424
1,804.47
Forfeited during the year
 206,273
 1,804.14
137,475
1,611.54
Exercised during the year
1,364,316
1,460.33
1,894,822
1,413.62
Expired during the year
415,397
1,768.94
139,560
1,670.66
Outstanding at the end of the year
 2,699,729
 1,825.57
3,573,225
1,642.98
Out of the above exercisable at the end of the year
 334,878
 1,579.64
835,480
1,439.84
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 1.65
1.46
Weighted average fair value of options granted
 509.70
490.13
	
The details of activity under Plan 2023 have been summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Number of 
Shares
Weighted Average 
Exercise Price (`)
Number of 
Shares
Weighted Average 
Exercise Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
-
-
-
Granted during the year
 108,417
 1,823.00
-
-
Forfeited during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
 108,417
 1,823.00
-
-
Out of the above exercisable at the end of the year
-
-
-
-
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 2.44
-
Weighted average fair value of options granted
 377.70
-
	
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for stock options exercised during the year was ₹ 1,842.83 (Previous year ₹ 1,772.38).
Financial Statements
146
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The details of exercise price for stock options outstanding at the end of the year are:
	
31st March, 2024
Range of exercise prices (₹)
Number 
of options 
outstanding
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life of 
options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
1,201-1,300
10,020
0.28
1,240.89
1,301-1,400
174,514
0.25
1,341.00
1,701-1,800
786,518
1.65
1,798.00
1,801-1,900
774,484
1.48
1,814.32
1,901-2,000
1,062,610
2.08
1,939.00
	
31st March, 2023
Range of exercise prices (`)
Number 
of options 
outstanding
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life of 
options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
 901-1,000
 75,321
 0.73
 1,000.00
1,001-1,100
 10,000
 0.25
 1,050.00
1,201-1,300
 20,040
 1.03
 1,240.89
1,301-1,400
 738,312
 0.72
 1,341.00
1,401-1,500
 442,832
 0.25
 1,460.00
1,701-1,800
 1,224,120
 2.08
 1,798.00
1,801-1,900
 1,062,600
 1.83
 1,809.20
	
Stock appreciation rights (SARs)
	
At the General Meeting on 29th June, 2015, the shareholders of the Bank had passed Special Resolution to grant SARs to the eligible employees of the 
Bank and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to this resolution, Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2015 had been formulated and adopted. 
Subsequently, the SARs have been granted under this scheme.
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank have formulated and adopted the Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2023 effective from 1st 
December 2023 in place of SARs Scheme 2015. SARs Scheme 2015 is operational only to the extent of treatment of SARs granted till 30th November 
2023.
	
The SARs are settled in cash and vest on the respective due dates in a graded manner as per the terms and conditions of grant. The contractual life 
of the SARs outstanding range from 1.00 to 5.10 years.
	
Detail of activity under SARs is summarised below:
Particulars
Year Ended 
 31st March, 2024
Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 2,540,038
1,713,218
Granted during the year
 1,849,441
1,637,601
Settled during the year
945,470
697,273
Forfeited during the year
267,336
113,508
Outstanding at the end of the year
3,176,673
2,540,038
147
Consolidated Schedules
	
Fair value of Employee stock options
	
The fair value of the equity-settled options is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes options pricing model taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the options were granted. The fair value of the cash-settled options is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date. The 
following table lists the inputs to the model used for equity-settled and cash-settled options:
Particulars
Year ended 31st March,
 2024
 2023
Equity-settled
Cash-settled
Equity-settled
Cash-settled
Exercise Price ₹
 1,823-1,939
0-1,939
1,798-1,900
0-1,828
Weighted Average Share Price ₹
 1,927.50
1,828.97
1,782.25
1,717.45
Expected Volatility
 16.79%-32.42%
11.25%-25.27%
26.57%-36.85%
14.24%-33.18%
Historical Volatility
16.79%-32.42%
11.25%-25.27%
26.57%-36.85%
14.24%-33.18%
Life of the options granted (Vesting and exercise period)
- At the grant date
1.25-4.42
1.25-4.31
- As at 31st March
0.02-3.84
0.00-4.21
Risk-free interest rate
 7.01%-7.26%
6.89%-7.19%
5.75%-7.77%
6.77%-7.32%
Expected dividend rate
0.08%
0.08%-0.09%
0.06%
0.06%
	
The expected volatility was determined based on historical volatility data and the Bank expects the volatility of its share price may not differ from 
historical volatility. The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily volatility of the stock prices on the National Stock 
Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant for equity settled options and remeasurement date for the cash settled options, corresponding with 
the expected / residual life of the share-linked instruments has been considered.
	
Effect of the employee share-based payment plans on the Profit and Loss Account and on the financial position:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 31st March,
 2024
2023
Total Employee compensation cost pertaining to share-based payment plans
265.22
201.01
Compensation cost pertaining to equity-settled employee share-based payment plan included above
44.95
45.64
Liability for employee stock options outstanding as at year end
140.44
121.78
Deferred Compensation Cost
61.15
61.48
Closing balance of liability for cash-settled options
264.13
196.93
Expense arising from increase in intrinsic value of liability for cash stock appreciation plan
141.85
69.87
	
Had the Group recorded the compensation cost for all share-linked instruments granted on or before 31 March 2021 on the basis of fair valuation 
method instead of intrinsic value method, employee compensation cost would have been higher by ₹ 2.89 crore (Previous year ₹ 12.93 crore) and the 
profit after tax would have been lower by ₹ 2.22 crore (Previous year ₹ 9.75 crore). Consequently the basic and diluted EPS would have been ₹ 91.44 
(Previous year ₹ 74.91) and ₹ 91.43 (Previous year ₹ 74.89) respectively.
12.	 TIER II BONDS
	
Lower Tier II Bonds outstanding as at 31st March, 2024 ₹ 20 crore (previous year ₹ 20.00 crore).
13.	
Interest Expended - Others (Schedule 15.III) includes interest on subordinated debt (Lower and Upper Tier II) ₹ 1.67 crore for the year ended 
31st March, 2024 (previous year ₹ 24.95 crore).
Financial Statements
148
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
14.	 SEGMENT REPORTING
	
The summary of the operating segments of the Group for the year ended 31st March, 2024 are as given below:
(₹ in crore)
31st March,
 2024
 2023
Segment Revenues:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
10,956.31
7,437.57
Retail Banking
27,831.08
19,179.15
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
22,788.95
18,130.83
Vehicle Financing
3,415.80
2,607.39
Other Lending Activities
1,918.48
1,342.09
Broking
3,213.90
2,454.01
Advisory and Transactional Services
1,371.46
862.19
Asset Management
1,941.89
1,660.07
Insurance
28,110.08
19,009.59
Sub-total
101,547.95
72,682.89
Add: Unallocated Income
-
-
Less: inter-segment revenues
(7,274.04)
(4,540.86)
Total Income
94,273.91
68,142.03
Segment Results:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
5,505.43
4,331.00
Retail Banking
5,732.75
3,411.69
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
7,473.79
7,072.95
Vehicle Financing
706.11
724.58
Other Lending Activities
649.14
539.76
Broking
1,129.11
815.42
Advisory and Transactional Services
729.89
546.54
Asset Management
984.84
858.82
Insurance
952.32
1,345.42
Sub-total
23,863.38
19,646.18
Add: Unallocated Income / (Expense)
-
-
Total Profit before tax, minority interest and associates
23,863.38
19,646.18
Less: Provision for tax
(5,886.55)
(4,865.74)
Net Profit before share of Associates and Minority
18,213.21
14,780.44
Segment Assets:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
187,565.09
138,500.51
Retail Banking
384,257.91
310,374.20
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
239,539.02
223,845.52
Vehicle Financing
28,262.24
24,085.06
Other Lending Activities
23,779.45
18,523.54
Broking
17,562.29
10,491.70
Advisory and Transactional Services
1,169.06
677.08
Asset Management
6,442.32
5,669.64
Insurance
85,062.53
68,182.65
Sub-total
973,639.91
800,349.90
Less: inter-segment assets
(207,816.22)
(181,445.79)
Total
765,823.69
618,904.11
Add: Unallocated Assets
1,843.27
1,525.62
Total Assets as per Balance Sheet
767,666.96
620,429.73
149
Consolidated Schedules
(₹ in crore)
31st March,
 2024
 2023
Segment Liabilities:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
139,213.04
96,606.02
Retail Banking
353,357.46
287,429.54
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
218,547.17
202,922.48
Vehicle Financing
21,800.15
16,297.81
Other Lending Activities
16,755.39
13,641.89
Broking
15,618.60
8,851.84
Advisory and Transactional Services
294.45
134.31
Asset Management
1,115.25
890.38
Insurance
77,931.56
61,941.05
Sub-total
844,633.07
688,715.32
Less: inter-segment liabilities
(207,816.22)
(181,445.79)
Total
636,816.85
507,269.53
Add: Unallocated liabilities
957.71
906.11
Add: Share Capital, Reserves and Surplus and Minority Interest
129,892.40
112,254.09
Total Capital and Liabilities as per Balance Sheet
767,666.96
620,429.73
Capital Expenditure:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
187.35
122.68
Retail Banking
630.10
562.99
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
57.75
65.17
Vehicle Financing
16.68
16.85
Other Lending Activities
1.09
0.66
Broking
53.56
60.98
Advisory and Transactional Services
20.63
15.54
Asset Management
22.82
34.80
Insurance
128.02
86.57
Total
1,118.00
966.24
Depreciation / Amortisation:
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
119.23
90.96
Retail Banking
448.99
337.81
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
47.55
33.81
Vehicle Financing
11.70
8.68
Other Lending Activities
0.88
2.09
Broking
55.63
45.20
Advisory and Transactional Services
11.30
4.37
Asset Management
22.22
17.32
Insurance
74.25
59.05
Total
791.75
599.29
	
Segment information is provided as per the management information system available for internal reporting purposes, which includes certain estimates and assumptions.
Financial Statements
150
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
RBI’s Master Direction on Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosures, requires to divide the ‘Retail banking’ into (a) Digital Banking (as 
defined in RBI circular on Establishment of Digital Banking Units dated April 7, 2022) and (b) Other Retail Banking segment. The Bank has two DBUs 
which commenced operations during the quarter ended 31st December, 2022. Accordingly, the segmental results for retail banking are subdivided as 
under:
	
For March 31, 2024:-
 (₹ in crore)
Particulars
Segment Revenue 
for year ended 
31st March, 2024
Segment Results 
for year ended 
31st March, 2024
Segment Assets 
 as at 
31st March, 2024
Segment Liability 
as at 
31st March, 2024
Retail Banking
27,831.08
5,732.75
384,257.91
353,357.46
(i)	
Digital Banking
1,536.19
118.36
60.60
15,585.65
(ii)	
Other Retail Banking
26,294.89
5,614.39
384,197.31
337,771.81
15.	 ASSETS TAKEN ON LEASE
	
(i)	
The Group has taken various premises and equipment under operating lease. The lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
are ₹ 765.74 crore (previous year ₹ 751.98 crore).
	
(ii)	
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating lease not later than one year is ₹ 772.48 crore (previous year ₹ 872.03 
crore), later than one year but not later than five years is ₹ 2,210.07 crore (previous year ₹ 2,001.94 crore) and later than five years ₹ 954.30 crore 
(previous year ₹ 804.28 crore).
	
The lease terms include renewal option after expiry of primary lease period. There are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements. There are 
escalation clauses in the lease agreements.
16.	 ASSETS GIVEN ON LEASE
	
Details of gross investments, unearned finance income and present value of rentals in respect of assets given under finance lease are as under:
(₹ in crore)
As at 31st March,
 2024
 2023
Gross Investments (A):
(i)	
Not later than 1 year
85.73
62.21
(ii)	
Between 1-5 years
163.86
120.50
Total
249.59
182.71
Unearned Finance Income (B):
(i)	
Not later than 1 year
21.95
15.89
(ii)	
Between 1-5 years
26.13
18.45
Total
48.08
34.34
Present Value of Rentals (A-B):
(i)	
Not later than 1 year
63.77
46.32
(ii)	
Between 1-5 years
137.74
102.05
 Total
201.51
148.37
Accumulated provision on the Gross Investments
2.98
1.72
17.	
In accordance with the IRDAI Financial Statements Regulations, the Life Insurance subsidiary revalues its investment property at least once in three 
years, the market value being the lower of valuations performed by two independent valuers. The real estate investment property is accordingly 
valued at ₹ 239.16 crore at 31st March, 2024 (previous year ₹ 233.34 crore). The historical cost of the property is ₹ 158.56 crore (previous year ₹ 158.56 
crore). The revaluation gains have been included in policyholders’ funds.
	
The life insurance subsidiary has entered into agreements for leasing out its real estate investment properties. These arrangement are in the nature 
of operating lease. There are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangement and the rent is not determined based on any contingency. The lease 
payments recognised in profit and loss account in the current year is ₹ 16.35 crore (previous year ₹ 14.93 crore).
151
Consolidated Schedules
18.	
The Group enters into various types of derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, 
forwards, forward rate agreements, index / equity futures and options. The details of such derivatives for subsidiaries (other than bank) are as under:
	
Derivative instrument outstanding as at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March,
 2024
 2023
Purpose
Particulars of Derivatives
Quantity
Quantity
Futures
S&P CNX Nifty Futures Short
-
-
Trading
Bank Nifty Futures Short
-
-
Trading
Stock Futures Long
1,801,455
632,075
Trading
Stock Futures Short
27,352,414
37,671,130
Trading
S&P CNX Nifty Futures Long
-
-
Trading
Options
S&P CNX Nifty Options Long
52,700
189,300
Trading
S&P CNX Nifty Options Short
43,400
177,000
Trading
Stock option Long
160,000
-
Trading
Bank Nifty option Long
-
3,800
Trading
Bank Nifty option Short
-
3,250
Trading
Forward Exchange Contracts
USD-INR Long
USD 500,000
USD 500,000
Hedging
USD-INR Short
USD 250,000
-
Hedging
Interest Rate Swap
-
Hedging
Total Return Swap
Trading
Forward rate agreement (₹ crore)#
10,362.16
5,953.91
Hedging
	
#Total outstanding notional principal amount of forward rate agreement entered by Life insurance subsidiary to hedge Interest rate risk on its liability side
	
Unhedged forex exposure outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Amount Receivable in foreign currency
12.81 (USD 1,535,884)
1.44 (GBP 137,000)
0.05 (EUR 6,000)
0.16 (CAD 26,000)
11.59 (USD 1,410,562)
0.54 (GBP 53,000)
0.36 (EUR 40,000)
0.08 (SGD 13,000)
Amount Payable in foreign currency
3.26 (USD 391,000)
0.72 (SGD 116,000)
2.33 (USD 2,83,000)
0.64 (SGD 1,04,000)
Financial Statements
152
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
19.	
Additional information to consolidated accounts at 31st March, 2024, (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
(₹ in crore)
Name of the Entity
Net Assets*
Share in Profit or Loss
As at  
31st March, 2024
As at  
31st March, 2023
For the year ended 
31st March, 2024
For the year ended 
31st March, 2023
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or 
Loss
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or 
Loss
Amount
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
74.40%
96,639.46
74.35%
83,459.94
75.67%
13,781.58
73.30%
10,939.30
Indian Subsidiaries:
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
7.06%
9,176.48
7.40%
8,305.90
4.89%
888.06
5.55%
828.96
Kotak Securities Limited
6.38%
8,286.15
6.33%
7,107.98
6.74%
1,226.17
5.80%
865.22
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company 
Limited
0.91%
1,181.03
0.89%
1,000.38
1.18%
215.01
1.00%
149.28
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance 
Company Limited
4.51%
5,863.23
4.75%
5,327.70
3.78%
688.62
7.06%
1,053.31
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance 
Company Limited
0.34%
447.12
0.30%
341.07
(0.49%)
 (88.95)
(0.79%)
(117.28)
Kotak Mahindra Investments 
Limited
2.56%
3,329.02
2.51%
2,814.81
2.82%
514.21
2.19%
326.26
Kotak Mahindra Asset 
Management Company Limited
1.54%
1,995.62
1.50%
1,682.96
2.33%
424.41
3.18%
474.77
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company 
Limited
0.40%
525.32
0.38%
424.55
0.55%
100.77
0.54%
79.99
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers 
Limited (formerly known as Kotak 
Investment Advisors Limited)
0.67%
864.58
0.72%
805.72
0.32%
58.84
0.28%
42.27
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship 
Services Limited
0.03%
35.00
0.03%
29.13
0.03%
5.87
0.02%
2.63
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund 
Limited
0.40%
519.61
0.42%
476.20
0.24%
43.40
0.19%
27.83
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund 
Limited
0.04%
52.40
0.05%
52.61
0.00%
 (0.21)
(0.02%)
(3.49)
IVY Product Intermediaries 
Limited
0.01%
6.69
0.01%
6.36
0.00%
0.33
0.00%
0.16
BSS Microfinance Limited
0.78%
1,009.85
0.56%
626.63
2.10%
383.22
1.99%
297.21
Sonata Finance Private Limited
0.30%
389.41
-
-
(0.08%)
 (13.71)
-
-
Foreign Subsidiaries:
Kotak Mahindra (International) 
Limited
0.77%
1,001.34
0.82%
922.93
0.35%
64.28
0.08%
12.41
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
0.38%
495.19
0.40%
449.79
0.21%
38.63
0.10%
15.07
Kotak Mahindra, Inc.
0.08%
98.79
0.08%
86.33
0.06%
11.08
0.09%
13.25
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services 
Limited
0.00%
3.05
0.00%
3.59
0.00%
 (0.59)
(0.02%)
(3.08)
Kotak Mahindra Asset 
Management (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
0.28%
363.99
0.25%
283.85
0.41%
75.32
0.26%
38.66
Minority Interests in subsidiary
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Associates:
Infina Finance Private Limited
-
-
-
-
0.70%
128.13
0.41%
60.50
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
-
-
-
-
0.60%
108.25
0.56%
84.07
Inter-company and Other 
adjustments
(1.84%)
(2,390.94)
(1.75%)
(1,954.34)
(2.41%)
 (439.51)
(1.77%)
(262.29)
Total
100.00%
1,29,892.39
100.00%
112,254.09
100.00%
18,213.21
100.00%
14,925.01
	
* Total assets minus total liabilities
153
Consolidated Schedules
20.	
The Group has recorded net deferred tax asset which has been included in “Others – Other Assets” (Schedule 11.VI).
	
The break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into major items is as follows:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for non-performing and doubtful debts, general provisions and contingencies
618.41
577.65
Depreciation on assets
76.24
65.68
Provision for investments
13.37
6.65
Unamortised Income
9.78
6.93
Expenditure allowed on payment basis and others
160.81
163.75
Total Deferred Tax Assets
878.61
820.66
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Depreciation on assets
0.86
2.15
Deduction u/s. 36(1)(viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
244.02
212.56
Others
1.72
0.77
Total Deferred Tax Liabilities
246.60
215.48
Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities)
632.01
605.17
21.	 FIXED ASSETS
	
Fixed Assets as per Schedule 10 include intangible assets, details of which are as follows:
(₹ in crore)
 Particulars
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
PURCHASED SOFTWARE AND SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
1,345.87
1,100.59
Additions /Transfers due to acquisition
0.84
-
Add: Additions during the year
220.09
302.81
Less: Deductions during the year
30.99
57.53
Total
1,535.81
1,345.87
Amortisation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
959.78
837.24
Additions /Transfers due to acquisition
0.72
-
Add: Charge for the year
241.00
175.73
Less: Deductions during the year
27.49
53.19
Amortisation to date
1,174.01
959.78
Net Block
361.80
386.09
MEMBERSHIP CARDS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
4.66
4.66
Add: Additions during the year
-
-
Less: Deductions during the year
-
-
Total
4.66
4.66
Amortisation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
4.66
4.66
Add: Charge for the year
-
-
Less: Deductions during the year
-
-
Amortisation to date
4.66
4.66
Net Block
-
-
ASSET MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
15.90
15.90
Add: Additions during the year
-
-
Less: Deductions during the year
-
-
Total
15.90
15.90
Amortisation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
15.90
15.90
Add: Charge for the year
-
-
Less: Deductions during the year
-
-
Amortisation to date
15.90
15.90
Net Block
-
-
Financial Statements
154
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
22.	 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES:
Nature of relationship
Name of Related Party
A.
Individual having significant 
influence over the enterprise
Mr. Uday S. Kotak, Promoter along with the persons / entities forming part of the Promoter Group, 
holds 25.90% of the paid-up share capital of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited as on 31st March, 2024.
B. 
Other Related Parties
Associates / Others
Infina Finance Private Limited
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
ING Vysya Foundation
Kotak Karma Foundation (w.e.f. 26th June, 2023)
Key Management Personnel 
(KMP)
Mr. Uday S. Kotak - Managing Director & CEO upto 1st September 2023 
Non Executive Director w.e.f. 2nd September 2023
Mr. Dipak Gupta - Joint Managing Director (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Ashok Vaswani – Managing Director and CEO (w.e.f. 1st January 2024)
Mr. KVS Manian – Joint Managing Director
Mr. Gaurang Shah - Whole-time Director (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram – Deputy Managing Director (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Enterprises over which KMP / 
relatives of KMP have control / 
significant influence
Aero Agencies Private Limited (formerly known as Aero Agencies Limited)
Kotak and Company Private Limited
Komaf Financial Services Private Limited
Asian Machinery & Equipment Private Limited
Insurekot Sports Private Limited
Kotak Trustee Company Private Limited
Cumulus Trading Company Private Limited
Palko Properties Private Limited
Kotak Chemicals Limited
Kotak Ginning & Pressing Industries Private Limited
Kotak Commodity Services Private Limited
Harisiddha Trading and Finance Private Limited
Puma Properties Private Limited
Business Standard Private Limited
Business Standard Online Private Limited
Allied Auto Accessories Private Limited
Uday S Kotak HUF
Suresh A Kotak HUF
KF Trust (formerly known as USK Benefit Trust II)
Kotak Family Foundation
Helena Realty Private Limited
Doreen Realty Private Limited
Renato Realty Private Limited
Pine Tree Estates Private Limited
Meluha Developers Private Limited
Quantyco Realty Private Limited
Xanadu Properties Private Limited
Laburnum Adarsh Trust
True North Enterprises (upto 31st October 2022)
Manian Family Trust
Brij Disa Arnav Trust (upto 31st December 2023)
Brij Disa Parthav Trust (upto 31st December 2023)
Kotak Mahindra Group Employee Welfare Trust
TML Benefit Trust
Brij Disa Foundation (upto 31st December 2023)
Amrit Lila Enterprises Private Limited
Manians Family Trust II
USK Benefit Trust III
Kudin Trusteeship Services Private Limited (w.e.f. 9th September 2022)
Shanti Family Trust (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Shivkaran Trust (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
USK Capital Partners (w.e.f. 2nd January 2024)
155
Consolidated Schedules
Nature of relationship
Name of Related Party
Relatives of KMP
Ms. Pallavi Kotak
Mr. Suresh Kotak
Ms. Indira Kotak
Mr. Jay Kotak
Mr. Dhawal Kotak
Ms. Aarti Chandaria
Ms. Aditi Arya (w.e.f. 7th November 2023)
Ms. Anita Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Urmila Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Arnav Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Parthav Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Prabhat Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Jyoti Banga (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Seetha Krishnan
Ms. Lalitha Mohan
Ms. Shruti Manian
Mr. Shashank Manian
Mr. Ramesh Krishnan
Ms. Vanathi Gopalakrishnan (w.e.f. 15th April 2022)
Ms. Asha Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Divya Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Manasi Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Mahima Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Mr. Chetan Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Chetna Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. G. Saraswathi (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Ms. Shobha Srivastava (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Veena Vaswani (w.e.f. 1st January 2024)
	
Details of related party transactions as at / for the year ended 31st March, 2024:
 (₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Associates/ 
others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises over which 
KMP /relatives of 
KMP have control /
significant influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
I.
Liabilities
Deposits
49.59
61.02
107.84
174.02
392.47
(67.64)
(261.73)
(104.26)
(184.32)
(617.95)
Interest Payable
0.23
-
1.13
0.61
1.97
(0.10)
(1.94)
(1.00)
(0.50)
(3.54)
Other Liabilities
3.48
#
0.06
#
3.54
(0.91)
(#)
(0.10)
(#)
(1.01)
II. 
Assets
Advances
25.31
0.01
1.31
0.04
26.68
(40.31)
(-)
(0.92)
(4.45)
(45.68)
Investments –Gross
103.28
-
#
-
103.28
(127.28)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(127.28)
Diminution on Investments
-
-
#
-
#
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(#)
Other Assets
0.23
#
10.49
0.03
10.75
(0.39)
(#)
(0.27)
(0.03)
(0.69)
Non Fund/ Commitments
Bank Guarantees
-
-
1.13
-
1.13
(-)
(-)
(1.13)
(-)
(1.13)
Forward/CIRS o/s
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.65)
(1.65)
Financial Statements
156
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 (₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Associates/ 
others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises over which 
KMP /relatives of 
KMP have control /
significant influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
III.
Expenses
Salaries (Include ESOP cost)* / fees
-
24.60
-
0.57
25.17
(-)
(23.66)
(-)
(0.45)
(24.11)
Interest Paid
7.32
14.50
4.78
12.71
39.31
(4.40)
(44.30)
(3.09)
(8.77)
(60.56)
Other Expenses
#
-
4.29
0.02
4.31
(-)
(2.17)
(2.95)
(1.44)
(6.57)
IV.
Income
 Interest Income
4.53
-
0.06
0.30
4.89
(8.97)
(0.17)
(0.14)
(0.35)
(9.64)
Other Income
0.57
1.48
2.08
0.13
4.26
(0.61)
(1.50)
(1.45)
(0.17)
(3.74)
V.
Other Transactions
Dividend Paid
-
76.95
0.23
0.53
77.71
(-)
(56.37)
(0.14)
(0.39)
(56.90)
Reimbursement from companies
0.27
-
-
-
0.27
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
-
Loan Repaid
15.00
-
-
-
15.00
(15.00)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
(15.01)
Purchase of Investments
1.00
-
-
-
1.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Sale of Investments
-
-
-
5.64
5.64
(-)
(28.35)
(-)
(-)
(28.35)
Swaps/Forwards/Options Contracts
2.84
4.50
4.32
24.61
36.27
(-)
(5.90)
(4.21)
(26.02)
(36.14)
	
Material transactions/outstanding with related parties:
(₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Associates/ 
others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises over which 
KMP /relatives of 
KMP have control /
significant influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
I.
Liabilities:
Other liabilities
Infina Finance Private Limited
3.48
-
-
-
3.48
(0.90)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.90)
Others
#
#
0.06
#
0.06
(#)
(#)
(0.10)
(#)
(0.10)
II.
Assets:
Investments
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
101.18
-
-
-
101.18
(126.18)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(126.18)
Others
1.10
-
#
-
1.10
(1.10)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(1.10)
Diminution on investments
Business Standard Private Limited
-
-
#
-
#
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(#)
Other Assets
Kotak Commodity Services Private Limited
-
-
10.30
-
10.30
(-)
(-)
(0.27)
(-)
(0.27)
Others
0.23
#
0.18
0.03
0.45
(0.39)
(#)
(#)
(0.03)
(0.42)
Non Fund Commitments
Bank Guarantees
Aero Agencies Private Limited
-
-
1.00
-
1.00
(-)
(-)
(1.00)
(-)
(1.00)
KF Trust (formerly known as USK Benefit 
Trust II)
-
-
0.13
-
0.13
(-)
(-)
(0.13)
(-)
(0.13)
157
Consolidated Schedules
(₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Associates/ 
others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises over which 
KMP /relatives of 
KMP have control /
significant influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
III.
Expenses:
Salaries (Includes ESOP cost)
Mr. Dipak Gupta*
-
8.37
-
-
8.37
(-)
(8.22)
(-)
(-)
(8.22)
Mr. KVS Manian*
-
6.72
-
-
6.72
(-)
(7.82)
(-)
(-)
(7.82)
Mr. Gaurang Shah*
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(5.27)
(-)
(-)
(5.27)
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram*
-
6.73
-
-
6.73
(-)
(2.35)
(-)
(-)
(2.35)
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
-
1.83
-
-
1.83
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Others
-
0.96
-
0.57
1.52
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.45)
(0.45)
Other Expenses
Aero Agencies Private Limited
-
-
4.24
-
4.24
(-)
(-)
(2.87)
(-)
(2.87)
Others
#
-
0.05
0.02
0.07
(-)
(2.17)
(0.08)
(1.44)
(3.69)
IV.
Income:
Other Income
Mr. Uday S. Kotak
-
0.72
-
-
0.72
(-)
(0.73)
(-)
(-)
(0.73)
Mr. KVS Manian
-
0.73
-
-
0.73
(-)
(0.73)
(-)
(-)
(0.73)
Kotak Commodity Services Private Limited
-
-
1.13
-
1.13
(-)
(-)
(0.88)
(-)
(0.88)
Others
0.57
0.02
0.96
0.13
1.68
(0.61)
(0.04)
(0.57)
(0.17)
(1.40)
V.
Other Transactions:
Dividend Paid
Mr. Uday S. Kotak
-
76.65
-
-
76.65
(-)
(56.20)
(-)
(-)
(56.20)
Others
-
0.29
0.23
0.53
1.05
(-)
(0.16)
(0.14)
(0.39)
(0.70)
Reimbursements from companies
Infina Finance Private Limited
0.14
-
-
-
0.14
(0.20)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.20)
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
0.13
-
-
-
0.13
(0.23)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.23)
Loan Repaid During the Year
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
15.00
-
-
-
15.00
(15.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(15.00)
Purchase of Investment
Kotak Karma Foundation
1.00
-
-
-
1.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Sale of Investments
Mr. Dhawal Kotak
-
-
-
5.64
5.64
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Swaps/Forwards/Options Contracts
Mr. Dhawal Kotak
-
-
-
13.12
13.12
(-)
(-)
(-)
(12.95)
(12.95)
Ms. Aarti Chandaria
-
-
-
3.97
3.97
(-)
(-)
(-)
(7.77)
(7.77)
Others
2.84
4.50
4.32
7.52
19.18
(-)
(5.90)
(4.21)
(5.31)
(15.42)
	
*includes incentive paid during the year
	
# In the above table denotes amounts less than ` 50,000
	
Note: Figures of previous year (FY 2023) are given in bracket.
Financial Statements
158
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Maximum balance outstanding
(₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Associates/ 
others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprises over which 
KMP /relatives of 
KMP have control /
significant influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
I.
Liabilities
Deposits
 347.49
 311.72
 269.00
 207.31
 (768.74)
 (2,553.73)
 (180.63)
 (248.59)
Other Liabilities*
 3.71
 1.94
 1.18
 0.61
 (15.48)
(1.94)
(1.10)
(0.50)
II.
Assets
Investments-Gross*
 127.28
 -
 #
 -
 (177.15)
 (-)
 #
 (-)
Advances*
40.31
 0.01
 1.31
 4.45
 (55.31)
(4.62)
(2.45)
(4.45)
Other Assets*
 0.39
#
10.49
 0.03
(1.95)
(0.02)
(4.13)
(0.03)
Non Funded Commitments
Bank Guarantees*
 -
 -
 1.13
 -
 (-)
 (-)
 (1.13)
 (-)
	
* Based on maximum of opening and closing balances for the year.
	
# In the above table denotes amounts less than H 50,000.
	
Note: Figures of previous year (FY2023) are given in bracket.
23.	 ITEMS EXCEEDING 1% OF TOTAL ASSETS/ TOTAL INCOME
	
a.	
There are no items under Others (including provisions) (Schedule 5- Other Liabilities and Provisions) exceeding 1% of total assets of the Group.
	
b.	
There are no items under Others assets (Schedule 11- Other Assets) exceeding 1% of the total assets of the Group.
	
c.	
There are no items under Miscellaneous Income (Schedule 14- Other Income) exceeding 1% of total income of the Group.
	
d.	
Details of items under Other expenditure (Schedule 16- Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the Group are given below:
 (₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Professional Charges
1,319.17
 1,371.45
Brokerage
1,633.91
1,515.84
24.	
The Group, as part of its normal banking business that is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements, grants loans and advances, 
makes investment, provides guarantees to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons.
	
Other than the transactions described above which are carried out in the normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or deposits or any other sources or kinds of funds) by the Group to or in any other persons 
or entities, including foreign entities (“intermediaries”) with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall 
lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”). The Group has also not received any funds from any parties 
(Funding Party) with the understanding that the Group shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
25.	
The Bank has acquired 100% of the issued and paid up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”), a Non-Banking Finance Company – 
Micro Finance Institution registered with the RBI for a total consideration of ₹ 537.12 crore. With this acquisition, Sonata has become a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Bank with effect from 28th March, 2024. The excess of the purchase consideration over the book value of the net assets acquired of 
₹ 134 crore has been accounted as Goodwill.
26.	
The Bank and Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (“KGI”) have entered into definitive agreements for a transaction with Zurich 
Insurance Company Limited (“Zurich”), whereby Zurich will acquire 70% stake in KGI by way of a combination of primary and secondary acquisitions 
in a single tranche, for a total consideration of approximately ₹ 5,560 crore (“Transaction”). Transaction would be subject to fulfilment of customary 
conditions precedent, including the receipt of regulatory approvals from the Reserve Bank of India and the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India. Upon completion of the Transaction (subsequent to receipt of all requisite approvals), KGI will cease to be a Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary of the Bank.
159
Consolidated Schedules
27.	
The Board of Directors of the Bank have a proposed a dividend of ₹ 2.00 per share having a face value ₹ 5 for the year ended 31st March, 2024 
(Previous Year ₹ 1.50 per share). The Bank is obliged to pay dividend to those shareholders whose names are appearing in the register of members 
as on the book closure date. The dividend will be paid after the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
28.	
The Bank has received an order from the Reserve Bank of India dated April 24, 2024, directing the Bank to cease and desist, with immediate effect 
from (i) onboarding new customers through the Bank’s online and mobile banking channels and (ii) issuing fresh credit cards. The order was based, 
inter alia, on the deficiencies observed by the RBI in their IT Examination of the Bank. These directions shall be reviewed by RBI upon satisfactory 
remediation of the observations.
	
The Bank has taken concrete steps to adopt new technologies to strengthen its IT systems and will continue to work with RBI to swiftly resolve 
balance issues at the earliest. The Bank believes that these directions will not materially impact its overall business. The Bank has evaluated the order 
and assessed no material impact on its financial statements and internal financial controls over financial reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024.
29.	
Kotak Securities Limited, a subsidiary of the Bank had received an order dated 13th October 2023 from NSE MCSGFC Committee calling upon the 
subsidiary to submit a plan in 45 days to divest its long term investments in associate companies, citing Rule 8 (3) (f) of the Securities Contract 
Regulations Rules and NSE’s circular dated 7th January, 2022. The subsidiary had filed petition challenging the said circular and order in the Bombay 
High Court. The Hon’ble High Court has from time to time extended the time to comply with NSE’s order and at the hearing held on 18th April, 2024 
further extended this time till 15th June, 2024. The matter is sub- judice and next hearing is listed on 9th May, 2024.
30.	 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE
	
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and Subsidiaries having no material bearing on the true 
and fair view of the consolidated financial statements and the information pertaining to the items which are not material have not been disclosed in 
the consolidated financial statement.
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
Financial Statements
160
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
FORM AOC - 1
Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies
PART "A" : Subsidiaries
₹ in crore
Particulars
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Prime 
Limited
 Kotak 
Securities 
Limited
 Kotak 
Mahindra 
Capital 
Company 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Life 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited6
Kotak 
Mahindra 
General 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Investments 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Asset 
Management 
Company 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Trustee 
Company 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
(International) 
Limited5
Kotak 
Mahindra 
(UK) 
Limited5
Kotak 
Mahindra, 
Inc.5
Kotak 
Alternate 
Asset 
Managers 
Limited 
(formerly 
known 
as Kotak 
Investment 
Advisors 
Limited)
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Trusteeship 
Services 
Limited
Kotak 
Infrastructure 
Debt Fund 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Pension 
Fund 
Limited
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Financial 
Services 
Limited5
Kotak 
Mahindra 
Asset 
Management 
(Singapore) 
Pte. Limited5
IVY Product 
Intermediaries 
Limited
BSS 
Microfinance 
Limited
Kotak Karma 
Foundation8
Sonata 
Finance 
Private 
Limited9
Share Capital
 3.50
 1.60
 3.44
 510.29
 875.00
 5.62
 29.80
 0.05
 16.16
 7.01
 0.14
 8.97
 0.09
 310.00
 60.00
 8.45
 9.40
 2.21
 26.73
 1.00 
 26.45
Reserves & Surplus
 9,172.99
 8,284.55
 1,177.59
 5,352.94
 (427.88)
 3,323.39
 1,965.82
 525.27
 985.18
 488.18
 98.64
 855.61
 34.91
 209.61
 (7.60)
 (5.39)
 354.59
 4.48
 983.12
 (0.16)
 362.96
Total Assets
38,394.45
24,460.39
 1,304.31
 83,375.38
 2,541.76
 14,900.83
 2,179.91
 531.73
 1,230.81
 736.67
 111.78
 1,432.84
 40.16
 1,442.94
 54.92
 5.93
 390.52
 6.75
 1,196.01
 0.93 
 923.70
Total Liabilites
29,217.97
16,174.24
 123.28
 77,512.15
 2,094.64
 11,571.81
 184.29
 6.41
 229.48
 241.48
 13.00
 568.26
 5.16
 923.33
 2.52
 2.88
 26.53
 0.06
 186.16
 0.09 
 534.28
Investments (excluding  
investment in subsidiaries)1
 3,186.83
 2,279.90
 503.06
 80,016.73
 2,295.36
 2,720.63
 2,036.64
 517.30
 1,189.06
 241.59
 47.86
 1,161.97
 -
 367.18
 53.73
 -
 155.23
 -
 51.91
 - 
 0.05
Turnover2
 4,130.95
 3,824.33
 431.68
 26,846.82
 1,014.63
 1,493.53
 941.83
 140.53
 91.66
 163.78
 50.34
 413.12
 19.46
 119.07
 6.38
 5.11
 123.84
 0.45
 996.07
 - 
 4.19
Profit before taxation
 1,188.36
 1,635.18
 276.69
 1,041.24
 (88.95)
 690.51
 570.64
 135.20
 65.82
 55.24
 13.95
 76.87
 7.68
 43.40
 (0.21)
 (0.59)
 85.32
 0.44
 509.04
 (0.16)
 (16.64)
Provision for taxation
 300.30
 409.01
 61.68
 352.61
 -
 176.30
 146.23
 34.43
 1.54
 16.60
 2.87
 18.03
 1.81
 -
 -
 -
 10.00
 0.11
 125.82
 - 
 (2.94)
Profit after taxation
 888.06
 1,226.17
 215.01
 688.62
 (88.95)
 514.21
 424.41
 100.77
 64.28
 38.63
 11.08
 58.84
 5.87
 43.40
 (0.21)
 (0.59)
 75.32
 0.33
 383.22
 (0.16)
 (13.71)
Proposed Dividend (Equity)
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 229.63
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL
 NIL 
 NIL
% of Shareholding4
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
 100
100
 100
Note:
(1)	
Investments include investments and stock-in-trade reported by the above entities and also include investments held to cover policy holders’ liabilities and unit linked liabilities.
(2)	
Turnover is the total income reported by each of the entities in their financial statements.
(3)	
As per Accounting Standard 4 “Contingencies and Events Occurring After the Balance Sheet Date” (‘AS 4(Revised)’), the Company is not required to create provision for dividend declared after the balance sheet date but before financial 
statements are approved by the shareholders.
(4)	
% of Shareholding includes direct and indirect holding through subsidiaries.
(5)	
The financial statements of subsidiaries located outside India i.e. Kotak Mahindra, Inc., Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited, Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited, Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited and Kotak Mahindra Asset 
Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries. For the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results, the results of these 
subsidiaries are prepared under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’). The reporting currency of these subsidiaries is USD and financial statements are translated on the following basis: (a) Income and 
expenses are converted at the average rate of exchange applicable for the year ending 31st March, 2024 (1 USD = 82.80 INR) and (b) All assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate as on the last day of the financial year ending 
31st March, 2024 (1 USD = 83.41 INR).
(6)	
On 26th April, 2024, the Board of Directors of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited have proposed a final dividend of H 4.50 per share amounting to H 229.63 crore in respect of the year ending 31st March, 2024 subject 
to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
(7)	
The financial statements of Indian subsidiaries (excluding insurance companies) and associates are prepared as per Indian Accounting Standards in accordance with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. For the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results, the results of subsidiaries and associates are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’) specified under Section 133 and relevant 
provision of Companies Act, 2013.
(8)	
On 26th June, 2023, the Bank has incorporated “Kotak Karma Foundation” (“the Foundation”) under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, as a wholly owned subsidiary for setting up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Bank for 
furtherance of part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives. Being a Section 8 Company and as per terms of articles, the Foundation would operate with restrictions to transfer funds to the parent, hence in accordance 
with the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on “Consolidated Financial Statements”, the Company shall be excluded from consolidation.
(9)	
The Bank acquired 100% of the issued and paid up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited, a Non-Banking Finance Company – Micro Finance Institution registered with the RBI. With this acquisition, Sonata became a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Bank w.e.f 28th March, 2024.
161
Consolidated Schedules
PART "B" : Associates
₹ in crore
Particulars
Infina Finance Private Limited
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
Latest Audited Balance Sheet date
31-Mar-24
31-Mar-24
Shares of Associate held by the Group on the year end
No. of Equity Shares
 1,100,240
 83,832,000
Amount of Investment in Associates
 1.10
 100.02
Extent of Holding %
49.99%
49.90%
Description of how there is significance influence
Ownership of 20% or 
more of the voting power
Ownership of 20% or 
more of the voting power
Reason why the associate is not consolidated
Ownership of less than 50% 
of the voting power and 
no control over the Board
Ownership of less than 50% 
of the voting power and 
no control over the Board
Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
 1,225.93
 462.70
Profit for the year
 256.31
 216.94
i)	 Considered in the Consolidation
 128.13
 108.25
ii)	 Not considered in the Consolidation
 128.18
 108.69
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chairman
 Managing Director and
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
 DIN: 10227550
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
Basel III (Pillar 3) Disclosures (Consolidated) as at 31st March, 2024
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 disclosures including Leverage Ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable 
Funding Ratio (NSFR) under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on the Bank’s website at the following link: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/
financial-results/regulatory-disclosure.html. These disclosures have not been subjected to audit.
Financial Statements
162
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
OPINION
1. 
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), which comprise the Standalone 
Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2024, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account, and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, 
and notes to the standalone financial statements including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the 
Standalone Financial Statements’).
2. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements give 
the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘the RBI’), in the manner so required for banking companies and give a true and fair view, in conformity with the Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Bank as at 31 March 2024 and its profit and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
BASIS FOR OPINION
3. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of our report. 
We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
4. 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
	
Identification of and Provisioning against Non-performing Assets (‘NPAs’):
 
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2024: ` 376,075.27 Crores 
 
Provision for NPAs as at 31 March 2024: ` 4,004.21 Crores
 
Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(C)(2) and Schedule 18(A) - Note 9 and Note 11
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) on ‘Prudential Norms for Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining to 
Advances’ (the’ IRAC norms’) and amendments thereto which prescribes 
the guidelines for identification and classification of Non-performing 
Assets (‘NPAs’) and the minimum provision required for such assets. 
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine the 
identification and provision required against NPAs considering various 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
The identification of NPAs is also affected by factors like stress and 
liquidity concerns in certain sectors.
The provision for identified NPAs is estimated based on ageing and 
classification of NPAs, value of security, recovery estimates etc. and 
is also subject to the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI.
Our audit procedures included the following:
 

Understood the process and controls, and tested the design and 
operating effectiveness of key controls, including Information 
Technology based controls, and focused on the following:
 
¡ 
Approval of new lending facilities in accordance with the 
Bank’s credit policies.
 
¡ 
Performance of annual review/renewal of loan accounts.
 
¡ 
Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things 
includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts, drawing 
power limit and pending security creation; and
 
¡ 
Identification and classification of NPAs in accordance with 
IRAC norms, other regulatory guidelines issued by the RBI 
and consideration of qualitative aspects.
163
Independent Auditor’s Report on Standalone Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
As the identification of and provisioning against NPAs requires 
considerable level of management estimation, application of various 
regulatory requirements and its significance to the overall audit, we 
have identified this as a key audit matter.
 
Tested the Bank’s process for identification of loans with default 
events and/ or breach of other qualitative factors, and for a 
sample of performing loans, independently assessed as to 
whether there was a need to classify such loans as NPAs.
 
On a test check basis, verified the accounts classified by the Bank 
as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’) in RBI’s Central Repository 
of Information on Large Credits (‘CRILC’).
 
With respect to provisions recognised towards NPAs, we 
reperformed the provision calculations on a sample basis 
taking into consideration the value of security, where applicable, 
the IRAC norms and NPA policy of the Bank, and compared 
our outcome to that prepared by the management and tested 
relevant assumptions and judgements which were used by the 
management.
	
Information Technology (‘IT’) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves many 
independent and interdependent IT systems used in the operations 
of the Bank for processing  and  recording  a  large  volume  of 
transactions. As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and 
dependency on such IT systems for the financial reporting process of 
the Bank.
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are required 
to ensure that such IT systems can process the data as required, 
completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
We identified certain key IT systems (‘in-scope’ IT systems) which have 
an impact on the financial reporting process, and the related control 
testing as a key audit matter because of the high level of automation, 
significant number of systems being used by the Bank for processing 
financial transactions, and the complexity of the IT architecture.
As described in Note 21 of Schedule 18B to the standalone financial 
statements, a supervisory action was undertaken against the Bank 
under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 by the Reserve 
Bank of India (‘RBI’) subsequent to the year end on 24 April 2024 arising 
from an IT examination conducted by the RBI, and the related reports 
containing its observations was issued by the RBI.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we involved 
our technology specialists to understand the IT environment, IT 
infrastructure and IT systems.
We evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls and IT application 
controls of the ‘in-scope’ IT systems identified as  relevant for our audit 
of the standalone financial statements and financial reporting process 
of the Bank.
On such ‘in-scope’ IT systems, we have tested key IT general controls 
and evaluated the same with respect to the following domains:
	
Program change management, which includes that program 
changes are moved to the production environment as per defined 
approvals and relevant segregation of environment is ensured.
	
User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, 
de-provisioning, 
access 
review, 
password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation of duties 
to ensure that privilege access to applications and its related 
operating system and databases in the production environment 
were granted only to authorized personnel.
 
Other areas under the IT control environment which includes 
backup management, business continuity, disaster recovery 
drill in-line with the bank’s disaster recovery plan, incident 
management, batch processing and monitoring.
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of key IT application controls within key business processes, which 
included testing automated calculations, automated accounting 
processes, system interfaces, system reconciliation controls and key 
system generated reports, as applicable.
Where control deficiencies were identified related to internal controls 
over financial reporting, we tested compensating controls or performed 
alternative audit procedures, where necessary.
Financial Statements
164
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We evaluated the management’s assessment of the observations noted 
by the RBI arising in their IT examination report and the impact of those 
observations on the standalone financial statements and on internal 
controls with reference to financial statements and also communicated 
with those charged with governance and sought their assessment of 
the impact of the observations.
INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITOR’S REPORT THEREON
6. 
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual 
Report but does not include the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available 
to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
 
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
 
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements or 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
 
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  MANAGEMENT  AND  THOSE  CHARGED  WITH  GOVERNANCE  FOR  THE  STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. 
The accompanying Standalone Financial Statements have been approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors. The Bank’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation and presentation of these Standalone Financial 
Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with the Accounting 
Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, and provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from 
time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act and the RBI guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
8. 
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intend to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9. 
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
11. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
165
Independent Auditor’s Report on Standalone Financial Statements
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 
the management;
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
12. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
13. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
14. 
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
15. 
In our opinion, The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of section 29 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and the relevant rules issued thereunder.
16. 
As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
 
a) 
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of our 
audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
 
b) 
The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank;
 
c) 
Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out 
centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are available therein. We have visited 128 branches to 
examine the records maintained at the branches for the purpose of our audit.
17. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section 197 of the Act are not 
applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act 
regarding payment/ provision for managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
18. 
As required by section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:
 
a) 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit;
 
b) 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our examination of those books; 
except for the matters stated in paragraph 18(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended);
 
c) 
The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of 
account;
 
d) 
In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the  Accounting  Standards specified under section 133 of the Act 
read with relevant Rules issued thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI;
 
e) 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2024 and taken on record by the Board of Directors, none 
of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
Financial Statements
166
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 
f) 
With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our remarks in paragraph 18(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 18(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended);
 
g) 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in Annexure A wherein we have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
 
h) 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Schedule 
12 (I), Schedule 17C – Note 13 and Schedule 18B - Note 15 to the Standalone Financial Statements;
 
 
ii. 
The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on 
long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Schedule 12 (II), 12 (Va) and 12 (Vb), Schedule 17C – Note 10, Note 11 and 
Note 13 and Schedule 18B – Note 10 and Note 15 to the Standalone Financial Statements;
 
 
iii. 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Bank, 
during the year ended 31 March 2024;
 
 
iv. 
a. 
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in Schedule 18B – Note 17 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (‘Ultimate 
Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
b. 
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in Schedule 18B – Note 17 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, no funds have been received by the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank shall, whether directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
 
 
 
c. 
Based on such audit procedures performed, as considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing has come 
to our attention that causes us to believe that the management representations under sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any 
material misstatement.
 
 
v. 
The dividend declared and paid during the year ended 31 March 2024 by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
vi. 
Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Bank has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account 
that have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the audit trail feature has operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software, except for six accounting software having Oracle or MySQL or SQL database, where the audit trail 
has not been enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes. Further, the Bank has used an accounting software hosted by 
third-party service providers for maintaining its books of account and in the absence of service organization controls auditors’ report for 
the financial year, we are unable to comment whether the audit trail feature of the aforesaid software at the database level was enabled 
and operated throughout the year. Based on our procedures performed, for the accounting software other than the aforesaid databases 
where the question of our commenting does not arise, we did not notice any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 301112E/ E300264
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Russell I Parera
Gautam Shah
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 042190
Membership Number: 117348
UDIN: 24042190BKFFOQ2541
UDIN: 24117348BKBZWK9832
Place : Mumbai
Place : Mumbai
Date : 04 May 2024
Date : 04 May 2024
167
Independent Auditor’s Report on Standalone Financial Statements
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF KOTAK MAHINDRA 
BANK LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 18(g) UNDER ‘REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS’ SECTION OF OUR REPORT OF 
EVEN DATE
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1. 
In conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (‘the Bank) as at and for the year ended 31 March 
2024, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of the Bank as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2. 
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of the Bank’s business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
3. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) issued by the ICAI and 
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. 
Those SAs and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements were established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to the 
Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial 
Statements includes obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Bank’s internal 
financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
6. 
A Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements include those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 
the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of the standalone financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
7. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion	
8. 
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2024, based on 
the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Firm Registration Number: 301112E/ E300264
Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621
Russell I Parera
Gautam Shah
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 042190
Membership Number: 117348
UDIN: 24042190BKFFOQ2541
UDIN: 24117348BKBZWK9832
Place : Mumbai
Place : Mumbai
Date : 04 May 2024
Date : 04 May 2024
Financial Statements
168
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2024
(` in thousands)
Schedule
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
 9,939,604 
 14,932,783 
Employee's Stock Options (Grants) Outstanding
 792,938 
 603,058 
Reserves and Surplus
2
 956,455,026 
 819,666,658 
Deposits
3
 4,489,537,451 
 3,630,960,526 
Borrowings
4
 283,680,956 
 234,162,684 
Other Liabilities and Provisions
5
 263,164,482 
 198,299,064 
Total
 6,003,570,457 
 4,898,624,773 
ASSETS
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
 362,520,376 
 199,655,575 
Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
7
 165,363,645 
 125,767,503 
Investments
8
 1,554,037,587 
 1,214,037,287 
Advances
9
 3,760,752,659 
 3,198,612,074 
Fixed Assets 
10
 21,552,965 
 19,203,232 
Other Assets
11
 139,343,225 
 141,349,102 
Total
 6,003,570,457 
 4,898,624,773 
Contingent Liabilities
12
 7,172,811,816 
 4,556,937,357 
Bills for Collection
 474,677,060 
 446,552,442 
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts forming part of financial 
statements	
17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of this Balance Sheet.
The Balance Sheet has been prepared in conformity with Form ‘A’ of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
169
Standalone Balance Sheet & Profit and Loss Account
Profit and Loss Account 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(` in thousands)
Schedule
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
INCOME
Interest Earned
13
 457,989,110 
 342,508,509 
Other Income 
14
 102,731,007 
 70,830,509 
Total
 560,720,117 
 413,339,018 
II.
EXPENDITURE
Interest Expended
15
 198,057,109 
 126,989,356 
Operating Expenses
16
 166,788,460 
 137,869,937 
Provisions and Contingencies (Refer Note 10 -Schedule 18 B)
 58,058,724 
 39,086,774 
Total
 422,904,293 
 303,946,067 
III.
PROFIT
Net Profit for the year (I - II)
 137,815,824 
 109,392,951 
Add: Balance in Profit and Loss Account  brought forward from previous year
 377,600,930 
 304,558,535 
Total
 515,416,754 
 413,951,486 
IV.
APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 34,454,000 
 27,348,300 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 - 
 9,900 
Transfer to Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961
 1,250,000 
 1,150,000 
Transfer to Investment Reserve Account
 8,316,321 
 - 
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve Account
 12,000,000 
 5,253,150 
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve
 5,000,000 
 - 
Dividend
 3,366,210 
 2,589,206 
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
 451,030,223 
 377,600,930 
Total
 515,416,754 
 413,951,486 
V.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (Face Value of ` 5/-) (Refer Note 1 - Schedule 18 B)
Basic 
 69.15 
 54.89 
Diluted
 69.15 
 54.87 
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts forming part of financial statements
17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of this Profit and Loss Account.
The Profit and Loss Account has been prepared in conformity with Form ‘B’ of the Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
Financial Statements
170
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in thousands)
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
Profit after tax
 137,815,824 
 109,392,951 
Add: Provision for tax
 42,321,343 
 34,516,910 
Net Profit before taxes 
 180,137,167 
 143,909,861 
Adjustments for :- 
Employee Stock Options Expense
 254,406 
 241,886 
Depreciation on Bank's Property 
 6,147,920 
 4,617,270 
Diminution in the value of Investments
 792,218 
 (210,499)
Dividend from Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
 (3,089,012)
 (2,422,740)
Amortization of Premium on HTM Investments
 3,613,242 
 5,258,387 
(Profit)/Loss on revaluation of Investments (net)
 (14,817,762)
 2,210,847 
Provision for Non Performing Assets, Standard Assets and Other Provisions
 14,945,163 
 4,780,363 
Profit on sale of Fixed Assets
 (30,256)
 (75,091)
 187,953,086 
 158,310,284 
Adjustments for :- 
(Increase) in Investments (other than Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures, Associates and Other HTM Investments)
 (354,952,676)
 (225,477,641)
(Increase) in Advances
 (577,005,271)
 (491,152,921)
Decrease / (Increase)  in Other Assets 
 3,559,820 
 (11,285,411)
Increase in Deposits 
 858,576,925 
 514,119,392 
Increase in Other Liabilities and Provisions
 67,027,511 
 6,572,093 
Sub-total
 (2,793,691)
 (207,224,488)
Direct Taxes Paid
 (46,151,531)
 (34,777,571)
NET CASH FLOW FROM/ (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (A)
 139,007,864 
 (83,691,775)
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of Fixed Assets 
 (8,847,258)
 (7,698,023)
Sale of Fixed Assets 
 277,290 
 200,140 
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
 (7,331,239)
 (2,242,200)
Decrease in Investments in HTM securities
 33,027,233 
 12,225,987 
Dividend from Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
 3,089,012 
 2,422,740 
NET CASH FLOW USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (B)
 20,215,038 
 4,908,644 
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
171
Standalone Cash Flow Statement
(` in thousands)
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
(Decrease) in Subordinated Debt
 - 
 (3,060,000)
Increase in Refinance
 40,751,200 
 22,290,600 
Increase/(Decrease) in Borrowings [other than Refinance and Sub-ordinated debt]
 8,767,072 
 (44,739,085)
Money received on exercise of Stock Options
 1,992,348 
 2,678,633 
Redemption of Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Shares
 (5,000,000)
 - 
Dividend paid 
 (3,366,210)
 (2,589,206)
NET CASH FLOW FROM / (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (C)
 43,144,410 
 (25,419,058)
Increase in Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (D)
 93,631 
 385,916 
NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A + B + C + D)
 202,460,943 
 (103,816,273)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR (REFER NOTE BELOW)
 325,423,078 
 429,239,351 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR (REFER NOTE BELOW)
 527,884,021 
 325,423,078 
Note:
Balance with Banks in India in Fixed Deposit (As per Sch 7 I (i) (b))
 11,733 
 11,733 
Balance with Banks in India in Current Account (As per Sch 7 I (i) (a))
 3,266,665 
 3,758,533 
Money at Call and Short Notice in India (as per Sch 7 I (ii))
 114,806,705 
 78,969,813 
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) (As per Sch 6 I.)
 19,910,301 
 18,823,722 
Balance with RBI in Current Account (As per Sch 6 II (a))
 192,100,075 
 180,831,853 
Balance with RBI in other account (As per Sch 6 II (b))
 150,510,000 
 - 
Balance with Banks Outside India:
(i) In Current Account  (As per Sch 7 II (i))
 27,895,220 
 23,528,483 
(ii) In other Deposit Accounts (As per Sch 7 II (ii))
 19,383,322 
 19,498,941 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR
 527,884,021 
 325,423,078 
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Financial Statements
172
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Schedules
forming part of Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2024
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Authorised Capital
2,800,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5/- each 
2,800,000,000 (31st March, 2023: 2,800,000,000 Equity Shares of ` 5/- each)
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
1,000,000,000 (31st March, 2023: 1,000,000,000) Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Shares of ` 5/- each
 5,000,000 
 5,000,000 
 19,000,000 
 19,000,000 
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Capital
1,987,920,898 (31st March, 2023: 1,986,556,582) Equity  Shares of ` 5/- each fully paid-up
 9,939,604 
 9,932,783 
Nil (31st March, 2023: 1,000,000,000) Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Shares of ` 5/- each fully paid-up
 - 
 5,000,000 
Total
 9,939,604 
 14,932,783 
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND  SURPLUS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 148,317,983 
 120,969,683 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 34,454,000 
 27,348,300 
Total
 182,771,983 
 148,317,983 
II.
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
 3,531,886 
 3,521,986 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 - 
 9,900 
Total
 3,531,886 
 3,531,886 
III.
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 6,425,304 
 6,404,249 
Add: Amount transferred on Employee's Stock Options (Grants) Outstanding lapsed
 69,716 
 21,055 
Total
 6,495,020 
 6,425,304 
IV.
Investment Reserve Account
Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
Add: Transfer from/(to) Profit and Loss Account
 8,316,321 
 - 
Total
 8,316,321 
 - 
V.
Special Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961
Opening Balance
 8,942,000 
 7,792,000 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 1,250,000 
 1,150,000 
Total
 10,192,000 
 8,942,000 
VI.
Securities Premium Account
Opening Balance
 249,839,331 
 247,024,798 
Add: Received during the year 
 2,175,407 
 2,814,533 
Less: Share Issue Expenses
 - 
 - 
Total
 252,014,738 
 249,839,331 
VII.
Capital Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 5,000,000 
 - 
Total
 5,000,000 
 - 
173
Standalone Schedules
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
VIII.
Amalgamation Reserve
Opening Balance
 1,224,046 
 1,224,046 
Add: Additions
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,224,046 
 1,224,046 
IX.
Investment Allowance (Utilised) Reserve
Opening Balance
 500 
 500 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 - 
 - 
Total
 500 
 500 
X.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance
 23,000,000 
 17,746,850 
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
 12,000,000 
 5,253,150 
Total
 35,000,000 
 23,000,000 
XI.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening Balance
 784,678 
 398,762 
Add: (Decrease) / Increase during the year 
 93,631 
 385,916 
Total
 878,309 
 784,678 
XII.
Balance in the Profit and Loss Account
Balance in the Profit and Loss Account
 451,030,223 
 377,600,930 
Total
 451,030,223 
 377,600,930 
Total (I to XII)
 956,455,026 
 819,666,658 
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A
I.
Demand Deposits
i. 
From Banks
 3,068,958 
 2,435,164 
ii. 
From Others
 749,013,968 
 697,867,219 
Total
 752,082,926 
 700,302,383 
II.
Savings Bank Deposits
 1,290,951,628 
 1,217,850,232 
III.
Term Deposits
i.  
From Banks
 96,581,087 
 26,074,227 
ii. 
From Others
 2,349,921,810 
 1,686,733,684 
Total
 2,446,502,897 
 1,712,807,911 
Total Deposits (I to III)
 4,489,537,451 
 3,630,960,526 
B.
(i) 
Deposits of branches in India
 4,461,142,550 
 3,612,850,670 
(ii) 
Deposits of branches outside India
 28,394,901 
 18,109,856 
Total (i and ii)
 4,489,537,451 
 3,630,960,526 
Financial Statements
174
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Borrowings in India
(i) 
Reserve Bank of India
 - 
 47,000,000 
(ii) 
Other Banks
 - 
 2,259,792 
(iii) 
Other Institutions and Agencies (Refer Note 13 - Schedule 18 B)
 209,701,800 
 140,000,600 
Total
 209,701,800 
 189,260,392 
II.
Borrowings outside India
Banks & Other Institutions (Refer Note 13 - Schedule 18 B)
 73,979,156 
 44,902,292 
Total
 73,979,156 
 44,902,292 
Total Borrowings (I and II)
 283,680,956 
 234,162,684 
Secured Borrowings other than CBLO and Repo Borrowings included in I above
 - 
 - 
Tier II Bonds included in I (iii) above
 - 
 - 
Tier II Bonds included in II above
 - 
 - 
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Bills Payable
 36,051,339 
 30,880,206 
II.
Interest Accrued
 22,336,906 
 11,966,131 
III.
Provision for tax (net of advance tax and tax deducted at source)
 - 
 2,378,818 
IV.
Standard Asset provision 
 16,256,473 
 15,172,925 
V.
Others (including provisions) (Refer Note 45 - Schedule 18 A and Note 11 - Schedule 18 B)
 188,519,764 
 137,900,984 
Total
 263,164,482 
 198,299,064 
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 19,910,301 
 18,823,722 
Total
 19,910,301 
 18,823,722 
II.
Balances with RBI 
(a) 
In Current Account
 192,100,075 
 180,831,853 
(b) 
In Other Deposit Account
 150,510,000 
 - 
Total
 342,610,075 
 180,831,853 
Total (I+II)
 362,520,376 
 199,655,575 
175
Standalone Schedules
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
In India
(i)	
Balances with Banks
 
(a) 
In Current Accounts
 3,266,665 
 3,758,533 
 
(b) 
In Other Deposit Accounts
 11,733 
 11,733 
Total
 3,278,398 
 3,770,266 
(ii)  Money at Call and Short Notice
	
(a)	
With Banks
 - 
 77,469,813 
 
(b) 
With Other Institutions 
 114,806,705 
 1,500,000 
Total
 114,806,705 
 78,969,813 
Total (i and ii)
 118,085,103 
 82,740,079 
II.
Outside India
(i) 
In Current Accounts
 27,895,220 
 23,528,483 
(ii) 
In other Deposit Accounts
 19,383,322 
 19,498,941 
(iii) 
Money at call and short notice
 - 
 - 
Total (i, ii and iii)
 47,278,542 
 43,027,424 
Total (I and II)
 165,363,645 
 125,767,503 
SCHEDULE  8 - INVESTMENTS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
In India
(i) 
Government Securities
 1,133,950,690 
 897,060,582 
(ii) 
Other Approved Securities 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Shares
 12,245,800 
 12,302,210 
(iv) 
Debentures and Bonds
 168,493,691 
 189,697,809 
(v) 
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
 39,020,133 
 31,688,894 
(vi) 
Others [Units, Certificate of Deposits (CD), Commercial Paper (CP), Security Receipts, Pass 
Through Certificates(PTC)]
 183,138,405 
 71,092,790 
Total
 1,536,848,719 
 1,201,842,285 
II.
Outside India
(i) 
Government Securities
 2,777,753 
 1,464,844 
(ii) 
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
 383,242 
 383,242 
(iii) 
Other Investments
	
(a)	
Shares
 18,040 
 12,460 
 
(b) 
Debentures and Bonds
 14,009,833 
 10,334,456 
Total
 17,188,868 
 12,195,002 
Total Investments (I and II) 
 1,554,037,587 
 1,214,037,287 
Financial Statements
176
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE  9  - ADVANCES
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A.
(i)	
Bills purchased and  discounted #
 75,847,475 
 55,508,802 
(ii) 
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand^
 1,204,741,113 
 987,126,164 
(iii) 
Term loans @
 2,480,164,071 
 2,155,977,108 
Total
 3,760,752,659 
 3,198,612,074 
# Bills purchased and discounted is net of Bills Rediscounted ` 2,723.66 crore (Previous Year  ` 1,475.84 crore)
^ net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participatory certificates of ` 2.54 crore (Previous Year ` 220.00 crore)
@ net of borrowings under Inter Bank Participatory certificates of ` 12,927.26 crore (Previous Year ` 3,986.26 crore)
B.
(i)	
Secured by tangible assets *
 2,851,501,397 
 2,465,402,365 
(ii) 
Covered by Bank / Government guarantees
 33,513,741 
 69,720,473 
(iii)	
Unsecured
 875,737,521 
 663,489,236 
Total
 3,760,752,659 
 3,198,612,074 
* including advances against book debts.
C.I.
Advances in India
(i)	
Priority Sector
 1,677,430,941 
 1,471,534,973 
(ii)	
Public Sector
 23,509,188 
 4,093,487 
(iii)	
Banks
 13,650,218 
 2,077 
(iv) 
Others
 1,985,655,735 
 1,674,439,675 
Total
 3,700,246,082 
 3,150,070,212 
C.II.
Advances outside India
(i) 
 Due from banks
 - 
 - 
(ii) 
 Due from others
	
a)	
Bills purchased and discounted
 - 
 - 
	
b)	
Syndicated and term loans
 60,506,577 
 48,541,862 
 
c) 
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 60,506,577 
 48,541,862 
Grand Total (C.I. and C.II.)
 3,760,752,659 
 3,198,612,074 
SCHEDULE  10  - FIXED ASSETS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A.
Premises (Including Land)
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 10,577,170 
 10,570,977 
Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year
 2,240 
 11,562 
Less: Deductions during the year
 13 
 5,369 
Total
 10,579,397 
 10,577,170 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 2,364,590 
 2,191,672 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 174,346 
 174,113 
Less: Deductions during the year
 - 
 1,195 
Depreciation to date
 2,538,936 
 2,364,590 
Net Block
 8,040,461 
 8,212,580 
177
Standalone Schedules
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
B.
Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 32,549,618 
 28,763,074 
Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year
 8,742,449 
 7,496,819 
Less: Deductions during the year
 869,110 
 3,710,275 
Total
 40,422,957 
 32,549,618 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 21,715,950 
 20,862,194 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 5,973,574 
 4,443,157 
Less: Deductions during the year
 779,071 
 3,589,401 
Depreciation to date
 26,910,453 
 21,715,950 
Net Block (Refer Note 6 - Schedule 18 B)
 13,512,504 
 10,833,668 
C.
Leased Fixed Assets
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 1,540,585 
 1,540,585 
Additions/Exchange Gain/(Loss) during the year
 - 
 - 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,540,585 
 - 
Total
 - 
 1,540,585 
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year
 1,383,601 
 1,383,601 
Add: Charge/Exchange Gain/(Loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
Less: Deductions during the year
 1,383,601 
 - 
Depreciation to date
 - 
 1,383,601 
Net Block
 - 
 156,984 
Total (A) +(B)+(C)
 21,552,965 
 19,203,232 
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest accrued
 44,126,279 
 38,950,762 
II.
Advance tax (net of provision for tax)
 1,938,700 
 - 
III.
Stationery and Stamps
 14,768 
 27,038 
IV.
Others (Refer Note 45 - Schedule 18 A and Note 4 - Schedule 18 B)*
 93,263,478 
 102,371,302 
Total
 139,343,225 
 141,349,102 
*Includes deposits placed with NABARD/SIDBI ` 3,253.85 crore (Previous year ` 4,544.48 crore).
Financial Statements
178
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(` in thousands)
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
I.
Claims not acknowledged as debts
 5,537,058 
 4,911,365 
II.
Liability on account of outstanding Forward Exchange Contracts
 5,019,139,271 
 2,991,342,115 
III.
Guarantees on behalf of Constituents
i)	
In India
 319,446,355 
 268,102,384 
ii) 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
IV.
 Acceptances, Endorsements and other obligations 
 266,940,082 
 244,570,188 
V.
Other Items for which the Bank is contingently liable :
a. 
Liability in respect of interest rate and currency swaps and forward rate agreements
 1,432,586,428 
 996,439,662 
b. 
Liability in respect of Options Contracts
 116,319,586 
 31,806,455 
c. 
Capital commitments not provided
 8,723,033 
 16,200,945 
d. 
Unclaimed Customer balances transferred to RBI DEAF Scheme
 4,120,003 
 3,564,243 
Total
 7,172,811,816 
 4,556,937,357 
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
(` in thousands)
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest / discount on Advances / Bills
 356,579,938 
 269,784,462 
II.
Income on Investments 
 88,980,830 
 64,586,509 
III.
Interest on balances with RBI and other inter-bank funds
 7,793,843 
 5,502,956 
IV.
Others
 4,634,499 
 2,634,582 
Total
 457,989,110 
 342,508,509 
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
(` in thousands)
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 70,485,388 
 54,400,095 
II.
Profit / (Loss) on sale of Investments (net) 
 (5,597,936)
 (7,557,133)
III.
Profit / (Loss) on revaluation of Investments (net)
 14,817,762 
 (2,210,847)
IV.
Profit / (Loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)
 30,256 
 75,091 
V.
Profit on exchange transactions (net) (including derivatives)
 14,032,659 
 16,366,587 
VI.
Income earned by way of dividend, etc. from Subsidiaries / Associates and /  
or Joint Venture in / outside India
 4,560,996 
 3,646,060 
VII.
Profit on recoveries of non-performing assets acquired
 3,031,033 
 3,109,786 
VIII.
Miscellaneous Income (Refer Note 45 - Schedule 18 A)
 1,370,849 
 3,000,870 
Total
 102,731,007 
 70,830,509 
179
Standalone Schedules
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
(` in thousands)
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Interest on Deposits
 183,267,206 
 117,982,582 
II.
Interest on RBI / Inter-Bank Borrowings
 3,666,491 
 2,505,371 
III.
Others (Refer Note 13(c) - Schedule 18 B)
 11,123,412 
 6,501,403 
Total
 198,057,109 
 126,989,356 
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
(` in thousands)
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
I.
Payments to and provision for employees (Refer Note 9 - Schedule 18 B)
 68,926,322 
 55,477,845 
II.
Rent, taxes and lighting (Refer Note 3 - Schedule 18 B)
 8,336,698 
 8,254,684 
III.
Printing and Stationery
 1,944,074 
 1,686,785 
IV.
Advertisement, Publicity and Promotion 
 9,709,109 
 6,326,413 
V.
Depreciation on Bank's property
 6,147,920 
 4,617,270 
VI.
Directors' fees, allowances and expenses*
 57,440 
 35,675 
VII.
Auditors' fees and expenses (Refer Note 14 - Schedule 18 B)
 41,619 
 38,840 
VIII.
Law Charges
 317,976 
 435,680 
IX.
Postage, telephone etc.
 4,178,355 
 3,665,394 
X.
Repairs and maintenance
 11,026,629 
 9,293,498 
XI.
Insurance 
 4,688,982 
 3,907,174 
XII.
Other Expenditure (Refer Note 45 - Schedule 18 A and Note 12 - Schedule 18 B)
 51,946,459 
 44,570,879 
 167,321,583 
 138,310,137 
Less: Reimbursement of Costs from Group Companies
 533,123 
 440,200 
Total
 166,788,460 
 137,869,937 
* Pertains to non executive director’s remuneration.
Financial Statements
180
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SCHEDULE 17 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES1
A	
BACKGROUND
 
In February 2003, Kotak Mahindra Finance Limited was given a license to carry out banking business by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”). It was the 
first Non Banking Finance Company (NBFC) in India to be converted into a Bank. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Kotak Mahindra Bank”, “Kotak” or 
“the Bank”) provides a full suite of banking services to its customers encompassing Consumer Banking, Commercial Banking, Treasury and Corporate 
Banking in India and also has a representative office in Dubai. The Bank set up and commenced operations in May 2016, at its International Financial 
Services Center Banking Unit (“IBU”) in Gujarat International Finance Tec (GIFT) City, Gujarat. The Bank has commenced operations in October 2019 
at its first overseas branch at the Dubai International Financial Centre (“DIFC”), Dubai, UAE.
B	
BASIS OF PREPARATION
 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with statutory requirements prescribed under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The 
accounting and reporting policies of Kotak Mahindra Bank used in the preparation of these financial statements is the accrual method of accounting 
and historical cost convention unless stated otherwise and it conforms with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (“Indian GAAP”), the 
Accounting Standards specified under section 133 and the relevant provision of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021 in so far as they apply to banks and the guidelines issued by RBI.
	
Use of estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements requires the Management to make estimates and assumptions considered in the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expenses during the reporting 
period. The Bank’s Management believes that the estimates used in preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual 
results could differ from these estimates. Any revision to the accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
C	
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1	
Investments
	
Classification:
 
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation, investments are classified on the date of purchase into “Held for 
Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories (hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent shifting amongst 
the categories is done in accordance with the RBI guidelines at the lower of the acquisition cost or carrying value and market value on the date of the 
transfer, and depreciation, if any, on such transfer is fully provided.
 
Under each of these categories, investments are further classified under six groups (hereinafter called “group/groups”) - Government Securities, 
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other Investments for the purposes of 
disclosure in the Balance Sheet.
 
The Bank follows ‘Settlement Date’ accounting for recording purchase and sale transactions in securities, except in the case of equity shares where 
‘Trade Date’ accounting is followed.
	
Basis of classification:
 
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified under HFT category. As per the RBI guidelines, 
HFT securities, which remain unsold for a period of 90 days are reclassified as AFS securities as on that date. Investments which the Bank intends 
to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities. The Bank has classified investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates under HTM 
category. Investments which are not classified in either of the above two categories are classified under AFS category.
	
Acquisition Cost:
 
The cost of investments is determined on weighted average basis. Broken period interest on debt instruments and government securities are 
considered as a revenue item. The transaction costs including brokerage, commission, etc. paid at the time of acquisition of investments is recognised 
in Profit and Loss Account.
	
Disposal of investments:
	
Õ	
Investments classified as HFT or AFS - Profit or loss on sale or redemption is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Õ	
Investments classified as HTM - Profit on sale or redemption of investments is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and is appropriated 
to Capital Reserve after adjustments for tax and transfer to Statutory Reserve. Loss on sale or redemption is recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account.
	
Short Sale:
 
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Government dated securities in accordance with RBI guidelines. The short position is 
categorised under HFT category and netted off from Investments in the Balance Sheet. The short position is marked to market and loss, if any, is 
181
Standalone Schedules
charged to the Profit and Loss Account while gain, if any, is ignored. Gain or loss on settlement of the short position is recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account.
	
Valuation:
 
The valuation of investments is performed in accordance with the RBI guidelines as follows:
	
a)	
Investments classified as HTM – These are carried at their acquisition cost. Any premium on acquisition of debt instruments / government 
securities is amortised over the balance maturity of the security on a straight line basis. Any diminution, other than temporary, in the value of 
such securities is provided.
	
b)	
Investments classified as HFT or AFS – Investments in these categories are marked to market and the net depreciation, if any, within each 
group is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Net appreciation, if any, is ignored. Further, provision other than temporary diminution is 
made at individual security level. Except in cases where provision other than temporary diminution is made, the book value of the individual 
securities is not changed as a result of periodic valuations.
 
c) 
The market or fair value of quoted investments included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories is measured with respect to the market price of the 
scrip as available from the trades or quotes on the stock exchanges, SGL account transactions, price list of RBI or prices declared on Fixed 
Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (‘FIMMDA’) website by Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (FBIL) as at the 
year end.
 
d) 
Treasury Bills, Exchange Funded Bills, Commercial Paper and Certificate of Deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
 
e) 
Market value of units of mutual funds is based on the latest net asset value declared by the mutual fund.
 
f) 
Investments in subsidiaries / joint ventures (as defined by RBI) are categorised as HTM and assessed for impairment to determine other than 
temporary diminution, if any, in accordance with RBI guidelines.
 
g) 
Market value of investments where current quotations are not available are determined as per the norms prescribed by the RBI as under:
	
	
Õ 
In case of unquoted bonds, debentures and preference shares where interest / dividend is received regularly (i.e. not overdue beyond 90 
days), the market price is derived based on the Yield to Maturity for Government Securities as published by FIMMDA / FBIL and suitably 
marked up for credit risk applicable to the credit rating of the instrument. The matrix for credit risk mark-up for each category and credit 
rating along with residual maturity issued by FIMMDA / FBIL is adopted for this purpose;
	
	
Õ 
In case of bonds and debentures (including Pass Through Certificates) where interest is not received regularly (i.e. overdue beyond 90 
days), the valuation is in accordance with prudential norms for provisioning as prescribed by the RBI. Interest on such securities is not 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account until received;
	
	
Õ 
Equity shares, for which current quotations are not available or where the shares are not quoted on the stock exchanges, are valued at 
break-up value (without considering revaluation reserves, if any) which is ascertained from the company’s latest Balance Sheet. In case 
the latest Balance Sheet is not available, the shares are valued at ` 1 per investee company;
	
	
Õ 
Units of Venture Capital Funds (VCF) held under AFS category where current valuations are not available are marked to market based on 
the Net Asset Value (NAV) shown by VCF as per the latest audited financials of the fund. In case the audited financials are not available 
for a period beyond 18 months, the investments are valued at ` 1 per VCF. Investment in unquoted VCF after 23rd August, 2006 are 
categorised under HTM category for the initial period of three years and valued at cost as per RBI guidelines. Such investments are 
required to be transferred to AFS thereafter;
	
	
Õ 
Security receipts are valued as per the Net Asset Value (NAV) obtained from the issuing Asset Reconstruction Company or Securitisation 
Company or estimated recovery whichever is lower. The Bank has classified Security Receipts whose tenure has exceeded 8 years, as 
“Non Performing investments”.
	
	
Õ 
The Bank provides for investments in Alternate Investments Funds (AIF) in accordance with RBI circular dated 19th December, 2023 and 
27th March 2024.
 
h) 
Non-performing investments are identified and depreciation / provision are made thereon based on RBI guidelines. The depreciation / provision 
on such non-performing investments are not set off against the appreciation in respect of other performing securities. Interest on non-
performing investments is not recognized in the Profit & Loss Account until received.
	
i)	
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions - Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (Repos) and securities purchased under 
agreements to resell (Reverse Repos) are accounted as collateralised borrowing and lending transactions respectively. The difference between 
the consideration amount of the first leg and the second leg of the repo is recognised as interest income or interest expense over the period of 
the transaction.
Financial Statements
182
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2	
Advances
	
Classification:
 
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing advances (‘NPAs’) based on RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank 
participation with risk, specific provisions, interest in suspense, claims received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation and Emergency Credit Line 
Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) with respect to non-performing advances, provisions for funded interest term loan and provisions in lieu of diminution in the 
fair value of restructured assets. Also, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets as required by RBI guidelines. Interest on NPAs 
remaining uncollected is transferred to an interest suspense account and not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account until received.
 
Amounts paid for acquiring non-performing asset(s) from other banks and NBFCs are considered as advances. Actual collections received on such 
non-performing asset(s) are compared with the cash flow(s) estimated while purchasing the asset to ascertain overdue(s). If such overdue(s) is/are 
in excess of 90 days, then this/these asset(s) are classified into sub-standard, doubtful or loss as required by the RBI guidelines on purchase of non-
performing asset(s).
 
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank participation with and without risk. In accordance with the RBI guidelines, in the case of participation 
with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued by the Bank is reduced from advances and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate 
amount of the participation is classified under advances. In the case of participation without risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the 
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank is participating, the aggregate amount of participation is shown as due from banks under 
advances.
	
Provisioning:
 
The Bank classifies its advances, investments and overdues from crystallised derivatives including those at overseas branches into performing and 
non performing in accordance with guidelines issued by the RBI. Provision for NPAs comprising sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets is made in 
accordance with RBI guidelines. In addition, the Bank considers accelerated specific provisioning that is based on past experience, evaluation of 
security and other related factors. Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing advances are charged to the Profit and Loss Account. Any 
recoveries made by the Bank in case of NPAs written off are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
The Bank considers a restructured account as one where the Bank, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, grants 
to the borrower concessions that the Bank would not otherwise consider. Restructuring would normally involve modification of terms of the advance 
/ securities, which would generally include, among others, alteration of repayment period / repayable amount / the amount of installments / rate of 
interest (due to reasons other than competitive reasons).
 
Restructured accounts are classified as such by the Bank only upon approval and implementation of the restructuring package. Necessary provision 
for diminution in the fair value of a restructured account is made.
 
In respect of borrowers restructured under the Resolution Framework – 1.0 and Resolution Framework 2.0 for COVID-19 related stress the Bank holds 
provisions higher than the provisions as required by the RBI guidelines based on the estimates made by the Bank.
 
In accordance with RBI guidelines the Bank has provided general provision on standard assets including credit exposures computed as per the 
current marked to market values of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, and gold at levels stipulated by RBI from time to time. 
Additional standard asset provision is done for overseas stepdown subsidiaries of Indian corporates. Standard provision is also made at higher than 
the prescribed rates in respect of advances to stressed sectors as per the framework approved by the Board of Directors. In case of Frauds, the Bank 
makes provision for amounts it is liable for in accordance with the guidelines issued by RBI. A general provision on the entire amount outstanding 
from borrowers who had an overdue on February 29, 2020 and to whom moratorium was given is also made.
 
Further to provisions required as per the asset classification status, provisions are held for individual country exposure (except for home country) as 
per the RBI guidelines. Exposure is classified in the seven risk categories as mentioned in the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Limited 
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is done for that country if the net funded exposure is one percent or more of the Bank’s total assets based on the 
rates laid down by the RBI.
 
Provision for Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure of borrowers is made as per the RBI guidelines.
3	
Loss on Sale of Advances to Asset Reconstruction Company
 
Loss on sale of Advances sold to Asset Reconstruction Company are recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
4	
Securitisation
 
The Bank enters into purchase/sale of corporate and retail loans through direct assignment/Special Purpose Vehicle (‘SPV’). In most cases, post 
securitisation, the Bank continues to service the loans transferred to the assignee/ SPV. The Bank also provides credit enhancement in the form of 
cash collaterals and/or by subordination of cash flows to Senior Pass-Through Certificate holders. In respect of credit enhancements provided or 
recourse obligations (projected delinquencies, future servicing etc.) accepted by the Bank, appropriate provision/disclosure is made at the time of 
sale in accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as specified under section 133 and the relevant provision of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021.
183
Standalone Schedules
 
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets dated 24 September 2021, the profit, loss or premium on account of 
securitisation of assets at the time of sale is computed as the difference between the sale consideration and the book value of the securitised asset. 
Any resultant profit, loss or premium realised on account of securitisation is recognised to the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which the sale 
is completed.
 
The Bank invests in instruments of other SPVs which are accounted for at the deal value and are classified under Investments.
5	
Fixed assets (Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible) and depreciation / amortisation
 
Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets have been stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation and adjusted for 
impairment, if any. Cost includes cost of purchase inclusive of freight, duties, incidental expenses and all expenditure like site preparation, installation 
costs and professional fees incurred on the asset before it is ready to put to use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised 
only when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability from / of such assets. Gain or loss arising from the retirement or disposal of a 
Property Plant and Equipment / Intangible asset are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
assets and recognised as income or expense in the Profit and Loss Account. Profit on sale of premises of the Bank, net of taxes and transfer to 
statutory reserve is appropriated to Capital Reserve as per RBI guidelines.
	
Depreciation / Amortisation - Depreciation is provided on a pro-rata basis on a Straight Line Method over the estimated useful life of the assets at 
rates which are equal to or higher than the rates prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 in order to reflect the actual usage of the 
assets. The estimated useful lives of assets based on technical evaluation by management are as follows:
Asset Type
Estimated Useful life in years
Premises
58
Leasehold Land
Over the lease period
Improvement to leasehold premises
Over the period of lease subject to a maximum of 6 years.
Office equipments 
(High capacity chillers, Transformers, UPS, DG set, Fire Suppression,  
HVAC, PAC & Elevators)
10
Office equipments (other than above)
5
Computers
3
Furniture and Fixtures
6
Motor Vehicles
4
ATMs
5
Software (including development) expenditure
3
 
Used assets purchased are depreciated over the residual useful life from the date of original purchase.
	
Items costing less than ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase.
6	
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with Other Banks / institutions and money at Call 
and Short Notice (including the effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents in foreign currency).
7	
Bullion
 
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on a consignment basis for selling to its wholesale customers. The difference between the 
sale price to customers and actual price quoted by supplier is reflected under other income.
 
The Bank also borrows and lends gold, which is treated as borrowings or lending as the case may be in accordance with the RBI guidelines and the 
interest paid or received is classified as interest expense or income and is accounted on an accrual basis.
8	
Revenue recognition
	
Interest income is recognised on accrual basis.
 
Interest income in respect of retail advances is accounted for by using the internal rate of return method to provide a constant periodic rate of return.
 
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought out through the direct assignment route is recognised at their effective interest rate.
 
Interest income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instruments so as to provide a constant periodic rate of return.
Financial Statements
184
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 
Service charges, fees and commission income are recognised when due except for guarantee commission and letter of credit which is recognised 
over the period of the guarantee / letter of credit. Syndication / arranger fee is recognised as income as per the terms of engagement.
 
Upon an asset becoming NPA the income accrued gets reversed, and is recognised only on realisation, as per RBI guidelines.
	
Penal interest is recognised as income on realisation other than on running accounts where it is recognised when due.
 
Other fees are recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate collection.
 
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the Bank’s right to receive the dividend is established.
 
Gain on account of securitisation of assets is amortised over the life of the securities issued in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI. Loss 
on account of securitisation of assets is recognised immediately in Profit and Loss account.
 
In respect of non-performing assets acquired from other Banks / FIs and NBFCs, collections in excess of the consideration paid at each asset level 
or portfolio level is treated as income in accordance with RBI guidelines and clarifications.
 
Fees received on sale of Priority Sector Lending Certificates is considered as Miscellaneous Income, while fees paid for purchase is recognised as 
expense under other expenses in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI.
9	
Employee benefits
	
Defined Contribution Plan
	
Provident Fund
 
Contribution as required by the statute made to the government provident fund or to a fund set up by the Bank and administered by a board of trustees 
is debited to the Profit and Loss Account when an employee renders the related service. The Bank has no further obligations.
	
Superannuation Fund
 
The Bank makes contributions in respect of eligible employees, subject to a maximum of ` 0.01 crore per employee per annum to a Fund administered 
by trustees and managed by Life Insurance Companies. The Bank recognises such contributions as an expense in the year when an employee renders 
the related service. The Bank has no further obligations.
	
New Pension Scheme
 
The Bank contributes up to 10% of eligible employees’ salary per annum, to the New Pension Fund administered by a Pension Fund Regulatory 
and Development Authority (PFRDA) appointed pension fund manager. The Bank recognises such contributions as an expense in the year when an 
employee renders the related service.
 
DIFC Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS)
 
The Bank’s branch in Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) contributes up to 8.33% of eligible branch employees’ salary per annum to the DIFC 
Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS). The Bank recognises such contributions as an expense in the year when an employee renders the 
related service. The Bank has no further obligation.
	
Defined Benefit Plan
 
Gratuity
 
The Bank provides for Gratuity, covering employees in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, service regulations and service awards 
as the case may be. The Bank’s liability is actuarially determined (using Projected Unit Credit Method) at the Balance Sheet date. The Bank makes 
contribution to Gratuity Funds administered by trustees and managed by Life Insurance Companies.
	
Pension Scheme
 
In respect of pension payable to certain erstwhile ING Vysya Bank Limited (“eIVBL”) employees under Indian Banks’ Association (“IBA”) structure, the 
Bank contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension fund and the difference between the contribution and the amount actuarially determined by an 
independent actuary is trued up based on actuarial valuation conducted as at the Balance Sheet date. The Pension Fund is administered by the Board 
of Trustees and managed by Life Insurance Company. The present value of the Bank’s defined pension obligation is determined using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method as at the Balance Sheet date.
 
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
 
The contribution made to the Pension fund is recognised as planned assets. The defined benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of the plan assets.
 
Actuarial gains or losses in respect of all defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which they are 
incurred.
185
Standalone Schedules
	
Compensated Absences – Other Long-Term Employee Benefits
 
The Bank accrues the liability for compensated absences based on the actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date conducted by an independent 
actuary which includes assumptions about demographics, early retirement, salary increases, interest rates and leave utilisation. The net present value 
of the Banks’ obligation is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method as at the Balance Sheet date. Actuarial gains / losses are recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which they arise.
	
Other Employee Benefits
 
As per the Bank’s policy, employees are eligible for an award after completion of a specified number of years of service with the Bank. The obligation 
is measured at the Balance Sheet date on the basis of an actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
 
The undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered by employees is recognised 
during the period when the employee renders the service. These benefits include performance incentives.
	
Employee share based payments
 
Equity-settled scheme:
 
The Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOSs) of the Bank are in accordance with SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021. The schemes provide for grant of options to employees of the Group to acquire the equity shares of the Bank that vest in cliff 
vesting or in a graded manner and that are to be exercised within a specified period.
 
RBI, vide its clarification dated 30th August, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk 
Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the date of grant should be recognised as an 
expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending 31st March, 2021.
 
In accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and the Guidance Note on “Accounting for 
Employee Share-based payments” issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the cost of equity-settled transactions is measured 
using the intrinsic value method for all options granted on or before 31st March, 2021. The intrinsic value being the excess, if any, of the fair market 
price of the share under ESOSs over the exercise price of the option is recognised as deferred employee compensation with a credit to Employee’s 
Stock Option (Grant) Outstanding account.
 
The Bank has changed its accounting policy from intrinsic value method to fair value method for all share-linked instruments granted after 31st March, 
2021 in accordance with the RBI guidance. The fair value of the option is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model and is recognised 
as deferred employee compensation with a credit to Employee’s Stock Option (Grant) Outstanding account.
 
The deferred employee compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option. The cumulative expense 
recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
the number of equity instruments that are outstanding.
 
The options that do not vest because of failure to satisfy vesting condition are reversed by a credit to employee compensation expense in “Payment 
to and provision for employee”, equal to the amortised portion of the cost of lapsed option and credit to deferred employee compensation equal to 
the unamortised portion. In respect of the options which expire unexercised the balance standing to the credit of Employee’s Stock Option (Grant) 
Outstanding account is transferred to General Reserve. The fair market price is the latest available closing price, preceding the date of grant of the 
option, on the stock exchange on which the shares of the Bank are listed.
 
Where the terms of an equity–settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised in ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ is the 
expense as if the terms had not been modified. An additional expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total intrinsic/ fair value 
of the share–based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
 
In respect of options granted to employees of subsidiaries, the Bank recovers the related compensation cost from the respective subsidiaries.
 
Cash-settled scheme:
 
The cost of cash-settled transactions, stock appreciation rights (SARs) having grant date on or before 31st March 2021 is measured initially using 
intrinsic value method at the grant date taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. Similar to Equity 
settled options, SARs granted after 31st March, 2021 are measured on fair value basis.
 
The intrinsic / fair value is amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a recognition of corresponding liability. This liability is 
remeasured at each balance sheet date up to and including the vesting date with changes in intrinsic / fair value recognised in the profit and loss 
account in ‘Payments to and provision for employees’. The SARs that do not vest because of failure to satisfy vesting conditions are reversed by a 
credit to employee compensation expense, equal to the amortised cost in respect of the lapsed portion.
Financial Statements
186
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
10	
Foreign currency transactions
 
Foreign currency monetary assets and monetary liabilities are translated as at the Balance Sheet date at rates notified by the Foreign Exchange 
Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) and the resultant gain or loss is accounted in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
Income and Expenditure items are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transactions except in respect of representative 
office (which are integral in nature) expenses, which are translated at monthly average exchange rates.
 
Outstanding forward (other than deposit and placement swaps) and spot foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the Balance Sheet date are 
revalued at rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at the interpolated rates of interim maturities. In case of forward contracts of greater 
maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI, are revalued at the forward exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective 
currencies. The forward profit or loss on the forward contracts are discounted using discount rate and the resulting profits or losses are recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account as per the regulations stipulated by the RBI.
 
Foreign exchange swaps “linked” to foreign currency deposits and placements are translated at the prevailing spot rate at the time of swap. The 
premium or discount on the swap arising out of the difference in the exchange rate of the swap date and the maturity date of the underlying forward 
contract is amortised over the period of the swap and the same is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
Contingent liabilities on account of letters of credit, bank guarantees and acceptances and endorsements outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date 
denominated in foreign currencies and other foreign exchange contracts are translated at year-end rates notified by FEDAI.
 
The financial statements of IBU and DIFC which are in the nature of non-integral overseas operations are translated on the following basis: (a) Income 
and expenses are converted at the average rate of exchange during the period and (b) All assets and liabilities are translated at closing rate as on 
Balance Sheet date. The exchange difference arising out of year end translation is debited or credited as “Foreign Currency Translation Reserve” 
forming part of “Reserves and Surplus”.
11	
Derivative transactions
 
Notional amounts of derivative transactions comprising of swaps, futures and options are disclosed as off Balance Sheet exposures. The Bank 
recognises all derivative contracts (other than those designated as hedges) at fair value, on the date on which the derivative contracts are entered 
into and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet or reporting date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value is positive 
(positive marked to market) or as liabilities when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market). Changes in the fair value of derivatives other 
than those designated as hedges are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
Outstanding derivative transactions designated as “Hedges” are accounted in accordance with hedging instrument on an accrual basis over the life 
of the underlying instrument. Option premium paid or received is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account on expiry of the option. Option contracts 
are marked to market on every reporting date.
12	
Lease accounting
 
Leases where all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are 
recognised as an expense in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Initial direct costs in respect of operating leases 
such as legal costs, brokerage costs, etc. are recognised as expense immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
13	
Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
 
The Bank has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, proceedings pending with tax authorities 
and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In accordance with Accounting Standard - 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets’, the Bank recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions 
are not discounted to its present value and are measured based on best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance 
Sheet date. These are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
 
In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably 
estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these 
contingencies to have a materially adverse effect on its financial results. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the financial 
statements.
14	
Impairment
 
The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date if there is any indication of impairment based on internal / external factors. 
Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the Profit and Loss Account to the extent carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable 
amount.
187
Standalone Schedules
15	
Taxes on income
 
The Income Tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid in respect of taxable 
income for the year in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences 
of timing differences being the difference between the taxable income and the accounting income that originate in one period and are capable of 
reversal in one or more subsequent period.
 
Deferred tax assets on account of timing differences are recognised only to the extent there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future taxable 
income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. In case of carry forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation, under 
tax laws, all the deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there is virtual certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufficient future 
taxable income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised.
 
Deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date, based upon the Management’s judgement as to whether realisation is considered as 
reasonably certain.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet 
date. Changes in deferred tax assets / liabilities on account of changes in enacted tax rates are given effect to in the Profit and Loss Account in the 
period of the change.
 
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority, when the Bank has a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle on a net basis.
16	
Accounting for Dividend
 
As per AS 4 (Revised), with effect from April 2016, the Bank is not required to provide for dividend proposed / declared after the Balance Sheet date. 
The same shall be appropriated from next year amount available for appropriation.
17	
Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders (after deducting attributable 
taxes) by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year is adjusted for events of bonus issue, bonus element in a rights issue to existing shareholders, and share split.
 
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Diluted earnings per share 
reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue equity shares were exercised or converted during the year.
18	
Share issue expenses
 
Share issue expenses are adjusted from Securities Premium Account as permitted by Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
19	
Credit cards reward points
 
The Bank estimates the liability for credit card reward points and cost per point using actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary, which 
includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption and spends.
20	
Segment reporting
 
In accordance with guidelines issued by RBI and Accounting Standard 17 (AS-17) on “Segment Reporting”, the Banks’ business has been segregated 
into the following segments whose principal activities were as under:
Segment
Principal activity
Treasury, BMU and Corporate 
Centre
Money market, forex market, derivatives, investments and primary dealership of government securities and 
Balance Sheet Management Unit (BMU) responsible for Asset Liability Management and Corporate Centre 
which primarily comprises of support functions.
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
Wholesale borrowings and lendings and other related services to the corporate sector which are not 
included under retail banking.
Retail Banking
Comprises of:
Digital Banking
Business involving digital banking products acquired by Digital Banking Unit including existing digital 
banking products as identified by the Management in accordance with the instructions of the RBI vide its 
circular dated April 7, 2022.
Financial Statements
188
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Segment
Principal activity
Other Retail Banking
Includes (other than covered under Digital Banking above):
I 
Lending
 
Commercial vehicle finance, personal loans, home loans, agriculture finance, other loans / services 
and exposures which fulfill the four criteria for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision document “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards: A Revised Framework”.
II 	
Branch Banking
 
Retail borrowings covering savings, current, term deposit accounts and Branch Banking network / 
services including distribution of financial products.
III 
Credit Cards
 
Receivables / loans relating to credit card business.
Other Banking business
Any other business not classified above.
 
A transfer pricing mechanism has been established by Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) for allocation of interest cost to the above segments based 
on borrowing costs, maturity profile of assets / liabilities etc. and which is disclosed as part of segment revenue.
 
Segment revenues consist of earnings from external customers and inter-segment revenues based on a transfer pricing mechanism. Segment 
expenses consist of interest expenses including allocated operating expenses and provisions.
 
Segment results are net of segment revenues and segment expenses including interdivisional items.
 
Segment assets include assets related to segments and exclude tax related assets. Segment liabilities include liabilities related to the segment 
excluding net worth and employees’ stock option (grants outstanding).
 
Since the business operations of the Bank are primarily concentrated in India, the Bank is considered to operate only in the domestic segment.
189
Standalone Schedules
SCHEDULE 18 – NOTES TO ACCOUNTS
A.	
DISCLOSURES AS LAID DOWN BY RBI CIRCULARS:
1.	
CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO:
	
The Bank’s Capital Adequacy Ratios as per Basel III guidelines are as follows:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Capital Ratios:
(i) 
Common Equity Tier I Capital (CET 1)
87,991.19
77,036.40
(ii) 
Additional Tier I Capital$
-
500.00
(iii) 
Tier I Capital (i + ii)
87,991.19
77,536.40
(iv) 
Tier II Capital
5,957.28
3,817.29
(v) 
Total Capital (Tier I+Tier II)
93,948.47
81,353.69
(vi) 
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
457,206.27
373,170.24
(vii) 
CET 1 Ratio (CET 1 as a percentage of RWAs)
19.25%
20.64%
(viii) Tier I Ratio (Tier I capital as a percentage of RWAs)
19.25%
20.78%
(ix) 
Tier II Ratio (Tier II capital as a percentage of RWAs)
1.30%
1.02%
(x) 
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) (Total Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
20.55%
21.80%
(xi) 
Leverage Ratio
13.12%
14.13%
(xii) 
Percentage of the shareholding of the Government of India
Nil
Nil
(xiii) Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year #
218.22
282.40
(xiv) Amount of non-equity Tier I capital raised during the year of   which:
 
PNCPS
Nil
Nil
 
PDI
Nil
Nil
(xv) Amount of Tier II Capital raised during the year of which:
 
PNCPS
Nil
Nil
 
PDI
Nil
Nil
	
# The Bank has allotted during the year 1,364,316 (previous year 1,894,822) equity shares consequent to exercise of ESOPs vested. Accordingly, the share capital further 
increased by ` 0.68 crore (previous year ` 0.95 crore) and share premium increased by ` 217.54 crore (previous year ` 281.45 crore), net of share issue expenses of ` Nil 
(previous year ` Nil).
	
$ The Bank has redeemed perpetual non-cumulative preference share capital (“PNCPS”) during the year.
Financial Statements
190
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2.	
COMPOSITION OF INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
(` in crore)
As at 
31st March 2024
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities*
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
28,517.74
-
-
-
3,902.02
-
32,419.76
-
38.32
-
38.32
32,458.08
Less: Provision 
for nonperforming 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
28,517.74
-
-
-
3,902.02
-
32,419.76
-
38.32
-
38.32
32,458.08
Available for Sale
Gross
77,485.52
-
1,267.83
14,524.76
-
5,869.50
99,147.61
277.78
-
1,421.63
1,699.41
100,847.02
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
294.24
-
43.25
33.34
-
177.63
548.46
-
-
18.84
18.84
567.30
Net
77,191.28
-
1,224.58
14,491.42
-
5,691.87
98,599.15
277.78
-
1,402.79
1,680.57
100,279.72
Held for Trading
Gross
7,686.05
-
-
2,357.94
-
12,621.97
22,665.96
-
-
-
-
22,665.96
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
7,686.05
-
-
2,357.94
-
12,621.97
22,665.96
-
-
-
-
22,665.96
Total Investments
113,689.31
-
1,267.83
16,882.70
3,902.02
18,491.47
154,233.33
277.78
38.32
1,421.63
1,737.73
155,971.06
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
294.24
-
43.25
33.34
-
177.63
548.46
-
-
18.84
18.84
567.30
Net
113,395.07
-
1,224.58
16,849.36
3,902.02
18,313.84
153,684.87
277.78
38.32
1,402.79
1,718.89
155,403.76
* Includes securities with face Value of ` 4,327.45 crore pledged and encumbered for availment of fund transfer facility, clearing facility, margin requirements and with RBI for LAF.
191
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
As at  
31st March 2023
Investments in India 
Investments outside India 
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities*
Other 
Approved 
Securities 
Shares 
Debentures 
and Bonds 
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
Others 
Total 
investments 
in India 
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities) 
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
Others 
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India 
Held to Maturity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross 
32,181.79
-
-
-
3,179.02
- 
35,360.81
-
38.33
-
38.33
35,399.14
Less: Provision 
for nonperforming 
investments (NPI) 
-
-
-
-
10.13
-
10.13
-
-
-
-
10.13
Net 
32,181.79
-
-
-
3,168.89
-
35,350.68
-
38.33
-
38.33
35,389.01
Available for Sale 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross 
57,266.95
-
1,272.83
18,848.68
-
6,877.86
84,266.32
146.48
-
1,058.74
1,205.22
85,471.54
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI 
1,239.08
-
42.61
218.55
-
468.23
1,968.47
-
-
24.05
24.05
1,992.52
Net 
 56,027.87 
-
1,230.22
18,630.13
-
6,409.63
82,297.85
146.48
-
1,034.69
1,181.17
83,479.02
Held for Trading 
 
 
Gross 
1,496.40
-
-
339.65
-
699.65
 2,535.70 
-
-
-
-
 2,535.70 
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net 
1,496.40
-
-
339.65
-
699.65
 2,535.70 
-
-
-
-
 2,535.70 
Total Investments 
90,945.14
-
1,272.83
19,188.33
3,179.02
7,577.51
122,162.83
146.48
38.33
1,058.74
1,243.55
123,406.38
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI 
1,239.08
-
42.61
218.55
10.13
468.23
1,978.60
-
-
24.05
24.05
2,002.65
Net 
89,706.06
-
1,230.22
18,969.78
3,168.89
7,109.28
120,184.23
146.48
38.33
1,034.69
1,219.50
121,403.73
* Includes securities with face Value of ` 8,447.61 crore pledged and encumbered for availment of fund transfer facility, clearing facility, margin requirements and with RBI for LAF. 
Financial Statements
192
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
3.	
MOVEMENT OF PROVISIONS FOR DEPRECIATION AND INVESTMENT FLUCTUATION RESERVE
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
i)
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
 
a) 
Opening balance
2,002.65
       1,853.65
 
b) 
Add: Provisions made during the year
0.64
          237.22
 
c) 
Less: Write-back of provisions during the year
1,435.99
            88.22
 
d) 
Closing balance
567.30
2,002.65 
ii)
Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 
a) 
Opening balance
2,300.00
1,774.69
 
b) 
Add: Amount transferred during the year
1,200.00
525.31
 
c) 
Less: Drawdown
-
-
 
d) 
Closing balance
3,500.00
2,300.00
iii)
Closing balance in IFR as percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and HFT/
Current Category
2.85%
2.67%
4.	
DETAILS OF REPO / REVERSE REPO (EXCLUDING LAF AND MSF TRANSACTIONS FOR THE YEAR) DEALS (IN FACE VALUE TERMS)
	
Year ended 31st March, 2024:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily Average 
outstanding 
during the year
Outstanding 
as on 
31st  March, 2024
Securities sold under repos
i. 
Government securities
 - 
8,962.75
913.34
-
ii. 
Corporate debt securities
 - 
185.71
11.05
-
iii. 
Any other securities
 - 
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repos
i. 
Government securities
 - 
29,237.80
6,000.56
11,450.29
ii. 
Corporate debt securities
 - 
525.00
14.97
-
iii. 
Any other securities
 - 
-
-
-
	
Year ended 31st March, 2023:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding during 
the year
Maximum 
outstanding during 
the year
Daily Average 
outstanding during 
the year
Outstanding 
as on 
31st  March, 2023
Securities sold under repos
i. 
Government securities
 - 
 15,355.95 
 1,862.17 
 170.20 
ii. 
Corporate debt securities
 - 
 253.57 
 14.81 
 - 
iii. 
Any other securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Securities purchased under reverse repos
i. 
Government securities
 - 
 10,604.11 
 1,364.25 
 7,739.18 
ii. 
Corporate debt securities
 - 
 500.00 
 7.70 
 - 
iii. 
Any other securities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
193
Standalone Schedules
5.	
DISCLOSURE IN RESPECT OF NON-SLR INVESTMENTS
(i)	
Non-performing Non-SLR investments:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening balance
78.67
154.10
Additions during the year 
64.91
0.00
Reductions during the year
(19.58)
(75.43)
Closing balance
124.00
78.67
Total provisions held
124.00
77.91
(ii)	
Issuer composition of Non-SLR investments as at 31st March, 2024:
(` in crore)
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
Private 
Placement
Extent of ‘Below 
Investment 
Grade’ Securities
Extent of 
‘Unrated’ 
Securities
Extent of 
‘Unlisted’ 
Securities
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
1
PSUs
608.27
475.00
-
-
-
2
FIs
9,441.36
8,065.55
-
-
7,537.45
3
Banks
5,125.22
2,390.08
-
414.64
4,531.24
4
Private Corporates
19,988.18
16,064.18
244.58
866.78
6,762.68
5
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
3,940.34
2,036.58
-
3,940.34
3,940.34
6
Others
3,178.38
2,668.54
389.28
363.57
2,900.60
7
Provision held towards depreciation
(273.06)
-
-
-
-
Total 
42,008.69
31,699.93
633.86
5,585.33
25,672.31
	
Issuer also include investments held outside India.  
	
Amounts reported under column (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
	
Issuer composition of Non-SLR investments as at 31st March, 2023:
(` in crore)
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
Private 
Placement
Extent of ‘Below 
Investment 
Grade’ Securities
Extent of 
‘Unrated’ 
Securities
Extent of 
‘Unlisted’ 
Securities
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
1
PSUs
672.88
566.50
-
-
-
2
FIs
739.64
40.00
-
-
699.64
3
Banks
605.77
397.65
-
400.34
205.43
4
Private Corporates
24,023.73
18,663.49
358.71
901.20
6,248.50
5
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
3,217.35
1,850.71
-
3,217.35
3,217.35
6
Others
3,201.87
2,718.58
684.70
914.40
3,055.38
7
Provision held towards depreciation
(763.57)
-
-
-
-
Total 
31,697.67
24,236.93
1,043.41
5,433.29
13,426.30
	
Issuer also include investments held outside India.	
	
Amounts reported under column (4), (5), (6) and (7) above are not mutually exclusive.
6.	
During the year ended 31st March, 2024 and year ended 31st March, 2023, the value of sale / transfer of securities to / from HTM category 
(excluding one-time transfer of securities, permitted sales by RBI consequent to a downward revision in SLR requirements and sales to RBI 
under Open Market Operation auctions/Switch/GSAP) was within 5% of the book value of instruments in HTM category at the beginning of 
the year.
Financial Statements
194
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
7.	
DERIVATIVES
A.	
Forward Rate Agreements/ Interest Rate Swaps:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
The notional principal of swap agreements
134,487.28
91,083.25
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations under the 
agreements
933.94
995.81
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps
NA
NA
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps
32.19%(Banks)
56.47%(Banks)
The fair value of the swap book
186.02
419.30
B.	
Exchange Traded Interest Rate Derivatives:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives undertaken during the year 
-
-
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding
- 
- 
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and not “highly 
effective” *
NA 
NA 
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and not “highly 
effective” *
NA 
NA 
	
* Being trading positions
C.	
Disclosures on risk exposures in derivatives:
	
Qualitative disclosures:
	
a)	
Structure and organization for management of risk in derivatives trading:
 
 
The Board of Directors, the Risk Management Committee (RMC), Board Committee for Derivatives products, the Asset Liability Management 
Committee (ALCO), the Senior Management Committee for Derivatives (SMC) and the Risk Management Department are entrusted with the 
management of risks in derivatives.
 
 
The philosophy and framework for the derivative business is laid out in the Board approved Investment and Derivative policies.  The ALCO of the 
Bank is empowered to set the limit-framework for derivatives. It also reviews the market risk exposures of derivatives against the limits.  The 
Risk Management Committee reviews all risks on a consolidated basis and also defines the risk appetite.
 
 
The Board Committee for Derivatives products and the Senior Management Committee for Derivatives (SMC) oversee the client derivatives 
business. These committees are responsible for reviewing and approving the derivative products that can be offered to clients (within the 
regulatory framework provided by the RBI). The Board approved ‘Customer Suitability and Appropriateness Policy for Derivatives’ lays down the 
risk management & governance framework for offering derivatives.
 
 
The Bank has Operations and Risk Management functions - independent of the dealing function. The Market Risk Management & Counterparty 
Risk Management Departments are responsible for assessment, monitoring, measurement & reporting of market & counterparty risks in 
derivatives.
	
b)	
Scope and nature of risk measurement, risk reporting and risk monitoring systems:
 
 
All significant risks of the derivative portfolio are monitored, measured & reported to the senior management. The Treasury Middle Office, 
on a daily basis, measures & reports risk-metrics like Value-at-Risk (VaR), PV01, Option Greeks like Delta, Gamma, Vega, Theta, Rho etc. 
Counterparty Risk exposure of the derivatives portfolio is also monitored & reported daily. The Treasury Middle Office independently reports 
profitability on a daily basis. Rate reasonability tests are performed on the Derivative portfolio to ensure that all trades are entered into at market 
rates. Stress testing is performed to measure the impact of extreme market shifts on the Bank’s portfolio (including derivatives). Suitability and 
Appropriateness assessment is performed before offering derivatives to clients. The Bank continuously invests in technology to enhance the 
Risk Management architecture.
195
Standalone Schedules
	
c)	
Policies for hedging and / or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges 
/ mitigants:
 
 
The Board Approved ‘Hedging Policy’ details the hedging strategies, hedging processes, accounting treatment, documentation requirements 
and effectiveness testing for hedges.
 
 
Hedges are monitored for effectiveness periodically, in accordance with the Board Approved Policy.
	
d)	
Accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions; recognition of income, premiums and discounts; valuation 
of outstanding contracts; provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation:
 
 
Derivative transactions are segregated into trading or hedge transactions. Trading transactions outstanding as at the Balance Sheet dates are 
marked to market and the resulting profits or losses, are recorded in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
 
Derivative transactions designated as “Hedges” are accounted in accordance with hedging instruments on an accrual basis over the life of the 
underlying instrument.
 
 
Option premium paid / received is accounted for in the Profit and Loss Account on expiry of the option.
 
 
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines, any receivables as well positive Mark to Market (MTM) in respect of future receivable under derivative contracts 
comprising of crystallised receivables which remain overdue for more than 90 days are reversed through the Profit and Loss Account. Full 
provision is made for the entire amount of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing 
derivative contracts. Limits for counterparty exposure (arising from derivative trades) to Corporates are approved by the Credit Committee 
and for Banks by the ALCO. These limits are renewable annually and are duly supported by ISDA agreements. MTM breaches are monitored 
daily and are cash collateralised wherever necessary. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in noncentrally cleared forex and derivative 
transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of the major international counterparty banks and few 
Indian financial institutions.
	
Quantitative Disclosures:
	
31st March 2024:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Currency 
Derivatives*
Interest rate 
Derivatives
1
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a) 
For hedging
0.00
0.00
b) 
For trading
522,317.25
134,487.28
2
Marked to Market Positions ** 
a) 
Asset (+)
-
186.02
b) 
Liability (-)
115.21
-
3
Credit Exposure
12,655.54
1,852.34
4
Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate (100*PV01) #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
55.95
1,418.33
5
Maximum of 100*PV01 observed during the year #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
63.82
1,549.01
6
Minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the year #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
32.71
1,293.01
	
Currency interest rate swaps have been included under currency derivatives.
	
# Excludes PV01 on options.
	
*Forwards in currency derivatives includes TOM, Spot deal.
	
** The net position has been shown either under asset or liability, as the case may be, for each type of derivatives. The MTM does not include MTM on Export Bills – Discounted, 
BULRET deals and Internal deals between KMBL and GIFT, where counterparty is Kotak Bank.
Financial Statements
196
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The nature and terms of the Interest Rate Swaps (IRS) as on 31st March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crore)
Nature
No.*
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
2
874.96
EURIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
2
874.96
EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
158
11,259.48
SOFR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
48
2,746.86
SOFR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
1
431.34
SONIA
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
1
431.34
SONIA
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
6
356.50
SOFR Vs. SOFR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
311
13,781.10
Mod MIFOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
91
5,740.00
Mod MIFOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
919
30,612.29
MIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
1,889
58,990.94
MIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
452
8,387.51
FBIL*
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Total
3,880
134,487.28
 
 
	
*Benchmark FBIL pertains to trades done in Rates FRA product.
	
The nature and terms of the Cross Currency Swaps (CCS) as on 31st March, 2024 are set out below:
(` in crore)
Nature
No.*
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
4
365.73
EURIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
4
364.91
EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
3
270.82
FIXED
Pay Fixed
Trading
3
241.17
FIXED
Receive Fixed
Trading
52
2,004.94
FIXED
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
1
32.81
SOFR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
37
2,931.41
SOFR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
4
1,117.69
SOFR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
17
441.00
SOFR Vs. EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
2
1,000.86
SOFR Vs. TORF
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Total
127
8,771.34
	
*Above notional principal does not include trades done with GIFT-City branch since it gets zeroed at bank level however, only count of trades done is specified.
 
The overnight Net open position as at 31st March, 2024 is ` 142.78 crore (previous year ` 331.21 crore).
197
Standalone Schedules
	
31st March 2023:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Currency 
Derivatives*
Interest rate 
Derivatives
1
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a) 
For hedging
-
-
b) 
For trading
     310,875.58 
    91,083.25 
2
Marked to Market Positions ** 
a) 
Asset (+)
              79.87 
         419.30 
b) 
Liability (-)
                    - 
 - 
3
Credit Exposure
8,735.13
1,448.19
4
Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate (100*PV01) #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
60.95
1,305.18
5
Maximum of 100*PV01 observed during the year #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
70.41
1,332.53
6
Minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the year #
a) 
On hedging derivatives
-
-
b) 
On trading derivatives
55.62
180.84
	
Currency interest rate swaps have been included under currency derivatives.
	
# Excludes PV01 on options.
	
** MTM has been considered at product level.
	
** The net position has been shown either under asset or liability, as the case may be, for each type of derivatives. The MTM does not include MTM on Export Bills – Discounted, 
BULRET deals and Internal deals between KMBL and GIFT, where counterparty is Kotak Bank.
	
The nature and terms of the Interest Rate Swaps (IRS) as on 31st March, 2023 are set out below:
(` in crore)
Nature
No.*
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
1
45.95
EURIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
1
45.95
EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
19
486.89
LIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
104
6,970.17
LIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
1
164.34
LIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
65
4,520.84
SOFR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
22
1,548.39
SOFR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
1
73.95
SOFR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
200
7,527.76
MIFOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
35
2,235.00
MIFOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
90
4,105.00
Mod MIFOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
19
1,340.00
Mod MIFOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
379
14,983.87
MIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
1,133
40,370.91
MIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading 
194
6,664.23
FBIL#
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Total
2,264
91,083.25
 
 
	
# Benchmark FBIL pertains to trades done in Rates FRA product.
Financial Statements
198
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The nature and terms of the Cross Currency Swaps (CCS) as on 31st March, 2023 are set out below:
(` in crore)
Nature
No.*
Notional Principal
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
3
289.18
EURIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
3
289.18
EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
4
274.74
FIXED
Pay Fixed
Trading
3
237.60
FIXED
Receive Fixed
Trading
67
2,329.25
FIXED
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
3
41.68
EURIBOR Vs. LIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
14
1,759.59
LIBOR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
3
1,039.51
LIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Fixed
Trading
5
690.35
SOFR
Receive Fixed Vs. Pay Floating
Trading
18
1,609.65
SOFR Vs. EURIBOR
Receive Floating Vs. Pay Floating
Total
123
8,560.73
 
 
	
*Above notional principal does not include trades done with GIFT-City branch since it gets zeroed at bank level however, only count of trades done is specified.
8.	
CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS 
 
The Bank has not entered into any Credit Default Swap transactions (previous year Nil).
9.	
CLASSIFICATION OF ADVANCES AND PROVISIONS HELD 
	
As at 31st March, 2024
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total Standard 
Advances
Sub-Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
318,695.94
1,528.74
3,970.41
269.17
5,768.32
324,464.26
Add: Additions during the year
5,001.11
Less: Reductions during the year (*)
5,494.65
Closing Balance
374,815.45
2,092.78
2,979.65
202.35
5,274.78
380,090.23
(*) Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i)	
Upgradation
(1,737.08)
(1,737.08)
ii) 
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from 
upgraded accounts)
(1,499.65)
(1,499.65)
iii) 
Technical/Prudential Write-offs
-
-
iv) 
Write-offs other than those covered 
under (iii) above
(2,257.92)
(2,257.92)
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
28.03
837.21
3,468.64
269.17
4,575.02
4,603.05
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
3,055.16
Less: Excess provision reversed/Write-off 
loans
(3,625.97)
Closing balance of provisions held
10.75
1,069.71
2,732.15
202.35
4,004.21
4,014.96
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
691.53
501.77
-
1,193.30
Add: Fresh additions during the year
1,945.95
Less: Reductions during the year
(1,868.68)
Closing Balance
1,023.07
247.50
-
1,270.57
Ratios
Gross NPA to Gross Advances (%)
1.39%
Net NPA to Net Advances (%)
0.34%
	
Above numbers do not include standard asset provision on Advances (other than provision for country risk and unhedged foreign currency exposures) amounting to ` 1,547.53 
crore as at 31st March, 2024.
199
Standalone Schedules
	
As at 31st March, 2023
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total Standard 
Advances
Sub-Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs 
Opening Balance
269,558.47
1,792.01
4,397.42
280.31
6,469.74
276,028.21
Add: Additions during the year
3,989.92
Less: Reductions during the year (*)
(4,691.34)
Closing Balance
318,695.94
1,528.74
3,970.41
269.17
5,768.32
324,464.26
(*) Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i)	
Upgradation
(2,041.37)
(2,041.37)
ii) 
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from 
upgraded accounts)
(1,859.60)
(1,859.60)
iii) 
Technical/Prudential Write-offs
(93.39)
(93.39)
iv) 
Write-offs other than those 
(696.98)
(696.98)
	
covered under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
41.57
863.11
3,589.61
280.31
4,733.03
4,774.60
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
2,313.56
Less: Excess provision reversed/Write-off 
loans
(2,471.57)
Closing balance of provisions held
28.03
837.21
3,468.64
269.17
4,575.02
4,603.05
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
928.90
807.81
-
1,736.71
Add: Fresh additions during the year
1,676.36
Less: Reductions during the year
(2,219.77)
Closing Balance
691.53
501.77
-
1,193.30
Ratios
Gross NPA to Gross Advances (%)
1.78%
Net NPA to Net Advances (%)
0.37%
	
Above numbers do not include standard asset provision on Advances (other than provision for country risk and unhedged foreign currency exposures) amounting to ` 1,449.75 
crore as at 31st March, 2023.
10.	 MOVEMENT OF TECHNICAL WRITE-OFFS AND RECOVERIES
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening balance of Technical / Prudential written-off accounts as at 1st April
1,581.89
1,818.80
Add: Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year
-
93.39
Less: Recoveries / Reductions made from previously Technical / Prudential written-off accounts 
during the year 
(481.05)
(330.30)
Closing Balance as at 31st March 
1,100.84
1,581.89
11.	 The Provision Coverage Ratio (PCR) of the Bank after considering technical write-off is 80.07% as at 31st March 2024 (previous year 83.77%).
12.	 CONCENTRATION OF NPAs
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total Exposure to top twenty NPA accounts*
610.61
653.47
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross NPAs
11.58%
11.33%
	
(*) Above represents Gross NPA
Financial Statements
200
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
13.	 RBI vide its circular dated 1st April 2019, has directed banks shall make suitable disclosures, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning 
requirements assessed by RBI exceed 5 percent (previous year exceed 10 percent) of the published net profits before provision and 
contingency for the reference period or (b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 5 percent (previous year exceed 10 percent) 
of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period, or both. There has been no divergence observed by RBI for the financial 
year 2022-23 (previous year Nil) in respect of the Bank’s asset classification and provisioning under the extant prudential norms on income 
recognition asset classification and provisioning (IRACP) which require such disclosures.
14.	 SECTOR-WISE ADVANCES AND GROSS NPAs
(` in crore)
SI. 
No
Sector
As at 31st March, 2024
Outstanding Total 
Advances*
Gross NPAs
Percentage of 
Gross NPAs to 
Total Advances in 
that Sector
A
Priority Sector
1
Agricultural and Allied Activities
42,885.36
1,646.23
3.84%
2
Advances to Industries Sector eligible as Priority sector lending,  
Of which exceeding 10%:
50,274.69
243.61
0.48%
- Textiles
7,856.83
14.15
- Rubber, Plastic and their Products
5,213.98
5.57
3
Services, Of which exceeding 10%:
74,059.32
795.13
1.07%
- Wholesale Trade
23,346.39
137.88
- Logistics and Auxiliary transport activities
20,025.35
342.23
4
Personal Loans and others, Of which exceeding 10%:
2,490.25
12.79
0.51%
- Home Loans
1,631.08
4.06
- Micro Loans
539.63
7.48
Sub-Total (A)
169,709.62
2,697.75
1.59%
B
Non Priority Sector
1
Agricultural and Allied Activities
1,283.10
72.37
5.64%
2
Industry, Of which exceeding 10%:
53,835.25
547.77
1.02%
- Infrastructure
16,367.97
40.87
3
- Services, Of which exceeding 10%:
49,540.84
576.36
1.16%
- NBFC
 7,219.02
-
- Real Estate
5,963.79
0.00$
- Wholesale Trade
9,369.31
201.36
- Financial Intermediation excluding broking services
6,668.08
-
4
Personal loans and others, Of which exceeding 10%:
105,721.41
1,380.52
1.31%
- Home Loans
58,969.90
147.81
- Credit Cards
14,837.53
792.22
- Personal Loans
12,754.13
321.15
Sub-Total (B)
210,380.61
2,577.03
1.22%
Total (A+B)
380,090.23
5,274.78
1.39%
	
$ Amount is less than 50,000/-.
201
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
SI. 
No
Sector
As at 31st March, 2023
Outstanding Total 
Advances*
Gross NPAs
Percentage of 
Gross NPAs to 
Total Advances in 
that Sector
A
Priority Sector
1
Agricultural and Allied Activities
39,696.68
1,496.95
3.77%
2
Advances to Industries Sector, eligible as Priority sector lending Of 
which exceeding 10%:
53,833.32
221.74
0.41%
- Textiles
7,573.27
20.62
- All Engineering
5,557.82
9.33
3
Services, Of which exceeding 10%:
52,649.70
657.41
1.25%
- Wholesale Trade
15,947.33
76.69
- Logistics and Auxillary transport activities
12,734.47
259.38
4
Personal Loans and others, Of which exceeding 10%:
2,633.62
14.68
0.56%
- Home Loans
1,314.41
0.91
- Micro Loans
1,086.18
8.14
Sub-Total (A)
148,813.32
2,390.78
1.61%
B
Non Priority Sector
1
Agricultural and Allied Activities
566.95
65.93
11.63%
2
Industry, Of which exceeding 10%:
40,064.46
878.23
2.19%
- Chemicals and Chemical Products
5,640.31
33.13
- Metal and Metal Products
5,247.28
43.81
- Infrastructure
5,004.10
40.87
- Vehicles, Vehicle Parts and Transport Equipments
4,428.25
39.22
- All Engineering
4,354.57
99.90
3
- Services, Of which exceeding 10%:
41,602.20
542.05
1.30%
- NBFC
10,591.48
-
- Real Estate
6,409.68
43.09
- Wholesale Trade
5,189.81
171.71
- Financial Intermediation excluding broking services
4,555.22
1.78
4
Personal loans and others, Of which exceeding 10%:
93,417.34
1,891.33
2.02%
- Home Loans
56,246.97
149.62
- Credit Cards
11,081.14
792.22
- Personal Loans
10,987.58
549.89
Sub-Total (B)
175,650.94
3,377.54
1.92%
Total (A+B)
324,464.26
5,768.32
1.78%
	
* Represents Gross Advances
	
The Bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from its internal MIS system.
Financial Statements
202
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
15.	 PRIORITY SECTOR LENDING CERTIFICATES
 
The amount of PSLCs (category wise) Purchased and Sold during the year:
	
As at 31st March, 2024:
(` in crore)
S. No
Type of PSLCs
Purchased
Sold
1
PSLC – Agriculture
2,800.00
4,712.00
2
PSLC - SF / MF
11,290.00
-
3
PSLC - Micro Enterprises
-
27,342.00
4
PSLC – General
-
35,500.00
TOTAL
14,090.00
67,554.00
	
As at 31st March, 2023:
(` in crore)
S. No
Type of PSLCs
Purchased
Sold
1
PSLC – Agriculture
-
9,050.00
2
PSLC - SF / MF
9,360.00
-
3
PSLC - Micro Enterprises
-
28,477.75
4
PSLC – General
-
20,856.00
TOTAL
9,360.00
58,383.75
203
Standalone Schedules
16.	 DETAILS OF ACCOUNTS SUBJECTED TO RESTRUCTURING*
 (` in crore)
Particulars
Agriculture and allied 
activities
Corporates (excluding 
MSME)
Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (MSME)
Retail (excluding 
agriculture and MSME)
Total
As on 
31st March, 
2024
As on 
31st March, 
2023
As on 
31st March, 
2024
As on 
31st March, 
2023
As on 
31st March, 
2024
As on 
31st March, 
2023
As on 
31st March, 
2024
As on 
31st March, 
2023
As on 
31st March, 
2024
As on 
31st March, 
2023
Standard
Number of borrowers
19
101
1
-
391
685
1,027
1,505
1,438
2,291
Gross Amount (` crore)
12.45
14.57
19.71
-
312.59
546.50
149.24
265.14
493.99
826.21
Provision held # (` crore)
1.31
1.38
-
-
38.94
71.99
28.51
47.27
68.76
120.64
Substandard
Number of borrowers
203
70
-
-
95
144
10,841
7,365
11,139
7,579
Gross Amount (` crore)
5.71
7.66
-
-
53.52
47.94
105.69
86.41
164.92
142.01
Provision held (` crore)
1.44
1.45
-
-
17.49
25.57
47.78
41.87
66.71
68.89
Doubtful
Number of borrowers
259
183
11
7
663
603
3,510
23,057
4,443
23,850
Gross Amount (` crore)
41.92
14.51
211.00
198.39
167.17
166.28
154.57
400.14
574.66
779.32
Provision held (` crore)
37.82
12.18
211.00
190.06
147.66
121.30
134.98
370.51
531.46
694.05
Total
Number of borrowers
481
354
12
7
1,149
1,432
15,378
31,927
17,020
33,720
Gross Amount (` crore)
60.08
36.74
230.71
198.39
533.28
760.72
409.50
751.69
1,233.57
1,747.54
Provision held (` crore)
40.57
15.01
211.00
190.06
204.09
218.86
211.27
459.65
666.93
883.58
*Restructuring as defined as per applicable regulations.
# - does not include provisions made over regulatory requirement as on 31st March, 2024 amounting to ` 43.08 crore (previous year ` 82.50 crore).
Financial Statements
204
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Disclosure on the scheme for MSME sector – restructuring of advances:
 As at 31st March, 2024:
 (` in crore)
No. of accounts restructured
Amount 
650*
396.44
* Disclosure given is at borrower level
As at 31st March, 2023:
 (` in crore)
No. of accounts restructured
Amount 
960*
630.78
* Disclosure given is at borrower level
Disclosure on Resolution of stressed assets:
In terms of the RBI circular dated 7th June 2019 on Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets, during the financial year ended 31st March 
2024, the Bank has implemented Resolution plan (RP) for Nil borrower (previous year one borrower), for which Inter Creditor Agreement (ICA) was executed 
under consortium arrangement / multiple banking arrangement. Borrowers for whom resolution plan is implemented under sole banking arrangement are 
not included here as no ICA is required. 
In respect of certain borrowers with banking system exposure of `1,500 crore or more, where RP formulation / implementation was pending, the required 
additional provision has been made as required by RBI stipulations.
17.	 OVERSEAS ASSETS, NPAS AND REVENUE
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total Assets
8,962.40
7,168.17
Total NPAs
Nil
Nil
Total Revenue
506.05
266.38
18.	 DISCLOSURE OF TRANSFER OF LOAN EXPOSURES
 
Details of loans transferred/acquired for the year ended 31st March, 2024 and 31st March, 2023 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan 
Exposures dated 24th September, 2021 are given below:
 
(i) 
The Bank has not transferred any Loans not in default, Special Mention Account (SMA) and Non-performing Assets (NPAs) (previous year Nil).
 
(ii) 
Details of Loans not in default acquired from eligible lenders through assignment:
(` crore except tenor)
Sr. No
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
1
Aggregate amount of loans acquired
1,784.43
404.97
2
Aggregate consideration paid
1,843.61
371.08
3
Weighted average residual maturity 
1.41 years
1.9 years
4
Weighted average holding period of originator  
0.53 years
3.26 years
5
Retention of beneficial economic interest
100%
Nil
6
Coverage of tangible security coverage (%)
Nil
100%
7
Rating-wise distribution of rated loans
Retail loans – NA
Retail loans – NA
205
Standalone Schedules
 
(iii) 
Details of Special Mention Accounts (SMAs) acquired:
(` crore except tenor)
Portfolio acquired during the year ended
From lenders listed in Clause 3 of the circular  
dated 24th September,2021
Aggregate Principal 
outstanding of 
loans acquired
Aggregate 
consideration paid
Weighted average 
residual tenor of 
loans acquired 
(in Years)
31st March, 2024
87.99
50.68
1.06
31st March, 2023
176.79
110.87
1.89
	
(iv) 
Details of Non-performing Assets (NPAs) acquired:
(` crore except tenor)
Portfolio acquired during the year ended
From lenders listed in Clause 3 of the circular  
dated 24th September,2021
Aggregate Principal 
outstanding of 
loans acquired
Aggregate 
consideration paid
Weighted average 
residual tenor of 
loans acquired 
(in Years) $
31st March, 2024
1,979.11
76.00
1.53
31st March, 2023
1,862.83
259.90
8.09
	
	
$ - Weighted Average residual tenor of loans is excluding limit based facilities.
 
(v) 
Details of recovery ratings assigned for Security Receipts as :
Recovery Rating ^
Anticipated Recovery 
as per Recovery Rating
Carrying Value* 
as at 31st March, 2024 
(` crore)
Carrying Value* 
as at 31st March, 2023 
(` crore)
NR1/R1+/RR1+
>150%
176.51
11.14
NR2/R1/RR1
100% - 150%
208.79
447.04
NR3/R2/RR2
75% - 100%
35.53
36.12
NR4/R3/RR3
50% - 75%
114.87
134.33
NR5/R4/RR4
25%-50%
0.01
2.09
NR6/R5/RR5
0% - 25%
-
-
Yet to be rated**
-
134.60
524.97
Unrated
-
0.27
0.09
Total
 
670.58
1,155.78
	
	
^ - Recovery Rating is as assigned by various external rating agencies.
	
	
* - Net of Provisions.
	
	
** - Recent purchases whose statutory period has not elapsed.
19.	 UNSECURED ADVANCES
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total unsecured advances of the bank
87,573.75
66,348.92
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge over the 
rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
-
-
Estimated value of such intangible securities
-
-
Financial Statements
206
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
20.	 BUSINESS RATIOS / INFORMATION
Particulars
Year ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Interest income as a percentage of working funds (A)
8.66%
7.72%
Non-Interest income as a percentage of working funds
1.94%
1.60%
Cost of deposits
4.77%
3.65%
Net Interest Margin (E)
5.32%
5.33%
Operating profit as a percentage of working funds (B) & (F)
3.71%
3.35%
Return on assets (average) (F)
2.61%
2.47%
Business (deposit plus advance) per employee (` in crore) (C)
9.63
8.73
Profit per employee (` in crore)
0.18
0.15
	
Definitions:
 
(A)  
Working funds to be reckoned as average of total assets (excluding accumulated losses, if any) as reported to Reserve Bank of India in Form 
X, during the 12 months of the financial year.
 
(B)  
Operating profit = (Interest Income + Other Income – Interest expenses – Operating expenses).
 
(C)  
For the purpose of computation of business per employee (deposits plus advances), inter-bank deposits shall be excluded.
 
(D)  
Productivity ratios are based on average number of employees.
 
(E) 
Net Interest Income/ Average Earning Assets. Net Interest Income= Interest Income – Interest Expense
 
(F) 
Return on Assets would be with reference to average working funds (i.e., total of assets excluding accumulated losses, if any).
21.	 MATURITY PATTERN OF CERTAIN ITEMS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
31st March, 2024:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day 1
2 to 
7 days
8 to 
14 days
15 to 
30 days
31 days 
to 
2 months
Over 
2 months 
& upto 
3 months
Over 
3 months 
& upto 
6 months
Over 
6 months 
& upto 
1 year
Over 
1 year & 
upto 
3 years
Over 
3 years & 
upto 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Advances^
559.22
3,812.33
4,630.36
6,668.53
13,260.60
9,760.99
16,456.09
54,301.68
160,349.60
38,999.66
67,276.21
376,075.27
Investments*
74,361.32
3,524.62
2,306.69
3,904.20
4,578.21
7,470.72
13,624.12
13,732.35
37,545.12
2,758.74
6,052.44
169,858.53
Deposits
11,356.30
19,025.36
11,245.44
13,740.69
22,070.82
20,158.35
73,866.27
71,021.81
204,968.15
1,133.61
366.95
448,953.75
Borrowings
449.12
31.21
353.95
578.85
789.30
2,012.33
4,022.36
9,485.09
5,533.86
417.03
4,695.00
28,368.10
Foreign Currency 
Assets
1,154.64
450.80
160.07
741.83
939.90
1,914.31
845.62
6,584.61
6,320.32
470.99
578.22
20,161.31
Foreign Currency 
Liabilities
3,090.17
1,544.80
720.03
1,634.90
1,754.59
1,627.41
2,329.41
3,852.66
2,118.91
1,629.11
259.72
20,561.71
* Listed equity investments in AFS have been considered at 50% (` 596.23 crore) haircut as per RBI directions.
* `15,051 crore of Standing Deposit Facility with RBI is considered.
^ Funds raised through bills rediscounted and Inter Bank Participatory Certificate amounting ` 15,653.46 crore are netted off against advances.
In computing the above information, certain estimates and assumptions have been made by the Bank’s Management.
31st March, 2023:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day 1
2 to 
7 days
8 to 
14 days
15 to 
30 days
31 days 
to 
2 months
Over 
2 months 
& upto 
3 months
Over 
3 months 
& upto 
6 months
Over 
6 months 
& upto 
1 year
Over 
1 year & 
upto 
3 years
Over 
3 years 
& upto 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Advances^
1,553.16
2,642.88
3,061.59
5,074.61
10,837.81
12,140.90
15,807.61
45,951.14
131,141.29
32,275.74
59,374.48
319,861.21
Investments*
35,764.85
3,523.26
1,901.66
4,731.83
4,183.72
3,687.30
10,611.74
12,703.37
36,661.58
2,534.34
4,501.39
120,805.04
Deposits
10,741.88
17,067.46
9,838.68
8,290.28
16,739.01
14,526.90
44,617.13
54,387.26
184,654.71
1,812.81
419.93
363,096.05
Borrowings
367.14
4,889.49
295.93
2,050.35
1,400.80
438.69
5,633.50
1,968.55
3,600.12
971.70
1,800.00
23,416.27
Foreign Currency 
Assets
2,514.86
1,903.04
526.53
1,921.90
1,585.60
1,885.48
2,480.10
2,209.10
2,793.99
779.95
261.42
18,861.97
Foreign Currency 
Liabilities
972.87
379.53
166.33
285.98
233.55
341.68
1,528.95
1,738.82
7,328.11
875.90
478.66
14,330.38
* Listed equity investments in AFS have been considered at 50% (` 598.68 crore) haircut as per RBI directions.
^ Funds raised through bills rediscounted and Inter Bank Participatory Certificate amounting ` 5,682.10 crore are netted off against advances.
In computing the above information, certain estimates and assumptions have been made by the Bank’s Management.
207
Standalone Schedules
22.	 EXPOSURES
(a) 	 Exposure to Real Estate Sector*:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
a)
Direct exposure
72,926.43
70,670.46
i.
Residential Mortgages –
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied by 
the borrower or that is rented; (Includes Individual housing loans eligible for inclusion in 
priority sector advances as at 31st March, 2024 ` 1,836.47 crore and as at 31st  March, 
2023 ` 1,441.90  crore). Exposure also includes non-fund based (NFB) limits
45,407.61
46,438.51
ii.
Commercial Real Estate -
27,518.82
24,231.95
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estates (office buildings, retail 
space, multi-purpose commercial premises, multi-family residential buildings, multi-
tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition, 
development and construction, etc.). Exposure also includes non-fund based (NFB) limits
iii
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures-
-
-
- Residential,
-
-
- Commercial Real Estate
-
-
b)
Indirect Exposure
3,313.34
5,924.40
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and Housing 
Finance Companies (HFCs).
3,313.34
5,924.40
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector (a+b)
76,239.77
76,594.86
	
* On limit basis or outstanding basis whichever is higher.
(b) 	 Exposure to Capital Market*:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
i.
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units of 
equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;#
1,967.29
2,362.01
ii.
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis to 
individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds;
979.74
844.77
iii.
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures 
or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security;
-
-
iv.
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security of shares 
or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. 
where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds / convertible debentures / 
units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully cover the advances;
4,363.65
4,643.95
v.
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on behalf of 
stockbrokers and market makers;
2,604.48
2,449.04
vi.
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / debentures or 
other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity of new 
companies in anticipation of raising resources;
-
-
vii.
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
-
-
viii.
Underwriting commitments taken up by the banks in respect of primary issue of shares or 
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds;
581.62
1,293.16
ix.
Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading;
1,900.40
1,090.94
x.
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered) will be deemed 
to be on par with equity and hence will be reckoned for compliance with the capital market 
exposure ceilings (both direct and indirect)
1,735.62
30.54
xi.
Others (Financial Guarantees)
293.09
219.92
Total Exposure to Capital Market*
14,425.89
12,934.33
	
# The above amount excludes shares/convertible bonds aggregating to ` 10.52 crore (previous year ` 27.74 crore) acquired due to conversion of debt to equity under 
restructuring process. As per para 20 of DBR.No.BP.BC.101/21.04.048/2017-18 dated 12th February, 2018, the above amount is exempt from regulatory ceilings/restriction on 
capital market exposure.
	
* On limit basis or outstanding basis whichever is higher.
Financial Statements
208
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(c)	
Risk category wise country exposure: 
 
As per extant RBI guidelines, the country exposure of the Bank is categorized into various risk categories listed in following table.
(` in crore)
Risk Category
Exposure (net) 
as at 
31st  March, 2024
Provision held 
as at 
31st  March, 2024
Exposure (net) 
as at 
31st  March, 2023
Provision held 
as at 
31st  March, 2023
Insignificant
9,976.36
-
8,255.85
-
Low
452.75
-
425.56
-
Moderately Low
64.09
-
2.74
-
Moderate
-
-
-
-
Moderately High
-
-
-
-
High
38.83
-
-
-
Very High
-
-
-
-
Total
10,532.02
-
8,684.15
-
	
Exposure is given as net exposure basis the definition given in circular dated 19th February, 2003
23.	 CONCENTRATION OF DEPOSITS
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors
41,269.42
29,947.17
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the Bank
9.19%
8.25%
24.	 CONCENTRATION OF ADVANCES*
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers
47,885.53
42,999.39
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the bank
7.10%
7.37%
	
* Advances have been computed based on credit exposure i.e. funded and non-funded limits including derivative exposures where applicable. The sanctioned limits or 
outstanding, whichever are higher, have been reckoned. However, in the case of fully drawn term loans, where there is no scope for re-drawal of any portion of the sanctioned 
limit, Bank has reckoned the outstanding as the credit exposure.
	
The Bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from its internal MIS system.
25.	 CONCENTRATION OF EXPOSURES**
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers/customers
55,876.33
49,375.62
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers/customers to total exposure of the bank on 
borrowers/customers
7.78%
8.01%
	
** Exposures represents credit, derivatives and investment exposure as prescribed in Master Circular on Exposure Norms
	
DBR.No.Dir.BC. 12/13.03.00/2015-16 dated 1st July, 2015.
	
The Bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from its internal MIS system.
209
Standalone Schedules
26.	 DISCLOSURE ON RESOLUTION FRAMEWORK FOR COVID-19 RELATED STRESS
 
In accordance with Resolution Framework for COVID-19 announced by RBI on 6th August, 2020 and 5th May, 2021, the Bank has implemented one-
time restructuring for certain eligible borrowers and such borrowers are classified as Standard in accordance with the above framework.
 
The disclosure requirements as required by RBI circular dated 6th August, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and 5th May 2021 (Resolution Framework 
2.0) as at 31st March 2024 is given below: 
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to implementation 
of resolution plan– Position as 
at the end of the previous half 
- year (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
the half-year
Of (A) 
amount 
written off 
during the 
half - year#
Of (A) 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
half-year ^
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of resolution 
plan– Position as at the end 
of this half – year
Personal Loans
88.19
1.50
0.09
33.22
53.47
Corporate persons*
36.60
0.03
0.03
6.01
30.56
Of which, MSMEs
29.56
-
-
4.34
25.22
Others
61.47
0.06
0.00$
8.51
52.90
Total
186.26
1.59
0.12
47.74
136.93
	
* As defined in section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
	
# includes debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written off during the half-year.
	
^ includes change in balances on account of interest and net of increase in exposure during the period.
	
$ Amount less than ` 50,000/-.
27.	
The factoring exposure of the Bank as at 31st March, 2024 is ` 4,710.44 crore (previous year ` 2,243.88 crore).
28.	
During the year, the Reserve Bank of India has levied a penalty of ` 3.96 crore (previous year ` 1.07 crore) on the Bank for the following:
	
Year ended 31st March 2024:
	
	
` 1 crore on account of failure to carryout annual review / due diligence of service provider.
 
	
` 1 crore on account of failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7 am.
	
	
` 1 crore on account of levying interest from disbursement due date / loan agreement and not from the date of first disbursement of the loan 
contrary to the terms & conditions of sanction.
 
	
` 0.95 crore on account of charging foreclosures charges for the loans recalled by the Bank.
	
	
` 0.005 crore for 3 instances in relation to exchange of soiled notes / adjudicate mutilated notes as detected during incognito visits undertaken 
by RBI.
	
Year ended 31st March 2023:
	
	
` 0.30 crore on account of delayed credit of eligible amount to the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund within the period prescribed.
	
	
` 0.30 crore on account of failure to credit (shadow reversal) of the amount involved in the unauthorised electronic transactions to the 
customers’ account within period prescribed.
	
	
` 0.45 crore on failure to maintain/ apply margin on advances to stock brokers.
	
 
Penal interest of ` 0.017 crore for default in maintenance of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) on an average basis for a fortnight.
	
	
` 0.002 crore for 2 instances in relation to exchange of soiled notes / adjudicate mutilated notes as detected during incognito visits undertaken 
by RBI.
29.	
There are no Off-Balance Sheet SPVs sponsored (which are required to be consolidated as per accounting norms) (previous year Nil).
Financial Statements
210
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
30.	 BANCASSURANCE BUSINESS
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Nature of Income
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
1.
For selling life insurance policies
691.84
380.18
2.
For selling non life insurance policies
77.99
32.04
3.
For selling mutual fund products
278.01
245.84
4.
Others
-
-
	
This Income has been reflected under Commission, exchange and brokerage under Other Income.
31.	 FLOATING PROVISIONS
	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
(a)
Opening balance in the floating provisions account
Nil
Nil
(b)
The quantum of floating provisions made in the accounting year
Nil
Nil
(c)
Amount of draw down made during the accounting year
Nil
Nil
(d)
Closing Balance in floating provisions account
Nil
Nil
32.	 DRAW DOWN FROM RESERVES
 
In accordance with the RBI requirement there are no draw downs from reserves during the year (previous year Nil).
33.	 a)	
Status of Shareholder Complaints:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
(a)
No. of complaints pending at the beginning of the year
0
2
(b)
No. of complaints received during the year
23
35
(c)
No. of complaints redressed during the year
23
37
(d)
No. of complaints pending at the end of the year
0
0
	
b)	
Summary information on complaints received by the bank from customers and from the Offices of the Banking Ombudsman (OBOs): 
Sr. 
No
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Complaints received by the bank from its customers(*)
1.
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
11,218
8,195
2.
Number of complaints received during the year
292,085
235,655
3.
Number of complaints disposed during the year
286,885
232,632
3.1
Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
125,105
109,209
4.
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
16,418
11,218
* No of complaints reported are excluding complaints redressed in 0 & 1 day.
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5.
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5,693*
4,921*
5.1
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by BOs
2,529
2,267
5.2
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/advisories 
issued by BOs
3,164
2,654
5.3
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by BOs against the bank
Nil
Nil
6.
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those 
appealed)
Nil
Nil
	
	
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in BO Scheme 2021 (Previously BO Scheme 2006) and covered within the 
ambit of the Scheme.
	
	
*Data is as received from CEPD, RBI
211
Standalone Schedules
	
	
Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers:
Grounds of complaints,  
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of the 
year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
31st March,2024
ATM/Debit Cards
1,126
80,267
0.3%
5,312
3,687
Internet Banking /Mobile Banking/E-
Banking
5,686
63,287
(6)%
1,693
978
Credit Cards
924
31,345
77%
6,051
4,575
Account opening/difficulty in operation of 
accounts
660
15,641
(1)%
320
117
Levy of charges without prior notice/
excessive charges/foreclosure charges
365
12,561
69%
350
140
Others
2,457
88,984
88%
2,692
1,044
Total
11,218
292,085
24%
16,418
10,541
31st March,2023
ATM/Debit Cards
3,088
80,053
12%
1,126
187
Internet Banking /Mobile Banking/E-
Banking
3,501
67,304
33%
5,686
1,883
Credit Cards
302
17,687
51%
924
350
Account opening/difficulty in operation of 
accounts
297
15,770
6%
660
22
Levy of charges without prior notice/
excessive charges/foreclosure charges
112
7,449
21%
365
5
Others
895
47,392
10%
2,457
256
Total
8,195
235,655
19%
11,218
2,703
	
	
Note: The master list for identifying the grounds of complaints is provided in Appendix 1 as prescribed in Master Circular on Strengthening of Grievance Redress 
Mechanism in Bank (CEPD.CO.PRD.Cir.No.01/13.01.013/2020-21; dtd 27th January 2021.) 
	
	
The Bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from its internal MIS system.
34.	 MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION (EXCLUDING BANCASSURANCE BUSINESS)
 (` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Nature of Income
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
1.
Referral Fees
389.12
339.00
2.
Arrangers Fees
185.60
225.01
3.
Income on distribution of Sovereign Gold Bond
3.67
0.83
4.
Other Income
7.15
8.37
	
Above has been reflected under Commission, exchange and brokerage under Other Income.
Financial Statements
212
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
35.	 DISCLOSURES ON REMUNERATION
	
A.	
Qualitative Disclosures:
	
	
a)	
Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Remuneration Committee:
 
 
 
The Nomination & Remuneration committee comprises of independent directors of the Bank. Key mandate of the Nomination & 
Remuneration committee is to oversee the overall design and operation of the compensation policy of the Bank and work in coordination 
with the Risk Management Committee to achieve alignment between risks and remuneration.
 
 
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) will be, inter alia, reviewing and tracking the implementation of the Compensation 
Policy of the Bank. The NRC will comprises of at least 3 Non-executive Directors, out of which at least two third of the members should 
be independent directors and should include at least one member from the Bank’s Risk Management Committee of the Board. (RMC).
	
	
b)	
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and objectives of 
remuneration policy:2
 
 
 
Objective of Banks’ Compensation Policy is:
	
	
	
 
To maintain fair, consistent and equitable compensation practices in alignment with Bank’s core values and strategic business 
goals;
	
	
	
 
To ensure effective governance of compensation and alignment of compensation practices with prudent risk taking;
	
	
	
 
To have mechanisms in place for effective supervisory oversight and Board engagement in compensation;
	
	
	
 
To ensure that the Compensation practices are within the regulatory framework stipulated from time to time by RBI.
 
 
 
The remuneration process is aligned to the Bank’s Compensation Policy objectives.
	
	
c)	
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes. It should 
include the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks:
 
 
 
In order to manage current and future risk and allow a fair amount of time to measure and review both quality and quantity of the 
delivered outcomes, a significant portion of senior and middle management compensation is variable. Further reasonable portion 
variable compensation is non- cash and deferred, over a period of 3 years or longer.
 
 
 
In case the employee is retiring within next 2 years, cash to non-cash ratio may change in favor of more cash (including deferred cash) 
and the vesting schedule may be shorter.
 
 
 
In addition, remuneration process provides for ‘malus’ and ‘clawback’ option to take care of any disciplinary issue or future drop in 
performance of individual/ business/ company.
	
	
d)	
Description of the ways in which the bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period with levels 
of remuneration:3
 
 
 
Individual performances are assessed in line with business/ individual delivery of the Key Result Areas (KRAs), top priorities of business, 
budgets etc. KRAs of Line roles are linked to financials, people, service and process (Quality) and compliance parameters and KRAs of 
non-Line Roles have linkage to functional deliveries needed to achieve the top business priorities.
 
 
 
Further remuneration process is also linked to market salaries / job levels, business budgets and achievement of individual KRAs.
	
	
e)	
A discussion of the banks’ policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and a discussion of the bank’s policy 
and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and after vesting:
	
	
	
A discussion on Policy on Deferral of Remuneration basis last amendment effective 22nd July, 2023
 
 
 
Employees have been broadly classified into following categories:
	
	
	
 
Category I – Comprising MD & CEO and Whole Time Directors (WTDs).
	
	
	
 
Category II – Material Risk Takers (MRTs). These include employees whose actions may have material impact on the risk exposures 
of the bank and who satisfy both - qualitative and quantitative criteria, as given below:
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Qualitative Criteria: Employees in the grade M10 and above
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Quantitative Criteria: Fixed Cost to Company (FCTC) is above ` 1.25 Crore p.a.
 
 
 
 
This excludes employees under Category III.
	
	
	
 
Category III – Risk control and compliance employees – comprising staff in grade M9 and above in the following Control functions;
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Risk & Policy function
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Financial Control including group consolidation;
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Compliance;
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Internal Audit;
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Back-office Operations
2  
GRI 2-19
3  
GRI 2-20
213
Standalone Schedules
	
	
	
	
¡	
Vigilance
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Legal
	
	
	
	
¡	
Secretarial
	
	
	
	
¡ 
HR
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Investor Relations
	
	
	
	
¡ 
CSR
	
	
	
 
Category IV: Other employees - This includes all employees, not explicitly covered in the first three categories.
 
 
 
Following principles are applied for deferral / vesting of variable remuneration in accordance with RBI guidelines and Bank’s compensation 
policy:
	
	
	
Category I & II
	
	
	
 
At least 50% of Total Pay, should be variable for arriving at the total compensation for the year.
	
	
	
 
The Cash component of the Variable Pay will not exceed 50% of the Fixed Pay.
	
	
	
 
The total variable payout shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the fixed pay.
	
	
	
 
In case variable pay is up to 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case variable pay is above 200%, 
a minimum of 67% of the variable pay should be via non-cash instruments.
	
	
	
 
Regardless of the quantum of pay, a minimum of 60% of the total variable pay must invariably be under deferral arrangements. 
Further, if cash component is part of variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus should also be deferred.
	
	
	
 
However, in cases where the cash component of variable pay is under ` 25 lakh for a year, deferral requirements would not be 
necessary.
	
	
	
 
The deferral period should be a minimum of three years. This would be applicable to both, the cash and non-cash components of 
the variable pay.
 
 
 
The compensation will be approved by the Nomination and Remuneration committee. Additionally, for Category I, the same will be further 
approved by RBI.
	
	
	
Category III
	
	
	
 
The total variable payout shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the fixed pay.
	
	
	
 
However, in cases where the cash component of variable pay is under ` 25 lakh for a year, deferral requirements would not be 
necessary.
	
	
	
 
The deferral period should be a minimum of three years. This would be applicable to both, the cash and non-cash components of 
the variable pay.
 
 
 
Approval authority: MD & CEO or as delegated by MD & CEO, will approve the variable pay.
	
	
	
For adjusting deferred remuneration before & after vesting:
	
	
	
Malus: Payment of all or part of amount of deferred variable pay can be prevented.
	
	
	
Clawback: Previously paid or already vested deferred variable pay can also be recovered under this clause.
 
 
 
Malus and clawback may be applied for following circumstances:
	
	
	
 
Fraud, misfeasance, breach of trust, dishonesty, or wrongful disclosure by the employee of any confidential information pertaining 
to the bank or any of its affiliates;
	
	
	
 
Willful misinterpretation / misreporting of financial performance of the bank;
	
	
	
 
Material failure in risk management controls or material losses due to negligent risk-taking which are attributable to the employee, 
whether directly or indirectly;
	
	
	
 
Any misconduct pertaining to moral turpitude, theft, misappropriation, corruption, forgery, embezzlement or an act of a felonious 
or criminal nature;
	
	
	
 
Non-disclosure of material conflict of interest by the employee or any misuse of official powers;
	
	
	
 
An act of willful, reckless or grossly negligent conduct which is detrimental to the interest or reputation of the bank or any of its 
affiliates, monetarily or otherwise;
	
	
	
 
Material breach of Code of Conduct, any Non-Disclosure Agreement, regulatory procedures, internal rules and regulations or any 
other such instance for which the NRC, in its discretion, deems it necessary to apply malus or / and clawback provisions;
 
 
 
Besides the above there can be other circumstances when malus may be applied. In deciding the application of malus / clawback to any 
part or all of variable pay or incentives (whether paid, vested or unvested), the NRC will follow due process and adhere to the principles 
of natural justice and proportionality.
Financial Statements
214
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
f)	
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that the bank utilizes 
and the rationale for using these different forms:
 
 
 
Depending on the nature of the business/function/ role, the risk involved, the time horizon for review, various forms of Variable Pay may 
be applicable.
 
 
 
The components of such variable pay will include:
	
	
	
 
Cash – this may be paid at intervals ranging from Monthly, Quarterly, Half-Yearly and Annual. The Monthly/ Quarterly / Half Yearly 
Variable Pay will be under the role and preapproved business specific incentive schemes. This may be payable within one year of 
grant.
	
	
	
 
Long Term Incentive Pay (LTIP): This shall be granted to employees, in the form of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) and / or Stock 
Appreciation Rights (SARs) and / or Deferred Cash. This shall be granted on a discretionary and reasonable basis, to motivate 
employees, create shareholder value by aligning interest of employees with the long-term interests of the Bank. LTIP may also be 
granted from time to time with the objective of retaining employees.
	
	
	
	
¡ 
ESOPs/ SARs will be linked to Kotak Mahindra Bank Stock price and will vest over a period of time.
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Black Scholes Model will generally be applied for arriving at the value of the units to be granted. However, Bank may choose 
any other model with the approval of NRC within the regulatory framework.
	
	
	
	
¡ 
ESOPs / SARs will be approved by the NRC. The quantum of ESOPs / SARs will be reasonable and the formulation of the 
ESOP series, the coverage, the vesting period and their pricing schedule, etc. will also be decided by the NRC as per SEBI 
guidelines.
	
	
	
	
¡ 
Deferred Cash may paid over a period of 3 to 5 years.
	
B.	
Quantitative Disclosures:
	
	
a)	
Number of meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee held during the financial year and remuneration 
(sitting fees) paid to its members during the financial year.
 
 
 
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2024, 14 meetings (previous year 8 meetings) of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee were held. Members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee were paid, for attending the meetings held during the 
financial year, a sitting fee of ` 75,000 per meeting [previous year ` 50,000 per meeting (for the meetings held before 22nd October, 2022) 
and ` 60,000 per meeting (for the meetings held on or after 22nd October, 2022)].
	
	
b)	
Number of employees having received a variable remuneration award during the financial year.
	
	
	
As per FY24 policy for the year ended 31st March 2024 (“FY2024 policy”):
 
 
 
Quantitative disclosure restricted to one CEO* & two Whole Time Directors as Category I employees and Seventy Seven Category II 
employees as Material Risk Takers. For employees who have moved to a group company or retired or separated as well as new joiner 
awards up to the date in the Bank are included.
 
 
 
*Plus 2 CEOs during the year.
	
	
	
As per FY23 policy for the year ended 31st March 2023 (“FY2023 policy”):
 
 
 
Quantitative disclosure restricted to CEO & four Whole Time Directors as Category I employees and Fifty Nine Category II employees as 
Material Risk Takers. For employees who have moved to a group company or retired or separated as well as new joiner awards up to the 
date in the Bank are included.
 
 
 
All quantitative disclosures are as per FY2024 policy which is applicable from 22nd July, 2023.
	
	
c)	
Number of employees and total amount of sign-on/joining bonus made during the financial year.
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
No of employees
7
5
Cash (Cr)
Nil
Nil
ESOPs (equity shares)
217,400
15,820
SARs (rights)
51,813
296,350
	
	
d)	
Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any.
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Nil
Nil
215
Standalone Schedules
	
	
e)	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into cash, types of share-linked instruments and other forms.
As at 
31st March 2024
As at 
31st March 2023
Cash (Deferred)
` 35.24 crore
` 29.39 crore
Outstanding SARs
829,064 rights
 650,239 rights
Outstanding ESOPs
859,823 equity 
shares
 779,707 equity 
shares
	
	
f)	
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year.
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Cash (Deferred)
` 12.2 crore
` 7.20 crore
Payment towards SARs
` 42.25 crore
` 19.24 crore
	
	
g)	
Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the financial year to show fixed and variable, deferred and non-deferred.
	
	
	
Fixed Pay:
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Total fixed salary
` 155.13 crore
` 118.60 crore
	
	
	
Variable Pay:	
	
	
	
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Deferred Variable Pay$
Cash (Deferred)
` 20.73 crore
` 16.67 crore
SARs
415,361 rights
484,740 rights
ESOPs
434,647 equity 
shares
449,142 equity 
shares
Non Deferred variable pay$
` 26.25 crore
` 22.84 crore
	
	
	
$ Details relating to variable pay pertains to remuneration awards for the financial year 2022-23 awarded in FY2024. Remuneration award for the year ended 
31st March, 2024 are yet to be reviewed and approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
	
	
h)	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and / or implicit 
adjustments.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
	
	
i)	
Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post explicit adjustments.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
	
	
j)	
Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex- post implicit adjustments.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
	
	
k)	
Number of MRT identified.
 
 
 
82 (previous year 64)
	
	
l)	
Number of cases where malus has been exercised.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
	
	
m)	
Number of cases where clawback has been exercised.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
	
	
n)	
Number of cases where both malus and clawback have been exercised.
 
 
 
Nil (previous year Nil)
Financial Statements
216
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
o)	
The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay.
 
 
 
Mean pay for the Bank as a whole for all employees who were in employment for the whole of FY2023-24 and FY2022-23 was ` 0.12 crore 
(previous year ` 0.11 crore).
 
 
 
Ratio of pay of each WTD to the mean pay for the bank as a whole4
Director
Ratio
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
Mr Uday Kotak
3.53X
0.04X
Mr Dipak Gupta
67.40X
49.64X
Mr K.V.S. Manian
50.18X
47.80X
Mr Gaurang Shah
-
45.72X
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
54.63X
19.38X
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
13.40X
NA
	
	
	
Notes:
	
	
	
1.	
Pay includes Fixed pay + variable pay paid during the year + perquisite value as calculated under the Income Tax Act, 1961,(excluding perquisite value of 
Stock Options).
	
	
	
2.	
Stock Appreciation Rights are awarded as variable pay. These are settled in cash and are linked to the average market price/closing market price of the 
Bank’s stock on specified dates. Cash paid out during the year is included for the purposes of remuneration.
	
	
	
3.	
Remuneration of Mr. Uday Kotak includes NED commission for FY2023-24.
	
	
	
4.	
Mr. Dipak Gupta’s remuneration for the FY 2023-24 is including one time settlement of retirement benefit.
	
	
	
5.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram remuneration for the FY2022-23 is for 5 Months (Appointed as WTD effective Nov’22).
	
	
	
6.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani’s remuneration is from 1st Jan 2024 till 31st Mar 2024.
36.	 INTRA – GROUP EXPOSURES
 (` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
(a)	
Total amount of intra-group exposures
6,624.16
6,041.96
(b)	
Total amount of top-20 intra-group exposures
6,620.09
6,036.98
(c)	
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the bank on borrowers / customers
0.92%
0.98%
(d)	
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if any.
NA
NA
	
The Bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from its internal MIS system.
37.	 TRANSFERS TO DEPOSITOR EDUCATION AND AWARENESS FUND (DEA FUND)
 (` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
356.42
303.00
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
67.51
56.22
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claim
11.93
2.80
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
412.00
356.42
4  
GRI 2-21
217
Standalone Schedules
38.	 UNHEDGED FOREIGN CURRENCY EXPOSURE OF BORROWERS
 
The Bank recognises the importance of the risk of adverse fluctuation of foreign exchange rates on the profitability and financial position of borrowers 
who are exposed to currency risk. Currency induced credit risk refers to the risk of inability of borrowers to service their debt obligations due to adverse 
movement in the exchange rates and corresponding increase / decrease in their book values of trade payables, loan payables, trade receivables, etc. 
thereby exposing the Bank to risk of default by the borrower. In this regard, the Bank had put in place requisite policies & processes for monitoring and 
mitigation of currency induced credit risk of borrowers. These include the following:
 
a) 
Currency risk of borrowers on account of un-hedged foreign currency exposures (“UFCE“) is duly considered and analysed in credit appraisal 
notes.
 
b) 
Quarterly monitoring of un-hedged foreign currency exposures of borrowers.
 
c) 
Risk classification of borrowers having un-hedged foreign currency exposures, into Low / Medium / High, as per internal norms, based on 
potential loss / EBID ratio. Potential loss means the loss which may be arise over a one year horizon by adverse movement of exchange rates; 
this is computed as UFCE amount multiplied by the annual volatility factor.
 
d) 
Incremental provisioning (over and above provision applicable for standard assets) is made in Bank’s Profit and Loss Account, on borrower 
counterparties having UFCE, depending on the potential loss / EBID ratio, in line with stipulations by RBI. Incremental capital is maintained in 
respect of borrower counterparties in the highest risk category, in line with stipulations by RBI. These requirements are given below:
Potential Loss / EBID ratio
Incremental Provisioning Requirement 
(computed on the total credit exposures 
reckoned for standard asset provisioning)
Incremental Capital Requirement
Up to 15%
Nil
Nil
More than 15% to 30%
20 bps
Nil
More than 30% to 50%
40 bps
Nil
More than 50% to 75%
60 bps
Nil
More than 75% (Most risky)
80 bps
25 per cent increase in the risk weight
 
e) 
In case of borrowers exposed to currency risk where declarations for foreign currency payables / receivables (UFCE declarations) are not 
submitted, provision for currency induced credit risk is made as per RBI stipulated rates mentioned below:
	
	
 
10 bps in cases where limits with banking system are ` 50 crore or less;
	
	
 
80 bps in cases where limits with banking system are more than ` 50 crore.
 
f) 
Further, where annual certification from statutory auditors of UFCE data is not submitted, such borrowers are treated as UFCE declaration not 
submitted cases and provision is computed as per point (e) above.
 
g) 
Exemption allowed by RBI are excluded from UFCE provision computation, including specified all India financial institutions, multilateral 
agencies, domestic & foreign sovereigns, and other exemptions. Further, 100% FD backed exposure is not reckoned as exposure as per RBI 
definition and thus not reckoned by the Bank for UFCE provision computation. Similarly, LCBD and BG/LC backed exposures are considered as 
exposure to LC/ SBLC issuing banks and not to borrower entity.
 
h) 
Management of foreign exchange risk is considered as a parameter for internal risk rating of borrowers.
 
 
Provision held for currency induced credit risk as at 31st March, 2024 is ` 73.55 crore. (previous year ` 62.85 crore). Incremental Risk weighted 
Assets value considered for the purpose of CRAR calculation in respect of currency induced credit risk as at 31st March, 2024 is ` crore 3,154.68 
crore (previous year ` 1,393.73 crore).
Financial Statements
218
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
39.	 a)	
Liquidity Coverage Ratio
(` in crore) 
Number of working days in the quarter
Average Q4 2023-2024
Average Q3 2023-2024
Average Q2 2023-2024
Average Q1 2023-2024
67
68
69
66
 Particulars
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
119,711
118,818
117,322
102,187
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers, of which:
(i)
Stable deposits
40,923
2,046
40,053
2,003
38,014
1,901
36,398
1,820
(ii) Less stable deposits
201,581
20,158
195,223
19,522
187,351
18,735
178,229
17,823
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii) Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
120,099
74,115
120,801
74,669
117,751
72,107
106,623
64,521
(iii) Unsecured debt
4,016
4,016
3,933
3,933
4,420
4,420
3,194
3,194
4
 Secured wholesale funding
968
2
180
2
422
2
2,485
2
5
Additional requirements, of which
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
28,659
28,659
28,883
28,883
24,699
24,699
22,563
22,563
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
3,102
336
2,773
289
3,627
446
3,078
280
6
Other contractual funding obligations
9,024
9,024
8,590
8,590
6,782
6,782
5,574
5,574
7
Other contingent funding obligations
208,184
9,330
203,218
9,055
195,440
8,702
188,564
8,432
8
Total Cash Outflows
147,686
146,946
137,794
124,209
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repos)
5,566
10
10,405
5
8,307
10
1,914
7
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
61,638
51,305
55,600
46,809
47,064
39,625
41,700
34,880
11
Other cash inflows
1,081
541
1,388
694
1,024
512
1,316
658
12
Total Cash Inflows
51,856
47,508
40,147
35,545
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13
TOTAL HQLA
119,711
118,818
117,322
102,187
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
95,830
99,438
97,645
88,665
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
124.92%
119.49%
120.15%
115.25%
219
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
 Number of working days in the quarter
Average Q4 2022-2023
Average Q3 2022-2023
Average Q2 2022-2023
Average Q1 2022-2023
66
69
71
66
Particulars
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
94,801
 
87,406
 
84,712
 
86,305
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers, of which:
(i)
Stable deposits
35,145
1,757
34,061
1,703
33,190
1,660
32,115
1,606
(ii)
Less stable deposits
173,408
17,341
169,013
16,901
164,832
16,483
161,514
16,151
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
100,655
60,172
94,936
57,145
96,357
56,987
99,977
57,552
(iii)
Unsecured debt
1,378
1,378
601
601
952
952
564
564
4
Secured wholesale funding
3
3
1
-
5
Additional requirements, of which
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
21,638
21,638
24,140
24,140
21,971
21,971
18,054
18,054
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
3,193
295
2,996
250
2,962
243
2,846
233
6
Other contractual funding obligations
5,489
5,489
5,699
5,699
6,146
6,146
6,166
6,166
7
Other contingent funding obligations
182,760
8,151
178,244
7,960
168,532
7,514
161,654
7,212
8
Total Cash Outflows
116,224
 
114,402
 
111,957
 
107,538
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repos)
832
6
1,154
2
3,399
-
6,759
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
41,759
34,406
44,710
38,186
43,046
35,970
38,180
31,511
11
Other cash inflows
809
405
1,067
534
1,663
832
2,243
1,122
12
Total Cash Inflows
34,817
 
38,722
 
36,802
 
32,633
 
 
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
 
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
 
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
 
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13
TOTAL HQLA
 
94,801
 
87,406
 
84,712
 
86,305
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
 
81,407
 
75,680
 
75,155
 
74,905
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
 
116.45%
 
115.49%
 
112.72%
 
115.22%
Financial Statements
220
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
b)	
Qualitative disclosure around LCR
 
The Reserve Bank of India has prescribed monitoring of sufficiency of Bank’s liquid assets using Basel III – Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). The LCR is 
aimed at measuring and promoting short-term resilience of Banks to potential liquidity disruptions by ensuring maintenance of sufficient high quality 
liquid assets (HQLAs) to survive an acute stress scenario lasting for 30 days.
 
The ratio comprises of high quality liquid assets (HQLAs) as numerator and net cash outflows in 30 days as denominator. HQLA has been divided 
into two parts i.e. Level 1 HQLA which comprises of primarily cash, excess CRR, SLR securities in excess of minimum SLR requirement and a portion 
of mandatory SLR as permitted by RBI (under MSF and FALLCR) and Level 2 HQLA which comprises of investments in highly rated non-financial 
corporate bonds and listed equity investments considered at prescribed haircuts. Cash outflows are calculated by multiplying the outstanding 
balances of various categories or types of liabilities by the outflow run-off rates and cash inflows are calculated by multiplying the outstanding 
balances of various categories of contractual receivables by the rates at which they are expected to flow in.
 
The Bank has implemented the LCR framework and has consistently maintained LCR well above the regulatory threshold. The average LCR for the 
quarter ended 31st March, 2024 was 124.92% which is above the regulatory requirement of 100%. For the quarter ended 31st March, 2024 average 
Level 1 HQLA stood at 95.10% (` 113,839 crore.) of the total HQLA.
 
Apart from LCR, Bank uses various stock liquidity indicators to measure and monitor the liquidity risk in terms of funding stability, concentration risk, 
dependence on market borrowings, liquidity transformation, etc. The Bank maintains a diversified source of funding in terms of depositors, lenders 
and various funding instruments. This is evident through low depositor and lender concentration with top 20 depositors contributing 9.19% of Bank’s 
total deposits and top 10 lenders contributing 3.52% of Bank’s total liabilities.
 
Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Bank is the primary governing body for Liquidity Risk Management supported by Balance Sheet Management 
Unit (BMU), Risk Management Department (RMD), Finance and ALCO Support Group. BMU is the central repository of funds within the Bank and is 
vested with the responsibility of managing liquidity risk within the risk appetite of the Bank. Bank has incorporated Basel III Liquidity Standards - LCR 
and NSFR as part of its risk appetite statement for liquidity risk.
40	
FRAUDS
	
The Bank has reported 896 (previous year 706 cases) fraud cases involving fraud amount of one lakh and above during the financial year ended 31st 
March 2024 amounting to ` 97.91 crore (previous year ` 72.40 crore). The Bank has recovered / expensed off / provided the entire amount where 
necessary.
	
Details of fraud provisioning made in more than one financial year:
(` in crore)
Number of fraud reported
Amount involve in Fraud
Provision made during the year
Quantum of unamortised 
provision debited from ‘other 
reserve’
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
41.	 DIVIDEND
 
The Board of Directors of the Bank have a proposed a dividend of ` 2.00 per share having a face value ` 5 for the year ended 31st March, 2024 
(previous Year ` 1.50 per share). Dividend will be paid after the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
42.	 PAYMENT OF DICGC INSURANCE PREMIUM
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
i)
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
454.48
378.01
ii)
Arrears in payment of DICGC Premium
-
-
43.	 IMPLEMENTATION OF IFRS CONVERGED INDIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (IND AS)
 
The Ministry of Finance, Government of India, had vide its press release dated 18th January, 2016 outlined the roadmap for implementation of 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) converged Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) for Scheduled Commercial Bank (excluding 
RRBs), Non-Banking Financial Companies and Insurance companies. The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) vide its circular dated 22nd March, 2019, 
deferred the implementation of Ind AS for Scheduled Commercial Banks (“SCB”) till further notice pending the consideration of some recommended 
legislative amendments by the Government of India. The RBI has not issued any further notification on implementation of Ind AS for SCBs.
 
The Bank has so far taken following steps for Ind AS implementation:
 
I. 
Formed Steering Committee for Ind AS implementation. The Steering Committee headed by the Joint Managing Director (‘JMD’) comprises 
representatives from Finance, Risk, Information Technology and Treasury. The Committee closely reviews progress of Ind AS implementation 
in the Bank and provides guidance on critical aspects of the implementation.
 
II. 
The Bank is currently in the process of implementing an IT Solution for IndAS reporting. Further, there may be new regulatory guidelines and 
clarifications for Ind AS application, which the Bank will need to suitably incorporate in its implementation.
221
Standalone Schedules
44.	 DISCLOSURE ON AMORTISATION OF EXPENDITURE ON ACCOUNT OF ENHANCEMENT IN FAMILY PENSION OF EMPLOYEES OF BANKS
 
Pursuant to the revision in family pension payable to employees of the Bank covered under 11th Bi-Partite settlement and Joint Note dated 11th 
November, 2020, the Bank has recognised the entire additional liability of ` Nil in the Profit and Loss Account during the year ended 31st March, 2024 
(previous year Nil). There is no unamortised expenditure in the Balance Sheet on account of Family Pension.
45.	 ITEMS EXCEEDING 1% OF TOTAL ASSETS/TOTAL INCOME
 
a) 
Details of items under Others (including provisions) (Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities and Provisions) exceeding 1% of total assets of the Bank is 
Nil. (previous year Nil).
 
b) 
Details of items under Others (Schedule 11 – Other Assets) exceeding 1% of total assets of the Bank is Nil (previous year Nil).
 
c) 
Details of items under Miscellaneous Income (Schedule 14 – Other Income) exceeding 1% of total income of the Bank is Nil. (previous year Nil).
	
d) 
Details of items under Other expenditure (Schedule 16 – Operating Expenses) exceeding 1% of total income of the Bank are given below:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Nature of expense
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
1
Professional Fees
1,955.94
2
Brokerage Fees
770.58
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Nature of expense
Year ended 
31st March, 2023
1
Professional Fees
1,647.68
2
Brokerage Fees
707.83
3
Goods and Service Tax (GST) Expense
509.47
B.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES:
1.	
EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computation of basic earnings per share
1,987,326,015
 1,985,666,543
Effect of potential equity shares for stock options outstanding
150,565
 502,301
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share
1,987,476,580
 1,986,168,844
Following is the reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share
Nominal value per share
5.00
5.00
Basic earnings per share
69.15
 54.89
Effect of potential equity shares for stock options
0.00
 0.02
Diluted earnings per share
69.15
 54.87
Profit for the year after tax (` in crore)
13,781.58
 10,939.30
Less : Preference dividend including tax (` in crore)
38.51
40.50
Earnings used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (` in crore)
13,743.07
 10,898.80
Financial Statements
222
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2.	
SEGMENT REPORTING
 
The Summary of the operating segments of the Bank are as given below:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
1.
Segment Revenue
a. 
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
10,122.25
6,923.67
b. 
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
22,788.95
18,130.83
c. 
Retail Banking
27,831.08
19,179.15
d. 
Other Banking business
-
-
Sub-total
60,742.28
44,233.65
Less : Inter-segmental revenue
4,670.27
 2,899.75
Total
56,072.01
41,333.90
2.
Segment Results
a. 
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
4,807.18
3,906.35
b. 
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
7,473.79
7,072.95
c. 
Retail Banking
5,732.75
3,411.69
d. 
Other Banking business
-
-
Sub-total
18,013.72
14,390.99
Total Profit Before Tax
18,013.72
14,390.99
Provision for Tax
4,232.14
3,451.69
Total Profit After Tax
13,781.58
10,939.30
3.
Segment Assets
a. 
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
179,075.58
133,506.32
b. 
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
239,539.02
223,845.52
c. 
Retail Banking
384,257.91
310,374.20
d. 
Other Banking business
-
-
Sub-total
802,872.51
667,726.04
Less : Inter-segmental Assets
203,032.03
178,234.99
Total
599,840.48
489,491.05
Add : Unallocated Assets
516.57
371.43
Total Assets as per Balance Sheet
600,357.05
489,862.48
4.
Segment Liabilities
a. 
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
134,765.70
 93,987.32
b. 
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
218,547.17
202,922.48
c. 
Retail Banking
353,357.46
287,429.54
d. 
Other Banking business
-
-
Sub-total
706,670.33
584,339.34
Less : Inter-segmental Liabilities
203,032.03
178,234.99
Total
503,638.30
406,104.35
Add : Unallocated liabilities
79.29
298.18
Add : Share Capital & Reserves & surplus
96,639.46
83,459.95
Total Capital & Liabilities as per Balance Sheet
600,357.05
489,862.48
5.
Capital Expenditure
a. 
Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
186.35
 122.68
b. 
Corporate / Wholesale Banking
57.75
65.17
c. 
Retail Banking
630.10
562.99
d. 
Other Banking business
-
-
Total
874.20
750.84
6.
Depreciation / Amortisation
a. Treasury, BMU and Corporate Centre
118.25
90.11
b. Corporate / Wholesale Banking
47.55
33.81
c. Retail Banking
448.99
337.81
d. Other Banking business
-
-
Total
614.79
461.73
	
Segmental Information is provided as per the MIS available for internal reporting purposes, which includes certain estimates and assumptions.
223
Standalone Schedules
 
RBI’s Master Direction on Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosures, requires to divide the ‘Retail banking’ into (a) Digital Banking (as 
defined in RBI circular on Establishment of Digital Banking Units dated April 7, 2022) and (b) Other Retail Banking segment. The Bank has two DBUs 
which commenced operations during the quarter ended 31st December, 2022. Accordingly, the segmental results for retail banking are subdivided as 
under:
	
For March 31, 2024:
 (` in crore)
Particulars
Segment Revenue 
for year ended 
31st Mar, 2024
Segment Results 
for year ended 
31st Mar, 2024
Segment Assets 
as at 
31st Mar, 2024
Segment Liability 
as at 
31st Mar, 2024
Retail Banking
27,831.08
5,732.75
384,257.91
353,357.46
(i) 
Digital Banking
1,536.19
118.36
60.60
15,585.65
(ii) 
Other Retail Banking
26,294.89
5,614.39
384,197.31
337,771.81
3.	
LEASE DISCLOSURES
 
a. 
The Bank has taken various premises and equipment under operating lease. The lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account are 
` 661.70 crore (previous year ` 672.27 crore). The sub-lease income recognised in the Profit and Loss Account is ` 12.90 crore (previous year 
` 11.21 crore).
 
b. 
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease – not later than one year is ` 680.40 crore (previous year ` 573.38 
crore), later than one year but not later than five years is ` 2,009.28 crore (previous year ` 1,575.85 crore) and later than five years ` 911.40 crore 
(previous year ` 770.25 crore).
 
 
The lease terms include renewal option after expiry of primary lease period. There are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements. There 
are escalation clauses in the lease agreements.
4.	
DEFERRED TAXES
 
“Others” in Other Assets (Schedule 11 (VI)) includes deferred tax asset (net) of ` 322.70 crore (previous year ` 371.43 crore). The components of the 
same are as follows:
	
(` in crore)
Particulars of Asset/ (Liability)
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Provision for NPA and General provisions
434.71
437.87
Expenditure allowed on payment basis
99.37
122.15
Depreciation
32.64
23.97
Deduction u/s. 36(1)(viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
(244.02)
(212.56)
Net Deferred Tax Asset
322.70
371.43
5.	
PROVISIONS
 
Given below is the movement in provisions recognised by the Bank:
	
a)	
Credit card & debit card reward points:
 
 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in actuarially determined provision for credit card and debit card account 
reward points:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening provision for reward points
68.26
 28.51
Provision for reward points made during the year
267.06
 171.87
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points
(211.20)
 (132.12)
Closing provision for reward points*
124.12
 68.26
	
	
* This amount will be utilised towards redemption of the credit card & debit card accounts reward points.
Financial Statements
224
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
b)	
Legal:
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening Provision
41.44
43.78
Add: Addition during the year
0.51
0.70
Less: Reduction during the year
(6.87)
(3.04)
Closing Provision
35.08
41.44
	
c)	
Fraud and Other Provisions:
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Opening Provision
39.02
42.19
Add: Addition during the year
26.80
4.78
Less: Reduction during the year
(19.83)
(7.95)
Closing Provision
45.99
39.02
6.	
FIXED ASSETS AS PER SCHEDULE 10 B INCLUDE INTANGIBLE ASSETS RELATING TO PURCHASED SOFTWARE AND SYSTEM 
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE WHICH ARE AS FOLLOWS
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Gross Block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
887.69
 713.43
Add: Additions during the year
141.46
 212.24
Less: Deductions during the year
8.42
 37.98
Total
1,020.73
 887.69
Depreciation / Amortization
As at 31st March of the preceding year
625.90
 549.80
Add: Charge for the year
159.06
 109.77
Less: Deductions during the year
4.90
 33.67
Depreciation to date
780.06
 625.90
Net Block
240.67
 261.79
 
Capital commitments for purchase of software and system development expenditure are ` 80.13 crore (previous year ` 91.10 crore).
7.	
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
 
As per Accounting Standard -18, Related Party Disclosure, the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below:
	
A.	
Parties where control exists:
Nature of relationship
Related Party
Subsidiary Companies
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
Kotak Securities Limited
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
Kotak Mahindra Inc.
225
Standalone Schedules
Nature of relationship
Related Party
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited (Formerly Known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
BSS Microfinance Limited
Kotak Karma Foundation (w.e.f. 26th Jun 2023)
Sonata Finance Private Limited (w.e.f. 28th Mar 2024)
	
B.	
Other Related Parties:
Nature of relationship
Related Party
Individual having significant 
influence over the enterprise
Mr. Uday S. Kotak, Promoter along with the persons / entities forming part of the Promoter Group, holds 
25.90% of the paid-up share capital of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited as on 31st March, 2024.
Associates / Others
Infina Finance Private Limited
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
ING Vysya Foundation
Key Management Personnel 
(KMP)
Mr. Uday S. Kotak - Managing Director & CEO upto 1st September 2023 
Non Executive Director w.e.f. 2nd September 2023
Mr. Dipak Gupta - Joint Managing Director (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Ashok Vaswani – Managing Director and CEO (w.e.f. 1st January 2024)
Mr. KVS Manian – Joint Managing Director
Mr. Gaurang Shah - Whole-time Director (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram – Deputy Managing Director (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Enterprises over which KMP / 
relatives of KMP have control / 
significant influence
Aero Agencies Private Limited (formerly known as Aero Agencies Limited)
Kotak and Company Private Limited
Komaf Financial Services Private Limited
Asian Machinery & Equipment Private Limited
Insurekot Sports Private Limited
Kotak Trustee Company Private Limited
Cumulus Trading Company Private Limited
Palko Properties Private Limited
Kotak Chemicals Limited
Kotak Ginning & Pressing Industries Private Limited
Kotak Commodity Services Private Limited
Harisiddha Trading and Finance Private Limited
Puma Properties Private Limited
Business Standard Private Limited
Business Standard Online Private Limited
Allied Auto Accessories Private Limited
Uday S Kotak HUF
Suresh A Kotak HUF
KF Trust (formerly known as USK Benefit Trust II)
Kotak Family Foundation
Helena Realty Private Limited
Doreen Realty Private Limited
Financial Statements
226
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Nature of relationship
Related Party
Renato Realty Private Limited
Pine Tree Estates Private Limited
Meluha Developers Private Limited
Quantyco Realty Private Limited
Xanadu Properties Private Limited
Laburnum Adarsh Trust
True North Enterprises (upto 31st October 2022)
Manian Family Trust
Brij Disa Arnav Trust (upto 31st December 2023)
Brij Disa Parthav Trust (upto 31st December 2023)
Kotak Mahindra Group Employee Welfare Trust
TML Benefit Trust
Brij Disa Foundation (upto 31st December 2023)
Amrit Lila Enterprises Private Limited
Manians Family Trust II
USK Benefit Trust III
Kudin Trusteeship Services Private Limited (w.e.f. 9th September 2022)
Shanti Family Trust (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Shivkaran Trust (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
USK Capital Partners (w.e.f. 2nd January 2024)
Relatives of KMP
Ms. Pallavi Kotak
Mr. Suresh Kotak
Ms. Indira Kotak
Mr. Jay Kotak
Mr. Dhawal Kotak
Ms. Aarti Chandaria
Ms. Aditi Arya (w.e.f. 7th November 2023)
Ms. Anita Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Urmila Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Arnav Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Parthav Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Mr. Prabhat Gupta (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Jyoti Banga (upto 31st December 2023)
Ms. Seetha Krishnan
Ms. Lalitha Mohan
Ms. Shruti Manian
Mr. Shashank Manian
Mr. Ramesh Krishnan
Ms. Vanathi Gopalakrishnan (w.e.f. 15th April 2022)
Ms. Asha Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Divya Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Manasi Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Mahima Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Mr. Chetan Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. Chetna Shah (upto 31st October 2022)
Ms. G. Saraswathi (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Ms. Shobha Srivastava (w.e.f. 1st November 2022)
Veena Vaswani (w.e.f. 1st January 2024)
 
227
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Liabilities
Deposits
3,685.84
48.73
61.02
107.84
174.02
4,077.45
(1,823.43)
(67.64)
(261.73)
(104.26)
(184.32)
(2,441.38)
Borrowings
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Interest Payable
15.00
0.23
-
1.13
0.61
16.97
(3.04)
(0.10)
(1.94)
(1.00)
(0.50)
(6.58)
Other Payables
87.31
-
-
0.01
-
87.32
(72.32)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
(-)
(72.33)
Assets
Advances
400.00
25.31
0.01
1.31
0.04
426.67
(779.83)
(40.31)
(-)
(0.92)
(4.45)
(825.51)
Investments-Gross
4,234.92
-
-
#
-
4,234.92
(4,342.50)
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(4,342.50)
Diminution on Investments
-
-
-
#
-
#
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(#)
Commission Receivable
189.89
-
-
-
-
189.89
(102.63)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(102.63)
Others Receivable
132.65
0.23
-
0.02
-
132.90
(133.56)
(0.39)
(-)
(-)
(0.03)
(133.98)
Non Funded Commitments
Bank Guarantees
1.07
-
-
1.13
-
2.20
(0.57)
(-)
(-)
(1.13)
(-)
(1.70)
Swaps/Forward contracts
200.00
-
-
-
-
200.00
(334.83)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.65)
(336.48)
Expenses
Salaries/fees (Include ESOP/SARs)
-
-
24.05
-
0.57
24.62
(-)
(-)
(23.66)
(-)
(0.45)
(24.11)
Interest Expense
98.22
7.32
14.50
4.78
12.71
137.53
(32.50)
(4.40)
(44.30)
(3.09)
(8.77)
(93.06)
Expenses for services received
919.73
-
-
2.69
-
922.42
(551.44)
(-)
(-)
(0.76)
(-)
(552.20)
Income
Dividend
308.90
-
-
-
-
308.90
(242.27)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(242.27)
Interest Income
66.52
3.23
-
0.06
0.30
70.11
(104.85)
(4.05)
(0.17)
(0.14)
(0.35)
(109.56)
Income from services rendered
1,208.03
0.06
#
0.04
#
1,208.13
(724.77)
(0.11)
(0.01)
(0.04)
(0.01)
(724.94)
Financial Statements
228
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Other Transactions
Sale of Investments
1,260.31
-
-
-
-
1,260.31
(377.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(377.25)
Purchase of Investments
1,731.57
-
-
-
-
1,731.57
(1,161.82)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1,161.82)
Loan Disbursed During the Year
1,556.58
-
-
-
-
1,556.58
(1,294.02)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1,294.02)
Loan Repaid During the Year
1,926.58
15.00
-
-
-
1,941.58
(1,074.02)
(15.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1,089.02)
Assignment Portfolio Buyout During the year
1,736.16
-
-
-
-
1,736.16
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Dividend paid
-
-
76.95
0.23
0.53
77.71
(-)
(-)
(56.37)
(0.14)
(0.39)
(56.90)
Reimbursement to companies
28.07
-
-
-
-
28.07
(23.94)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(23.94)
Reimbursement from companies
141.35
0.27
-
-
-
141.62
(131.42)
(0.43)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(131.85)
Purchase of Fixed assets
0.55
-
-
-
-
0.55
(0.47)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.47)
Sale of Fixed assets
0.17
-
-
-
-
0.17
(4.48)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.48)
Swaps/Forward contracts
724.80
2.84
4.50
4.32
24.61
761.07
(902.00)
(-)
(5.90)
(4.21)
(26.02)
(938.13)
Guarantees/Lines of credit
10.55
-
-
-
-
10.55
(0.80)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.80)
 I.	
Liabilities:
	
Other liabilities
	
Other Payable
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
0.16
-
-
-
-
0.16
(2.79)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(2.79)
	
BSS Microfinance Pvt Ltd
77.86
-
-
-
-
77.86
(61.31)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(61.31)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
1.95
-
-
-
-
1.95
(3.92)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(3.92)
	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
0.89
-
-
-
-
0.89
(3.62)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(3.62)
	
Sonata Finance Private Limited
3.55
-
-
-
-
3.55
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
229
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
1.42
-
-
-
-
1.42
(0.37)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.37)
	
Others
1.48
-
-
0.01
-
1.49
(0.31)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
(-)
(0.32)
II.	 Assets:
	
Investments
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
1,557.20
-
-
-
-
1,557.20
(1,557.20)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1,557.20)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
146.37
-
-
-
-
146.37
(654.46)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(654.46)
	
BSS Microfinance Private Limited
138.56
-
-
-
-
138.56
(138.56)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(138.56)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
488.03
-
-
-
-
488.03
(587.33)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(587.33)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
875.00
-
-
-
-
875.00
(680.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(680.00)
	
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
91.49
-
-
-
-
91.49
(324.79)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(324.79)
	
Sonata Finance Private Limited
537.12
-
-
-
-
537.12
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
228.24
-
-
-
-
228.24
(228.24)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(228.24)
	
Others
172.90
-
-
#
-
172.90
(171.90)
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(171.90)
	
Diminution on investments
	
Business Standard Private Limited
-
-
-
#
-
#
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(#)
	
Commission Receivable
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
176.85
-
-
-
-
176.85
(98.03)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(98.03)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
13.04
-
-
-
-
13.04
(4.60)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.60)
	
Others Receivable
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
16.32
-
-
-
-
16.32
(30.59)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(30.59)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
13.74
-
-
-
-
13.74
(14.51)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(14.51)
	
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
34.86
-
-
-
-
34.86
(23.94)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(23.94)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
6.71
-
-
-
-
6.71
(7.69)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(7.69)
Financial Statements
230
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
23.87
-
-
-
-
23.87
(20.56)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(20.56)
	
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
0.41
-
-
-
-
0.41
(9.54)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(9.54)
	
BSS Microfinance Limited
9.63
-
-
-
-
9.63
(19.38)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(19.38)
	
Sonata Finance Private Limited
2.62
-
-
-
-
2.62
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
5.83
-
-
-
-
5.83
(3.63)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(3.63)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
9.50
-
-
-
-
9.50
(2.26)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(2.26)
	
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
-
0.23
-
-
-
0.23
(-)
(0.33)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.33)
	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
6.59
-
-
-
-
6.59
(1.34)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.34)
	
Others
2.58
#
-
0.02
-
2.60
(0.10)
(0.06)
(-)
(-)
(0.03)
(0.19)
	
Non Funded Commitments
	
Bank Guarantees
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
0.30
-
-
-
-
0.30
(0.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.25)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
0.02
-
-
-
-
0.02
(0.02)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.02)
	
Aero Agencies Private Limited
-
-
-
1.00
-
1.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.00)
(-)
(1.00)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
0.25
-
-
-
-
0.25
(0.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.25)
	
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited
0.50
-
-
0.13
-
0.63
(0.05)
(-)
(-)
(0.13)
(-)
(0.18)
	
Swaps/Forward contracts
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
100.00
-
-
-
-
100.00
(234.83)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(234.83)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
100.00
-
-
-
-
100.00
(100.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(100.00)
	
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.65)
(1.65)
231
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
III.	 Expenses:
	
Salaries/fees (Include ESOP/SARs)
	
Mr.Uday Kotak
-
-
0.40
-
-
0.40
(-)
(-)
(#)
(-)
(-)
(#)
	
Mr. Gaurang Shah
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(5.27)
(-)
(-)
(5.27)
	
Mr. KVS Manian
-
-
6.72
-
-
6.72
(-)
(-)
(7.82)
(-)
(-)
(7.82)
	
Mr.Dipak Gupta
-
-
8.37
-
-
8.37
(-)
(-)
(8.22)
(-)
(-)
(8.22)
	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
-
-
6.73
-
-
6.73
(-)
(-)
(2.35)
(-)
(-)
(2.35)
	
Mr.Ashok Vaswani
-
-
1.83
-
-
1.83
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Mr.Jay Kotak
-
-
-
-
0.57
0.57
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.45)
(0.45)
	
Expenses for services received
	
Kotak Securities Limited
0.82
-
-
-
-
0.82
(0.78)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.78)
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
15.72
-
-
-
-
15.72
(21.39)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(21.39)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
3.18
-
-
-
-
3.18
(3.49)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(3.49)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
1.35
-
-
-
-
1.35
(2.74)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(2.74)
	
Aero Agencies Private Limited
-
-
-
2.64
-
2.64
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.68)
(-)
(0.68)
	
Business Standard Private Limited
-
-
-
0.05
-
0.05
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.08)
(-)
(0.08)
	
BSS Microfinance Limited
895.03
-
-
-
-
895.03
(523.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(523.01)
	
Sonata Finance Private Limited
2.42
-
-
-
-
2.42
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
0.09
-
-
-
-
0.09
(0.03)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.03)
	
Others
1.11
-
-
-
-
1.11
(#)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
Financial Statements
232
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
IV.	 Income:
	
Dividend
	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
34.36
-
-
-
-
34.36
(34.36)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(34.36)
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
117.88
-
-
-
-
117.88
(88.41)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(88.41)
	
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.09)
	
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
111.75
-
-
-
-
111.75
(74.50)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(74.50)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
8.91
-
-
-
-
8.91
(8.91)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(8.91)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
36.00
-
-
-
-
36.00
(36.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(36.00)
	
Income from services rendered
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
728.63
-
-
-
-
728.63
(407.35)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(407.35)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance 
Company Limited
82.13
-
-
-
-
82.13
(35.79)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(35.79)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
217.85
-
-
-
-
217.85
(166.32)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(166.32)
	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
15.05
-
-
-
-
15.05
(8.93)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(8.93)
	
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
19.68
-
-
-
-
19.68
(16.51)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(16.51)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
37.46
-
-
-
-
37.46
(37.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(37.09)
	
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
65.28
-
-
-
-
65.28
(41.83)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(41.83)
	
BSS Microfinance Limited
26.73
-
-
-
-
26.73
(#)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
	
Others
15.22
0.06
#
0.04
#
15.32
(10.95)
(0.11)
(0.01)
(0.04)
(0.01)
(11.12)
V.	
Other Transactions:
	
Sale of Investment
	
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
150.00
-
-
-
-
150.00
(250.70)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(250.70)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
205.00
-
-
-
-
205.00
(35.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(35.00)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
100.00
-
-
-
-
100.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
233
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
675.44
-
-
-
-
675.44
(66.68)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(66.68)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
54.31
-
-
-
-
54.31
(24.88)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(24.88)
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
75.56
-
-
-
-
75.56
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Purchase of Investments
	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
895.25
-
-
-
-
895.25
(257.21)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(257.21)
	
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
60.00
-
-
-
-
60.00
(360.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(360.00)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
555.32
-
-
-
-
555.32
(319.61)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(319.61)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
25.00
-
-
-
-
25.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
195.00
-
-
-
-
195.00
(225.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(225.00)
	
Kotak Karma Foundation
1.00
-
-
-
-
1.00
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Loan Disbursed During the Year
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
450.02
-
-
-
-
450.02
(800.02)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(800.02)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
956.56
-
-
-
-
956.56
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
150.00
-
-
-
-
150.00
(494.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(494.00)
	
Loan Repaid During the Year	
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
245.00
-
-
-
-
245.00
(249.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(249.00)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
956.56
-
-
-
-
956.56
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
-
15.00
-
-
-
15.00
(-)
(15.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(15.00)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
725.02
-
-
-
-
725.02
(825.02)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(825.02)
	
Assignment Portfolio Buyout During the year
	
Sonata Finance Private Limited
1,736.16
-
-
-
-
1,736.16
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Dividend Paid
	
Mr.Uday Kotak
-
-
76.65
-
-
76.65
(-)
(-)
(56.20)
(-)
(-)
(56.20)
Financial Statements
234
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
	
Mr.Dipak Gupta
-
-
0.07
-
-
0.07
(-)
(-)
(0.07)
(-)
(-)
(0.07)
	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
-
-
0.20
-
-
0.20
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Gaurang Shah
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(0.10)
(-)
(-)
(0.10)
	
KVS Manian
-
-
0.02
-
-
0.02
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
	
Ms. Pallavi Kotak
-
-
-
-
0.17
0.17
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.12)
(0.12)
	
Ms. Indira Kotak
-
-
-
-
0.30
0.30
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.22)
(0.22)
	
Others
-
-
-
0.23
0.06
0.29
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.14)
(0.05)
(0.19)
	
Reimbursements to companies
	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
0.96
-
-
-
-
0.96
(#)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
6.84
-
-
-
-
6.84
(6.39)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(6.39)
	
Kotak Securities Limited
12.30
-
-
-
-
12.30
(11.45)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(11.45)
	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
0.23
-
-
-
-
0.23
(0.58)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.58)
	
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
1.36
-
-
-
-
1.36
(0.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.25)
	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
1.88
-
-
-
-
1.88
(1.49)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(1.49)
	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
4.40
-
-
-
-
4.40
(3.62)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(3.62)
	
Others
0.10
-
-
-
-
0.10
(0.15)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.15)
Reimbursements from companies
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd
10.53
-
-
-
-
10.53
(10.34)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(10.34)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
39.32
-
-
-
-
39.32
(28.80)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(28.80)
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
15.57
-
-
-
-
15.57
(16.42)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(16.42)
Kotak Securities Limited
31.76
-
-
-
-
31.76
(31.11)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(31.11)
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
7.76
-
-
-
-
7.76
(8.12)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(8.12)
235
Standalone Schedules
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
9.90
-
-
-
-
9.90
(11.76)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(11.76)
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
10.27
-
-
-
-
10.27
(9.64)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(9.64)
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
(Singapore) Pte Limited
4.06
-
-
-
-
4.06
(4.07)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.07)
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Limited
5.04
-
-
-
-
5.04
(4.19)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.19)
Others
7.12
0.27
-
-
-
7.39
(6.96)
(0.43)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(7.39)
Purchase of Fixed Assets
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
0.07
-
-
-
-
0.07
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance 
Company Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.14)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.14)
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.09)
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
0.17
-
-
-
-
0.17
(0.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.09)
Kotak Securities Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.10)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.10)
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
0.30
-
-
-
-
0.30
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.04)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.04)
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services 
Limited
0.01
-
-
-
-
0.01
(0.01)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.01)
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
0.01
-
-
-
-
0.01
(#)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
Sale of Fixed Assets
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance 
Company Limited
#
-
-
-
-
#
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
0.01
-
-
-
-
0.01
(4.30)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4.30)
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services 
Limited
0.01
-
-
-
-
0.01
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Financial Statements
236
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/ 
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
0.15
-
-
-
-
0.15
(0.03)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.03)
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.14)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.14)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
0.01
-
-
-
-
0.01
(0.02)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.02)
Kotak Securities Limited
#
-
-
-
-
#
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Swaps/Forwards/Options Contracts
Kotak Mahindra International Ltd
#
-
-
-
-
#
(#)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(#)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
136.21
-
-
-
-
136.21
(533.63)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(533.63)
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
0.03
-
-
-
-
0.03
(100.00)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(100.00)
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
117.45
-
-
-
-
117.45
(26.82)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(26.82)
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
18.43
-
-
-
-
18.43
(9.50)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(9.50)
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management 
Company Limited
8.54
-
-
-
-
8.54
(10.30)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(10.30)
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
76.61
-
-
-
-
76.61
(15.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(15.09)
Kotak Securities Limited
367.13
-
-
-
-
367.13
(206.57)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(206.57)
BSS Microfinance Limited
0.14
-
-
-
-
0.14
(0.09)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.09)
Others
0.25
2.84
4.50
4.32
24.61
36.52
(-)
(-)
(5.90)
(4.21)
(26.02)
(36.13)
Guarantees/Lines of Credits
-
Kotak Alternate Assets Managers Limited
10.50
-
-
-
-
10.50
(0.55)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.55)
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company 
Limited
0.05
-
-
-
-
0.05
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.25)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(0.25)
Note:
1.	
Figures in brackets represent previous year’s figures.
2.	
The above does not include any transactions in relation to listed securities done on recognised stock exchange during the year. However above includes transactions done on 
NDS with known related parties.
3.	
# in the above table denotes amounts less than ` 50,000
4.	
Remuneration paid to KMPs is pursuant to approval from RBI (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
237
Standalone Schedules
Maximum Balance outstanding during the year
	
 (` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Subsidiary 
Companies
Associates/ 
Others
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Enterprise 
over which 
KMP/
Relative of 
KMP have 
control / 
significant 
influence
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Liabilities
Deposits1
 8,514.67
 347.49
 311.72
 269.00
 207.31
(6,199.33)
(768.74)
(2,553.73)
(180.63)
(248.59)
Borrowings1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other Liabilities2
116.92
2.20
2.28
1.32
1.25
(77.72)
(0.27)
(2.21)
(1.16)
(0.77)
Assets
Advances1
1,351.92
 42.82
0.04
 1.44
 5.58
(948.94)
(55.31)
(4.62)
(3.79)
(8.24)
Investments-Gross1
 5,401.88
 -
#
(5,164.90)
-
(#)
(#)
(#)
Commission Receivable2
189.89
-
-
-
-
(102.63)
-
-
-
-
Other Assets2
 219.62
 0.50
 -
 0.01
 -
(215.70)
(0.65)
(0.04)
(0.03)
(0.09)
Non Funded Commitments
Bank Guarantees1
11.07
-
-
1.13
-
(1.02)
-
-
(1.13)
-
Swaps/Forwards1
 696.99
 2.84
 3.64
 1.06
 18.21
(1,030.05)
-
(4.79)
(6.61)
(17.57)
Note:
1.	
Maximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total daily outstanding balances during the financial year.
2.	
Maximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the financial year.
3.	
Figures in brackets represent previous year’s figures.
4.	
# in the above table denotes amounts less than ` 50,000/-.
Financial Statements
238
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
8.	
EMPLOYEE SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
 
The Shareholders of the Bank had passed a Special Resolution in the General meeting dated 29th June, 2015 and 22nd December, 2023, to grant options to 
the eligible employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to these resolutions, the Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 & Kotak Mahindra 
Equity Option Scheme 2023 have been formulated and adopted respectively. The Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 is operational only to the 
extent of treatment of options granted till 22nd December, 2023 and Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023 is currently in force.
	
Equity-settled options
 
The Bank has granted options to employees of the Group vide various employee stock option schemes. During the year ended 31st March, 2024, the 
following schemes were in operation:
Particulars
Plan 2015
Plan 2023
Date of grant
Various Dates
Various Dates
Date of Board Approval
Various Dates
Various Dates
Date of Shareholder’s approval
29th June, 2015
22nd December, 2023
Number of options granted
21,080,963
108,417
Method of Settlement (Cash / Equity)
Equity
Equity
Vesting Period
0.01 – 4.16 years
1.03 – 3.40 years
Exercise Period
0.03 – 1 year
0.50 year
Vesting Conditions
Graded / Cliff vesting
Graded / Cliff vesting
 
The details of activity under Plan 2015 have been summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Number of 
Shares
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (`)
Number of 
Shares
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
3,573,225
1,642.98
4,270,658
1,485.35
Granted during the year
 1,112,490
 1,939.00
1,474,424
1,804.47
Forfeited during the year
 206,273
 1,804.14
137,475
1,611.54
Exercised during the year
1,364,316
1,460.33
1,894,822
1,413.62
Expired during the year
415,397
1,768.94
139,560
1,670.66
Outstanding at the end of the year
 2,699,729
 1,825.57
3,573,225
1,642.98
Out of the above exercisable at the end of the year
 334,878
 1,579.64
835,480
1,439.84
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 1.65
1.46
Weighted average fair value of options granted
 509.70
490.13
 
The details of activity under Plan 2023 have been summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended 31st March, 2024
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Number of 
Shares
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (`)
Number of 
Shares
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
-
-
-
-
Granted during the year
 108,417
 1,823.00
-
-
Forfeited during the year
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
 108,417
 1,823.00
-
-
Out of the above exercisable at the end of the year
-
-
-
-
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 2.44
-
Weighted average fair value of options granted
 377.70
-
 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for stock options exercised during the year was ` 1,842.83 (previous year ` 1,772.38).
239
Standalone Schedules
 
The details of exercise price for stock options outstanding at the end of the year are:
	
31st March, 2024
Range of exercise prices (`)
Number of options 
outstanding
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life of options 
(in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
1,201-1,300
10,020
0.28
1,240.89
1,301-1,400
174,514
0.25
1,341.00
1,701-1,800
786,518
1.65
1,798.00
1,801-1,900
774,484
1.48
1,814.32
1,901-2,000
1,062,610
2.08
1,939.00
	
31st March, 2023
Range of exercise prices (`)
Number of options 
outstanding
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life of options 
(in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
901-1,000
 75,321
 0.73
 1,000.00
1,001-1,100
 10,000
 0.25
 1,050.00
1,201-1,300
 20,040
 1.03
 1,240.89
1,301-1,400
 738,312
 0.72
 1,341.00
1,401-1,500
 442,832
 0.25
 1,460.00
1,701-1,800
 1,224,120
 2.08
 1,798.00
1,801-1,900
 1,062,600
 1.83
 1,809.20
	
Stock appreciation rights
 
At the General Meeting on 29th June, 2015, the shareholders of the Bank had passed Special Resolution to grant SARs to the eligible employees of the 
Bank and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to this resolution, Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2015 had been formulated and adopted. 
Subsequently, the SARs have been granted under this scheme. The Board of Directors of the Bank have formulated and adopted the Kotak Mahindra 
Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2023 effective from 1st December 2023 in place of SARs Scheme 2015. SARs Scheme 2015 is operational only to 
the extent of treatment of SARs granted till 30th November 2023.
 
The SARs are settled in cash and vest on the respective due dates in a graded manner as per the terms and conditions of grant. The contractual life 
of the SARs outstanding range from 1.00 to 4.13 years.
 
Detail of activity under SARs is summarised below:
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Year Ended 
31st March, 2023
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,252,174
623,855
Granted during the year
1,351,301
870,541
Additions/(Reduction) due to transfer of employees
9,571
28,888
Settled during the year
431,501
193,696
Forfeited during the year
161,174
77,414
Outstanding at the end of the year
2,020,371
1,252,174
Financial Statements
240
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Fair value of Employee stock options
 
The fair value of the equity-settled options is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes options pricing model taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the options were granted. The fair value of the cash-settled options is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date. The 
following table lists the inputs to the model used for equity-settled and cash-settled options:
Year ended 31st March,
 2024
2023
Equity-settled
Cash-settled
Equity-settled
Cash-settled
Exercise Price `
 1823-1939
0-1801
1,798-1,900
0-1,801
Weighted Average Share Price `
 1,927.50
 1,825.07
1,782.25
1,735.68
Expected Volatility
 16.79%-32.42%
11.25%-25.27%
26.57%-36.85%
14.24%-33.18%
Historical Volatility
16.79%-32.42%
11.25%-25.27%
26.57%-36.85%
14.24%-33.18%
Life of the options granted (Vesting and exercise period)
- At the grant date
1.25-4.42
1.25-4.31
- As at 31st March
0.02-3.84
0.02-4.04
Risk-free interest rate
 7.01%-7.26%
6.89%-7.19%
5.75%-7.77%
6.79%-7.32%
Expected dividend rate
0.08%
0.08%-0.09%
0.06%
0.06%
 
The expected volatility was determined based on historical volatility data and the Bank expects the volatility of its share price may not differ from 
historical volatility. The measure of volatility used in the Black-Scholes options pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. For calculating volatility, the daily volatility of the stock prices on the National Stock 
Exchange, over a period prior to the date of grant for equity settled options and re measurement date for the cash settled options, corresponding with 
the expected / residual life of the share-linked instruments has been considered.
 
Effect of the employee share-based payment plans on the Profit and Loss Account and on the financial position:
(` in crore)
Year ended 31st March,
 2024
2023
Total Employee compensation cost pertaining to share-based payment plans
168.02
99.77
Compensation cost pertaining to equity-settled employee share-based payment plan included above
25.44
24.18
Liability for employee stock options outstanding as at year end
140.44
121.78
Deferred Compensation Cost
61.15
61.48
Closing balance of liability for cash-settled options
 163.11
99.10
Expense arising from increase in intrinsic value of liability for cash stock appreciation plan
77.22
31.69
 
Had the Bank recorded the compensation cost for all share-linked instruments granted on or before 31 March 2021 on the basis of fair valuation 
method instead of intrinsic value method, employee compensation cost would have been higher by ` 2.41 crore (previous year ` 5.20 crore) and the 
profit after tax would have been lower by ` 1.81 crore (previous year ` 3.89 crore). Consequently the basic and diluted EPS would have been ` 69.14 
(previous year ` 54.87) and ` 69.14 (previous year ` 54.85) respectively.
9.	
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
	
i.	
The Bank has recognized the following amounts in the Profit and Loss Account towards contributions to Provident Fund and Other 
Funds:
 	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Provident Fund
282.02
235.48
Superannuation Fund
1.20
1.17
New Pension Fund
12.84
10.51
DIFC Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS)
0.70
0.72
241
Standalone Schedules
	
ii.	
Gratuity
 
 
The gratuity plan provides a lumpsum payment to vested domestic employees at retirement or on termination of employment based on 
respective employee’s salary and years of employment with the Bank subject to a maximum of ` 0.20 crore. There is no ceiling on gratuity 
payable to directors and certain categories of employees subject to service regulations and service awards.
 
 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of present value of defined benefit obligation for gratuity benefits is given below.
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Change in benefit obligations
Liability at the beginning of the year
522.55
515.20
Current Service cost
90.54
77.27
Interest cost
40.35
36.19
Actuarial Losses / (Gain)
17.39
(7.71)
Past Service Cost
4.32
-
Liability assumed on acquisition / (Settled on divestiture)
0.31
0.61
Benefits paid
 (95.03)
(99.01)
Liability at the end of the year
 580.43
522.55
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
502.57
572.43
Expected return on plan assets
32.83
38.66
Actuarial Gain / (Losses)
64.85
(40.51)
Benefits paid
(95.03)
(99.01)
Employer contributions
127.70
31.00
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
632.92
502.57
(` in crore)
Reconciliation of present value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan assets
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
632.92
502.57
Liability at the end of the year
580.43
522.55
(Net Liabilities)/Net Asset included in “Others” under “Other Liabilities & Other Asset”
52.49
(19.98)
Expense recognised for the year
Current Service cost
90.54
77.27
Interest cost
 40.35
36.19
Expected return on plan assets
(32.83)
(38.66)
Actuarial (Gain) / Loss
(47.46)
32.80
Past Service Cost
4.32
-
Net gratuity expense recognised in Schedule 16.I
54.92
107.60
Actual return on plan assets
97.69
(1.84)
(` in crore)
Reconciliation of the Liability recognised in the Balance Sheet
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Net (Asset) / Liability at the beginning of the year
19.98
(57.23)
Expense recognized
54.92
107.60
Liability assumed on acquisition / (Settled on divestiture)
0.31
0.61
Employer contributions
(127.70)
(31.00)
Net (Asset) / Liability
(52.49)
19.98
Financial Statements
242
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
Investment details of plan assets
 
 
The plan assets are invested in insurer managed funds. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are as 
follows:
31st March, 2024 
%
31st March, 2023 
%
LIC managed funds #
0.34%
0.31%
Government securities
24.88%
32.87%
Bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments
14.70%
35.65%
Money market instruments
4.62%
19.55%
Equity shares
55.46%
11.62%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
	
	
# In the absence of detailed information regarding plan assets which is funded with Life Insurance Corporation of India, the composition of each major category of plan 
assets, the percentage or amount for each category to the fair value of plan assets has not been disclosed.
	
	
Actuarial assumptions used
Discount rate
7.15% - 7.18% p.a. (previous year 7.30% - 7.39% p.a.)
Salary escalation rate
5.50% - IBA, 7% – (others) p.a. (previous year 5.50% (IBA) and 12% in year 1 inclusive and  
7% thereafter (others) p.a.)
Expected return on plan assets
7.50% p.a. (previous year 7.00% p.a.)
 
 
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors.
 
 
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on investments of the Fund 
during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
	
Experience adjustments
 
 
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows:
(` in crore)
Gratuity
Year ended 31st March
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Defined benefit obligation
580.43
522.55
515.20
497.48
455.85
Plan assets
632.92
502.57
572.43
546.65
412.45
Surplus / (Deficit)
52.49
(19.98)
57.23
49.17
(43.40)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
12.97
7.66
22.61
12.62
41.19
Experience adjustments on plan assets
64.85
(40.51)
34.10
60.28
(36.81)
 
 
The Bank expects to contribute ` 53.71 crore to gratuity fund in financial year 2024-2025.
 
 
The above information is as certified by the actuary and relied upon by the auditors.
243
Standalone Schedules
	
iii.	
Pension
 
 
Pension liability relates to employees of Eivbl
 
 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined benefit obligation for pension benefits is given below.
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Funded
Funded
Change in benefit obligations
Liability at the beginning of the year
1,912.65
1,909.31
Transfer of liabilities funded during the year
-
-
Current Service cost
74.28
63.16
Interest cost
135.35
134.04
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations
171.29
40.67
Past Service cost
-
-
Benefits paid
(181.90)
(234.53)
Liability at the end of the year
2,111.67
1,912.65
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
1,873.26
1,953.43
Expected return on plan assets
126.45
133.47
Actuarial Gain / (loss)
13.37
11.27
Benefits paid
(181.90)
(234.53)
Employer contributions
48.13
9.62
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
1,879.31
1,873.26
(` in crore)
Reconciliation of present value of the obligation and the fair value of the plan Assets
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Funded
Funded
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
1,879.31
1,873.26
Liability at the end of the year
2,111.67
1,912.65
Net Asset / (Liability) included in “Others” under “Other Assets” / “Other Liabilities”
(232.36)
(39.39)
Expenses recognised for the year
Current service cost
74.28
63.16
Interest cost
135.35
134.04
Expected return on plan assets
(126.45)
(133.47)
Actuarial (gain) / loss
157.92
29.40
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
Net pension expense recognized in Schedule 16.I
241.10
93.13
Actual return on plan assets
139.81
144.74
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Reconciliation of the Liability recognized in the Balance Sheet
Funded
Funded
Net (Asset) / Liability at the beginning of the year
39.39
(44.12)
Expense recognized
241.10
93.13
Employer contributions
(48.13)
(9.62)
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)
-
-
Net (Asset) / Liability is included in “Others” under “Other Assets” / “Other Liabilities”
232.36
39.39
Financial Statements
244
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
	
Investment details of plan assets
 
 
The plan assets are invested in a fund managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. In the absence of detailed information regarding plan 
assets of the fund, the composition of each major category of plan assets, the percentage or amount for each category to the fair value of plan 
assets has not been disclosed.
	
	
Actuarial assumptions used
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Discount rate
7.19% p.a.
7.39% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.50% p.a.
5.50% p.a.
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.50% p.a.
7.50% p.a.
Inflation
10.00% p.a.
10.00% p.a.
 
 
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors like settlement with employee unions.
 
 
Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on expectation of the average long term rate of return expected on investments of the Fund 
during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
	
Experience adjustments
 
 
Amounts for the current year are as follows:
(` in crore)
Pension
Year ended 31st March,
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Defined benefit obligation
2,111.67
1,912.65
1,909.31
1,891.94
1,600.48
Plan assets
1,879.31
1,873.26
1,953.43
1,872.49
1,514.35
Surplus / (deficit)
(232.36)
(39.39)
44.12
(19.45)
(86.13)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
133.49
140.78
248.33
199.72
440.57
Experience adjustments on plan assets
13.37
11.27
34.13
(1.52)
(7.85)
 
 
The Bank expects to contribute ` 228.21 crore to pension fund in financial year 2024-2025.
	
iv.	
Compensated absences
 
 
The actuarially determined liability for compensated absences of accumulated leaves of the employees of the Bank is given below:
 	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total actuarial liability
153.11
129.40
Assumptions:
Discount rate
7.15% - 7.18% - 4.27% (DIFC) p.a.
7.30% - 7.39% - 3.52% (DIFC) p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.50% (IBA), 
 7.00% (Others) and 3% (DIFC) p.a.
5.50% (IBA), 
 7.00% (Others) and 3% (DIFC) p.a.
	
v.	
Long Service Award
 
 
The actuarially determined liability in respect of Long Service Award of the employees of the Bank is given below:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Total actuarial liability
10.41
9.49
Assumptions:
Discount rate
 7.15%-7.19% p.a.
7.30%-7.39% p.a.
245
Standalone Schedules
10.	 PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Breakup of “Provisions and Contingencies” (including write-offs; net of write-backs) shown under the head Expenditure in Profit and Loss Account:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Provisions for Investments (including NPI)*#
79.22
(21.05)
Provision towards NPA
1,486.46
507.69
Provision towards Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure
10.71
(11.09)
Provision towards Standard Assets
97.65
140.42
General Provision – Covid-19 Deferment Cases
(124.90)
(159.55)
Provision for country risk exposure
-
(4.79)
Provision for Current Tax
4,183.40
3,412.17
Provision for Deferred Tax
48.73
39.52
Other Provision and Contingencies
24.60
5.36
Total Provisions and Contingencies
5,805.87
3,908.68
	
*Provision in respect of security receipts of ` 64.91 crore for the year ended 31st March, 2024 was re-classified as Non Performing Investments (NPI). The same was earlier 
accounted as Mark to Market Loss under “Other Income”. Such reclassification has no impact on the result of the respective periods.
	
#Includes provision of ` 33.13 crore on applicable Alternate Investments Funds (AIF) Investments in accordance with RBI circular dated 19th December, 2023 and 27th March, 2024.
11. 
The Bank held an aggregate COVID-19 related provision of ` 387.45 crore as of 31st March, 2023. Based on the improved outlook and on actual 
collections, the Bank has reversed provisions amounting to ` 124.90 crore during the year ended 31st March, 2024 and continues to hold provision of 
` 262.55 crore as at 31st March, 2024.
12.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Bank”) recognises its responsibility to bring about a positive change in the lives of the communities through its 
business operations and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives.
	
Disclosures in relation to corporate social responsibility expenditure:
(` in crore)
Details of CSR Expenditure
31st March 2024
31st March 2023
Amount of expenditure incurred*
 Contribution to Kotak Education Foundation
32.12
22.74
 Contribution to Other Initiatives
87.61*
72.10
Accrual towards unspent obligations (Shortfall) in relation to:
 Ongoing project
111.08**
93.11
 Other than ongoing project
Nil
Nil
Total
230.81
187.95
Amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Act
230.24
187.41
Amount of cumulative unspent at the end of the year
184.55**
168.34
Amount spent during the year on
(i) 
Construction / acquisition of any asset
28.31$
22.47^
(ii) 
On purposes other than (i) above
91.42
72.36
	
*Includes administrative overheads and impact assessment cost and excludes ` 6.27 crore (unutilised funds) which was refunded by implementing agencies in April 2024.
	
**Includes ` 6.27 crore (unutilised funds) which was refunded by implementing agencies in April 2024.
	
$ For funding capital assets which are held in the books of the implementing partner organizations / beneficiaries / public authorities. Includes advances paid against 
construction /acquisition of Capital assets and doesn’t include amount spent on creation/acquisition of Capital assets out of Unspent CSR accounts of previous financial years.
	
^ does not include advances paid against construction / acquisition of Capital assets and amount spent on creation/acquisition of Capital assets out of Unspent CSR accounts 
of previous financial years.
Financial Statements
246
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Details of ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) of the Act:
(` in crore)
Financial Year
Balance as at 1st April
Amount 
required to be 
spent during 
the year
Amount spent during the year
Balance as at 31st March
With the 
Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
From the 
Company’s 
Bank account
From Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
With Company
In Separate 
CSR Unspent 
account
FY 23-24
-
-
218.39
107.31
-
111.08#
-
FY 22-23
93.11*
-
-
-
56.15
-
36.96**
FY 21-22
-
70.86$
-
-
34.36
-
36.50
FY 20-21
-
4.37
-
-
4.37
-
Nil
	
* The amount was transferred to Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited Unspent Account FY 2022-23 in April 2023 and includes refund of ` 2.96 crore received in April 2023.
	
** Includes refund of ` 0.007 crore received in April 2024.
	
# The amount was transferred to Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited Unspent CSR Account FY2023-24 on 29th April 2024. Also includes an amount of ` 6.27 crore which was refunded 
by implementing agencies in April 2024.
	
$ Includes ` 0.29 crore (unutilised funds) received from implementing agencies in April 2023.
	
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act in respect of other than ongoing projects:
 (` in crore)
Balance unspent  
as at  
1st April 2023
Amount deposited 
in Specified Fund of 
Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent  
during the year
Balance unspent  
as at  
31st March 2024
Nil
-
8.87
8.87
Nil
	
Notes
	
1.	
The amount required to be spent is Board approved CSR Project Budget for Other than Ongoing (Annual) CSR Projects for FY2023-24.
	
2.	
The amount spent does not include CSR Administrative Overheads Expenditure of ` 2.99 crore and impact assessment cost of ` 0.56 crore.
	
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act:
 (` in crore)
Balance excess 
spent as at 1st April 
2023
Amount required to 
be spent during the 
year
Amount spent 
during the year
Unspent/ unutilised 
CSR amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account FY 2023-24
Total
Balance excess 
spent as at 31st 
March 2024
1.42
230.24
119.73*
111.08
230.81
1.99
	
* Include CSR Administrative Overheads Expenditure of ` 2.99 crore and impact assessment cost of ` 0.56 crore.
13.	 TIER II BONDS
	
a) 
Lower Tier II Bonds outstanding as at 31st March, 2024 and as at 31st March 2023 is ` Nil.
	
b) 
Upper Tier II Bonds outstanding as at 31st March, 2024 and as at 31st March 2023 is ` Nil.
	
c) 
Interest Expended-Others (Schedule 15(III)) includes interest on subordinated debt (Lower and Upper Tier II) ` Nil (previous year ` 21.33 crore).
14.	 DETAILS OF PAYMENTS OF AUDIT FEES
 (` in crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Statutory Audit fees
3.69
3.44
Other Matters
0.47
0.44
Total
4.16
3.88
247
Standalone Schedules
15.	 DESCRIPTION OF CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Sr.
Contingent Liability*
Brief Description
1.
Claims not acknowledged 
as debts
This includes liability on account of Direct and Indirect tax demands and legal cases filed against the Bank.
The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank does not expect 
the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial conditions, result 
of operations or cash flows. In respect of appeals filed by the Income Tax department with higher authorities, 
where the matter was settled in favour of the Bank at the first appellate stage, and where in view of the 
Management, it gives rise to an item of timing difference, no contingent liability is envisaged by the Bank.
2.
Liability on account of 
outstanding forward 
exchange contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts with inter Bank participants and with its customers. Forward 
exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate.
3.
Guarantees on behalf of 
constituents
As a part of its Banking activities, the Bank issues guarantees on behalf of its customers. Guarantees 
generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of customer 
failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
4.
Acceptances, 
endorsements and other 
obligations
These includes:
 
Documentary credit such as letters of obligations, enhance the credit standing of the customers of 
the Bank.
 
Bills re-discounted by the Bank and cash collateral provided by the Bank on assets which have been 
securitised.
 
Underwriting commitments in respect of Debt Syndication.
5.
Other items for which the 
Bank is contingently liable
These include:
 
Liabilities in respect of interest rate swaps, currency swaps, forward rate agreements, futures and 
options contracts. The Bank enters into these transactions with inter Bank participants and its 
customers. Currency Swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest/principal in 
one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments 
to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts that are recorded as 
contingent liabilities are amounts used as a benchmark for the calculation of interest component of 
the contracts.
 
Liability in respect of Capital commitments relating to fixed assets and undrawn commitments in 
respect of investments.
 
Amount Transferred to RBI under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund ('DEA Fund').
	
* Also refer Schedule 12 – Contingent Liability
16.	 SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
 
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and 
Medium enterprises. Following is the disclosure as applicable:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
1
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining unpaid as at 
year end
1.81
Nil
2
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining unpaid on principal 
amount due to suppliers as at year end
0.03
Nil
3
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, where delay is beyond the 
appointed day during the year
28.58
7.09
4
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under the 
MSMED Act, where delay is beyond the appointed day during the year
Nil
Nil
5
Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, 
where delay is beyond the appointed day during the year
Nil
Nil
6
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED Act, for principal payments 
already made
0.31
0.05
7
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
0.05
Nil
8
Total amount of interest remaining due and unpaid at the end of the current financial year (sum 
of items in Sr. no. 2, 6 & 7)
0.39
0.05
Financial Statements
248
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
17.	
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business that is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements, grants loans and advances, 
makes investment, provides guarantees to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons.
 
Other than the transactions described above which are carried out in the normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or deposits or any other sources or kinds of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons or 
entities, including foreign entities (“intermediaries”) with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend 
or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”). The Bank has also not received any funds from any parties (Funding 
Party) with the understanding that the Bank shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
18.	
The Bank has acquired 100% of the issued and paid up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited, a Non-Banking Finance Company – Micro Finance 
Institution registered with the RBI for a total consideration of ` 537.12 crore. With this acquisition, Sonata has become a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Bank w.e.f. 28th March, 2024.
19.	
The Bank and Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (“KGI”) have entered into definitive agreements for a transaction with Zurich 
Insurance Company Limited (“Zurich”), whereby Zurich will acquire 70% stake in KGI by way of a combination of primary and secondary acquisitions 
in a single tranche, for a total consideration of approximately ` 5,560 Crore (“Transaction”). Transaction would be subject to fulfilment of customary 
conditions precedent, including the receipt of regulatory approvals from the Reserve Bank of India and the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India. Upon completion of the Transaction (subsequent to receipt of all requisite approvals), KGI will cease to be a Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary of the Bank.
20.	
As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank has used accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account that have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the audit trail feature has operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software except for six of the accounting software where audit trail has not been enabled at the database level to log any 
direct data changes. Also in respect of one cloud based accounting software, the Service Organization Control Report does not cover whether audit 
trial was enabled or not for direct data changes at the database level.
21.	
The Bank has received an order from the Reserve Bank of India dated 24th April 2024, directing the Bank to cease and desist, with immediate effect 
from (i) onboarding new customers through the Bank’s online and mobile banking channels and (ii) issuing fresh credit cards. The order was based, 
inter alia, on the deficiencies observed by the RBI in their IT Examination of the Bank.
 
These directions shall be reviewed by RBI upon satisfactory remediation of the observations. The Bank has taken concrete steps to adopt new 
technologies to strengthen its IT systems and will continue to work with RBI to swiftly resolve balance issues at the earliest. The Bank believes that 
these directions will not materially impact its overall business. The Bank has evaluated the order and assessed no material impact on its financial 
statements and internal financial controls over financial reporting for the year ended 31st March 2024.
22.	
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped / reclassified wherever necessary to conform to current years’ presentation.
As per our report of even date attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For KKC & Associates LLP
C S Rajan
 Ashok Vaswani
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
 Managing Director and
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
DIN: 00126063
 Chief Executive Officer
Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
 DIN: 10227550
Gautam Shah
Shanti Ekambaram
 Uday Khanna
Partner
Deputy Managing Director
 Director
Membership No. 117348
DIN: 00004889
 DIN: 00079129
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Devang Gheewalla
 Avan Doomasia 
Chartered Accountants
President and
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264
Group Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary  
Membership No. 045993
 FCS. No. 3430 
Russell I Parera
Partner
Membership No. 042190
Mumbai
4th May, 2024
249
Directors' Report
Directors’ Report
To the Members,
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the Thirty-Ninth Annual Report of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Bank”) together with the audited Financial 
Statements for the financial year (“FY”) ended 31st March, 2024.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(A)	
Consolidated* :
 (` in crore)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23^
Total Income
94,273.91
68,142.03
Total expenditure, excluding provisions and contingencies
68,438.06
48,056.17
Operating Profit
25,835.85
20,085.86
Provisions and contingencies, excluding provision for tax
1,972.47
439.68
Profit Before Tax
23,863.38
19,646.18
Provision for Taxes
5,886.55
4,865.74
Profit After Tax
17,976.83
14,780.44
Add: Share in Profit of Associates
236.38
144.57
Consolidated Profit for the Group
18,213.21
14,925.01
Earnings per equity share:
Basic (`)
91.45
74.96
Diluted (`)
91.45
74.94
Notes:
	* 	The Financial Statements of the Indian subsidiaries (excluding insurance companies) and associates are prepared as per the Indian Accounting Standards in accordance 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. The Financial Statements of the subsidiaries and associates used for preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements are in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (“GAAP”) specified under Section 133 and relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
^	 Previous year amounts have been re-classified for consistency with the current year presentation, wherever necessary.
(B)
Standalone:
(` in crore) 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23^
Total Income
56,072.01
41,333.90
Total expenditure, excluding provisions and contingencies
36,484.56
26,485.92
Operating Profit
19,587.45
14,847.98
Provisions and contingencies, excluding provision for tax
1,573.73
456.99
Profit Before Tax
18,013.72
14,390.99
Provision for Taxes
4,232.14
3,451.69
Profit After Tax
13,781.58
10,939.30
Add: Surplus brought forward from the previous year
37,760.09
30,455.85
Amount available for appropriation
51,541.67
41,395.15
Less: Appropriations
Statutory Reserve under Section 17 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
3,445.40
2,734.83
Transfer to Capital Reserve
-
0.99
Transfer to Special Reserve
125.00
115.00
Transfer to Investment Reserve Account
831.63
-
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve Account
1,200.00
525.32
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve
500.00
-
Dividend paid **
336.62
258.92
Surplus carried to Balance Sheet
45,103.02
37,760. 09
Notes:
^	 Previous year amounts have been re-classified for consistency with the current year presentation, wherever necessary.
	**	 The Bank has paid dividend at the rate of ` 0.405 per share (on a proportionate basis) on the Non-Convertible Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (“PNCPS”) for 
the period commencing from 1st April, 2023 to 13th March, 2024 (being the Extinguishment Date) for FY 2023-24 (Previous Year: ` 0.405 per share), to all PNCPS holders, as 
per the list of beneficial holders on the Record Date of 5th March, 2024. The Bank has complied with all criteria specified in the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) circular dated 
4th May, 2005 on payment of dividend on equity shares and the Board of Directors of the Bank have proposed a dividend of ` 2.00 per share (Face Value ` 5/-) for FY 
2023-24 (previous year: ` 1.50 per share) from the profits for FY 2023-24. As per the requirements of revised AS 4 – ‘Contingencies and Events Occurring after the 
Balance Sheet Date’, this dividend pay-out is appropriated from the amount available for appropriation in the year of pay-out.
Statutory Reports
250
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
On a standalone basis, Profit After Tax (“PAT”) of the Bank was ` 13,781.58 crore in FY 2023-24 compared with ` 10,939.30 crore in FY 2022-23. Net Interest 
Income (“NII”) of the Bank for FY 2023-24 was ` 25,993.20 crore as against ` 21,551.92 crore in FY 2022-23.
The consolidated PAT was ` 18,213.21 crore in FY 2023-24 compared with ` 14,925.01 crore in FY 2022-23. Further, the Group had a Net Worth of 
` 129,892.40 crore as on 31st March, 2024 (` 111,754.10 crore as on 31st March, 2023). The book value per equity share was at ` 653.41 as on 
31st March, 2024 (` 562.55 as of 31st March, 2023).
Further details about the financial performance of your Bank are available in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report, annexed to this Report.
CAPITAL
During the year, your Bank allotted 1,364,316 equity shares arising out of the exercise of Employees Stock Options granted to the Executive Directors and 
Eligible Employees of your Bank and its subsidiaries.
After the allotment of the aforesaid equity shares, the total issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital of your Bank as at 31st March, 2024 stood at 
` 9,939,604,490/- comprising 1,987,920,898 equity shares of ` 5/- each.
As approved by the Board of Directors, your Bank had exercised the ‘Call Option’ available on 1,000,000,000, 8.10% Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference 
Shares of the face value of ` 5/- each (“PNCPS”), at par, for extinguishment of PNCPS. The payment of the Call Option Price on the PNCPS and the divided 
declared thereon was done on 13th March, 2024, to the eligible PNCPS holders. Upon such payment, the PNCPS issued by your Bank, stood extinguished. 
Accordingly, your Bank created Capital Redemption Reserve of ` 500 crore, out of the profits available for appropriations. 
DIVIDEND
The Board of Directors of your Bank had, at their meeting held on 4th May, 2024, recommended a dividend of ` 2.00 per equity share for 
FY 2023-24. The dividend, if approved by the members, would entail a pay out of approximately ` 397.59 crore based on the capital as of 29th June, 2024 
(Previous Year: ` 298 crore). The dividend would be paid to all the eligible equity shareholders, whose names would appear in the Register of 
Members/List of Beneficial Owners on the Record Date fixed for this purpose i.e. 19th July, 2024.
Further, the Board of Directors of your Bank, on 22nd February, 2024, declared a dividend on PNCPS of the face value of ` 5/- each, issued by the Bank, carrying 
a dividend rate of 8.10% p.a., to be paid on a pro-rata basis for the period commencing from 1st April, 2023 to 13th March, 2024 (being the Extinguishment 
Date) for FY 2023-24, as per the terms of issuance of PNCPS. This has entailed a dividend pay out of ` 38.51 crore (Previous Year: ` 40.50 crore).
The Dividend Distribution Policy, in terms of Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and as reviewed and adopted by the Board of Directors of your Bank, is available on the Bank’s website 
viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
DEBENTURES AND BONDS
Your Bank has not issued any capital under Tier II during FY 2023-24.
During the year under review, your Bank has allotted Senior Unsecured Rated Listed Redeemable Long Term Bonds in the nature of Non-Convertible 
Debentures (“Bonds”) amounting to ` 1,895 crore on 23rd June, 2023 and ` 1,000 crore on 14th February, 2024. As of 31st March, 2024, outstanding Bonds 
aggregated ` 4,845 crore. All the Bonds have been issued on a private placement basis and are listed on BSE Limited ("BSE")/National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited ("NSE").
CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO
Your Bank has a Capital Adequacy Ratio of 20.55% as of 31st March, 2024 under Basel III, with Tier I Capital being 19.25% (of which, Common Equity 
Tier 1 Capital is 19.25%).
CREDIT RATINGS
The details of all credit ratings obtained by your Bank for various instruments, including debt instruments outstanding as on 31st March, 2024, are disclosed 
in the Report on Corporate Governance, annexed to this Report.
DEPOSITS
Being a banking company, the disclosures required under Rule 8(5)(v) and (vi) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 read with Sections 73 and 74 of 
the Act, are not applicable to your Bank.
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ORDER DATED 24TH APRIL, 2024
Your Bank had received an order dated 24th April, 2024 (“Order”) from RBI, inter alia, directing the Bank to cease and desist, with effect from 24th April, 2024 
from (i) on-boarding new customers through the Bank’s online and mobile banking channels; and (ii) issuing fresh credit cards. The Order was based, 
inter alia, on the deficiencies observed by RBI in the Information Technology (“IT”) Examinations of the Bank, for the years 2022 and 2023.
251
Directors' Report
The Order does not impact servicing and cross-sell of products (excluding issuance of fresh credit cards) to the existing customer base through all channels 
and does not impact on-boarding of new customers through channels other than online/mobile banking channels.
Your Bank has taken concrete steps to adopt new technologies to strengthen its IT systems and continues to work with RBI to swiftly resolve the issues, 
at the earliest.
The management has evaluated the impact of the Order and assessed that there is no impact on the going concern and has no material impact on financial 
statements, including internal financial controls over financial reporting and on its operations.
OPERATIONS
CONSUMER BANKING
The Consumer Banking business services a wide spectrum of customers across domestic individuals and households, non-residents, small and medium 
business segments, for a range of products from Savings and Current Accounts to Term Deposits, Credit Cards, Unsecured and Secured Loans, Working 
Capital, Digital Payments, Insurance Protection and Investments.
As of 31st March, 2024, your Bank had 1,948 branches, 3,291 Automated Teller Machines (“ATMs”) and Recyclers and 4,435 Micro ATM installations.
ActivMoney, a two-way auto sweep facility, was re-launched and re-positioned as a tool for smarter money management, aiding higher income and liquidity. 
It also allows flexibility to access funds anytime and offers attractive interest rates on Fixed Deposits and waiver of penalty in case of pre-closure.
The additional rate of interest on fixed deposits for senior citizens was increased for a few select long-term tenors, for (i) deposits below ` 2 crore and 
(ii) bulk deposits i.e. ` 2 crore to less than ` 5 crore.
With a vision to provide exclusivity to your Bank’s premium customers, Privy League, a flagship programme for High Net Worth customers was re-launched 
in FY 2023-24. The programme entails multiple first-of-its kind experiences namely Debit Card with unique and exclusive designs, access to luxury concierge, 
multiple lifestyle discounts and membership on favourite categories such as dining and travel.
Your Bank is continuously working towards improving digital synergies to enhance overall customer experience during onboarding.
Your Bank has successfully integrated the investment process through Kotak Cherry, with the savings on-boarding journey, enabling customers with an 
option to activate seamless Investments in Mutual Funds, including Systematic Investment Plans (“SIP”). Easy and convenient transaction process from 
Kotak Cherry has led to growth in SIP registration.
Mirroring some of the initiatives in the Privy Savings Account space, new variants of Debit Cards have been introduced to deliver superior features and 
experience to customers, namely, Privy Neon Card, Privy Platinum LED Card and Privy Black Metal Card.
A digital journey for current account opening for small businesses has been launched, which has opened up a new avenue for online bank account opening 
backed by a convenient and paperless experience. This journey also offers an online current account with a pay-as-per-usage feature and a free QR code.
Further, the Global Service Account proposition, a current account specially designed to meet the unique banking needs of the Service Export Sector, has 
also been launched.
Kotak Start-up Current Account was re-launched with enhanced features such as preferential trade and forex pricing, specially curated offers and much 
more to help start-ups in their entrepreneurial journey.
Your Bank has also received the ‘Receiving Office License’ for mobilisation in Government of India Floating Rate Savings Bonds (FRSB) 2020 (Taxable) 
or RBI Bonds in FY 2023-24, which is a popular investment instrument amongst retail investors and has an attractive rate of interest and high credibility. 
The investment process in RBI Bonds is digitised, through which the customers can login to net banking and invest in RBI Bonds seamlessly.
To strengthen the Corporate Salary proposition, a wide array of exclusive benefits like complimentary protection benefits, free credit card and lifetime zero 
charges to customers are offered by your Bank. The said account has been designed for corporate professionals, providing a gamut of attractive deals and 
services across lifestyle, travel, healthcare and dining. During the year, your Bank has invested heavily on consumer research to garner critical understanding 
of latent consumer needs and is, amongst others, building customer-centric value propositions for microsegments within the salaried customer base. 
In order to facilitate larger acquisition of premium customers, a new salaried offering was created with insurance protection benefits and greater focus on 
a specialized proposition for the women workforce.
The remit platform, which facilitates customers to digitally remit money abroad has become one of the primary modes of such transactions. This, along 
with centralized processing of all other outward remittances, has improved operational efficiency and enhanced the execution Turn Around Time (TAT). 
Your Bank has forged successful strategic partnerships with multiple brokers to facilitate international investment and has enabled Kotak GIFT City and 
Dubai International Finance Centre ("DIFC") on their remit platform. This would further facilitate individual customers to remit funds with ease for capital 
investments abroad.
During the year, your Bank enabled the bundling of a Cyber Insurance policy along with the digital Kotak811 account on-boarding journey. With regard to life 
insurance, customized propositions targeting various segments and persona were created.
Statutory Reports
252
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
In line with its customer first objective, Relationship Manager (“RM”) 'e-Konnect', platform was launched, which facilitates customers to seamlessly connect 
with their RMs. This omni-channel interface enables the Privy League Black customers to interact with their RM and Service Manager over chat, voice or 
video calls, in a secure environment through Internet Banking or the Mobile Banking app.
From 2021, Kotak811 operates as a ‘Semi-Autonomous’ Digital Bank within your Bank, with additional focus on service, user experience, engagement and 
cross-selling.
Your Bank also offers bulk tax payment solution using Net banking and Host-to-Host channel for payment of Direct Taxes. This has provided ease to 
Corporate and Small and Medium Enterprises (“SME”) clients for quicker tax payments using seamless digital journey and enhanced customer experience. 
As digital transactions are being encouraged and scaled up across ecosystems, your Bank is making strides into opening a plethora of options to further 
ease tax-paying journey for the tax payers.
A ‘Net Banking Lite platform’ has been launched for accessing Net Banking from Mobile Devices. It has also improved the Scan and Pay option with new 
features such as gallery upload, generate QR, etc., underpinned by enhanced technology.
Your Bank launched Myntra Kotak co-brand credit card in FY 2023-24, catering to rising trend of lifestyle purchases among Millennials and GenZ customers. 
The value proposition on the existing PVR card was enhanced by upgrading the same to PVR-INOX card, which would now provide offers across both 
PVR and INOX movie screens.
Your Bank continues its focus on building the human capital, by nurturing talent and building human capital, leveraging technology and expertise.
KAIRA, the internal employee response agent, has Artificial Intelligence (AI) integrated into the information and knowledge retrieval processes, making 
it easier for employees to access the right information at the right time. This helps to improve the information management, enhancing efficiency and 
ultimately delivering a superior customer experience.
Kotak Learning and Performance Partner (KLAPP) was further enriched with enabling tools to aid the frontline customer facing staff of your Bank to offer 
customised solutions to the customers on investments and current accounts.
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Your Bank’s Commercial Banking business focuses on meeting the banking and financial needs of various segments, with specialised units offering 
financial solutions in the areas of Commercial Vehicles (“CV”), Construction Equipment (“CE”), Tractor and Farm Equipment (“Tractor”), SMEs operating 
in the Agriculture Value Chain and Microcredit. Majority of the customers to whom this business caters, are from the semi-urban and rural area segment, 
forming part of the priority sector. This business plays a significant role in meeting the financial inclusion goals by financing deep into ‘Bharat’.
The Agriculture Value chain segment saw volatility across multiple commodities and incremental risks on account of extreme weather, regional conflicts 
and general elections. These factors continue to hamper limit utilizations, leading to a muted growth in your Bank’s advances. A more selective and cautious 
approach in the choice of business in this segment has been adopted by your Bank, considering the continuing aggressive appetite of the lenders. Overall 
collections and recoveries in the segment have improved during the year. Your Bank’s focus has been to improve processes to reduce the turn-around-time 
for on-boarding new clients. New initiatives taken for the small-ticket agriculture loans to farmers in the dairy and other sectors have started showing initial 
traction. The entire process of on-boarding new customers under this model is digital (RM assisted).
During the year, your Bank acquired Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”), a Non-Banking Finance Company – Micro Finance Institution, registered 
with the RBI, which became a subsidiary of the Bank, with effect from 28th March, 2024. Your Bank is on track to leverage its outreach and cater to the 
requirements of its increasing customer base.
Gold loan industry in India experienced a healthy growth of over 25%, driven by factors such as increased gold prices and the need for quick, collateral-based 
financing solution. Your Bank is now offering gold loans from over 600 branches i.e. approximately 30% of its total branch network.
Your Bank’s Crop Loan Non-performing asset (“NPA”) recovery and portfolio quality improved as compared to the last year, due to better resolution and 
collection focus.
The RBI guidelines on priority sector lending require banks to lend 40% of their Adjusted Net Bank Credit (“ANBC”), to fund certain types of activities carried 
out by specified borrowers. The shortfall in the amount required to be lent to the priority sectors and weaker sections may be required to be deposited 
in funds with government sponsored Indian development banks, such as the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Small Industries 
Development Bank of India, the National Housing Bank, MUDRA Ltd. and other financial institutions as decided by the RBI from time to time.
As prescribed in the RBI guidelines, the Bank’s priority sector lending achievement is computed on a quarterly average basis. Total average priority sector 
lending for FY 2023-24 was ` 121,619.65 crore (FY 2022-23: ` 114,217.85 crore), constituting 44.06% (FY 2022-23: 48.80%) of ANBC, against the requirement 
of 40% of ANBC.
253
Directors' Report
WHOLESALE BANKING
Your Bank’s Wholesale Banking business caters to a wide range of corporate customer segments, including major Indian corporates, conglomerates, 
financial institutions, public sector undertakings, multinational companies, financial sponsors (including private equity funds and foreign portfolio investors), 
new-age companies, SME and realty businesses. It offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and services to these customers, including working 
capital finance, medium-term finance, project finance, trade and supply chain finance, foreign exchange services, other transaction banking services, 
custody services, debt capital markets and treasury services.
Your Bank has, over the years, invested in developing expertise and forming Centre-of-Excellence in areas, such as Structured Lending, Infrastructure 
Financing, Real Estate Financing, Financial Services and Custodial Services, amongst others. Your Bank seeks to leverage on this expertise to deepen 
existing relationships and acquire new quality customers on a consistent basis and secure value addition through cross-sell of varied products and services.
Your Bank’s structuring expertise has been leveraged to deliver customized solutions and improve returns.
The Custody and Clearing business continued on a growth trajectory on the back of a robust domestic growth and returning confidence in the 
Foreign Portfolio Investors. With vibrancy in Indian Stock Markets, your Bank expects the business growth in this segment to continue in the coming year.
Your Bank’s robust growth in its SME business has resulted in a granular and sticky Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise ("MSME") asset base, which is 
expected to grow rapidly.
During the year, your Bank has continued to excel in its journey towards becoming a leading player in the digital banking space. Your Bank’s relentless 
focus on integrating advanced technology into banking operations has not only enhanced customer experience, but also strengthened business continuity 
practices. Your Bank’s commitment to digital innovation has kept the Bank at the forefront of banking transformation, allowing it to stay competitive and 
meet the evolving needs of the customer.
Your Bank offers a comprehensive product portfolio, including a diverse range of financial products under Cash Management Services and Trade. In the 
payments technology stack, enhanced focus is on UPI stability along with strategic initiatives, including Merchant Management system. A new payments 
platform has been introduced, enhancing customer User Interface/User Experience and increasing transaction processing speed significantly. Your Bank 
has witnessed four times growth in tax payments from the platform. It is focused on ensuring operational resilience and offering structured solutions to 
meet client specific requirements. In the Collections stack, your Bank has enhanced its NACH tech stack on scalability, resiliency and faster settlements. 
Along with this, customer experience has also been enhanced by building and scaling the product portfolio. In the Acquiring business, your Bank is helping 
merchants accept transactions from foreign card holders. The aim is to grow this offering further in the coming year. Your Bank has also seen a significant 
increase in market share in the capital market and IPO transactions with specialized processing teams and enhanced focus on regulatory compliance.
Kotak fyn, your Bank’s leading digital initiative for business, has been ensuring accessibility and convenience to customers. Fyn is the comprehensive 
corporate banking portal for corporate customers. In the dynamic environment today, where customer requirements keep changing, fyn has been developed 
alongside these requirements. Offerings on the portal have been enhanced to make it easy for customers to lodge transactions in bulk. The portal can also 
be seamlessly integrated with the customer’s SAP/ERP systems using Host-to-host functionality, making it easy for customers to initiate transactions. 
This year, fyn was also launched as a mobile application, making it easy for checkers and authorizers to approve transactions.
Alongside fyn, your Bank went live with many initiatives to digitize the trade journey for customers. One such initiative is the electronic Bank Guarantees (eBGs) 
launched in partnership with National E-Governance Services Limited (NeSL). This initiative digitizes the Bank Guarantee process making it a paperless process 
and reducing TATs by nearly 70%. Supply chain finance business grew significantly last year and your Bank is seeing high traction on these assets. Your Bank’s 
digital offering is able to provide linkages capabilities with counterparties and enable seamless financing including auto settlement.
Your Bank remains committed to building a high-quality differentiated corporate franchise and continues to focus on maintaining the health and profitability 
of the business.
PRIVATE BANKING
Your Bank’s Private Banking division caters to a number of distinguished Indian families and is one of the oldest and the most respected Indian private 
banking institution. It manages wealth for 58% of India’s top 100 families (Source: Forbes India Rich List 2023), with clients ranging from entrepreneurs to 
business families and professionals.
Your Bank provides an open architecture proposition to its customers, offering a plethora of private banking products. This business has a strong 
distribution capability for private clients through distribution/referral model across equities, fixed income and alternates catering to 
Ultra High Net worth Individuals (“UHNI”) and High Net worth Individual (“HNI”) investors. In addition to comprehensive financial solutions that go beyond 
investments, your Bank provides banking and credit, consolidated reporting, family office services, offshore investments and other various products and 
services to its clients. Referral for estate planning services are also provided to the clients. With an in-depth understanding of client requirements and 
expertise across various asset classes, your Bank offers the widest range of financial solutions. Your Bank has added approximately 2,280 new families in 
FY 2023-24, to its client base.
The Private Banking division of your Bank has made significant investments in digital and technology, recognizing them as crucial pillars for future growth. 
Your Bank strived to enhance its offerings through continuous innovation in platform, proposition and cutting – edge technologies. This, in turn, helps to 
enrich client experience across all touchpoints. Your Bank is leveraging data analytics to anticipate client trends and segmentation, which is essential for 
providing personalized and tailored services and to maximize its resource utilization effectively.
Statutory Reports
254
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
INTERNATIONAL BANKING UNITS
Your Bank has two International Banking Units (“IBUs”) based at Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (“GIFT City”), Gandhinagar, Gujarat and DIFC, Dubai, 
United Arab Emirates.
The GIFT City Branch is regulated by the International Financial Services Centre Authority (IFSCA), which facilitates your Bank’s participation in syndication 
of overseas loans, lending to clients in international markets and providing External Commercial Borrowing to eligible Indian corporates. Your Bank 
also undertakes offshore client’s forex and derivative transactions to help them with the management of interest rate and currency risks, in addition to 
investments in offshore bonds.
The DIFC Branch is your Bank’s first overseas branch at Dubai, regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). This Branch complements your Bank’s 
ability to advise and arrange global investment products, provide loans and accept deposits from its overseas private banking customers that qualify under the 
Professional client criteria of the DFSA. Your Bank has developed capabilities to advise and arrange global investments through this Branch. The Branch also has 
tie-ups with some leading names in the international investments space and arranges access to their services to eligible customers of the Branch.
The IBUs have their respective treasuries which not only manage regulatory requirements and liquidity buffers viz., Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), etc., but 
also offer banking services through products like term credit facilities for various purposes, trade finance, foreign exchange solutions, etc.
ASSET RECONSTRUCTION
Your Bank’s Asset Reconstruction Division looks at opportunities and takes exposure in distressed/NPA accounts through Security Receipts (“SR”) 
investments, Stressed/NPA portfolio buyout from other banks, priority funding and working capital assistance, with an aim to resolve and turn them around. 
Your Bank has been active in the distressed asset buyouts and investments space for almost two decades.
The resolution process has gained momentum with various judicial forums Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs), Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunals (DRATs), 
High Courts and National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. Your Bank adopts various measures 
thoughtfully, diligently and with compassion to resolve the stressed and bad accounts.
Your Bank did sizable investments, both in corporate and retail stressed assets space in FY 2023-24 and expects a lot of opportunities in the acquisition 
side, especially in retail stressed loans segment in the coming years. If the prices offered are reasonable and attractive, your Bank shall be open to acquire 
several of them, post critical analysis and evaluation.
TREASURY
Your Bank’s Treasury actively contributes by way of:
(i)	
Balance Sheet Management: The Balance Sheet Management Unit (“BMU”) ensures maintenance of regulatory reserves and adequate liquidity 
buffers and requisite investments. The BMU also manages interest rate and liquidity risk, within the overall risk appetite of your Bank.
(ii)	
Proprietary Trading: The Proprietary Trading Desk actively trades in products, such as Fixed Income Securities, Money Markets, Derivatives, 
Foreign Exchange and Equity. The Proprietary Desk also helps in interbank access to teams servicing customer requirements. The Primary Dealer 
Desk, which is a part of the Proprietary Trading Desk, actively participates in primary auctions of Government securities, makes market in Government 
securities and engages in retailing of Government securities.
(iii)	
Customer Transactions: The customer facing desks at the Treasury assist and manage customer transactions across Foreign Exchange, Derivatives 
and Bullion products. The Forex and Derivatives Desk facilitates customer access to foreign currency markets through cash and derivatives products 
for remittances, trade transactions and for managing Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate risks.
(iv)	
Bullion: The Bullion desk provides efficient working capital solutions to domestic jewellery manufacturers as per the prescribed rules of the RBI. 
Your Bank also imports gold and silver to meet the needs of customers, under a license received from the RBI.
For more details on Operations of your Bank, please refer to the Management's Discussion and Analysis Report, annexed  to this Report.
HUMAN RESOURCES
FY 2023-24 was a year that saw significant changes and elevated actions around building the enhanced employee experience and nurturing one of the 
greatest assets of your Bank i.e. Our People. Through a multitude of strategic initiatives, the Human Resources (“HR”) function of your Bank implemented 
various initiatives to revamp HR processes, policies, systems and aligning them with evolving business needs. The efforts spanned a wide spectrum from 
fortifying employee engagement, launching health and wellness programs to centralizing HR processes.
Key HR initiatives taken by your Bank were, as under:
(i)	
Health and Wellness
(ii)	
Leadership and Manager Connect
255
Directors' Report
(iii)	
Diversity and Inclusion
(iv)	
Employee Experience
(v)	
Kotak Young Leaders Council
(vi)	
My Kotak My Say
(vii)	
Employee Development
(viii)	 Talent Management
(ix)	
Caring Kotakite (Employee Volunteering)
For more details on the Key HR intiatives, please refer to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report, annexed to this Report.
EMPLOYEES
As of 31st March, 2024, the full-time employee strength of the Kotak Group was over 116,000 and the Bank, at the standalone level, had over 
77,900 employees.
The information required pursuant to Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended from time-to-time, is given as an Annexure to this Report. Further, the statement containing particulars 
of employees as required above is given as an Annexure and forms part of this Report. In terms of Section 136(1) of the Act, the annual report and the 
financial statements are being sent to the members, excluding the aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection and any member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the Annexure, may send an email to the Company Secretary at KotakBank.Secretarial@kotak.com
INFORMATION UNDER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) 
ACT, 2013
Your Bank continues with the belief of zero tolerance towards sexual harassment at workplace and continues to uphold and maintain itself as a safe and 
non-discriminatory organisation. To achieve the same, your Bank reinforces the understanding and awareness of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”). Your Bank has formulated a central Steering Board Committee besides having an 
Internal Committee in three regions for reporting any untoward instance of sexual harassment. Any complaint pertaining to sexual harassment is diligently 
reviewed and investigated and treated with great sensitivity. The Internal Committee members have been trained in handling and resolving complaints. 
Your Bank also has an online e-learning POSH Awareness module, which covers the larger employee base.
As of 1st April, 2023, 12 complaints were pending for disposal. All these complaints were disposed off during FY 2023-24.
The Bank received a total of 45 complaints during FY 2023-24, of which, 28 were disposed off as of 31st March, 2024. All the 17 complaints which were 
pending as on 31st March, 2024, have been disposed off, as on the date of this Report.
PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING
Your Bank has adopted the Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited - Insider Trading Code of Conduct (“Code”) for prohibition of insider trading in the securities of 
the Bank as well as other listed and proposed to be listed companies and a code of practices and procedures for uniform and universal dissemination of 
unpublished price sensitive information (“Fair Disclosure Code”). 
Your Bank has also formulated and adopted the Policy for Determination of Materiality of Events or Information of the Bank, in terms of Regulation 30 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Policy for Determination of Materiality of Events/Information and the Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
UPSI of the Bank, is available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html 1
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY1/VIGIL MECHANISM
Your Bank is committed to its ‘Vision Statement’ of upholding its Global Indian Financial Services Brand, creating an ethos of trust across all constituents, 
developing a culture of empowerment and a spirit of enterprise, thereby becoming the most preferred employer in the financial services sector.
Consistent with the Vision Statement, your Bank is committed to maintain and provide to all its employees and directors, the highest standards of 
transparency, probity and accountability. The Kotak Group endeavours to develop a culture where it is safe and acceptable for all employees and directors 
to raise/voice genuine concerns in good faith and in a responsible as well as effective manner.
A vigil mechanism has been implemented through the adoption of a Whistle Blower Policy with an objective to enable employees/directors/suppliers/
vendors/service providers/all other applicable stakeholders, raise genuine concern or report evidence of activity by the Bank or its employee or director 
or vendor that may constitute instances of corporate fraud, unethical business conduct, a violation of Central or State laws, rules, regulations and/or any 
other regulatory or judicial directives, any unlawful act, whether criminal or civil, irregularities like alteration, forgery or fabrication of documents, impropriety, 
abuse or wrong doing, misuse of office/position, theft/embezzlement, misappropriation of asset, bribery/corruption, collusion with vendor/customers, 
1 	
GRI 2-23
Statutory Reports
256
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
deliberate breaches and non-compliance with the Bank’s policies, processes, data leakage, questionable accounting/audit matters/financial malpractice, 
ethics violation, conflict of interest, dual employment and unauthorised disclosure of confidential information about the Bank or any of its customers. 
The concerns can be reported online on the following website viz., URL: https://www.speakup.co.in/ which is managed by an independent third party. 
Safeguards to avoid discrimination, retaliation or harassment and confidentiality have been incorporated in the said policy.
All employees and Directors have access to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee in appropriate and exceptional circumstances. Further, the Chairperson 
of the Audit Committee has access rights to the whistle blower portal. The Audit Committee reviews a synopsis of the complaints received and the 
resolution thereof, every quarter under the said Policy.
Your Bank is taking several initiatives to encourage employees to blow the whistle and report incidences of any fraud or unusual events. During the year 
under review, your Bank has initiated periodic email campaigns for educating employees on the process of whistle blowing, creating awareness and 
encouraging employees to blow the whistle and report incidences of any concerns. In addition, the same has been reiterated and made an integral part of 
your Bank’s Code of Conduct and training.
The Policy is available on the Bank’s intranet as well as website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS SCHEMES
During FY 2023-24, after receiving requisite approvals, the Board implemented the Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023 (“ESOP Scheme 2023”) in 
place of the existing Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 (”ESOP Scheme 2015”). The Board also implemented Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation 
Rights Scheme 2023 (“SARs Scheme 2023”) in place of the existing Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2015 (“SARs Scheme 2015”).
The objective of both the schemes is to enable the Bank and its subsidiaries to attract and retain appropriate human talent and encourage value creation and 
value sharing with the employees by aligning the interests of the employees with the long-term interests of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The appreciation 
of rights under SARs Scheme 2023 are settled in cash.
The Employee Stock Options (“ESOPs”) and Stock Appreciation Rights (“SARs”) granted to the employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries currently operate 
under the following Schemes:
(i)	 ESOP Scheme 2023;
(ii)	 ESOP Scheme 2015;
(iii)	SARs Scheme 2023; and
(iv)	SARs Scheme 2015
During the year under review, the Bank granted ESOPs and SARs to the eligible employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries, in accordance with the respective 
schemes, from time to time. No new grants were made under the ESOP Scheme 2015 and SARs Scheme 2015, after the ESOP Scheme 2023 and the 
SARs Scheme 2023, became effective on 22nd December, 2023 and 1st December, 2023, respectively.
The aforesaid schemes are in compliance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
("SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations, 2021"), as applicable. No material changes were made to these schemes during the year under review.
The relevant details of the aforesaid schemes, as required under the SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations, 2021, are available on the Bank’s website 
viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/annual-reports.html These details, along with the certificate(s) from the 
Secretarial Auditor, as required under the SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations, 2021, stating that the schemes have been implemented in accordance with 
the SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations, 2021, as applicable and also in accordance with the relevant resolution(s) passed by the members, would be available 
for inspection by the members during the Annual General Meeting ("AGM").
ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE PRACTICES
In the financial and banking industry, Environment, Social and Governance Practices (“ESG”) has become a critical area of focus and your Bank endeavours 
to continually improve its ESG performance. Your Bank has a robust ESG policy framework which articulates ESG focus areas and provides guidance for ESG 
practices such as corporate governance, environmental and employee related initiatives, policy revisions and other ESG related projects undertaken. There 
is an ESG taskforce comprising representatives from relevant functions and subsidiaries to enable implementation of the framework. This taskforce plays a 
critical role in recording and providing data on various ESG parameters which is subsequently collated, analysed and reported and the ESG performance is 
reported to the Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (“CSR & ESG Committee”) and the Board, periodically. 
Your Bank adheres to the highest standards of corporate governance, which includes disclosure, transparency, accountability and responsiveness. Details 
of some existing policies aligned to ESG principles have been provided in the BRSR section of the Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
The coverage of ESG disclosures on the operational environmental footprint and employee count has been extended to cover all locations where 
your Bank and its subsidiaries operate, except Sonata Finance Private Limited, which was acquired recently in March 2024. Your Bank emphasises 
on integration of ESG in its core business practices. Details of environmental management, employee diversity, well-being and development, 
financial inclusion and community focused interventions, customer experience and data privacy are covered in the ESG sections of the Integrated Annual 
Report. During FY 2023-24, your Bank has undertaken climate change risk assessments to understand impacts of climate on its portfolio (exposure to one 
more sector) and its operations. For details on the same, please refer to the ESG disclosures in the Integrated Annual Report.
257
Directors' Report
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report ("BRSR") showcases ESG performance with enhanced transparency and focuses to quantifiable 
metrics by providing essential and voluntary indicators rather than qualitative and subjective metrics. Your Bank has been publishing the BRSR since 
FY 2021-22, endeavouring to be at the forefront of sustainability reporting by being an early adopter of BRSR.
In July 2023, SEBI made a further amendment to the provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations by introducing BRSR Core for listed entities and mandating 
reasonable assurance for it. The BRSR Core comprises key performance indicators under nine ESG attributes, which are a sub-set of the BRSR format and 
is subject to undergo reasonable assurance. Your Bank has undertaken reasonable assurance for BRSR Core parameters for FY 2023-24.
The Bank’s disclosure on environmental performance covers aspects such as resource usage (energy and water), Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 1, 2 & 3) and waste disposed. Disclosure on social aspects covers the workforce diversity (gender and differently abled employees), turnover rates, 
median wages, occupational health and safety, training, inclusive development (procurement from MSMEs and job creation in smaller towns), community 
development and customer centric approach, etc., while governance related performance covers ethics, transparency and accountability, respecting the 
interests of and being responsive to all its stakeholder, respect and promote human rights, engage in influencing public and regulatory policy in a responsible 
and transparent manner and engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner. Further details on the governance aspect can be 
referred to in the Report on Corporate Governance, annexed to this Report.
BRSR, including the BRSR Core parameters for FY 2023-24, is part of the Integrated Annual Report of the Bank and is also available on the Bank’s website 
viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/annual-reports.html
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Your Bank has undertaken socially impactful Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Projects for welfare and sustainable development of the population 
at large, in accordance with the guidelines and robust mechanism laid out in the Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy  (“CSR Policy”). Your Bank has collaborated with implementing agencies across to implement projects in the CSR focus areas defined under its 
CSR Policy viz., Education & Livelihood, Healthcare, Environment & Sustainable Development, Sports and Relief & Rehabilitation.
Your Bank’s CSR Policy sets out its vision, mission, governance and CSR focus areas to fulfill its inclusive agenda across many geographies of India. 
The Policy also highlights your Bank’s intent to contribute towards the economic, environmental and social growth of the nation and also reflects 
the organization’s commitment to contribute towards United Nation’s (“UN”) Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”). Your Bank has enhanced 
its CSR footprint in accordance with the guidelines led out in the CSR Policy, by focusing on sustainable, scalable and perceptible CSR Projects, 
spreading in focused geographies and aligning to SDGs and the national narrative. Your Bank’s CSR Policy is available on the Bank’s website 
viz., : https://www.kotak.com/en/about-us/corporate-responsibility.html
Your Bank’s CSR Projects are compliant with the CSR mandate as specified under Section 135 read with Schedule VII of the Act along with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (“CSR Rules”), as amended from time to time and in line with notifications issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), from time to time.
The CSR expenditure requirement of your Bank for FY 2023-24 as per Section 135 of the Act and the CSR Rules, as amended from time to time, 
was ` 230.24 crore. After setting-off ` 1.42 crore from the excess CSR expenditure spend for FY 2022-23, your Bank’s total CSR obligation for FY 2023-24 
was ` 228.82 crore. As against this, the CSR expenditure of your Bank for FY 2023-24 was ` 230.81 crore.
For FY 2023-24, your Bank’s spend on CSR Projects was ` 116.17 crore, amount spent as CSR Administrative Overheads was ` 2.99 crore and the amount 
spent on Impact assessment was ` 0.56 crore. An amount of ` 111.08 crore which was on account of the unutilised  CSR Project expenditure of Ongoing 
CSR Projects for FY 2023-24, has been transferred to the ‘Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited Unspent CSR Account FY 2023-24’, in April 2024. Your Bank is 
committed to utilise the aforesaid amount within the stipulated period of three years i.e. from 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2027, towards completion of the 
Board approved Ongoing CSR Projects.
Together with the CSR Project spend, impact assessment, administrative overheads and amount transferred to Unspent CSR account, the total 
CSR expenditure for FY 2023-24 was ` 230.81 crore, which is in excess by ` 1.99 crore over the total CSR obligation for FY 2023-24.
The excess CSR expenditure spend of ` 1.99 crore for FY 2023-24 is being carried forward to three succeeding financial years and would be available for 
set-off in those financial years. The details are more particularly described in the Annual Report on CSR activities for FY 2023-24, annexed to this Report.
Your Bank also maintains the Unspent CSR accounts pertaining to funds earmarked for its Ongoing CSR Projects for the previous financial years. Details of 
the same are provided in the Annual Report on CSR activities for FY 2023-24, annexed to this Report.
Your Bank is committed to utilise the amount available in Unspent CSR accounts towards completion of the Board approved Ongoing CSR Projects 
within the stipulated time limit specified under the Act. The details of the same are more particularly described in the Annual Report on CSR activities for 
FY 2023-24, annexed to this Report.
A brief outline of the CSR Policy, the composition of the CSR & ESG Committee and the CSR Project spends during the year under review, have been provided 
in detail in the Annual Report on CSR activities annexed to this Report and also in the BRSR section of the Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
Statutory Reports
258
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
TECHNOLOGY AND DIGITISATION
Your Bank has made noteworthy advancements in the areas of Growth & Transformation and Risk & Resiliency, which have resulted in a number of projects 
being executed across these two themes. It has led the way in embracing digital innovation and top-tier engineering talent to provide customer-centric 
solutions and operational excellence, in a time when technology is changing the banking industry.
On Risk & Resiliency, your Bank has shown significant improvement in uptime and stability metrics for critical applications. Architecture review board is now 
in place and Cloud 2.0 architecture blueprint with best practices for information security and operational resiliency is functional for all new initiatives. Your 
Bank has invested in and implemented an enterprise service management tool for asset & inventory management and change management.
On the theme of Grow & Transform, various customer journeys were launched in the Consumer and Commercial Banking businesses, including journeys for 
small business loans, top up loans and corporate salary customers. Additionally, your Bank hired more than 500 highly qualified and experienced engineers 
to strengthen its technological foundation.
In order to improve customer service, the legacy tool has been replaced with a state-of-the-art platform called K Force, which has resulted in notable gains 
in customer feedback and responsiveness.
Your Bank will continue to invest to fortify its IT systems. The primary focus is on accelerated execution of the comprehensive plan for core banking 
resilience, continued demonstration of sustainable compliance to cyber security controls and strengthening of digital payment security controls.
Your Bank’s unwavering commitment to technological advancement is evidenced by its strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing customer experience 
and operational efficiency. Your Bank has heavily invested in cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence and data analytics to enable risk 
management, fraud detection and personalized services and continues to take various technological initiatives.
The digital transformation journey of your Bank is anchored on the pillars for digital innovation, agility and security. Your Bank has enhanced its digital 
platforms to offer customers seamless Omni channel experience, so as to streamline banking procedures, enable instantaneous fund transfers, enable 
digital account opening and to provide secure authentication mechanisms. In addition, your Bank’s digital infrastructure has been strengthened by the use 
of strong cybersecurity protocols, guaranteeing the integrity and confidentiality of client data.
Leveraging technology to foster deeper customer engagement, your Bank has introduced a range of digital solutions to cater to the evolving needs of 
customers.
Your Bank remains steadfast in its commitment to harnessing technology for sustained growth and innovation. In order to empower both customers and 
employees, your Bank will prioritise digital literacy and continue to explore emerging technologies with the goal of creating a futuristic digital ecosystem.
With a strategic combination of innovation, customer-focused thinking and operational efficiency, your Bank is positioned to take advantage of the changing 
digital landscape and generate value for all stakeholders.
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES
As of 31st March, 2024, your Bank had 21 subsidiaries in various businesses, as listed below:2
Sr. 
No.
Name of the subsidiary
Business activity
1.
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
Car Finance and other Lending
2.
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
Lending and Investments 
3.
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
Infrastructure Financing
4.
Kotak Securities Limited
Stock Broking, Distribution
5.
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
Investment Banking
6.
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
Life Insurance
7.
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
General Insurance
8.
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
Mutual Fund Asset Management, Portfolio Management
9.
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
Trustee Company for Mutual Fund
10.
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
Pension Fund Management
11.
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited
(Formerly known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
Alternate Asset Management, Investment Advisory
12.
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
Trusteeship Services
13.
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
Distribution of financial products and dealing in securities
14.
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
Advisory Services, Investments
15.
Kotak Mahindra Inc.
Broker/Dealer
2 	
GRI 2-2
259
Directors' Report
Sr. 
No.
Name of the subsidiary
Business activity
16.
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited
Asset Management
17.
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
Advisory services for Middle East
18.
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
Marketing and distribution of various financial products/services
19.
BSS Microfinance Limited
Business Correspondent
20.
Sonata Finance Private Limited (with effect from 28th March, 2024)
Business Correspondent
21.
Kotak Karma Foundation
Centre of Excellence for part of Bank's CSR activities
On 28th March, 2024, the Bank acquired 100% of the issued and paid-up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”), a Non-Banking Finance 
Company – Micro Finance Institution registered with RBI for a total consideration of ` 537.12 crore. With this acquisition, Sonata has become a subsidiary 
of the Bank.
Pursuant to the receipt of relevant regulatory approvals, the transaction for acquisition of 70% shareholding in Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company 
Limited (“KGI”) by Zurich Insurance Company Limited by way of a combination of primary and secondary acquisitions, for a total consideration of 
approximately ` 5,560 crore was completed upon fulfilment of other conditions precedent. Accordingly, KGI has ceased to be a subsidiary of your Bank, on 
18th June, 2024. The Bank now holds the remaining 30% of the share capital of KGI. 
The various activities of the subsidiaries, their performance and financial position are outlined in detail in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
section annexed to this Report.
MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY:
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited is a material subsidiary of the Bank. The Bank’s Policy for determining material subsidiaries, in line with the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, is available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:
As at 31st March, 2024, your Bank had the following associate companies:
(i)	
Infina Finance Private Limited
(ii)	
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
KGI became an associate company of your Bank, on 18th June, 2024.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136(1) of the Act, the Annual Report of the Bank, containing the standalone and consolidated financial 
statements and all other relevant documents required to be annexed thereto and the separate audited financial statements in respect of each of 
the subsidiaries, are available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/annual-reports.html 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, the Statement containing the salient features of the Financial Statements of the said subsidiaries 
and associates of the Bank, in Form AOC-1, is annexed to this Report.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries (other than Kotak Karma Foundation, a Section 8 company, whose accounts are excluded from consolidation 
in accordance with the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on “Consolidated Financial Statements”) used for consolidation of the Bank’s consolidated 
financial statements are special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP specified under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant 
notifications.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD COMPOSITION
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank is governed by the Act, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR Act”) and Regulation 17 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and is in conformity with the same. As on 31st March, 2024, the Board of Directors comprised twelve Directors, including 
six Independent Directors, three Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors. As on the date of this Report, the Board of Directors 
comprises eleven Directors viz., Mr. C S Rajan, Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman, Mr. Uday Khanna, Mr. Uday Shankar, Dr. Ashok Gulati, 
Ms. Ashu Suyash, Mr. Cornelis Petrus Adrianus Joseph ("Eli") Leenaars and Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati, Independent Directors, Mr. Amit Desai and 
Mr. Uday Kotak, Non-Executive Directors, Mr. Ashok Vaswani, Managing Director & CEO and Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Whole-time Director, designated as 
Deputy Managing Director. 
The size of the Board is commensurate with the size and business of the Bank. The Board meets the criteria prescribed under Section 10(A)(2) of the BR Act 
and the circulars issued by the RBI, from time to time. The Board mix provides a combination of professionalism, knowledge, experience and skills required 
in the banking industry and also meets the criteria prescribed under the Policy on Board Diversity adopted by the Board.
Statutory Reports
260
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CHANGES IN COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
Mr. Uday Kotak resigned as the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, with effect from 1st September, 2023. Pursuant to the the approvals of the Board of 
Directors and the members of the Bank, Mr. Kotak became a Non-Executive Director of the Bank, with effect from 2nd September, 2023.
Mr. Dipak Gupta, the then Joint Managing Director, assumed the duties of Managing Director & CEO, as an interim arrangement, for the period up to 
31st December, 2023, pursuant to the approval of the RBI and the members of the Bank. Mr. Gupta ceased to be a Director and Managing Director & CEO of 
the Bank, upon completion of his term on 31st December, 2023.
Pursuant to the approval granted by Board and the RBI, the members of the Bank approved the appointment of Mr. Ashok Vaswani as the Managing Director 
& CEO of the Bank, for a period of three years, with effect from 1st January, 2024.
Further, Mr. Eli Leenaars was appointed as a Director and an Independent Director of the Bank, for a term of four years, with effect from 
1st January, 2024, pursuant to the approvals of the Board and the members of the Bank.
Upon completion of his term on 31st December, 2023, Mr. Prakash Apte ceased to be a Director and Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of the 
Bank.
The Board of Directors of the Bank, approved the appointment of Mr. C S Rajan, Independent Director, as the Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman 
of the Bank, for a period of two years, with effect from 1st January, 2024, subject to the approval of the RBI, which was subsequently received.
Mr. KVS Manian and Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, both Whole-time Directors, were re-designated as Joint Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director of 
the Bank, respectively, with effect from 19th March, 2024, till the end of their respective terms on 31st October, 2025.
Based on the approval of the Board, the members of the Bank approved the re-appointment of Mr. Uday Shankar as an Independent Director of the Bank, 
for a second term of three years, with effect from 16th March, 2024, on the completion of his first term of five years.
Mr. KVS Manian resigned as the Joint Managing Director of the Bank on 30th April, 2024. 
Further, Mr. C Jayaram ceased to be a Director on the Board of the Bank on completion of his term of eight years on 30th April, 2024, in line with the 
provisions of Section 10A(2A)(i) of the BR Act.
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati was appointed as an Additional Director and an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of four years, with effect from 
18th May, 2024, subject to the approval of the members. The approval of the members is being sought at the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank. The 
details of Ms. Bhagwati are included in the Notice convening the Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank.
As on the date of this Report, the Board of your Bank has eleven Directors, including three Women Directors. The Board currently comprises seven 
Independent Directors, two Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
DIRECTORS RETIRING BY ROTATION
Mr. Amit Desai is liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank, in terms of Section 152 of the Act and being eligible, has offered 
himself for re-appointment as a Director. The Board has approved the said proposal and recommended the same to the members for their approval.
The details of Mr. Desai are included in the Notice convening the Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank.
DECLARATION FROM INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
All the Independent Directors of the Bank have submitted the requisite declarations stating that they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed under 
Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Board has reviewed and assessed the veracity of the aforesaid 
declarations, as required under Regulation 25(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors fulfill the said 
conditions as mentioned in the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations and are independent of the management. All the Independent Directors of the Bank 
have complied with the provisions of sub rules (1) and (2) of Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 with respect 
to registration with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs for the Independent Directors’ Database. There has been no change in the circumstances 
affecting their status as Independent Directors of the Bank. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors possess the requisite integrity, experience, 
expertise and proficiency required under all applicable laws and the policies of the Bank.
DIRECTOR E-KYC
Pursuant to the requirement prescribed under the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, in FY 2023-24, all the Directors of 
the Bank have complied with the KYC registration.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY
The Bank has a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Policy which protects Directors and Officers of the Bank for any breach of fiduciary duty.
BOARD EVALUATION1
The Board conducted the performance evaluation of the individual Directors, Board Committees and Board as a whole for FY 2023-24, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, including the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by the SEBI on 5th January, 2017.
1GRI 2-18
261
Directors' Report
The NRC approves the criteria and the mechanism for carrying out the said performance evaluation process. Accordingly, the NRC approved the assessment 
questionnaire designed for the annual performance evaluation, which broadly covered the following criteria:
(i)	
Board - Competencies, composition and structure, board dynamics, board functioning, oversight of committee composition and functioning, ethics 
and compliance.
(ii)	
Committees - Composition and quality, process and procedure, terms of reference and certain committee specific questions.
(iii)	
Chairperson - Key focus areas covering understanding of the role, team work attributes, utilisation of domain expertise, effective communication, etc. 
and certain other parameters such as efficient leadership, open-minded, driver of innovation, courteous, professionalism, impartial conduct, devotion 
of sufficient time, effective communication and facilitation of productive deliberation.
(iv)	
Individual Directors - Function and duties, professional and ethical conduct, management relations, understanding of role, commitment, effective 
contribution, independent view to decision making, utilisation of domain expertise, etc.
The aforesaid questionnaire was circulated to all the Directors of the Bank for the annual performance evaluation. The Board evaluated the effectiveness of 
its functioning and that of the Committees and of individual Directors through the annual Board Evaluation Process.
The Bank had engaged an independent professional services firm for issuing a report on the performance evaluation (“Board Evaluation Report”), based 
on the responses received from the Directors. The Board Evaluation Report was placed before the Independent Directors and the Board at their respective 
meetings and performance evaluation for FY 2023-24 was carried out by them.
The Directors noted that the results of the performance evaluation indicated a high degree of satisfaction among the Directors. The Board deliberated on 
the report and basis suggestions, agreed to enhance focus on identified topics, such as, technology and human resources. These will be monitored and 
reported to the Board periodically.	
Further, the Bank has taken necessary steps to comply with the suggestions which had arisen from the Board performance evaluation for FY 2022-23.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act and Rule 8 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
following officials of the Bank are the Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”), as on the date of this report:
(i)	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani, Managing Director & CEO
(ii)	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Deputy Managing Director
(iii)	
Mr. Devang Gheewalla, Group Chief Financial Officer
(iv)	
Ms. Avan Doomasia, Company Secretary.
Mr. Uday Kotak and Mr. Dipak Gupta, ceased to be the Managing Director & CEO and KMPs of the Bank on 1st September, 2023 and 31st December, 2023, 
respectively.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani was appointed as the Managing Director & CEO and KMP of the Bank, with effect from 1st January, 2024.
Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be the Joint Managing Director ("JMD") and KMP of the Bank, on 30th April, 2024.
Mr. Jaimin Bhatt ceased to be the Group Chief Financial Officer and KMP of the Bank, on account of his superannuation on 31st March, 2024 and 
Mr. Devang Gheewalla was appointed as the Group Chief Financial Officer and KMP of the Bank, with effect from 1st April, 2024.
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
The appointment and remuneration of Directors of the Bank is governed by the provisions of Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act. The NRC has 
formulated the criteria for appointment of Directors and Senior Management Personnel. Based on the criteria set, the NRC recommends to the Board, the 
appointment of Directors and Senior Management Personnel.
The Bank adheres to the process and methodology prescribed by the RBI in respect of the ‘Fit & Proper’ criteria as applicable to Private Sector Banks, signing 
of Deeds of Covenants which binds the Directors to discharge their responsibilities to the best of their abilities, individually and collectively in order to be 
eligible for being appointed/re-appointed as a Director of the Bank. The prescribed declarations/undertakings given by the Directors, other than that of the 
members of the NRC, are placed before the NRC and the declarations/undertakings given by the members of the NRC are placed before the Board, for its 
review and noting.
The said declarations/undertakings are obtained from all the Directors on an annual basis and also at the time of their appointment/re-appointment, in 
compliance with the said laws. An assessment on whether the Directors fulfil the prescribed criteria is carried out by the NRC and the Board, on an annual 
basis and also at the time of their appointment/re-appointment.
Statutory Reports
262
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The details of the remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Bank, for the year 
ended 31st March, 2024 is provided in the Report on Corporate Governance annexed to this Report.
The Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of the Bank, receives a fixed remuneration as recommended by the Board and approved by the 
members of the Bank and the RBI, from time to time. This is in addition to payment of sitting fees, car with driver as per applicable policy and reimbursement 
of expenses for official purposes/attending duties as a Chairman.
The Board of Directors of the Bank has formulated and adopted a comprehensive Compensation Policy for Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”)
The remuneration payable to the NEDs, other than Part-time Non-Executive Chairman, is in accordance with the provisions of the Circular dated 
26th April, 2021 and the Circular on Review of Fixed Remuneration granted to Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) dated 9th February, 2024, issued by RBI 
which, inter alia, provides for payment of compensation to NEDs, other than the Chair of the Board, in the form of a fixed remuneration commensurate with 
an individual director’s responsibilities and demands on time and which is considered sufficient to attract qualified competent individuals, for an amount not 
exceeding ` 30 lakh per annum, including any statutory modification or amendment or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force and the provisions 
of the Act.
The salient features of the Compensation Policy of the Bank for NEDs are, inter alia, as follows:
(i)	
Compensation structure is divided into:
	
•	
Sitting fees
	
•	
Compensation in the form of Fixed Remuneration
(ii)	
Amount of sitting fees and remuneration to be decided by the Board from time to time, subject to the regulatory limits.
(iii)	
Overall cap on compensation in the form of fixed remuneration for each NED (excluding the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman) of 
` 30 lakh per annum or such other amount as may be prescribed by the RBI, from time to time.
(iv)	
NEDs are not eligible for any stock options of the Bank.
(v)	
The Part-time Non-Executive Chairman is entitled to a fixed remuneration, as may be approved by the Board, members and RBI, from time to time. 
This is in addition to the sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board/Committees. The Bank may provide car with a driver for the use of the 
Part-time Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank and all expenses incurred on such car will be on actuals and borne by the Bank.
The fixed remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors other than Part-time Non-Executive Chairman was revised from ` 20 lakh to 
` 30 lakh per annum, from FY 2024-25. The Board also approved the criteria for granting such remuneration.
Further, approval of the members is being sought at the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank for revision in remuneration payable to the 
Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of your Bank from ` 3,600,000/- (Rupees Thirty-Six Lakh only) per annum to ` 5,000,000/- 
(Rupees Fifty Lakh only) per annum to Mr. C S Rajan till the end of his tenure as Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of the Bank till 
31st December, 2025, with effect from 1st July, 2024, subject to such terms and conditions as may be approved by the RBI, from time to time. Details of the 
same are included in the Notice convening the Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank.
The remuneration paid to the KMPs is in line with the Compensation Policy of the Bank which is based on the RBI Guidelines. The above mentioned policies 
are available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
The salient features of the Compensation Policy of the Bank are, as follows:
Objective:
•	
To maintain fair, consistent and equitable compensation practices in alignment with Kotak’s core values and strategic business goals
• 	
To ensure effective governance of compensation and alignment of compensation practices with prudent risk taking
• 	
To have mechanisms in place for effective supervisory oversight and Board engagement in compensation
•	
To ensure that the compensation practices are within the regulatory framework stipulated from time to time by the RBI.
Compensation structure comprises total remuneration consisting of:
•	
Fixed Pay, which includes perquisite pay/benefits
•	
Variable Pay, which includes Performance Bonus/Incentive, Long Term Incentive Pay in the form of cash bonuses, all share-linked instruments 
(e.g. ESOP, SARS, etc.)
• 	
Other payments, which includes Joining/Sign on Bonus, Severance package, Deferred Incentive Plans, etc.
263
Directors' Report
Further, the employees have been broadly classified into following categories:
(i)	
Category I – Comprising Managing Director & CEO and Whole-time Directors (“WTDs”)
(ii)	
Category II – Material Risk Takers (“MRTs”):
	
These include employees (excluding employees under Category III) whose actions may have material impact on the risk exposures of the Bank and 
who satisfy both qualitative and quantitative criteria, as given below:
	
a)	
Qualitative Criteria: Employees in the Grade M10 and above; Business and Function Heads in reporting hierarchy up to two levels below 
Managing Director & CEO.
	
b)	
Quantitative Criteria: Fixed Cost To Company (“FTCTC”) is ` 1.5 crore p.a. and above.
	
This excludes employees under Category III.
(iii)	
Category III – Risk control and compliance employees, comprising staff in Grade M9 and above in the following Control functions:
	
•	
Risk & Policy function
	
•	
Financial Control including group consolidation
	
•	
Compliance
	
•	
Internal Audit
	
•	
Back-office Operations
	
•	
Vigilance
	
•	
Legal
	
•	
Secretarial
	
•	
Human Resources
	
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility
	
•	
Investor Relations
(iv)	
Category IV: Other employees - This includes all employees, not explicitly covered in the first three categories.
The limits on the ratio of total Variable Pay (including Cash or Non Cash Pay) to Fixed Pay and the limits on the ratio of Cash v/s Non Cash within 
Variable Pay, is outlined for each category of employee classification. Further, Malus and Clawback clauses are applicable as per the Compensation Policy.
The NRC and the Board of the Bank have reviewed and approved all the amendments to the said Compensation Policy.
DISCLOSURES PURSUANT TO RULE 5 OF COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) 
RULES, 2014
The disclosures pursuant to Rule 5 of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, are annexed to this Report.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Bank is committed to achieving and adhering to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and constantly benchmarks itself with best practices, 
in this regard.
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate section titled ‘Report on Corporate Governance’ has been annexed to this 
Report  along with the certificate issued by the Secretarial Auditor of the Bank confirming compliance with the mandatory requirements relating to 
Corporate Governance under the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Report on Corporate Governance also contains certain disclosures required under the Act, 
including the details of the Board meetings held during the financial year ended 31st March, 2024.3
The Bank also files with the Stock Exchanges, the Report on Corporate Governance in terms of Regulation 27(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations on a 
quarterly, half yearly and annual basis. The said Reports are available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-
relations/governance/sebi-listing-disclosures.html
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
Your Bank is in compliance with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and approved by the 
Central Government under Section 118(10) of the Act for FY 2023-24.
3 GRI 2-27
Statutory Reports
264
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the 
Board of Directors of your Bank had appointed Rupal D. Jhaveri, Practising Company Secretary, a peer reviewed proprietorship firm, to act as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Bank for FY 2023-24. The Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024, as required under Section 204 of 
the Act and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, is annexed to this Report. The Secretarial Auditor’s Report does not contain any qualifications, 
reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers.
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (“KLI”), your Bank’s material unlisted subsidiary, has completed its secretarial audit and there are no 
qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers made in the Secretarial Audit Report of KLI for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024. 
 The said Secretarial Audit Report of KLI is also annexed to this Report.
In terms of the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, your Bank has submitted the Annual Secretarial Compliance Report for FY 2023-24 to 
the Stock Exchanges within the prescribed time and the same is available on websites of BSE (www.bseindia.com), NSE (www.nseindia.com) and on the 
Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-relations/governance/sebi-listing-disclosures.html
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Your Directors, based on the representations received from the operating management, confirm in pursuance of Sections 134(3) and 134(5) of the Act, that:
(i)	
your Bank has, in the preparation of the annual accounts for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024, followed the applicable accounting standards 
and guidance provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India along with proper explanations relating to material departures, if any;
(ii)	
they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of your Bank as at 31st March, 2024 and of the profit of your Bank for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2024;
(iii)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care to the best of their knowledge and ability, for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of your Bank and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(iv)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis;
(v)	
they have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Bank and that such internal financial controls are adequate and are operating 
effectively; and 
(vi)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) of the Act read with Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, the Annual Return of the Bank is available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/
annual-reports.html
STATUTORY AUDITORS
Pursuant to the Bank’s Policy on appointment of Statutory Auditors (“Policy”) and the Circular No. DoS.CO.ARG/SEC.01/08.91.001/2021-22 dated 
27th April, 2021 issued by RBI (“RBI Circular”/“Guidelines”), prescribing the guidelines for Appointment of Statutory Auditors (SAs) and in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 139 of the Act, read with Rules made thereunder, KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No: 105146W/
W100621) (“KKC”) and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration Number: 301112E/E300264) (“PW”), are the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank.
The term of PW, as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, expires at the conclusion of the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM of the Bank and the Bank is 
required to appoint a second Joint Statutory Auditor in place of PW, pursuant to the above mentioned RBI Circular and Policy.
In this regard, based on a review of the profile, including the size, experience and area of specialization and recommendation of the Audit Committee 
and the approval of RBI, the Board has, on 29th June, 2024, inter alia, approved and recommended for the approval of the members, the appointment of 
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No: 117365W) (“Deloitte”), as the second Joint Statutory Auditor of the Bank, to 
hold office from the conclusion of the Thirty-Ninth AGM until the conclusion of the Forty-Second AGM of the Bank, for the purpose of the audit of the Bank’s 
standalone and consolidated financial statements from FY 2024-25 to FY 2026-27.
Deloitte has consented to act as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank and have intimated that such appointment would be in accordance with 
the conditions prescribed in Section 139 of the Act and have also confirmed their eligibility to be appointed as Statutory Auditors, in terms of Section 141 of 
the Act and applicable rules and RBI Guidelines. The approval of members of the Bank is, accordingly, being sought for the appointment of Deloitte as one 
of the Joint Statutory Auditors, at the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM.
265
Directors' Report
As per the applicable provisions of law, including RBI Circular/Guidelines and the BR Act, the appointment of Joint Statutory Auditors would be subject to 
the approval of the RBI every year.
At the Thirty-Eighth AGM of the Bank, the members had approved an overall audit remuneration/fee not exceeding ` 37,500,000/- (Rupees Three Crore 
Seventy-Five Lakh only), plus outlays and taxes, as applicable, for FY 2023-24, allocated by the Bank between PW and KKC, depending upon their respective 
scope of work.
Further, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board approved an overall annual remuneration/fee of an amount not exceeding 
` 41,000,000 (Rupees Four Crore Ten Lakh only) in addition to any out of pocket expenses, outlays and taxes, as applicable, to the Joint Statutory Auditors 
for the time being in office, for the audit/review of financials, as the case may be, in respect of FY 2024-25, to be mutually agreed between the Bank and both 
the Joint Statutory Auditors, depending on the scope of work undertaken by each of them, subject to the approval of the members of the Bank.
The approval of members of the Bank is, accordingly, being sought pursuant to the provisions of Section 142 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Act and the relevant Rules thereunder and pursuant to Section 30 of the BR Act and RBI Circular for fixing the remuneration of the Joint Statutory Auditors 
for FY 2024-25, at the ensuing Thirty-Ninth AGM.
As required under Regulation 33(1)(d) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Joint Statutory Auditors have confirmed that they have subjected themselves to the 
peer review process of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and that they hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of ICAI.
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks or disclaimers on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting made 
by PW and KKC in the Statutory Auditors’ Report for FY 2023-24.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Board of Directors confirm that your Bank has laid down set of standards, processes and structure which enables it to implement internal financial 
controls across the organisation with reference to financial statements and that such controls are adequate and are operating effectively. Controls are 
reviewed/revisited/updated/deleted each year for change in processes/organisational changes/product changes, etc. Testing is done for all the controls 
with the help of an independent firm of Chartered Accountants, on behalf of Management, who confirm to the Audit Committee of the Bank, the existence 
and operating effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. During the year under review, no material or serious observations were observed for 
inefficiency or inadequacy of such controls.
IMPLEMENTATION OF IND AS
The Ministry of Finance, Government of India (“GOI”), had vide its press release dated 18th January, 2016 outlined the roadmap for implementation of 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) converged Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) for Scheduled Commercial Bank (excluding RRBs), 
NBFC and Insurance companies. The RBI vide its circular dated 22nd March, 2019, deferred the implementation of Ind AS for Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(“SCB”) till further notice, pending the consideration of some recommended legislative amendments by GOI. The RBI has not issued any further notification 
on implementation of Ind AS for SCBs.
The Bank has so far taken following steps for implementation of Ind AS:
(i)	
Formed Steering Committee for Ind AS implementation. The Steering Committee comprises representatives from Finance, Risk, Information 
Technology and Treasury. The Committee closely reviews progress of Ind AS implementation in the Bank and provides guidance on critical aspects 
of the implementation.
(ii)	
The Bank is currently in the process of implementing an IT solution for Ind AS reporting. Further, there may be new regulatory guidelines and 
clarifications for Ind AS application, which the Bank will need to suitably incorporate in its implementation.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
During the year, your Bank has not entered into any materially significant transaction with its related parties, which could lead to a potential conflict of 
interest between the Bank and these parties. All the related party transactions that were entered into during the year were on an arm’s length basis and in 
the ordinary course of business. Hence, pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, there are no 
related party transactions to be reported under Section 188(1) of the Act and disclosure in Form AOC-2 is not applicable to the Bank.
The members of the Bank had, vide resolutions passed on 12th March, 2024, approved related party transactions by the Bank, as potential Material related 
party transactions under the provisions of Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, with Infina Finance Private Limited (“Infina”) and Mr. Uday Kotak 
for FY 2024-25, at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business of the Bank. During the year, none of the related party transactions of the 
Bank exceeded the applicable materiality threshold.
The Bank has a Board approved ‘Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions’. The same is available on the Bank’s website 
viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
Statutory Reports
266
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
All related party transactions are placed before the Audit Committee for its review and approval on a quarterly basis. Omnibus approval of the Audit 
Committee is obtained for the related party transactions which are repetitive in nature. Further, the Bank had engaged the services of an external professional 
firm for verification of the related party transactions during the year as also their disclosure and for validation of the process followed by the Bank.
Members may refer to Note 7 of Schedule 18B – Notes to Accounts of the Standalone Financial Statement (Other Disclosures) and Note 22 of 
Schedule 17 - Notes to Accounts of the Consolidated Financial Statement of your Bank, which set out related party disclosures pursuant to Accounting 
Standards AS-18.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS
The provisions of Section 186 of the Act except sub-section (1), do not apply to loans made, guarantees given and securities provided by a banking company 
in the ordinary course of its business and are exempted from the disclosure requirement under Section 134(3)(g) of the Act.
The particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed in Schedule 8 of the Financial Statements.
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, your Bank has a Risk Management Committee, details of which can be referred to in the Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of this Report. While Risk Management is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, it has delegated its powers 
relating to monitoring and reviewing risks associated with the Bank to the Risk Management Committee. Your Bank has a robust Risk Management 
Framework and the Bank has also adopted a Group Enterprise-wide Risk Management framework supported by appropriate policies and processes 
for management of Credit Risk, Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk and various other Risks. Details of identification, assessment, mitigations, 
monitoring and the management of these risks are mentioned in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report annexed to this Report.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
Your Bank has undertaken various initiatives for the conservation of energy. Details of the same are available in the BRSR of the Bank which is part of the 
Annual Report of the Bank and is also available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/annual-
reports.html
The Bank has used information technology extensively in its operations as detailed in the para on ‘Technology and Digitisation’. 
Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo are part of the normal banking business of your Bank.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS BY AUDITORS
During the year under review, other than the fraud reported to the Central Government, there were no instances of fraud by the officer(s) or employee(s) of 
the Bank, which were reported by the Statutory Auditors, to the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors of the Bank, under Section 143(12) of the Act.
MAINTENANCE OF COST RECORDS
Being a Banking company, your Bank is not required to maintain cost records as specified by the Central Government under Section 148(1) of the Act.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE GOING 
CONCERN STATUS AND OPERATIONS IN FUTURE
During the year under review, no significant and/or material order was passed by any regulatory authority or Court or Tribunal against the Bank, which could 
impact the going concern status or its future operations.
As regards the RBI Order dated 24th April, 2024, please refer paragraph titled, 'Reserve Bank of India Order dated 24th April, 2024', appearing earlier in this Report.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE BANK
There are no material changes and commitments which affected the financial position of your Bank, which occurred between the end of the financial year 
to which the financial statements relate and up to the date of this Report.
DESPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT
The MCA has issued General Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020 read with other relevant circulars issued from time to time, including 
General Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25th September, 2023 and the SEBI has issued Circular No.SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May, 2020, 
read with other relevant circulars issued from time to time, including Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated 7th October, 2023, in 
relation to limited relaxation from compliance with certain provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Members who wish to have physical copy may write 
to the Company Secretary of the Bank at KotakBank.Secretarial@kotak.com or submit a written request to the Registered Office of the Bank. In accordance 
with the aforesaid circulars, the weblink of the Annual Report and the Notice convening the AGM of the Bank is being sent in electronic mode only to 
members whose e-mail address is registered with the Bank or the Depository Participant(s). Those members, whose email address is not registered with 
the Bank or with their respective Depository Participant(s) and who wish to receive the Notice of the AGM and the Annual Report for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2024, can get their email address registered by following the steps as detailed in the Notice convening the AGM. The Annual Report of your 
Bank and its subsidiaries are available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/annual-reports.html
267
Directors' Report
ANNEXURES
The following statements/reports/certificates are annexed to the Directors’ Report:
(i)	
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities of the Bank for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024.
(ii)	
Disclosures pursuant to Rule 5 of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
(iii)	
Secretarial Audit Report pursuant to Section 204 of the Act and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(iv)	
Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to Schedule V Part C of the SEBI Listing Regulations along with Certificate from the Secretarial Auditor 
regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Schedule V Part E of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(v)	
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report pursuant to Schedule V Part B of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Your Directors would like to place on record their gratitude for the valuable guidance and support received from the RBI, the SEBI, Stock Exchanges, 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India and other Government and Regulatory agencies. Your Directors acknowledge the continued 
support of the members and also wish to place on record their appreciation for employees for their commendable efforts, commitment, teamwork and 
professionalism.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
C S Rajan
Chairman
Date: 29th June, 2024
Place: Mumbai
Statutory Reports
268
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES OF KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED FOR THE FINANCIAL 
YEAR 2023-24
1.	
BRIEF OUTLINE ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY OF KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED
	
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Bank”) recognises its responsibility to bring about a positive change in the lives of the communities through its 
business operations and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives.
	
Your Bank aspires to be a trusted partner and contribute significantly towards the economic, environmental and social growth of the nation. It is also 
committed to contribute towards United Nation’s (“UN”) Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”). The Bank’s CSR policy sets out its vision, mission, 
governance and CSR focus areas to fulfill its inclusive growth agenda in India.
	
While ensuring that it’s CSR Policy, projects, programmes and interventions are compliant with the CSR mandate as specified under Sections 134 
and 135 read with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) along with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time-to-time and in line with the Government of India’s notifications issued from time-to-time, your Bank also endeavours to align its 
CSR projects, programmes and interventions with government initiatives and last but not the least, UN’s SDGs.
	
The CSR Policy of the Bank is available on its website viz URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/about-us/sustainability/csr.html
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (“CSR & ESG”) COMMITTEE:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
& ESG Committee 
held during the 
year
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
& ESG Committee 
attended during 
the year
1.
Mr. C S Rajan
Chairman  
(w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)/
Independent Director
7
7
2.
Dr. Ashok Gulati (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Member/Independent Director
1
1
3.
Mr. C Jayaram
Member/Non-Executive Director
7
7
4.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Member/Managing Director & 
CEO
7
7
5.
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
Chairman (till 31st December, 
2023)/Independent Director
6
6
6.
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
Member/Managing Director & 
CEO
6
5
3.	
Web-link where Composition of CSR & ESG Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Bank: 
https://www.kotak.com/en/about-us/sustainability/csr.html
4.	
 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of Rule 8(3) of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2024, if applicable:
	
The following CSR Projects undertaken by your Bank in FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22, were eligible for impact assessment, which was conducted in 
FY 2023-24. The executive summary of the impact assessment reports is given, as under:1
Sr 
No
CSR Project 
Unique ID
Implementing 
Organisation
Executive Summary of the Impact Assessment reports
Education & Livelihood
1
KMBL202122005
IIMPACT
The project implemented by IIMPACT in FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23, offered educational 
opportunities to girls from underprivileged communities.
The impact assessment study conducted by EveryULB Technologies Private Limited, indicated 
that:
•	
The use of visual learning tools such as videos had led to near-unanimous engagement 
(325 out of 326 surveyed) with the content.
•	
86% of the students participated, benefitted from ‘100 days reading campaign’.
1GRI 413-1
269
Directors' Report
Sr 
No
CSR Project 
Unique ID
Implementing 
Organisation
Executive Summary of the Impact Assessment reports
2
KMBL202122012
Khan Academy 
India
The project implemented by Khan Academy India in FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23, had provided 
support in developing science content aligned with National Council of Educational Research 
and Training (NCERT).
The impact assessment study conducted by EveryULB Technologies Private Limited indicated that:
•	
More than 2 lakh students accessed and used the aforementioned science content and were 
amongst the Monthly Active Learners (MALs).
•	
The total learning time (TLT) per active learner for science students from grades 9 to 12, was 
35 hours/active learner, which surpassed its intended target by 32%.
3
KMBL202122010
IT for Change
The project implemented by IT for Change in FY 2021-22, focused on developing a model for 
quality education through Information and Communication Technology (“ICT”) integration.
The impact assessment study conducted by EveryULB Technologies Private Limited indicated 
that:
•	
80% of the Bachelor of Education (BEd) Students who completed the ICT course, rated their 
understanding of the course as ’Very Good or ‘Excellent’.
•	
96.7% of in-service teachers who completed the ICT course indicated that the training 
sessions were beneficial in helping integrating ICT as a tool in the subject(s)
4
23
Sarthak 
Educational Trust
The project implemented by Sarthak Educational Trust in FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22, focused 
on vocational training and skill development for disadvantaged communities.
The impact assessment study conducted by In2x Sustainability Advisors Private Limited, 
indicated that:
•	
There was a positive impact of the project on the 190 children with special needs
•	
906 people with disability benefited through enhancing employability
5
KMBL202122008
Head Held High 
Foundation
The ‘Make India Capable’ project implemented by Head Held High Foundation in 
FY 2021-22, provided six months of training to 692 dropout youth.
The impact assessment study conducted by In2x Sustainability Advisors Private Limited, 
indicated that:
•	
59% of the students reported that their confidence in spoken English and computer 
operations had improved.
6
KMBL202122011
Pratham 
Education 
Foundation
The Vocational Training Project implemented by Pratham Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 
offered skilling opportunities to economically vulnerable individuals.
The impact assessment study conducted by Samhita Social Ventures, indicated that:
•	
78% of trained individuals received placement offers in their respective fields, with 74% 
securing direct jobs.
•	
The median income increased from ` 8,250 to ` 12,000.
7
59
Kotak Education 
Foundation - 
Digital Learning 
Solutions (“DLS”)
The project ‘DLS’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2020-2021 and 
FY 2021-22, primarily focused on upskilling students and teachers by fostering technology 
integration in learning and pedagogy skills, respectively.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
70% growth experienced by teachers in the learning outcomes of students
•	
63% of the respondents agreed that the project helped them improve their subject knowledge.
8
KMBL202122013
Kotak Education 
Foundation – 
Lead
The project ‘Lead’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22, primarily focused 
on strengthening the leadership and managerial capacities.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
indicated that:
•	
99% respondents agreed that the project had influenced their motivation levels to lead the 
school effectively
•	
99% respondents agreed that the project helped them improve their organizational efficiency.
Statutory Reports
270
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Sr 
No
CSR Project 
Unique ID
Implementing 
Organisation
Executive Summary of the Impact Assessment reports
9
KMBL202122014
Kotak Education 
Foundation - Guru
The project ‘Guru’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 and 
FY 2022-23, aimed at improving teaching and learning practices to improve foundational literacy 
and numeracy skills.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
99% of the total respondent teachers stated that they were able to apply the learnings gained 
through GURU sessions in their teaching
•	
93% of the total respondent teachers confirmed in improvement in pedagogy and teaching 
practices
•	
83% of the teachers affirmed that, the program contributed to managing their workload more 
efficiently
10
KMBL202122015
Kotak Education 
Foundation - 
Umang
The project ‘Umang’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22, was designed 
to enhance English communication skills for students from vernacular medium
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
There was a 95% increase in the use of English language
•	
Respondents reported that their confidence increased in use of website and application in 
English from 40% to 93%
•	
96% respondents showed improvement in learning outcomes/grade
11
KMBL202122016
Kotak Education 
Foundation - 
Unnati
The project ‘Unnati’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23, 
was designed to enhance English communication skills for students from vernacular medium
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
95% of respondents expressed satisfaction with improvement in their confidence levels
•	
After completing skill training, 71 % of respondents secured placements, while the remaining 
29 % pursued self-employment, further studies, or refrained from the placement process due 
to various reasons
12
KMBL202122017
Kotak Education 
Foundation 
-Nirmaan
The project ‘Nirmaan’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 and 
FY 2022-23, was to support schools to have safer, cleaner school infrastructure.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
100 % of the respondents mentioned that there had been an improvement in safety and 
health in the schools
•	
92% of student’s created awareness about sanitation
13
KMBL202122018
Kotak Education 
Foundation – 
Health
The project ‘Health’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 aimed at 
improving healthcare and overall well-being of underprivileged background.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
There was 100% increase in knowledge levels on topics like Anameia, Nutrition, Mensuration 
etc. after the awareness session
•	
90% acknowledged that they had received spectacles through KEF under eye-care program
•	
The session helped to solve queries related to health and nutritional needs
14
KMBL202122019
Kotak Education 
Foundation - 
Parvarish
The project ‘Parvarish’ implemented by Kotak Education Foundation in FY 2021-22 and 
FY 2022-23, provided training to raise awareness amongst parents to enable them to influence 
their children’s learning outcomes better in the early years.
The impact assessment study conducted by KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, 
indicated that:
•	
82% of the total parents felt improvement in child’s numeracy skills
•	
68% parents saw improvement in their child’s academic performance
271
Directors' Report
Sr 
No
CSR Project 
Unique ID
Implementing 
Organisation
Executive Summary of the Impact Assessment reports
Sports
15
06
Inspire Institute of 
Sport
The project implemented by Inspire Institute of Sport in FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22, was 
focused to promote Wrestling and Boxing. 100 athletes received world class training, necessary 
equipment, nutritional support, physiotherapy, rehabilitation and psychological support.
The impact assessment study conducted by EveryULB Technologies Private Limited, indicated:
•	
100% retention rates
•	
91% athletes saw significant improvement in their performance
 Healthcare
16
KMBL202122034
Bharatiya Arogya 
Nidhi
The Project with Bharatiya Arogya Nidhi implemented in FY 2021-22 was for strengthening 
hospital’s medical infrastructure.
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated, 50% increase 
in patients requiring Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facilities
17
KMBL202122029
Wockhardt 
Foundation
The Project implemented by the Wockhardt Foundation in FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23, 
supported six Mobile Medical Vans (MMV) serving the urban slums of Hyderabad. Based on the 
impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, 87% respondents confirmed 
reduced health care-related expenditure.
18
KMBL202122006
Direct 
Implementation
The directly implemented healthcare project, in FY 2021-22, across three states focused on 
providing four ambulances equipped with medical supplies.
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated that:
•	
All respondents had reported that these ambulances had enabled timely access to emergency 
medical services, leading to prompt treatment and saving lives.
•	
The ambulances were operational during COVID-19, bolstering relief efforts.
Relief and Rehabilitation
19
07
Direct 
Implementation 
and Collective 
Goods 
Foundation (CGF)
The project for COVID-19 implemented directly and through Collective Goods Foundation (CGF) 
in FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22 provided targeted financial support to the economically vulnerable 
population who lost their jobs or experienced income disruptions due to lockdown. The project 
also provided essential medical equipments to hospitals across India
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated that the 
program effectively targeted low-income people by ensuring timely support.
20
KMBL202122025
Direct 
Implementation
The directly implemented Relief and Rehabilitation project, in FY 2021-22, was a response to the 
devastating floods that struck several Indian states by providing essentials especially food kits to 
the affected communities reaching over 8,000 families across 257 panchayats and 347 villages 
in Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated that:
•	
97% of the respondents reported that intervention met immediate hunger needs during the 
floods.
•	
88% of the respondents stated that the kits ensured sustenance during a crucial recovery 
period.
•	
91% responded that dietary requirements were taken into account.
21 
and 
22
45 and 46
Direct 
Implementation
The directly implemented Relief and Rehabilitation project for COVID-19, implemented from 
FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22, provided essential medical equipment to hospitals across 
Maharashtra.
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated that:
•	
All 11 the healthcare professionals interviewed reported that providing medical equipment 
during COVID-19 strengthened healthcare infrastructure.
•	
10 out of 11 respondents agreed that this support had enhanced the efficiency and capacity 
of medical facilities.
Statutory Reports
272
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Sr 
No
CSR Project 
Unique ID
Implementing 
Organisation
Executive Summary of the Impact Assessment reports
23 
and 
24
KMBL202122001 
and 
KMBL202122009
Direct 
Implementation
The directly implemented Relief and Rehabilitation Project for COVID-19, implemented in 
FY 2021-22, across five states focused on upgrading medical infrastructure in hospitals. 
Additionally, ration support was provided along with medical protective gear and vaccination.
The impact assessment study conducted by SGS India Private Limited, indicated that:
•	
6 out of 7 respondents mentioned that the medical equipment supply assisted them in 
treating patients effectively during the pandemic.
•	
6 out of 7 respondents confirmed that critical support during COVID-19 saved patients’ lives.
•	
All respondents affirmed that the medical equipment provided is still in use.
	
All the Impact assessment reports are uploaded on the website of the Bank at the following link viz., https://www.kotak.com/en/about-us/
sustainability/csr.html
5.	
(a)	
Average net profit of the Bank as per Section 135(5) of the Act : ` 11,512.07 crore
	
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the Bank as per Section 135(5) of the Act : ` 230.24 crore
	
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects, programmes or activities of the previous financial years : Not Applicable
	
(d)	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : ` 1.42 crore
	
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b) + (c) – (d)] : ` 228.82 crore
 6.	
(a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project) : ` 116.17 crore
	
 (b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads : ` 2.99 crore
	
 (c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable : ` 0.56 crore
	
 (d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)] : ` 119.73 crore
	
 (e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount spent for 
the Financial Year
(` in crore)
Amount Unspent  (` in crore)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per Section 135(6) of the Act
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 135(5) of the Act
Amount (` in crore)
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount (` in crore)
Date of transfer
119.73*
111.08
29th April, 2024
N.A
N.A
N.A
	
	
 * includes administrative overhead cost of ` 2.99 crore and impact assessment expenditure of ` 0.56 crore
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
S r . 
No.
Particular
Amount 
(` in crore)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act
230.24
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
230.81*
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
0.57
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
1.99**
	
	
 *Includes unspent amount transferred to unspent CSR account, administrative overheads and impact assessment expenses
	
	
 ** including excess spend of ` 1.42 crore available from previous years
273
Directors' Report
7.	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under Section 
135(6) of the 
Act 
(` in crore)
Balance 
amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under Section 
135(6) of the 
Act 
(` in crore)
Amount 
spent in the 
reporting 
Financial Year 
(` in crore)
Amount transferred to a fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 
135(5) of the Act, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years 
(` in crore)
Name of the 
Fund
Amount 
(` in crore)
Date of 
transfer
1.
2020-21
63.59
4.37
4.37
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
2021-22
96.06
70.86
34.36
Nil
Nil
Nil
36.50
3
2022-23
93.11
N.A
56.15*
Nil
Nil
Nil
36.96**
	
 * excludes unutilised balance of CSR expenditure amount of ` 0.7 lakh with implementation agency as on 31st March, 2024, which was subsequently refunded by them in 
April 2024.
 	
** includes unutilised balance of CSR expenditure amount of ` 0.7 lakh with implementation agency as on 31st March, 2024, which was subsequently refunded by them in 
April 2024.
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through CSR amount spent in the Financial Year:
Yes
√
No
If Yes, enter the number of capital assets created/acquired
24#
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through CSR amount spent in the Financial Year:
(i)	
Capital assets created or acquired through CSR Projects of FY 2023-24 :
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1
PET CT scan machine 
and installation costs
Bhaktshreshtha 
Kamalakarpant Laxman 
Walawalkar Hospital, 
Diagnostic & Research 
Centre, 
Shreekshetra Dervan, 
Tal.-Chiplun, Dist. - 
Ratnagiri
415606
18th March 2024
7.00
CSR00006248
Shri Vithalrao Joshi 
Charities Trust
C 28, Suyash, 
Gokhale Road 
North, Dadar (West), 
Mumbai – 400028
Statutory Reports
274
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
2
Medical equipment of 
pathology lab, operation 
theatre viz. Sterilisers, 
endoscopy machine, 
anaesthesia machine 
etc
H P Ghosh Hospital 
HB/A/2, Block, HB Block, 
Sector 3, Bidhannagar, 
Kolkata, West Bengal
700106
7th October 2023
23rd October 2023
16th November, 2023
20th November, 2023
22nd November, 2023
11th December, 2023
19th January, 2024
22nd January, 2024
5.00
CSR00002431
The Eastern India 
Heart Care & 
Research Foundation
HB 36/A/2, Salt Lake 
city, Sec -3, Kolkata, 
7000106
3
Ambulances and 
fabrication
No. 1/2/44, Hospital 
Road, Sedam Gulbarga, 
Gulbarga
585222
30th December, 2023
0.21
N.A
Sedam Civil Hospital
No. 1/2/44, Hospital 
Road, Sedam 
Gulbarga, Gulbarga, 
585222
Ambulances and 
fabrication
Veeresh Nagar Cross, 
Sedam Rd, behind 
MRMC, Kalaburagi, 
Karnataka
585101
30th December, 2023
0.24
NA
Gulbarga Institute of 
Medical Sciences
Veeresh Nagar Cross, 
Sedam Road, behind 
MRMC, Kalaburagi, 
Karnataka, 585101
Ambulances and 
fabrication
Eravikulam National 
Park Rd, Kannan Devan 
Hills, Marayoor, Kerala
685620
9th January, 2024
0.41
NA
Divisional Forest 
Officer, Marayoor 
Forest Reserve.
Eravikulam National 
Park Road, Kannan 
Devan Hills, 
Marayoor, 685620
Ambulances and 
fabrication
Shah Mina Rd, Chowk, 
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
226003
16th February, 2024
1st March, 2024
0.48
N.A
King George's 
Medical University
Shah Mina Road, 
Chowk, Lucknow, 
226003
Ambulances and 
fabrication
S24, Central Spine, 
Mahal Yojana, 
Jagatpura, Jaipur, 
Rajasthan
302025
17th February, 2024
1st March, 2024
0.27
NA
Jeevan Rekha Critical 
Care & Trauma 
Hospital
S24, Central Spine, 
Mahal Yojana, 
Jagatpura, Jaipur, 
302025
Ambulances and 
fabrication
College Campus, At & 
Po. Amroli, Surat
394107
17th February, 2024
1st March 2024
0.27
NA
Jivan Jyot Trust
College Campus, 
at and Post Office 
Amroli, Surat, 394107
Ambulances and 
fabrication
G.P.H. Compound, Polo 
Ground, Indore
452003
17th February, 2024
1st March 2024
0.27
NA
M.Y. Hospital
G.P.H. Compound, 
Polo Ground, Indore 
– 452003
275
Directors' Report
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
Ambulances and 
fabrication
KLE Society, College 
Road, Belgaum, 
Belagavi, Karnataka
590001
17th February, 2024
1st March 2024
0.27
NA
KLE Society
KLE Society, College 
Road, Belgaum, 
Belagavi, 590001
Total Ambulances procured and deployed through Impact 
Guru Foundation
2.43
4
Television sets, Laptops 
Tablets, Water purifier 
and Civil work (For 
various municipal 
schools)
Multiple Locations
422403 
422113 
422006 
422013 
422203 
423502 
423402 
423101 
412115 
412106 
411025 
401102 
410101 
410207 
410501 
421601 
600612
5th August, 2023
1st September, 2023
23rd September, 2023
25th September, 2023
26th September, 2023
30th November, 2023 
4th December, 2023 
12th December, 2023 
15th December, 2023 
18th December, 2023 
20th December, 2023
28th December, 2023
29th December, 2023
1s January, 2024
13th January, 2024
8th February, 2024
13th February, 2024
22nd February, 2024
29th February, 2024
9th March, 2024
11th March, 2024
12th, March, 2024
16th March, 2024
21st March, 2024
26th March, 2024
27th March, 2024
28th March, 2024
29th March, 2024
2.04
CSR00001785
Kotak Education 
Foundation
1st Floor, North Side, 
Ujagar Compound, 
Sunder Baug, 
Opposite Deonar Bus 
Depot,
Off Sion-Trombay 
Road, 
Deonar, Mumbai - 
400088
5
Development of job 
portal
Plot No:8-2- 686/D/I/
G/4-B, Road No12, 
Banjara Hills Hyderabad
500034
20th March, 2023
1.46
CSR00002046
Youth4 Jobs 
Foundation
Plot No:8-2- 686/D/I/
G/4-B, Road No. 
12, Banjara Hills 
Hyderabad 500034
6
Sewage motor pumps, 
Leasehold improvement, 
Laptops, Vehicle for 
patients, Fans, CCTV, 
Fire extinguisher, 
Inverter, etc.
Multiple Locations
110001 
160055 
700075 
751003 
440022
20th August, 2023
15th February, 2024
12th March, 2024
31st March, 2024
0.85
CSR00000341
Cankids…Kidscan
D 7/7, Vasant Vihar, 
New Delhi - 110057
Statutory Reports
276
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
7
Dialysis machines
Multiple locations
140301 
152107 
474003 
458001 
302016
23rd December, 2023
27th December, 2023
0.84
N.A
N.A
N.A
N.A
N.A
N.A
N.A
N.A
(i)	 Civil Hospital, 
Kharar
(ii)	 Civil Hospital, 
Malout
(iii)	 Civil Hospital, 
Hajira
(iv)	 Civil Hospital, 
Mandsaur
(v)	 Kanwatia 
Hospital
(vi)	 Rajasthan 
University of 
Health sciences
(vii)	Govt Hopistal, 
Malthone
(viii)	Civil Hospital, 
Dirba
District Kharar, 
SAS Nagar, Mohali, 
140301  
District Muktsar 
Malout, Muktasar 
152107
Hajira, Kila Gate 
Road, Tansen Nagar 
Gwalior - 474003  
City Mandsaur, 
Madhya Pradesh 
-458001
Near Kanwatia Circle, 
Shastri Nagar,  
Jaipur – 302016
Sector 11, 
Pratapnagar  
Jaipur – 303902
South corridor, 
Andela, Sagar, 
470441 
District Sangrur, 
Punjab – 148035
8
Medical equipment for 
cochlear implant surgery 
(EnT)
Nijalingappa Medical 
College & H.S.K.Hospital 
& Research Centre 
Navanagar Bagalkot
587102
30th August, 2023
4th December, 2023
0.50
CSR00031189
Basaveshwar Vidya 
Vardhak Sangha
Near Old Bus Stand, 
College Road, 
Bagalkote, 587101
9
(i)	 Computers, Laptops 
and Printers 
Multiple Locations
160055 
509216 
462042 
363641 
491001
26th June, 2023
29th September, 2023
3rd October, 2023
30th December, 2023 
2nd January, 2024
16th January, 2024
5th February, 2024
12th March, 2024
30th March, 2024
0.22
CSR00000258
Pratham Education 
Foundation
4th Floor, YB Chavan 
Centre, Nariman 
Point, Mumbai- 
400021
(ii)	 Almirah, Beds, 
Chairs, Cupboards, 
Racks and Table 
Multiple Locations
160055 
363641 
509216 
491001
27th September, 2023
31st December, 2023
7th February, 2024
18th March, 2024
22nd March, 2024
26th March, 2024
0.04
277
Directors' Report
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
(iii) Batteries, CCTV 
Biometric machine and 
Camera
Multiple Locations
492013 
509216 
491001 
363641 
834004 
226202 
160055
31st August 2023,
3rd October, 2023
26th October, 2023,
21st February, 2024,
7th March, 2024
21st March, 2024
0.02
(iv) Coolers, Fans Video 
recorder, Television sets, 
Air-conditioners Geyser, 
Water purifiers, office 
equipment and Inverter
Multiple Locations
363641 
160055 
491001
30th June, 2023,
27th September, 2023,
9th October, 2023,
20th March, 2024
29th March, 2024
0.03
Total
0.31
10
Ambulance and 
Ventilator
District Agroha, Hisar
125047
18th December, 2023
27th March, 2024
0.30
CSR00001467
Maharaja Agrasen 
Medical Education & 
Scientific Research 
Society
District Agroha, 
Hisar,1250 47
11
Mobile toilets (Ti Bus)
Gorakhpur, Uttar 
Pradesh
273001
12th March, 2024
0.30
CSR00016474
Nagar Nigam 
Gorakhpur
Town Hall, Gorakhpur, 
273001
12
Wall drop, Water tank, 
Fitness equipment, 
Television set, Elevated 
ramp
583275
25th September, 2023
30th November, 2023
6th March, 2024
0.15
CSR00000123
Inspire Institute of 
Sports
JSW Centre, Bandra 
Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), 
Mumbai 400051
13
Desktops, printers, other 
accessories, Inverter, 
mobile phone, Almirah 
with cabinets and Air 
conditioner
Multiple locations
411002 
415001 
416003
28th November, 2023
5th December, 2023
6th December, 2023
25th January, 2024
1st February, 2024
3rd March, 2024
0.09
CSR00001952
Bharatiya Yuva Shakti 
Trust
Bharatiya Yuva Shakti 
Trust, 
 C/o Confederation of 
Indian Industry (CII), 
Core 4A, 4th Floor, 
India Habitat Centre, 
Lodi Road, New Delhi 
– 110 003
14
Smart Boards, Computer 
and Laptops
Deeds College 
Preparatory Programme 
center, Grotto Villa B, 
2nd Hasnabad Lane, 
Santacruz West, 
Mumbai
400054
25th July, 2023
7th September, 2023
0.09
CSR00000703
Deeds Public 
Charitable Trust
Ground floor, Bajaj 
Onyx, Union Park, 
Khar West, Mumbai - 
400052
15
Soil Testing devices 
and kits
272, Sri Sri Gyan Mandir, 
Opposite Mayur Pankh 
Society, Ahmedabad
388001
27th March, 2024
0.05
CSR00005737
Vyakti Vikas Kendra 
India
 272, Sri Sri Gyan 
Mandir, Opposite 
Mayur Pankh Society, 
Ahmedabad, 380015
Statutory Reports
278
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
16
Laptops, Projector and 
Fan
Multiple locations
380054 
383270 
825336 
834002
15th March, 2024
20th March, 2024
27th March, 2024
29th March, 2024
0.04
CSR00000508
Collectives for 
integrated livelihood 
initiatives
3, Community 
Shopping Centre, 
Niti Bagh, New 
Delhi-110049
17
Laptops, Printers 
Projector and Tablets
Multiple locations
335791 
342053 
346548 
346555 
346556
17th January, 2024
20th February, 2024
23rd March, 2024
0.03
CSR00001463
Bandhan-Konnagar
99/H/2, Haran 
Chandra Banjerjee 
Lane, Konnagar West 
Bengal – 712235.
18
Laptops and Printer
AKRSP(I), C/o Rana 
Dhirendra Prasad 
Singh, Chakkar Maidan, 
Near North Bihar Agro 
Agency, Muzaffarpur
842001
13th February, 2024
1st March, 2024
15th March, 2024
0.03
CSR00004229
Aga Khan Rural 
Support Programme 
India
9th & 10th Floor, 
Corporate House, 
Opp. Dinesh hall, 
Ashram road, 
Ahmedabad-380009
19
Laptops and Tablets
L-29, first floor, 
Outer circle, Connaught 
Place, New Delhi
110001
16th November, 2023,
8th December, 2023
0.02
CSR00001762
Khan Academy India
L-29, first floor, 
Outer circle, 
Connaught Place, 
New Delhi – 110001
20
Computers and 
Peripherals
A302, Ushas apartment,
Jayanagar 4th Block, 
Bengaluru
560011
18th July, 2023
11th October, 2023
0.02
CSR00009141
IT for Change
A302, Ushas 
apartment,
Jayanagar 4th Block, 
Bengaluru,
,560011
21
Laptop
6th Cross Hutchins 
Road, St Thomas Town 
Post, Lingarajapuram, 
Bangalore
560049
29th March, 2024
0.004
CSR00001544
The Association of 
People with Disability
6th Cross Hutchins 
Road, St Thomas 
Town Post, 
Lingarajapuram, 
Bangalore - 560084
22
Construction of 
classrooms and toilet 
blocks for schools*
VBS Schools, Dr. Mohan 
Sinha Mehta Marg, 
Fatehpura, Udaipur
 313004
Under construction – 
Not applicable
1.00
CSR00003180
Vidya Bhawan 
Society
Dr. Mohan Sinha 
Mehta Marg, 
Fatehpura, Udaipur 
(Raj.)-313004
23
CT Scan and MRI 
machine*
Near Sahara Darwaja, 
Opposite to Bombay 
Market, Umarwada, 
Surat
395010
Advance paid – Asset 
yet to be delivered 
(Not applicable)
0.96
Not applicable
Surat Municipal 
Institute of Medical 
Education & 
Research
Near Sahara Darwaja, 
Opposite to Bombay 
Market, Umarwada, 
Surat- 395010
279
Directors' Report
S. 
No
Short particulars of 
the property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Total 
CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` in 
crore)
Details of entity/Authority/beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
24
CT Simulator machine*
Mahamana Pandit 
Madan Mohan Malviya 
Cancer Centre
Banaras Hindu 
University, Campus, 
Sundar Bagiya Colony, 
Sundarpur, Varanasi,
 221005
Advance paid – Asset 
yet to be delivered 
(Not applicable)
4.80
CSR00001287
Tata Memorial Centre
Dr. Borges Road,
Parel (East), Mumbai 
-400012
Grand Total
28.31
	
Notes:
	
* Advances paid against construction/acquisition of capital assets, however the same has not been created/acquired during the year (For Sr no 22, 23 and 24)
	
# number indicates implementing agency/organisation-wise creation and acquisition of capital asset
(ii)	
Capital assets created/acquired from Unspent CSR spent of FY 2022-23:
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1
Medical equipment for 
hospital: TMT machine, 
X-Ray, USG machine, 
Dialysis machine, 
Endoscopy with monitor, 
ECG machine, LAB 
instruments Holter 
machine etc
H P Ghosh Hospital 
HB/A/2, Block, HB Block, 
Sector 3, Bidhannagar, 
Kolkata, West Bengal
(Refer note 1)
700106
12th May, 2023,
29th May, 2023
31st May, 2023
20th June, 2023
19th June, 2023
7th July, 2023
15th July, 2023
2nd August, 2023,
21st August, 2023,
13th September, 2023
15th September, 2023
25th September, 2023,
19th December, 2023,
19th February, 2024
3.46
CSR00002431
The Eastern India 
Heart Care & 
Research Foundation
HB 36/A/2, Salt 
Lake city, Sec -3, 
Kolkata-7000106
Statutory Reports
280
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
2
Completion of 
infrastructure work 
for badminton facility 
(Kitchen Equipment)
Physio Equipment
Gym Material
Judo Mats
Umpire Stands
Ice Bath Machines
RO Plant
Furniture, etc
Survey No, 91, ISB Rd, 
Madhava Reddy Colony, 
Opp. ISB Campus, 
Gachibowli, Hyderabad, 
Telangana
(Refer note 2)
500032
8th April,2023
14th April,2023
15th April,2023
21st April,2023
29th April,2023
12th May, 2023,
2nd June, 2023
5th June, 2023
2.42
CSR00001555
Pullela Gopichand 
Badminton 
Foundation (PGBF)
Survey No, 91, ISB 
Rd, Madhava Reddy 
Colony, Opp. ISB 
Campus, Gachibowli, 
Hyderabad, 500032
3
Computers, Servers 
and Equipment ( Air 
conditioner, Web 
cam headphones, 
Multilock mechanism, 
Workstation, Monitors, 
GPU cards Wirless 
cables, home theatre 
projector etc)
C V Raman Road, 
Bangalore
560012
18th April, 2023
27th July, 2023
28th July, 2023,
2nd August, 2023
24th August, 2023
6th September, 2023
8th, September, 2023
20th September, 2023
18th October, 2023
29th October, 2023
9th November, 2023 
10th November, 2023
30th November, 2023
29th January, 2024
12th February, 2024
16th February, 2024
22nd February, 2024
0.84
CSR00007370
Indian Institute of 
Science, Bangalore
IISc, C V Raman 
Road, Bangalore- 560 
012
281
Directors' Report
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
4
Construction of 
auditoriums, halls, 
amphitheatre 
(upgradation of 
college) Installation 
of heat pumps, 
upgradation of medical 
centre Renovation of 
conference hall
Village Khubavali, PO 
Paud, Taluka Mulshi, 
Pune
412108
25th April, 2023,
27th June, 2023,
8th September, 2023
17th November, 2023
Under construction – 
Not applicable
1.56
CSR00019118
The Mahindra United 
World College of 
India
Village Khubavali, PO 
Paud, Taluka Mulshi, 
Pune 412108
5
Construction of 
Dormitories for girls 
hostel
Jirdin, Aalo, West Siang, 
Arunachal Pradesh
791001
Under construction – 
Not applicable
0.60
CSR00014617
 Vivekananda Kendra 
Vidyalayas Arunachal 
Pradesh Trust
Bage Tinali, VKV 
Nirjuli Complex Nirjuli 
Papumpare District, 
791 109
6
C-Arm machine for 
urology dept
Sarjapur Road, 
Koramangala, Bangalore
(Refer note 3)
560034
20th June 2023
0.41
CSR00008207
CBCI Society For 
Medical Education
Sarjapur Road, 
Koramangala, 
Bangalore – 560034
7
CCTV camera, Smart 
Photocopier, Smart 
Classroom set-up, 
Sound Equipment
Fatehpura, Udaipur 
Rajashtan
313004
23rd September, 2023
25th September, 2023
26th September, 2023
27th September, 2023
28th September, 2023
30th September, 2023,
9th October, 2023
16th October, 2023
19th October, 2023
27th October, 2023
29th October, 2023,
 1st November, 2023
3rd November, 2023
8th November, 2023
9th November, 2023
15th November, 2023
18th November, 2023
0.49
CSR00003180
Vidya Bhawan 
Society
Vidya Bhawan 
Society Office, Dr. 
Mohan Sinha Mehta 
Marg, Fatehpura, 
Udaipur, 313004
Statutory Reports
282
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
8
Pilot plant for 
conversion of rice husk/
stubble to value added 
products
KIIT University, Patia, 
Bhubaneshwar
(Refer note 4)
751024
18th April, 2023
2nd May, 2023
7th September, 2023, 
17th November, 2023
0.25
CSR00002635
KIIT Technology 
Business Incubator
Campus 11, KIIT 
University, Patia, 
Bhubaneshwar - 
751024
9
Construction of hostel 
for girl students 
(Television Set, Inverters, 
Solar system, Furniture 
(Cabinets, wardrobes 
etc)
Village Akalpur, Marh 
Block Jammu District
180002
Under construction – 
Not applicable
1.47
CSR00002223
Borderless World 
Foundation
C1/1, S No 14/15 
Yashwantrao Chavan 
Nagar Dhankwadi, 
Pune 411043
10
Ventilators
185/1, A.J.C. Bose Road, 
Kolkata
(Refer note 5)
700017
14th June 2023
0.19
CSR00000975
Institute of 
Neurosciences 
Kolkata (I-NK)
185/1, A.J.C. Bose 
Road, Kolkata - 
700017
11
Laptops and 
accessories , Furniture, 
charts, smartboards , 
Artificial Insemination 
gun , containers 
dressing, signboards 
scissor etc.
Multiple locations
572202
9th April, 2023
7th July, 2023
8th August, 2023
23rd August, 2023
16th February 2024
27th February 2024
26th March, 2024
27th March, 2024
30th March, 2024
0.17
CSR00000259
BAIF Institute 
for Sustainable 
Livelihoods and 
Development
Dr Manibhai Desai 
Nagar, NH-4 , Bypass 
, Warje , Pune 
-411058
12
Laptops & Tablets
Ujagar Compound, 
opposite Deonar 
bus depot, off Sion 
- Trombay Road, 
MBPT Colony, Deonar, 
Chembur, Mumbai
400088
24th April , 2023
29th April , 2023
20th May ,2023
26th May ,2023
2nd June, 2023
16th June, 2023
 20th June, 2023
19th July, 2023
25th July 2023,
 2nd August, 2023,
17th August, 2023
19th October, 2023
9th November, 2023,
11th January, 2024
1st March, 2024
0.17
CSR00001785
Kotak Education 
Foundation
Ujagar Compound, 
opposite Deonar 
bus depot, off Sion 
- Trombay Road, 
MBPT Colony, 
Deonar, Chembur, 
Mumbai, 400088
283
Directors' Report
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
13
Construction of hostel 
for Intellectual disable 
children
Shenda Park, Kolhapur
(Refer note 6)
416013
31st March, 2024
0.11
CSR00025955
Chetana Apangamati 
Vikas Sanstha
Shenda Park, 
Kolhapur – 416013
14
Interior fabrication 
of Mobile Medical 
Dispensary Van Dharma 
Sadan, 4th floor, Shri 
Swaminarayan Mandir, 
Shahibaug Road, 
Ahmedabad
(Refer note 7)
380004
2nd August, 2023
0.08
CSR00004193
Bochasanwasi Shri 
Akshar Purushottam 
Public Charitable 
Trust (BAPS)
Dharma Sadan, 
4th floor, Shri 
Swaminarayan 
Mandir, 
Shahibaug Road, 
Ahmedabad-380004
15
Compressed Air Flow 
Meter, Power Clamp 
Meter, Steam Trap 
Testing Meter
Indian Institute of 
Technology Madras 
IIT P.O., Chennai
600036
15th September, 2023
22nd September, 2023
 3rd October, 2023
0.07
CSR00004320
Indian Institute of 
Technology, Madras
Indian Institute of 
Technology, Chennai 
- 600036
16
Binoculars, GPS receiver, 
Laser Ranger Finder, 
Digital SLR Camera, 
Zoom Lens, Tripod, 
External Drive, Memory 
Card
Tata Steel Foundation 
Gopalpur, Ganjam
761002
10th October, 2023
0.07
CSR00001142
Tata Steel 
Foundation
Tata Steel 
Foundation, 6th Floor, 
One Forbes, No. 1, Dr. 
V.B. Gandhi Marg,
Fort, Mumbai, 
400001
17
Construction of hostel 
facility*
Anav, Sindhudurg
416812
Advance paid – Asset 
yet to be delivered 
(Not applicable)
0.07
CSR000002161
Manav Sadhan Vikas 
Sanstha
Plot No. 27, Sector 
No. 4, Near Varad 
Vinayak Mandir, 
Koparkhairne, Navi 
Mumbai - 400 709.
	
* Advances paid against construction/acquisition of capital assets, however the same has not been created/acquired during the year (For Sr no 4, 5, 9 & 17)
	
Notes :
	
1)	
The Bank supported cost of medical equipment for Eastern India Heart Care and Research Foundation’s H P Ghosh hospital amounting 
to ` 8.00 crore, of which, ` 4.54 crore was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance of ` 3.46 crore in FY 2023-24. The project was completed in 
FY 2023-24.
	
2)	
The Bank supported the infrastructure and associated work at the Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy at Gachibowli amounting to 
` 6.50 crore, of which, ` 4.08 crore was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance of ` 2.42 crore in FY 2023-24, The project was completed in FY 2023-24.
	
3)	
The Bank supported cost of medical equipment (C-arm machine for urology dept ) for St Johns Medical College, Bengaluru amounting to 
` 0.56 crore of which ` 0.15 crore was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance ` 0.41 crore was disbursed in FY 2023-24. The project was completed in 
FY 2023-24.
Statutory Reports
284
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
4)	
The Bank supported cost of construction of semi pilot plant for conversion of rice husk stubble to valuable products amounting to ` 0.50 crore, 
of which ` 0.25 crore, was disbursed in FY 2022-23 and balance ` 0.25 crore, in FY 2023-24. The project got completed in FY 2023-24.
	
5)	
The Bank supported cost of medical equipment (Ventilators ) for I-NK Super Specialty Neuro Care Hospital, Kolkata amounting to ` 0.38 crore, 
of which ` 0.19 crore, was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance of ` 0.19 crore, in FY 2023-24. The project was completed in FY 2023-24.
	
6)	
The Bank supported cost of construction of hostel facility for intellectually disabled children amounting to ` 0.41 crore, of which ` 0.31 crore 
was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance of ` 0.10 crore, in FY 2023-24. The CSR project for construction of hostel facility was completed in 
FY 2023-24.
	
7)	
The Bank supported one mobile medical dispensary van for deployment at BAPS Pramukh Swami Hospital, Dabhoi Gujarat amounting to 
` 0.26 crore , of which advance for procurement of dispensary van of ` 0.18 crore, was paid in FY 2022-23 and balance of ` 0.08 crore, for 
installation of equipment and fixtures was disbursed in FY 2023-24. The project was completed in FY 2023-24.
(iii)	
Capital assets created/acquired from Unspent CSR spent of FY 2021-22:
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1
Construction of Kotak-
IIsc AI-ML Centre  
(Refer Note )
C V Raman Road, 
Bangalore
560012
Under construction 
not completed
27.75
CSR00007370
Indian Institute of 
Science, Bangalore*
IISc, C V Raman 
Road, Bangalore- 
560012
2
Job portal development 
for PwD
Plot no.4, 
8-2-686/D/1/G/4, Kanchi 
Thatti, Khana Road 
no12, Banjara Hills, 
Hyderabad
500034
9th May 2023
9th June 2023
0.28
CSR00002046
Youth 4 Jobs 
Foundation
Plot no.4, 
8-2-686/D/1/G/4, 
kanchi Thatti, Khana 
Road no12, Banjara 
Hills, Hyderabad - 
500034
3
Equipment for the Skill 
Development Center: 
Autoclave vertical, 
Breast Examination 
Model for Skill Trainer, 
Digital camera, locker, 
auditorium chair etc.
Dr. Babasaheb 
Ambedkar Hospital, 
Samaj Mandir Rd, 
Laxminagar, Khopoli
410203
30th October, 2023
11th October, 2023
12th September, 2023
14th September 2023
18th July, 2023
1st April, 2023
0.10
CSR00001287
Tata Memorial 
Hospital
Tata Memorial 
Centre, Dr. E 
Borges Marg, Parel, 
Mumbai 400012
	
Note:
	
In FY 2021-22, the Bank has undertaken CSR Project with implementing organisation Indian Institute of Science for construction of Kotak-IIsc 
AI-ML centre, cost of CSR Project being ` 73.00 crore of which ` 3.30 crore were paid in FY 2021-22, ` 6.60 crore in FY 2022-23 and ` 27.75 crore in 
FY 2023-24. This is advance paid against construction of capital asset and construction is not completed i.e capital asset has not been created during 
FY 2023-24.
285
Directors' Report
(iv)	
Capital assets created/acquired from Unspent CSR spent of FY 2020-21
S. 
No
Short 
particulars of 
the property or 
asset(s) 
[including 
complete 
address and 
location of the property]
Pincode 
of 
the 
property 
or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent 
(` crore)
Details of entity/Authority/ 
beneficiary of the registered owner
1
2
3
4
5
6
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1
Construction of building 
- badminton academy 
(Refer note 1)
Survey No. 91, ISB 
Road, Madhava Reddy 
Colony, Gachibowli, 
Hyderabad, Telangana
500032
31st March, 2024
1.79
CSR00001555
Pullela Gopichand 
Badminton 
Foundation
Survey No. 91, ISB 
Road, Madhava 
Reddy Colony, 
Gachibowli, 
Hyderabad, 500032
2
Construction of Autism 
Resource Center (Refer 
note 2)
Shanay Autism  
Resource Centre,  
B/18 Khanda Colony,  
Sector 07, New Panvel  
Navi Mumbai
410206
31st March , 2024
0.24
CSR00001865
Society of Parents 
of Children with 
Autistic Disorders
BMC School 
Building, Natwar 
Nagar, Road no.5, 
Jogeshwari East, 
Mumbai - 400060
3
Re-development and 
Modernisation of Mata 
Ramabai Ambedkar 
Worli crematorium
(Refer note 3)
Mata Ramabai 
Ambedkar Smashan 
Bhumi, Dr E Moses 
Road, Worli, Mumbai
 400018
31st January 2024
0.75
CSR00000249
Hiralal 
Parekh Parivar 
Charity Trust
1004, B Phoenix 
Towers, , Senapati 
Bapat Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra 
400013
	
Notes:
	
1)	
The cost of construction of badminton academy under the CSR Project undertaken in FY 2020-21 is ` 34 crore, of which, ` 32.21 crore 
was spent upto FY 2022-23. The Badminton academy was constructed and commissioned in FY 2022-23, however, the CSR Project with 
implementing organisation was completed in FY 2023-24 when retention money of ` 1.79 crore was disbursed to the contractor appointed by 
the implementing organisation for fulfilment of contract (i.e for construction and commissioning of badminton academy).
	
2)	
The total cost of building under the CSR Project undertaken in FY 2020-21 is ` 3.80 crore, of which, ` 3.56 crore was spent upto FY 2022-23. 
While the building was constructed and commissioned in FY 2022-23, the CSR Project with implementing organisation was completed in 
FY 2023-24, on account of retention money of ` 0.24 crore was disbursed in FY 2023-24 to the contractor appointed by the implementing 
organisation for fulfilment of contract. (i.e construction of Autism resource centre).
	
3)	
The cost of re-development and re-construction of Mata Ramabai Ambedkar Worli crematorium under the CSR Project undertaken in 
FY 2020-21 supported by the Bank is ` 2.40 crore, of which, ` 1.65 crore disbursed upto FY 2022-23 and balance ` 0.75 crore was disbursed in 
FY 2023-24. Accordingly, the re-development and re-construction of the said facility i.e CSR Project was completed in FY 2023-24.
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per Section 135(5) of the Act – Not Applicable
C S Rajan
Ashok Vaswani
Chairman – Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
Managing Director & CEO
Date: 29th June, 2024
Date: 29th June, 2024
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Statutory Reports
286
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 5 OF THE COMPANIES 
(APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
1.	
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees for the financial year:
Directors
Title
Ratio 
(Incl SAR, Excl ESOP)
Mr. C S Rajan
Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
8.37x
Mr. Uday Khanna
Independent Director
8.83x
Mr. Uday Shankar
Independent Director
7.50x
Dr. Ashok Gulati
Independent Director
8.46x
Ms. Ashu Suyash
Independent Director
11.30x
Mr. Eli Leenaars (w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Independent director
1.23x
Mr. C Jayaram
Non-Executive Director
10.79x
Mr. Amit Desai
Non-Executive Director
5.59x
Mr. Uday Kotak
Non-Executive Director
5.55x
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Managing Director & CEO
21.05x
Mr. KVS Manian
Joint Managing Director
78.85x
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
85.84x
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
7.93x
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
Joint Managing Director (till 1st September, 2023)
105.92x
Managing Director & CEO (from 2nd September, 2023  
till 31st December, 2023)
2.	
Percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, 
if any, in the financial year:
Directors/Key Managerial Personnel
Title
% increase in 
remuneration 
(Incl SAR, Excl ESOP)
Mr. C S Rajan
Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
513.50%
Mr. Uday Khanna
Independent Director
49.54%
Mr. Uday Shankar
Independent Director
36.82%
Dr. Ashok Gulati
Independent Director
43.19%
Ms. Ashu Suyash
Independent Director
138.42%
Mr. Eli Leenaars (w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Independent director
-
Mr. C Jayaram
Non-Executive Director
54.79%
Mr. Amit Desai
Non-Executive Director
141.18%
Mr. Uday Kotak
Managing Director & CEO (till 1st September, 2023)
0
Mr. Uday Kotak
Non-Executive Director (from 2nd September, 2023)
-
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
Managing Director & CEO
-
Mr. KVS Manian
Joint Managing Director
8.55%
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
Deputy Managing Director
-
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
-
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
Joint Managing Director (till 1st September, 2023)
-
Managing Director & CEO (from 2nd September, 2023 till 
31st December, 2023)
Mr. Jaimin Bhatt
Group Chief Financial Officer
19.23%
Ms. Avan Doomasia
Company Secretary
18.64%
287
Directors' Report
3.	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year:1
	
For employees other than Key Managerial Personnel who were in employment for the whole of FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24, increase in the median 
remuneration is 7.90%.
4.	
Employees on the rolls of Bank at the end of the year: 77,923 (Permanent: 60,438; Others: 17,485)
5. 	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year and its 
comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional 
circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
For employees other than Key Managerial Personnel who were in employment for the whole of FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24, the average increase was 
15.41% (Incl SAR, Excl ESOP).
	
Average increase for Key Managerial Personnel is 20.55% (Incl SAR, Excl ESOP).
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank:
	
The Bank is in compliance with its Compensation Policy.
Notes:
1.	
Median remuneration has been calculated for permanent employees who were in employment for the whole of FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24.
2.	
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration is calculated based on the remuneration entitled for the period of office held by them as a Director 
during FY 2023-24.
3.	
Remuneration includes Fixed Pay + Variable Pay paid during the year + perquisite value (excluding Stock Options) as calculated under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
4.	
SARs are awarded as Variable Pay. These are settled in cash and are linked to the average market price/closing market price of the Bank’s stock on specified value dates. 
Cash paid out during the year is included for the purposes of remuneration.
5.	
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors (other than the Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman) of the Bank, for FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24, comprises 
(i) compensation in the form of fixed remuneration as per limits prescribed by  Reserve Bank of India ("RBI") and the relevant resolution passed by the members at the Thirty-
Sixth Annual General Meeting and (ii) sitting fees for attending the Board/Committee meetings. The Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman received sitting fees for 
attending meetings of the Board/Committees and a fixed remuneration, as approved by the Board and the RBI, within the limit approved by the members of the Bank.
6.	
Percentage increase in remuneration has been given for Directors who were on the Board of the Bank for the entire FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24.
7.	
Mr. Uday Kotak had opted to forego his fixed salary and accepted a token salary of Re. 1 during his tenure as Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, till 1st September, 2023. 
He is holding the position of a Non-Executive Director, with effect from 2nd September, 2023 and has received sitting fees. 
8.	
Upon completion of his term on 31st December, 2023, Mr. Prakash Apte ceased to be a Director and Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of the Bank. During his 
tenure as the Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman, Mr. Apte was entitled to a fixed remuneration of ` 30 lakh per annum till 31st December, 2023, as approved by the 
Board, the members and the RBI.
9.	
Mr. C S Rajan was appointed as a Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman of the Bank, with effect from 1st January, 2024. Mr. Rajan is entitled to a fixed remuneration 
of ` 33 lakh per annum from 1st January, 2024, as approved by the Board, the members and the RBI.
10. 	
Mr. Dipak Gupta, Joint Managing Director, was appointed as the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank from 2nd September, 2023 till 31st December, 2023. Mr. Gupta superannuated 
on 31st December, 2023 on completion of his term and thus ceased to be the Managing Director & CEO and Director.
11. 	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani was appointed as the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, with effect from 1st January, 2024.
12. 	
Mr. KVS Manian and Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, both Whole-time Directors, were re-designated as Joint Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director, respectively, with 
effect from 19th March, 2024.
1GRI 2-21
Statutory Reports
288
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Kotak 
Mahindra Bank Limited (hereinafter called the “Bank”).
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing 
my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank and also the 
information provided by the Bank, its officers, agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my 
opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024 (“Audit period”) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Bank has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for the Financial Year ended 
31st March, 2024 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the rules made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye - Laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (“FEMA”) and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, 
Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings as applicable;
(v)	
The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”) to the extent applicable and as 
amended from time to time:
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable during the 
period under review)
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-convertible securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Act and dealing 
with client; to the extent applicable to the Bank
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable during the period under review)
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable during the period under review)
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994;
	
(j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
	
(k)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996;
	
(l)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Market) Regulations, 2007;
	
(m)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011;
	
(n)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
289
Directors' Report
	
(o)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 
2003; and
	
(p)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India-guidelines for Anti-Money Laundering Measures.
(vi)	
Other laws applicable specifically to the Bank namely;
	
a)	
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Rules, Notifications, Circulars and Guidance issued by the Reserve Bank of India and as amended from 
time to time.
	
b)	
Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002.
	
c)	
The Prevention of Money-Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 and the Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of Records, etc) Rules, 2005.
(vii)	
Other laws to the extent applicable to the Bank as per the representations made by the Bank;
I have also examined compliances with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India as notified from time to time;
(ii)	
The Listing Agreement entered into by the Bank BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
I further report that
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with proper balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate Notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board and Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance, except where meeting was held at shorter notice to transact urgent business and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations of the Bank to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period the following events occurred during the year which have a major bearing on the Bank’s affairs in pursuance of 
the laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc referred to above:
1.	
Issuance of Senior, Rated, Listed, Unsecured, Redeemable, Long Term Fully Paid Up Non-Convertible Bonds in the nature of Debentures (“NCDs”) for 
an aggregate amount of ` 2,895 crore (` 1,895 crore under ISIN: INE237A08973 and ` 1,000 crore under ISIN: INE237A08981) issued on a Private 
Placement basis.
2.	
On March 13, 2024, the Bank has duly made payment of the entire Call Option Price on exercise of Call Option on 100,00,00,000 nos. of 8.10% 
Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (ISIN: INE237A04014) (“PNCPS”) and paid dividend thereon.
3.	
During the year, Bank has issued 13,64,316 Equity Shares of the face value of ` 5/- under the Employee Stock option Scheme of the Bank.
4.	
Approval of “Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023” for eligible employees of the Bank obtained on December 22, 2023 by way of Postal Ballot.
5.	
Approval of “Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023” for eligible employees of the subsidiaries of the Bank obtained on December 22, 2023 by 
way of Postal Ballot.
6.	
Approval of “Kotak Mahindra Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme 2023” for eligible employee of Bank and its subsidiaries, at the Board Meeting held 
on November 17, 2023.
Rupal Dhiren Jhaveri 
FCS: 5441 
Certificate of Practice No.: 4224 
UDIN: F005441F000635906 
Peer Review Number: 1139/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 29, 2024
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure-A and forms an integral part of this report
Statutory Reports
290
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
To, 
The Members, 
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
‘Annexure A’
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial 
records based on my audit.
2.	
The audit practices and processes as followed by us were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the 
Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes 
and practices, followed by me provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. 
My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Rupal Dhiren Jhaveri 
FCS: 5441 
Certificate of Practice No.: 4224 
UDIN: F005441F000635906 
Peer Review Number: 1139/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 29, 2024
291
Directors' Report
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
KOTAK MAHINDRA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Kotak 
Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (“the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in 
my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2024 complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2024 according to the provisions of:
1.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;
2.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
3.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- Laws framed there under;
4.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 ("FEMA")and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, 
overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings. (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period);
5.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; to the extent applicable to the 
Company;
6.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client; to the extent applicable to the Company;
7.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; to the extent applicable to the Company;
	
The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) were not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period as the Company is not a listed entity:
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019; and
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 
2003;
Statutory Reports
292
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
8.	
Other laws to the extent applicable to the Company as per the representations made by the Company namely,
	
(a)	
The Insurance Act, 1938; and amendments thereto;
	
(b)	
Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority Act, 1999; and amendments thereto;
	
(c)	
Insurance Rules, 1939; as amended from time to time;
	
(d)	
Guidelines, Regulations, Notification and Circulars issued by the Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India (IRDAI) from time to 
time.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(1)	
Secretarial Standards issued pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
During the period under review the Company has complied with the above-mentioned Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India.
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines etc. mentioned above.
I further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. 
Changes in the composition of the Board of Directors took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate Notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance 
except for the meetings conducted at shorter notice and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the company commensurate with the size and operations of the company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period:
1.	
Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Pujari (DIN: 09199663), has been appointed as Additional Director (Independent Director) of the Company at Board Meeting held 
on April 26, 2023 for a term of 3 consecutive years from April 26, 2023 to April 25, 2026 and he was appointed as Independent Director at 23rd Annual 
General Meeting.
2.	
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Rajan (DIN: 00126063), has been appointed as Independent Director of the Company at Extraordinary General Meeting held on 
December 23, 2023, with effect from January 1, 2024 for a term of 5 years.
3.	
Mr. Mahesh Balasubramanian (DIN: 02089182), has been re-appointed as Managing Director of the Company at Extraordinary General Meeting held 
on March 28, 2024, with effect from May 1, 2024 for a period of 2 consecutive years.
Rupal D. Jhaveri 
Company Secretary in Practice 
Membership No.: F5441 
Certificate of Practice No.: 4225 
UDIN: F005441F000251027 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1139/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: 26th April, 2024
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
293
Directors' Report
‘Annexure A’
To, 
The Members,
KOTAK MAHINDRA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on my audit.
2.	
The audit practices and processes followed are appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the Secretarial 
records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and 
practices followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the company.
4.	
Where ever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events 
etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. My 
examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the company.
Rupal D. Jhaveri 
Company Secretary in Practice 
Membership No.: F5441 
Certificate of Practice No.: 4225 
UDIN: F005441F000251027 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1139/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: 26th April, 2024
Statutory Reports
294
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Report on Corporate Governance1 
PHILOSOPHY OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Bank”) believes that Corporate Governance is a reflection of its value system, encompassing its culture, policies and 
relationship with the stakeholders such as shareholders, regulators, employees, customers, vendors, government and the community at large. Corporate 
Governance for the Bank is a system of practices, processes and rules, which direct its affairs in an efficient manner and help it to maximise value for its 
stakeholders.  Corporate Governance is more than just adherence to the regulatory and statutory requirements, it is equally about focusing on the voluntary 
practices that underlie the highest levels of transparency.
Corporate Governance provides a framework for attaining the objectives of the Bank and encompasses every sphere of management from action plans 
and internal controls to performance measurement, ethics and corporate disclosures. Good Corporate Governance helps to build trust with the investors 
and the community and in creating, enhancing and safeguarding long-term interest and sustainable value for all its stakeholders. The Bank is committed to 
meeting the aspirations of all its stakeholders and creating a valuable relationship and trust with its stakeholders. Strong Corporate Governance practices 
form the foundation of the Bank’s consistent performance and has helped in gaining the respect and long-term association with its stakeholders.
The Bank is committed to achieving and adhering to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and ethical practices and constantly benchmarks itself 
with best practices, in this regard. The Bank’s philosophy on Corporate Governance is based on the core principles of Accountability and Responsibility, 
Integrity, Independence, Leadership, Excellence, Fair, Transparent and timely dealings and disclosures, Equality, Sustainability and Social Responsibility.
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Bank ensures the basis of an effective Corporate Governance framework by safeguarding and enhancing the 
shareholders’ capital, ensuring independence of the Board and effectiveness of the management, legal compliance and responsible leadership.
The Bank has adopted the Codes of Conduct for Directors and employees, which lay down the values and standard of conduct that is expected from them, 
while performing their roles and responsibilities across various functions. The Bank has also adopted the Policy on Board Diversity, Vigilance Policy, Whistle 
Blower Policy, Policy against Sexual Harassment in the Workplace, Policy for determination of materiality of events or information and the Insider Trading 
Code of Conduct.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS1
The Board provides guidance to the management and directs, oversees and supervises the activities of the Bank. The responsibilities of the 
Board, inter alia, include the formulation of overall strategy for the Bank and its subsidiaries ("Kotak Mahindra Group"), taking new initiatives, reviewing 
financial and operating performance, overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions, monitoring of plans, ensuring and monitoring due compliance 
with applicable laws, pursuing policies and procedures, reviewing and approving the financial results, reviewing risk factors, adhering and enhancing 
Corporate Governance practices and ensuring the best interest of the shareholders, the community, environment and its various stakeholders. The Board 
is responsible for providing strategic guidance for the business and overall affairs of the Bank, ensuring effective monitoring of management and avoiding 
potential conflicts of interest. The Managing Director & CEO reports to the Board and is responsible for the overall business performance along with the 
Whole-time Director(s). The Board has constituted various Board and non-Board Committees to deal with matters, as may be prescribed under applicable 
laws or directed by the Board, from time to time.
The Board has received declarations from the Independent Directors and after undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same, is of the opinion that 
the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions as specified in the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with rules thereunder and the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and are independent of the management.
SIZE AND COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
The size of the Board is commensurate with the size and business of the Bank. The selection and appointment of Directors of the Bank and its composition 
is governed by the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (“BR Act”), the SEBI Listing Regulations and the 
guidelines/regulations/circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), from time to time and is in conformity with the same.
The Board has a mix of Independent, Non-Executive and Executive Directors, with more than one-half of the Board comprising Independent Directors. 
The Board, currently, comprises three women directors, with two of them being independent. The Bank’s Board consists of eminent individuals, having 
competence, expertise, experience and skills in various fields, who understand and respect their fiduciary roles and responsibilities towards its stakeholders, 
including the duties prescribed under the provisions of the Act and any other applicable laws and strive hard to meet their expectations at all times. 
The Board is well-diverse and meets the criteria prescribed under Section 10(A)(2) of the BR Act, relevant circulars issued by the RBI and Policy on Board 
Diversity adopted by the Board. The Board mix provides a combination of professionalism, knowledge, experience and skills required in the banking industry 
and for oversight, governance and strategic needs of the Bank.
1GRI 2-9, GRI 2-17
295
Report on Corporate Governance
As on date, the Board comprises eleven Directors, as below:
Sr. 
No.
Category of Directorship
Name of the Director(s)
1.
Independent Directors
Mr. C S Rajan (Part-time Chairman)
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
3.
Mr. Uday Shankar
4.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
5.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
6.
Mr. Cornelis Petrus Adrianus Joseph (“Eli”) Leenaars
7.
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati
8.
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Amit Desai
9.
Mr. Uday Kotak
10.
Executive Directors
Mr. Ashok Vaswani, Managing Director & CEO
11.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Deputy Managing Director
Notes:
i.	
The term of Mr. C. Jayaram as a Non-Executive Director of the Bank ended on 30th April, 2024, on completion of eight continuous years, in line with 
the provisions of the BR Act.
ii.	
Mr. KVS Manian resigned as the Joint Managing Director of the Bank on 30th April, 2024.
iii.	
Mr. Uday Kotak resigned as the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, with effect from 1st September, 2023 and became a Non-Executive Director, 
with effect from 2nd September, 2023.
iv.	
Mr. Uday Kotak is the Promoter of the Bank.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
Brief profiles of all the Directors and their shareholding in the Bank and directorship in other companies (including in equity listed# entities/debt 
listed^ entities/entities which have listed units of mutual fund schemes managed by them$) are, given below:
Mr. C S Rajan, Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman2
Mr. C S Rajan, a Post Graduate in History, is an accomplished leader with 46 years of experience in public life. He was appointed as an Independent Director 
on the Board of the Bank, with effect from 22nd October, 2022 and as Chairman, with effect from 1st January, 2024.
An IAS officer of the 1978 batch, Mr. Rajan retired as the Chief Secretary of the Government of Rajasthan in 2016. He served in leadership roles for 
12 years in key Infrastructure sectors, such as, Energy, Highways, Water Resources and Industry, including SSI/MSME and enjoyed a long stint of 14 years 
in Agriculture and Rural Development. During his years as an IAS officer, he has also been exposed to the fields of Human Resources, Finance and General 
Administration. He has served on inter-disciplinary teams for review of World Bank Agriculture projects in other States and also as a Consultant to the 
World Bank in a Study on ‘Farmer Participation in Agricultural Research and Extension System’ which was later published as a book co-authored by him.
After his retirement from active service in July 2016, Mr. Rajan served as Deputy Chairman in the Chief Minister of Rajasthan’s Advisory Council for a 
period of two and half years. In October 2018, Mr. Rajan was appointed by the Government of India on the Board of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial 
Services Limited ("IL&FS"), initially as Director from October 2018 to April 2019, thereafter as Managing Director from April 2019 to April 2022, then as 
Chairman & Managing Director from April 2022 to October 2022 and, since then, he has been serving as the Non-Executive Chairman of IL&FS. 
DIN
00126063
Age (years)
68
Date of appointment
22nd October, 2022
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
1.	
Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited^ (Non-Executive Chairman)
2.	
IL&FS Transportation Networks Limited# (Nominee Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
1.	
IL&FS Financial Services Limited (Nominee Director)
2.	
IL&FS Energy Development Company Limited (Nominee Director)
3.	
Roadstar Investment Managers Limited (Non-Executive Chairman)
4.	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (Independent Director)
2GRI 2-11
Statutory Reports
296
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Committee Positions in other entities
1.	
Infrastructure Leasing and 
Financial Services Limited
•	
Group Risk Management Committee
Member
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
•	
Audit Committee
Member
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Member
2.	
IL&FS Transportation 
Networks Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Member
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Member
3.	
IL&FS Financial Services 
Limited
•	
Audit Committee
Member
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Member
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Member
•	
Risk Management Committee
Member
4.	
IL&FS Energy Development 
Company Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Chairperson
•	
Audit Committee
Member
5.	
Roadstar Investment 
Managers Limited
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Chairperson
6.	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance 
Company Limited
•	
Risk Management Committee
Chairperson
•	
Audit Committee
Member
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
Mr. Uday Khanna, Independent Director
Mr. Uday Khanna is a Chartered Accountant by qualification. Mr. Khanna was the Financial Controller and Treasurer of Hindustan Unilever Limited (“HUL”) 
and was, thereafter, Director - Exports. He has also worked as Vice Chairperson of Lever Brothers in Nigeria and General Auditor for Unilever - North 
America, based in the USA and was the Senior Vice President - Finance, Unilever - Asia, based in Singapore. Thereafter, Mr. Khanna joined the Lafarge 
Group in Paris in June 2003 as Senior Vice President for Group Strategy, after an extensive experience of almost 30 years with Hindustan Lever/Unilever in 
a variety of financial, commercial and general management roles, both nationally and internationally. Mr. Khanna was also the Managing Director & CEO of 
Lafarge India from July 2005 to July 2011 and the Non-Executive Chairperson of Lafarge India from July 2011 to September 2014. He was the Chairperson 
(Independent) of Bata India Limited from June 2011 to August 2019.
Mr. Khanna has been the past President of the Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry and also of the Indo French Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry. He was the recipient of the ‘L’ordre National du Mérite’ from the President of the Republic of France for his contribution in promoting Indo-French 
trade relations. He was a Joint Managing Trustee of the Indian Cancer Society up to September 2020. Mr. Khanna was the recipient of the ‘Best Independent 
Director’ award by Asian Centre for Corporate Governance Sustainability in 2018.
DIN
00079129
Age (years)
74
Date of appointment
16th September, 2016
Shareholding in the Bank
5,500 equity shares
Board Membership in other listed entities
1.	
Pfizer Limited# (Independent Director)
2.	
Castrol India Limited# (Independent Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
The Anglo Scottish Education Society (Member - Board of Governors) (Section 8 company)
Committee Positions in other entities
1.	
Pfizer Limited
•	
Audit Committee
Chairperson
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Chairperson
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Member
2.	
Castrol India Limited
•	
Audit Committee
Chairperson
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
Mr. Uday Khanna was an Independent Director on the Board of Pidilite Industries Limited# and retired on 2nd April, 2024, upon completion of his second term. He, consequently, ceased 
to be a member of its Audit Committee and Risk Assessment Committee.
297
Report on Corporate Governance
Mr. Uday Shankar, Independent Director
Mr. Uday Shankar is a highly acclaimed entrepreneur, executive and founder director at Bodhi Tree Systems. He has achieved global recognition for creating 
the largest media and entertainment business in the Asia-Pacific region. Trained as a journalist, Mr. Shankar has led the transformation of the media and 
entertainment (M&E) landscape in India and the region over the last three decades.
After a distinguished corporate journey, Mr. Shankar turned entrepreneur in 2021. Mr. Shankar launched Bodhi Tree Systems to use technology 
to redefine consumer sectors that represent significant opportunities but suffer from a lack of capital and innovation—media, education and 
healthcare. Bodhi Tree Systems has forged two strategic alliances with technology as the core driver of value creation: (i) ALLEN: Partnered with 
one of India’s largest and most reputed education institute, to address the learning challenges of millions of Indian students through technology; 
(ii) Viacom18:  Partnered for establishment of one of India’s leading integrated TV and digital M&E enterprises. In both ventures, Mr. Shankar is deeply 
involved in all aspects of technology, serving as a mentor and providing guidance and feedback on product development, design, tech and innovation 
roadmap and recruiting the entire leadership, attracting talent from the globally-known tech companies.
Earlier, Mr. Shankar served as President of The Walt Disney Company Asia Pacific and Chairman of Disney & Star India. Under his leadership, Star transformed 
into the region’s leading company, distinctively placed at the intersection of media, entertainment and technology. He is credited with pioneering the 
streaming revolution in India and the APAC region. Beyond his corporate roles, Mr. Shankar is also the first media executive to be the President of the 
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). He is associated with the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) and his social 
initiatives include Malaria No More (MNM).
Mr. Shankar’s exceptional accomplishments have earned him numerous honors. Recognized by Forbes India as the “Best CEO (MNC)” for 2015 and named 
“Entrepreneur of the Year (Entrepreneurial CEO)” by EY for 2016, his achievements resonate widely. His inclusion in distinguished listings like the Indian 
Express’ “100 Most Powerful Indians” and India Today’s “50 Most Powerful People in India” reinforces his impact. Moreover, he was named the “Impact 
Person of the Decade – Media” by Impact Magazine.
Mr. Shankar holds a Master in Philosophy (M. Phil.) and Master of Arts (M. A.) honors from Jawaharlal Nehru University.
DIN
01755963
Age (years)
62
Date of appointment
16th March, 2019
Shareholding in the Bank
491 equity shares
Board Membership in other listed entities
The Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited# (Independent Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
1.	
Viacom 18 Media Private Limited (Director)
2.	
Marigold Park Capital Advisers Private Limited (Director)
3.	
Apollo Health and Lifestyle Limited (Independent Director)
4.	
Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy (Director) (Section 8 company)
5.	
Business Standard Private Limited (Director)
6.	
Allen Career Institute Private Limited (Nominee Director)
7.	
Asia Initiative PTE Limited (Director)
8.	
Bodhi Tree Systems VCC (Director)
9.	
Asia Initiative 2 PTE Limited (Director)
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
1.	
The Great Eastern Shipping 
Company Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
2.	
Allen Career Institute Private 
Limited
•	
Strategic Committee
Member
Dr. Ashok Gulati, Independent Director
Dr. Ashok Gulati is a M.A. and Ph.D. from the Delhi School of Economics. Currently, he is a Distinguished Professor at the Indian Council for Research 
on International Economic Relations (ICRIER). Prior to this, he was the Chairperson of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), 
Government of India (2011-2014). He has been an Independent Director on the Central Board of Directors of RBI, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development (NABARD) and National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange Limited (NCDEX). He is currently a member of the Eleventh Audit Advisory 
Board of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
Dr. Gulati was a Director at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) from 2001 to 2011. He was also a member of the Economic Advisory 
Council of Prime Minister, Late Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Dr. Gulati has been deeply involved in policy analysis and advice for India. He was also a member 
of the Committee appointed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court on the Farm Laws. For his contributions to the field, the President of India honoured him 
with the 'Padma Shri’ award in 2015. Dr. Gulati has 18 books to his credit on Indian and Asian Agriculture, besides numerous research papers in national 
and international Journals. He has been a prolific writer in leading newspapers in India, with his column “From Plate to Plough” in the Indian Express and 
Financial Express.
Statutory Reports
298
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DIN
07062601
Age (years)
70
Date of appointment
6th March, 2021
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
Godrej Agrovet Limited# (Independent Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
-
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
-
As on 31st March, 2024, Dr. Gulati was the Chairperson and a member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of Godrej Agrovet Limited
Ms. Ashu Suyash, Independent Director
Ms. Ashu Suyash is a Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and completed her Bachelor’s Degree in Commerce from 
the University of Mumbai. She has over 33 years of experience in the financial services and global information services sector, including as CEO where she 
led several Indian and Global businesses for over 17 years. She was the Managing Director & CEO at CRISIL Limited (“CRISIL”) till September 2021 and a 
member of the Operating Committee of S & P Global. She serves on the Advisory Boards and Committees of several institutions such as the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and National Institute of Securities and Markets (NISM).
Ms. Suyash played a pivotal role in enabling CRISIL regain its ratings leadership position and transform it to become a global analytics company and 
solutions provider through wide-scale adoption of technology. She led CRISIL’s growth through product innovation and acquisitions in a very challenging 
environment. Prior to her role as Managing Director & CEO of CRISIL, Ms. Suyash was the CEO of L&T Mutual Fund and the Managing Director and Country 
Head of Fidelity Mutual Fund. She also had a long and successful career of over 15 years with Citibank where she held several key positions across 
corporate, consumer and investment banking divisions.
Ms. Suyash has founded Colossa Ventures LLP, an innovative platform aimed at providing capital, capability and confidence building for women 
entrepreneurs and women-focussed businesses.
DIN
00494515
Age (years)
57
Date of appointment
24th January, 2022
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
1.	
Hindustan Unilever Limited# (Independent Director)
2.	
Tata Elxsi Limited# (Independent Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
-
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
1.	
Hindustan Unilever Limited
•	
ESG Committee
Chairperson
•	
Audit Committee
Member
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
•	
Risk Management Committee
Member
2.	
Tata Elxsi Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Chairperson
•	
Risk Management Committee
Member
Mr. Eli Leenaars, Independent Director
Mr. Eli Leenaars has over 35 years of experience in the financial services sector, including institutional & investment banking, asset management, 
corporate & retail banking and life & general insurance. A respected expert on the future of digital banking, Mr. Leenaars has experience in managing 
businesses through a wide range of matters including mergers & acquisitions, complex corporate restructurings, strategic initiatives and challenging 
financial environments.
Mr. Leenaars enjoyed a 24-year career (since 1991) at ING Group N.V., a Dutch multinational banking and financial services company and various of 
its subsidiaries and held numerous key management positions, including as Chairman of ING Poland (1997-1999), Chairman & CEO of ING Latin 
America (1999-2002) and Chairman & CEO of ING Central & Eastern Europe (2003-2004). Between 2004 and 2015, Mr. Leenaars was member of ING’s 
Executive Board with responsibility for ING’s Global Retail & Private Banking operations and Group Technology and Operations. This also included him 
serving from 2010 until 2015 as CEO of ING Direct N.V., at the time the world’s largest digital bank.
From April 2015 to May 2021, Mr. Leenaars served as Group Managing Director at UBS Group AG, a Swiss multinational investment bank and financial 
services company and as Vice-Chairman of the Global Wealth Management Division, based in Zurich.
299
Report on Corporate Governance
Mr. Leenaars has served as Group Chief Operating Officer of Quintet Private Bank, a medium-sized Luxembourg-headquartered bank and wealth manager 
with operations in 6 European countries, from June 2021 to April 2024, based in Luxembourg.
Since January 2019, Mr. Leenaars is a Board Member of Capital One Financial Corporation, a major US bank, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, USA, with 
operations primarily in the USA.
Since 2009, Mr. Leenaars is a member of the European and the Global Executive Committee of the Trilateral Commission (Paris, Tokyo and Washington, DC) 
and was its Treasurer, between 2009 to 2022.
Mr. Leenaars has completed LL.M. from the Catholic University Nijmegen, Netherlands and the European University Institute, Florence, Italy and attended 
the Program for Management Development (PMD) at Harvard Business School, Boston, USA.
DIN
10438792
Age (years)
63
Date of appointment
1st January, 2024
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
Capital One Financial Corporation* (Non-Executive Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
1.	
Trilateral Commission (Member of the European and the Global Executive Committee)
2.	
Stichting Jubileumfonds 1948 en 2013 (Member of Board)
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
Capital One Financial Corporation
•	
Risk Committee
Chairperson
•	
Compensation Committee
Member
•	
Audit Committee
Member
*Listed on NASDAQ
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati, Independent Director
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati serves as an Independent Director and Senior Advisor, providing leadership to companies in strategy, business development, 
operations, governance and financial, credit and risk management. She is currently an Independent Director on the Board of Bayer CropScience Limited. 
Prior to her board roles, Ms. Bhagwati held the position of Chief Investment Officer in the Financial Institutions Group at the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC), where she worked  from 1991 to 2005, specializing in private equity, mergers & acquisitions, debt & structured finance and distressed 
asset workouts across various sectors in Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Before joining IFC, she worked at Credit Rating Information Services of 
India (CRISIL) in Mumbai.
Ms. Bhagwati is a member of the Investment Committee at Encourage Capital, a US-based impact fund focused on investments in India. She is also a 
Senior Advisor to the Board of KPMG India Private Limited and to the South Asia Center, Atlantic Council (USA), focusing on major economic policy issues 
in India. She is also a member of the Wellesley College Business Leadership Council.
Previously, Ms. Bhagwati also served as an Independent Director on the Board of Axis Bank Limited and Omniactive Health Technologies Private Limited 
and as a Nominee Director of IFC on the Board of Tikona Infinet Private Limited.
Ms. Bhagwati has completed Master of Public Administration in Economic Development & Finance from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of 
Government and Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Wellesley College.
DIN
07367868
Age
60
Date of appointment
18th May, 2024
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
Bayer CropScience Limited#  (Independent Director)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
-
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
Bayer CropScience Limited
•	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Chairperson
•	
Audit Committee
Member
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Member
Statutory Reports
300
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Mr. Amit Desai, Non-Executive Director
Mr. Amit Desai, B. Com., LL.B., is a lawyer, with several decades of experience.
DIN
00310510
Age (years)
65
Date of appointment
18th March, 2022
Shareholding in the Bank
1,375,397 equity shares
Board Membership in other listed entities
-
Board Membership in unlisted entities
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited (Non-Executive Director)
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
-
Mr. Uday Kotak, Non-Executive Director
Mr. Uday Kotak is the Founder and Director of the Bank.  He was the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank till September 2023, prior to becoming 
Non-Executive Director. He has played an important role in the growth of the Kotak Mahindra group over the past 38 years.  Under his leadership, 
the Kotak Mahindra group has emerged as one of India’s leading diversified and integrated financial services conglomerates, providing a range of financial 
solutions covering banking, asset management, alternate asset management, life and general insurance, stock broking, investment banking, private 
banking, microcredit and asset reconstruction.
He has played an important role in defining and developing India’s banking & financial sector over three decades. Mr. Kotak leads several key bodies and is 
currently Co-Chairman of the Indo-UK Financial Partnership (IUKFP) and Chairman of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Board of India’s advisory committee on 
Corporate Insolvency and Liquidation. Mr. Kotak is a member of the Global Advisory Board of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC). 
He was earlier a member of the International Advisory Panel of Monetary Authority of Singapore. He was also the President of the Confederation of Indian 
Industry (CII) from June 2020 until May 2021. From October 2018 to April 2022, Mr. Kotak also served as Non-Executive Chairman of a specially constituted 
board of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited ("IL&FS") (a state-funded non-banking financial company) by the Government of India to steer 
IL&FS out of a deep crisis, which he served as his national duty. In 2017, a Committee on Corporate Governance constituted by SEBI under the leadership of 
Mr. Kotak recommended sweeping changes towards more robust and transparent corporate governance.
Mr. Kotak is the recipient of many accolades, including the ‘EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Award’ in 2014, ‘India Business Leader of the Year’ by 
CNBC-TV18 at the India Business Leader Awards 2021, Life Time Achievement Award at BT-KPMG Best Banks Awards 2023, Life Time Achievement award 
for Management at AIMA Awards 2023 and Institution Builder award at Forbes India Awards 2024.
Mr. Kotak holds a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce and a MMS degree from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, Mumbai.
DIN
00007467
Age (years)
65
Date of appointment
21st November , 1985*
Shareholding in the Bank
511,261,456 equity shares
(Includes 234,356 equity shares held in the name of Kotak Trustee Company Private Limited as trustee 
for USK Benefit Trust – III, of which, Mr. Uday Kotak is the sole beneficiary)
Board Membership in other listed entities
1.	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited^ (Non-Executive Director & Chairman)
2.	
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited^ (Non-Executive Director & Chairman)
3.	
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited$ (Non-Executive Director & Chairman)
Board Membership in unlisted entities
1.	
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (Non-Executive Director & Chairman)
2.	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited (Non-Executive Director & Chairman)
3.	
The Mahindra United World College of India (Governing Member) (Section 8 company)
4.	
The Anglo Scottish Education Society (Member - Board of Governors) (Section 8 company)
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
1.	
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
2.	
Kotak Mahindra 
Capital Company Limited
•	
Human Resource & People Development 
Committee
Chairperson
3.	
Kotak Mahindra 
Life Insurance 
Company Limited
•	
Audit Committee
Chairperson
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
*Mr. Uday Kotak resigned  as the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, with effect from 1st September, 2023. He became a Non-Executive Director, with effect from 2nd September, 2023
301
Report on Corporate Governance
Mr. Ashok Vaswani, Managing Director & CEO
Mr. Ashok Vaswani has a proven track record spanning three and a half decades, initially at Citigroup and, thereafter, at Barclays, of building and growing 
global businesses at scale, nurturing winning teams, establishing transformational partnerships, leveraging forward leaning technology, with a compelling 
business vision to deliver strong bottom-line growth. He brings with him significant executional experience with high degree of compliance and industrial 
strength across financial services.
Mr. Vaswani was Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Bank, UK and subsequently CEO of their Global Consumer, Private, Corporate and Payments businesses 
and Member of the Group Executive Committee. Earlier, he was CEO Citigroup Asia Pacific and Member of the Citigroup Global Operating & Management 
Committees. Mr. Vaswani also built and ran various country and regional businesses across geographies. He also held position as President of Pagaya 
Technologies Ltd, a US-Israeli AI Fintech.
Mr. Vaswani supports various philanthropic organisations, including Pratham and Lend-A-Hand.
He has been on the board of several prestigious institutions such as, London Stock Exchange Group, The Forward Institute, UK, Former Trustee, Citizens 
Advice Bureau, Former Chairman, Retail Committee, British Bankers Association, Former Chairman of the Board, Entercard, Former Board member, SP Jain 
Institute of Global Management, UK, Former Board member, Telenor, Former Board Member of VISA Asia Pacific and VISA, UK, Former Director and Member 
of the Audit and Technology Committee for Barclays Africa Group Ltd and Former Director, UK Finance.
Mr. Vaswani is a Bachelor of Commerce, Economics and Accountancy from the Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics (Bombay University), 
Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Company Secretary from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and 
received Executive Education from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
DIN
10227550
Age (years)
63
Date of appointment
1st January, 2024
Shareholding in the Bank
Nil
Board Membership in other listed entities
-
Board Membership in unlisted entities
-
Number of Committee Positions in other entities
-
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Deputy Managing Director
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram is a Commerce Graduate, a Chartered Accountant and a Cost and Works Accountant. She has been associated with the 
Kotak Mahindra Group for over 30 years and has been responsible for successfully setting up and running several business units. Ms. Ekambaram 
currently oversees the Treasury, Human Resources, Public Affairs, 811, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance, Legal 
and Secretarial functions. The Investment Banking and Institutional Equities businesses is also under the oversight of Ms. Ekambaram. Prior to her current 
role, she led the Consumer Banking business at the Bank from April 2014 to May 2022. Under her leadership, Bank’s savings accounts base grew at an 
exemplary pace, probably the fastest in the Indian banking industry. Simultaneously, the focus of the business was on judiciously growing the retail loan 
book, both secured and unsecured. In addition, the Consumer Banking business drove its digital agenda across customer acquisition, customer adoption 
of banking, payments and e-commerce transactions, enhancing customer experience and deepening engagement.
Prior to this, Ms. Ekambaram was President - Wholesale and Investment Banking for 11 years until April 2014, where she was responsible for ensuring 
delivery of comprehensive advisory and financial solutions to leading Indian Corporates, Public Sector Undertakings, Financial Institutions, Multinationals 
and the Government. She was also Executive Director and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited earlier and, along with her team, steered the 
firm to a position of market leadership. She established a franchise recognised for executing innovative deals, including pioneering the first book-built IPO in 
India, which ushered global standards in the Indian capital markets. Ms. Ekambaram has rich and varied experience across Retail and Wholesale Banking.
Before joining the Kotak Mahindra Group, Ms. Ekambaram had a short stint with Bank of Nova Scotia - the Canadian International Bank, with their 
Corporate Banking and Treasury division.
Ms. Ekambaram is on the board of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM-B). She was a member of the FICCI National Committee on Banking for 
Financial Year 2021-22.
Business Today, one of India’s leading business magazines, recognised Ms. Ekambaram as one of the ‘Most Powerful Women in Indian Business’ from 
2013-2017, in 2019 and 2020. Fortune India had featured Ms. Ekambaram as one of the ‘50 Most Powerful Women in Business in India’ from 2016-2020. 
Ms. Ekambaram received the ‘CA Business Leader award’ from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in the Large Corporate – BFSI category in 
2020 and was also named CA Woman Business Leader in 2013. Further, the Ladies’ Wing of the IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry recognised 
Ms. Ekambaram as ‘Woman of the Year 2013-14 in Banking and Financial Services’. She was listed by ET x Femina among the ‘Promising Women Leaders 
of India 2022’.
Statutory Reports
302
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DIN
00004889
Age (years)
61
Date of appointment
1st November, 2022*
Shareholding in the Bank
1,333,033 equity shares
Board Membership in other listed entities
-
Board Membership in unlisted entities
1.	
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company (Non-Executive Director)
2.	
Kotak Securities Limited (Non-Executive Director)
3.	
Kotak Karma Foundation (Non-Executive Director)
4.	
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited (Non-Executive Director)
Number of Committee Positions in other 
entities
1.	
Kotak Mahindra 
Capital Company Limited
•	
Human Resource & People Development 
Committee
Member
•	
Expenditure Approval Committee
Member
2.	
Kotak Securities 
Limited
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member
•	
Expense Approval Committee
Member
•	
Routine 
and 
Administrative 
Functions 
Committee
Member
*Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Whole-time Director, was re-designated as Deputy Managing Director, with effect from 19th March, 2024
STATEMENT ON DIRECTORSHIPS AND COMMITTEE POSITONS OF DIRECTORS
None of the Directors on the Board of the Bank: 
(i)	
hold directorships in more than ten public companies and serve as Directors or as Independent Directors in more than seven listed entities or as a 
Whole-Time Director in any listed company. Further, the Executive Directors of the Bank do not serve as Independent Directors in any company.
(ii)	
are members of more than ten committees and Chairpersons of more than five committees across all public companies in which they are Directors. 
For the purpose of determining the limit, membership and chairpersonship of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee have been 
taken into consideration. 
All the Directors have made disclosures regarding their membership on various committees in other companies.
BOARD DIVERSITY
Keeping in view the significance of having a diverse Board and to harness the unique and individual skills and experiences of its members in such a way 
that it collectively benefits the Bank in achieving its mission and objectives, the Board of the Bank has adopted a Policy on Board Diversity. Emphasis is 
given to maintain diversity of thoughts, experience, knowledge, education, skills, perspective, culture, age and gender, while scrutinizing candidature for 
appointment of Directors on the Bank’s Board.
Board Diversity, inter alia, helps in ensuring (i) a balanced Board, with a wide range of attributes of its members; (ii) appropriate blend of functional and 
domain expertise on the Board; (iii) adequate representation of women on the Board; (iv) appropriate qualifications, expertise, experience and skills-mix on 
the Board and (v) adherence to the legal requirements, including the “Fit and Proper” criteria of the RBI, while appointing Directors on the Board. The Policy 
on Board Diversity is available on the website of the Bank viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
The Board has identified the following core skills/expertise/competencies/special knowledge or practical experience, as required in the context of the 
Bank’s business for it to function effectively. The same are in line with the relevant provisions of the BR Act and relevant circulars issued by the RBI:
i..
Accountancy
viii.
Small-Scale Industry
ii.
Agriculture and Rural Economy
ix.
Information Technology
iii.
Banking
x.
Payment & Settlement Systems
iv.
Co-operation
xi.
Human Resources
v.
Economics
xii.
Risk Management
vi.
Finance
xiii.
Business Management
vii.
Law
303
Report on Corporate Governance
The details of Director-wise skills/expertise/competencies are, as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director(s)
Skills/expertise/competencies
1.
Mr. C S Rajan
Agriculture and Rural Economy, Business Management, Finance, Risk Management, Small Scale Industry and Human 
Resources
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
Business Management, Law, Human Resources, Economics, Finance and Accountancy
3.
Mr. Uday Shankar
Business Management, Human Resources, Economics, Digital/Media and Information Technology
4.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
Agriculture and Rural Economy, Economics, Co-operation, Banking, Small Scale Industry and Insurance
5.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
Business Management, Finance, Accountancy, Banking and Risk Management
6.
Mr. Eli Leenaars
Business Management, Human Resources, Finance, Banking, Information Technology, Law and Risk Management
7.
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati
Banking, Risk Management, Finance, Economics and Business Management
8.
Mr. Amit Desai
Law
9.
Mr. Uday Kotak
Business Management, Economics, Finance, Banking, Insurance and Risk Management
10.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
Business Management, Finance, Accountancy, Information Technology, Banking, Economics and Payment and 
Settlement Systems
11.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
Business Management, Finance, Accountancy, Digital/Media, Banking and Payment and Settlement Systems
SUCCESSION PLANNING
With a view to ensuring a continuous pipeline of internal and external talent for the Board (Executive Directors i.e. Managing Director & CEO and the Whole-
time Directors), the Key Managerial Personnel and Senior Leadership positions, the Board of the Bank has put in place a ‘Succession Plan Policy for Board 
and Senior Leadership Roles’. The succession process at the Bank includes periodical screening and evaluation of the suitable candidates on parameters 
such as knowledge, experience, expertise, skill sets, conduct, age, qualification under the relevant laws, adherence to 'fit & proper' criteria and overall 
readiness to take up the role. If necessary, services of external consultants/experts are also availed for scouting talent, internally and/or externally.
CERTIFICATE ON NON-DEBARMENT OR NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has obtained a certificate from Ms. Rupal D. Jhaveri, Practising 
Company Secretary dated 25th June, 2024, confirming that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank have been debarred or disqualified from 
being appointed or continuing as Directors of the companies either by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) or the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”) or any other statutory/regulatory authority. The said certificate is annexed with this Report on Corporate Governance.
BOARD MEETINGS
SCHEDULING AND SELECTION OF AGENDA ITEMS FOR BOARD MEETINGS
The Board meeting dates are generally decided in advance and are convened by giving appropriate notice after obtaining the approval of the Chairperson 
and the Managing Director & CEO. The Board meets once a quarter to review the financial results and meets once a year for approval of annual budgets, 
strategy and when necessary, for such other matters as required under the applicable laws and for business exigencies. The Board also reviews business 
strategy, financial reports and their integrity, risk, compliance, customer protection, financial inclusion and human resources i.e. the ‘Seven Critical Themes’ 
as prescribed by RBI vide its Circular No. DBR No.BC.93/29.67.001/2014-15 dated 14th May, 2015. In addition to the above, the Board also reviews the 
performance of the various functions/divisions of the Bank and the working of the Board level committees.
The Company Secretary prepares the Agenda for the Board meetings. The Agenda notes are prepared in consultation with the concerned officials of the 
respective divisions/departments and are approved by the Managing Director & CEO/Whole-time Director(s). The Agenda and Agenda notes are circulated 
to the Board by the Company Secretary, in advance.
Every Director is free to suggest matters for including in the meetings of the Board. All divisions/departments in the Bank are encouraged to plan 
projects/activities of their functions well in advance, particularly with regard to matters requiring discussion/approval/decision at the Board meetings. 
All such matters are communicated to the Company Secretary in advance such that the same could be included in the Agenda for the Board meetings. 
Additional items on the agenda are considered with the permission of the Chairperson and with the consent of all the Directors present at the meeting.
The Board is presented with important information on the operations of the Bank as well as matters which require deliberation at the highest level. Such 
Information includes minimum information required to be placed before the Board as per applicable law and on various other critical items, such as, guiding 
Corporate Strategy, major plans of action, Risk Policy, annual budgets and business plans, setting performance objectives, monitoring implementation and 
corporate performance and overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments quarterly results, minutes of meetings of the Committees, 
changes in the economy and regulatory policies, etc.
Statutory Reports
304
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
There were no pecuniary relationships or transactions of the Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Bank or its subsidiaries (except transactions in the 
ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis) during the financial year ("FY") 2023-24.
To address specific urgent needs, meetings are also convened at a shorter notice. In case of business exigencies or urgency of matters, resolutions are also 
passed by the Board through circulation. Audio/video conference calls are arranged to enable the Directors to discuss, in detail, the items to be approved 
by circulation and seek clarification as may be required and/or discussed with individual directors, when requested. The agenda papers for meetings of the 
Board are uploaded on a secured web-based portal and can be easily accessed on a tablet device or laptop or computer.
The Bank also provides an option to its Directors to attend the meetings electronically through Video Conferencing in accordance with the provisions of 
applicable laws.
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
During FY 2023-24, twenty three (23) meetings of the Board of Directors were held on 6th April, 2023, 29th April, 2023, 27th May, 2023, 
16th June, 2023, 24th June, 2023, 15th July, 2023, 17th July, 2023, 22nd July, 2023, 19th August, 2023, 2nd September, 2023, 28th September, 2023, 
7th October, 2023, 21st October, 2023, 1st November, 2023, 17th November, 2023, 11th December, 2023, 27th December, 2023, 20th January, 2024, 
1st February, 2024, 12th February, 2024, 19th February, 2024, 15th/16th March, 2024 and 27th March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these 
meetings and at the last Annual General Meeting held on 19th August, 2023 (“AGM”) are, as under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director(s)
No. of BMs 
entitled 
to attend during 
FY 2023-24
No. of BMs 
attended during 
FY 2023-24
% attendance 
of Director
Attendance 
at the AGM 
(Yes/No/NA)
1.
Mr. C S Rajan
23
23
100
Yes
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
23
22
96
Yes
3.
Mr. Uday Shankar
23
17
74
Yes
4.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
23
23
100
Yes
5.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
23
23
100
Yes
6.
Mr. Eli Leenaars (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
6
6
100
NA
7.
Mr. C. Jayaram
23
23
100
Yes
8.
Mr. Amit Desai
23
21
91
No
9.
Mr. Uday Kotak
23
23
100
Yes
10.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f 1st January, 2024)
6
6
100
NA
11.
Mr. KVS Manian
23
22
96
Yes
12.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
23
21
91
Yes
13.
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
17
17
100
Yes
14.
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
17
15
88
No
Note:	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be on the Board of the Bank, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on 30th April, 2024. Mr. KVS Manian ceased 
to be on the Board of the Bank, on account of his resignation on 30th April, 2024.
SEPARATE MEETING OF THE INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
During the year under review, two meetings of the Independent Directors of the Bank were held on 26th May, 2023 and 15th March, 2024. The said meetings were 
held without the presence of Non-Independent Directors and members of management. All the Independent Directors of the Bank attended both the meetings.
At the meeting of the Independent Directors held on 29th June, 2024, the Independent Directors evaluated the performance for FY 2023-24, of the 
Non-Independent Directors, the Board as a whole and the Chairperson of the Board, after taking into account the views of the Executive Directors and 
Non-Executive Directors. The Independent Directors also reviewed the outcome of the Board Evaluation Process.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION1, 2
The Directors’ Remuneration is determined in accordance with the provisions of the BR Act, the Act, various guidelines and circulars issued by the RBI 
from time to time and the respective compensation policies for the Employees (including Executive Directors) and Non-Executive Directors of the Bank. 
The Compensation Policy for Non-Executive Directors is available on the Bank’s website, viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/
governance/policies.html
The remuneration paid to the Executive Directors is approved by the Board, basis the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee ("NRC"), based on the evaluation of individual director’s performance and the Bank’s overall performance. The Board, based on the 
recommendation of the NRC, considers and decides the annual remuneration of Executive Directors, within the overall limit approved by the members of 
the Bank. The payment of remuneration to Executive Directors is also subject to the approval of the RBI, annually.
 1GRI 2-19 | 2GRI 2-20
305
Report on Corporate Governance
A)	
The details of remuneration paid to the Executive Directors of the Bank during FY 2023-24 are, as under:
(` in lakh)
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
Mr. Uday Kotak
Mr. Dipak Gupta
Mr. KVS Manian
Basic
123.30
245.47
0.00
228.96
265.63
Allowances
20.42
40.00
-
33.75
40.00
Provident Fund
16.83
29.46
-
27.47
31.88
SARs Pay-out
-
148.13
-
152.96
52.27
Annual Incentive
-
93.50
-
125.50
116.00
Long Term Deferred Cash
-
76.17
-
88.33
80.12
Others
1.00
1.00
-
0.75
1.00
Total
161.55
633.73
0.00
657.72
586.90
Number of Stock options 
granted during the year
51,813
25,337
Nil
Nil
31,267
Notes:
1.	
The amount shown above excludes Gratuity, value of car perquisites under the Income Tax Act, 1961 and perquisites value on ESOPs.
2.	
Mr. Uday Kotak had opted to forego his fixed salary and accepted a token salary of Re. 1 during his tenure as Managing Director & CEO of the 
Bank, till 1st September, 2023.
3.	
Mr. Dipak Gupta superannuated on 31st December, 2023 and thus ceased to be the Managing Director & CEO and Director of the Bank.
4.	
The Annual Incentives represent an amount of Cash Bonus for the previous financial year(s), paid during FY 2023-24, as per the approval of the 
RBI.
5.	
Long Term Deferred Cash represents Long Term Deferred Cash for the previous financial year(s), paid during FY 2023-24, as per the approval
of the RBI.
6.	
Variable Pay: As per the prevailing RBI Guidelines on Compensation for Whole Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/Risk Takers and Control 
Function Staff, etc. issued by the RBI on 4th November, 2019 (RBI Guidelines on Compensation), the total variable pay of an Executive Director 
needs to be capped within the overall limit of 300% of the fixed pay. Such variable pay is inclusive of Cash as well as Non-Cash components. 
The amount of SARs payout, cash bonus, Long Term Deferred Cash and the Employee Stock Options in the above table are part of the variable 
pay and are linked to the performance of the respective Directors, the performance of the Bank as a whole and such other performance based 
criteria as may be determined by the NRC, from time to time.
7.
Malus and Clawback provisions apply to the variable pay of Executive Directors, as given in the Compensation Policy of the Bank.
8.
The terms of employment of Executive Directors provide for termination by mutual consent or by giving three months’ notice in writing. In 
the event of termination of employment, the liability of the Bank shall be limited to providing only the salary, retiral benefits and perquisites as 
prescribed by the terms of employment for a period of three months from the date of notice.
B)	
During the year under review, the Executive Directors were granted ESOPs under the Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023, as under:
Name of  
Director(s)
Date of Grant
No. of 
options 
granted
Exercise Price 
per share 
(in `)
Vesting 
%
Vesting Date
Exercise Period
Series 2/2023 of Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme, 2023
Mr. Ashok 
Vaswani
5th February, 2024
 51,813
 1,823
30
 15th February, 2025
15th February, 2025 to 15th August, 2025
 1,823
30
 15th February, 2026
15th February, 2026 to 15th August, 2026
 1,823
40
 15th February, 2027
15th February, 2027 to 15th August, 2027
Series 1/2023 of Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme, 2023
Mr. KVS Manian
5th February, 2024
31,267
 1,823
25
 15th February, 2025
15th February, 2025 to 15th August, 2025
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2025
30th June, 2025 to 31st December, 2025
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2026
30th June, 2026 to 31st December, 2026
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2027
30th June, 2027, to 31st December 2027
Statutory Reports
306
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Name of  
Director(s)
Date of Grant
No. of 
options 
granted
Exercise Price 
per share 
(in `)
Vesting 
%
Vesting Date
Exercise Period
Series 1/2023 of Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme, 2023
Ms. Shanti 
Ekambaram
5th February, 2024
25,337
 1,823
25
 15th February, 2025
15th February, 2025 to 15th August, 2025
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2025
30th June, 2025 to 31st December, 2025
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2026
30th June, 2026 to 31st December, 2026
 1,823
25
 30th June, 2027
30th June, 2027 to 31st December 2027
Total
108,417
Notes:
i.
Each option would entitle the grantee to one equity share of the face value of ` 5/- each, subject to the provisions of the Kotak Mahindra Equity 
Option Scheme 2023.
ii.
All the options granted to Mr. KVS Manian, which remained unvested on the date of his resignation i.e. 30th April, 2024, were forfeited as per the 
provisions of the Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2015 and Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023.
C)	
Pursuant to RBI’s circular dated 26th April, 2021 on Corporate Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of 
the Board and the relevant resolution passed by the members at the Thirty-Sixth Annual General Meeting, Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Independent Directors (other than the Part-time Chairman), are entitled to receive compensation by way of fixed remuneration up to ` 20 lakh per 
annum or such sum as may be prescribed by RBI, from time to time.
Considering the crucial role of Non-Executive Directors in efficient functioning of bank boards and its various committees and in order to further 
enable the banks to sufficiently attract qualified competent individuals on their Boards, the RBI, vide its circular dated 9th February, 2024, revised the 
ceiling of compensation by way of fixed remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors from ` 20 lakh to ` 30 lakh per annum.
At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Bank held on 15th/16th March, 2024, the Board approved the payment of remuneration to the 
Non-Executive Directors, at ` 30 lakh per annum, from FY 2024-25 and also approved the criteria for granting such remuneration. Accordingly, for 
FY 2023-24, the Non-Executive Directors were paid compensation by way of fixed remuneration at the rate of ` 20 lakh per annum. The members of 
the Bank have approved the said payment of fixed remuneration.
Being the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Prakash Apte was entitled to a fixed remuneration of ` 30 lakh per annum, till 31st December, 2023, as
approved by the Board, the members and the RBI from time to time. Mr. C S Rajan, the current Part-time Non-Executive Chairman is entitled to a fixed 
remuneration of ` 33 lakh per annum, from 1st January, 2024, in accordance with the approvals from the Board, the members and the RBI.
D)	
 The details of sitting fees/fixed remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are, as under:
(` in lakh)
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director(s)
Sitting Fees
Fixed Remuneration
Fixed Remuneration 
as Non-Executive 
Part-time Chairman*
1.
Mr. C S Rajan
43.10
15.00
8.25
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
44.75
20.00
NA
3.
Mr. Uday Shankar
35.00
20.00
NA
4.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
42.00
20.00
NA
5.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
62.85
20.00
NA
6.
Mr. Eli Leenaars (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
9.00
5.00
NA
7.
Mr. C. Jayaram
59.10
20.00
NA
8.
Mr. Amit Desai
21.00
20.00
NA
9.
Mr. Uday Kotak1
40.25
10.00
NA
10.
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
35.60
NA
22.50
Total
392.65
150.00
30.75
* Mr. C S Rajan was appointed as a Part-time Chairman of the Bank, with effect from 1st January, 2024.
Notes:
1.	
Mr. Uday Kotak was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd September, 2023 and, thereafter, he was eligible for receiving 
sitting fees and fixed remuneration. Mr. Uday Kotak waived off his fixed remuneration as a Non-Executive Director, for the quarter ended 
30th September, 2023.
307
Report on Corporate Governance
	
2.	
As per the Compensation Policy, Fixed Remuneration is computed on a pro-rata basis if a Non-Executive Director holds directorship for a part of 
the financial year, based on the number of quarters for which such Director was on the Board (with a part of quarter considered as a full quarter).
	
3.	
The relevant criteria for making payment to Non-Executive Directors forms part of the Compensation Policy for Non-Executive Directors, which 
is available on the Bank's website, viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
COMPOSITION, ROLE AND MEETING DETAILS OF BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has constituted several Board and Non-Board Committees to deal with specific matters and has delegated powers for different functional 
areas, as required under the Act, the BR Act, the SEBI Listing Regulations and the various applicable regulations, guidelines, notifications, directions, 
circulars, etc. issued from time to time by the RBI. These Committees monitor the activities falling within their specific terms of reference and support the 
Board in discharging its functions.
The details of Board Committees are, as under:
I.	
Audit Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.
Mr. Uday Khanna (Chairperson)
2.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
3.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
4.
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati (appointed w.e.f. 18th May, 2024)
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, thirteen (13) meetings of the Audit Committee were held on 29th April, 2023, 18th May, 2023, 19th June, 2023, 22nd July 2023, 
22nd August, 2023, 7th September, 2023, 20th October, 2023, 10th November, 2023, 18th December, 2023, 20th January, 2024, 10th February, 2024, 
19th February, 2024 and 30th March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Uday Khanna
13/13
100
Dr. Ashok Gulati
13/13
100
Ms. Ashu Suyash
13/13
100
Mr. C. Jayaram
10/13
77
	
Notes:
	
i.	
All the members of the Audit Committee are Non-Executive Directors and more than two-thirds of the members are Independent Directors.
	
ii.	
All the members of the Audit Committee are financially literate and have the ability to read and understand financial statements. Mr. Uday 
Khanna and Ms. Ashu Suyash also possess accounting and financial management expertise.
	
iii.	
The composition of the Audit Committee is in accordance with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act read with relevant rules made 
thereunder, Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the criteria specified by the RBI vide its various applicable regulations, guidelines, 
notifications, directions, circulars, etc.
	
iv.	
The quorum for the meetings of Audit Committee is three members, including at least two-thirds of the members attending the meeting being 
Independent Directors.
	
v.	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
	
vi.	
Mr. Uday Khanna, Chairperson of the Audit Committee, was present at the last AGM to answer the queries of the members. 
The Internal Audit team meets the Audit Committee on a one to one basis, without the presence of management.
	
vii.	
The Head - Internal Audit, reports to the Audit Committee of the Board and attends the meetings of the Audit Committee.
	
viii.	
Besides the members of the Committee, meetings of the Audit Committee are generally attended by invitees who are representatives of the 
management. The Committee meets the Chief Compliance Officer on a one to one basis, without the presence of management, on a quarterly basis.
	
ix.	
The Joint Statutory Auditors are invited to attend the meetings of the Audit Committee. The members of the Audit Committee meet the 
Statutory Auditors independently at least once a year.
	
x.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on 30th April, 2024.
	
xi. 	
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati was inducted as a member of the Audit Committee, w.e.f. 18th May, 2024. With this, all the members of the Audit Committee 
are Independent Directors.
Statutory Reports
308
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The Bank has adopted a Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors which includes the purpose, composition, roles, responsibilities and 
duties and powers of the Audit Committee. The brief terms of reference of the Audit Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive 
Charter document are, as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
Review and update the Charter, considering regulatory requirements, business environment, etc. and place it before the Board of Directors of 
the Bank for its approval. The frequency of review shall be at least once every three years
	
•	
Provide directions and oversee the operation of the audit function in the Bank and issue, whenever necessary, suitable directions and timely 
completion of audit
	
•	
Oversight of the Bank’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure the fair presentation of financial 
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in India, applicable regulatory requirements and provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013 and to ensure that the financial statements are true, fair, sufficient and credible
	
•	
To review with the management, the quarterly financial statement/result before submission to the Board for approval
	
•	
Review with the management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission to the Board for approval, with 
particular reference to:
	
	
o	
Matters required to be included in the Director’s Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s Report in terms of clause (c) of 
sub-section 3 of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
	
o	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same
	
	
o	
Compliance with accounting standards, selection of accounting policies, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
reported amounts in financial statements
	
	
o	
Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings
	
	
o	
Compliance with regulatory guidelines, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (as amended from time to time) and other legal requirements relating to financial statements
	
	
o	
Disclosure of any related party transactions
	
	
o	
Modified opinion (s) in the draft audit report
	
	
o	
Going Concern assumption
	
	
o	
Management Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and results of operations
	
	
o	
Bank’s earnings, press releases, as well as financial information and earnings guidance, if any, provided to analysts and rating agencies
	
•	
Review with management, the statement of uses/application of funds, wherever necessary, raised through an issue (public issue, right 
issue, preferential issue etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice 
and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a public of right issue and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this matter wherever necessary
	
•	
Approve or ratify, as may be permitted by law, transactions of the Bank with related parties (as defined under the applicable laws) and review 
significant transactions and matters related thereto. Grant of omnibus approval for related party transactions proposed to be entered into by 
the Bank subject to such conditions as prescribed and as amended from time to time. Members of the Audit Committee who are Independent 
Directors shall approve the related party transactions. Related Parties to have the same meaning as provided in the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended from time to time)
	
•	
The Audit Committee shall recommend policy on “materiality of related party transactions and on dealing with related party transactions” 
including clear threshold limits, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (as amended from time to time)
	
•	
Set forth the Policies relating to and overseeing the implementation of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“Regulations”), as amended from time to time and the Trading Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading 
(“Code”) and to take on record such reports as may be required from the compliance officer under the Code and to decide penal and disciplinary 
action in respect of violation of the Regulations/Code and to review compliance with the provisions of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 (as amended from time to time) at least once in a financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are 
adequate and are operating effectively
309
Report on Corporate Governance
	
•	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Bank, wherever it is necessary
	
•	
Evaluate the adequacy and operational effectiveness of internal financial control of the Bank and also to evaluate risk management systems of 
the Bank.
	
•	
Look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment of 
dividend declared) and creditors
	
•	
Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer, after assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the candidate
	
•	
Review reasons for revenue leakage and approve corrective action plan and monitor them at regular interval. Monitor areas of repeat 
occurrences, if any and ensure immediate actions are taken to prevent such repeat occurrences of revenue leakage
	
•	
Review the financial statements of unlisted subsidiary company/ies and more particularly the investments made by them
	
•	
Review the key audit observations pertaining to the subsidiaries presented to the respective Audit Committee/Board, as the case may be
	
•	
Review utilization of loans and/or advances from/investment by the Bank in the subsidiary exceeding ` 100 crore or 10% of the asset size of 
the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans/advances/investments
	
•	
Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving Merger, Demerger, Amalgamation, etc., on the Bank and its 
shareholders
	
•	
Review details presented to the Audit Committee, at prescribed frequency, vide RBI circular dated 10th November, 2010 and as updated from 
time to time
	
•	
Discuss significant issues raised in the Long Form Audit Report and follow up there on with statutory auditors
	
•	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments to the extent applicable 
	
•	
Review the complaints made under the Sexual Harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
	
•	
To perform any other function, duty as stipulated by the Board of Directors and as mentioned under the Companies Act, 2013, the Reserve Bank 
of India, the Securities & Exchange Board of India, the Stock Exchanges and any other regulatory or statutory authority or under any applicable 
law, as prescribed from time to time and also to review the findings by regulatory agencies
	
•	
The Chairman of the Committee to provide an annual confirmation to the Board of Directors regarding discharge by the Committee of its roles, 
responsibilities and functions outlined in the Audit Committee Charter
	
Reporting Responsibilities
	
•	
The Audit Committee shall recommend to the Board the quarterly, half yearly and annual financial statements after reviewing the same
	
•	
The recommendations of the Audit Committee on any matter relating to financial management, management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and result of operations after its review, including the auditors’ report, shall be binding on the Board
	
•	
If the Board does not accept the recommendations of the Audit Committee, it shall disclose the same in the Board’s Report, together with the 
reasons thereof
	
Compliance
	
•	
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the results of the management’s 
investigation and follow-up (including disciplinary action) of any instances of non-compliance
	
•	
Reviewing the findings of any examinations by regulatory agencies and any auditors’ observations
	
•	
Reviewing the process for communicating the Code of Conduct to the Bank’s personnel and for monitoring compliance therewith
	
•	
Obtaining regular updates from the management and the Bank’s legal and compliance team regarding compliance matters
	
Independent Statutory Auditors
	
•	
Recommend to the Board of Directors the appointment, re-appointment, replacement and removal of the statutory auditors for both domestic 
and overseas operations, considering independence and effectiveness, terms of appointment, the fees and other compensation to be paid to 
the independent statutory auditors
	
•	
Approve all payments for services rendered by the statutory auditors other than as statutory auditors
	
•	
Review and monitor auditors’ independence performance and effectiveness of audit process, both for domestic and overseas operations
Statutory Reports
310
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
•	
Periodically consult with the statutory auditors in the absence of management about internal controls and fair presentation of financial 
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in India, applicable regulatory requirements and provisions of 
Companies Act, 2013
	
•	
Discuss with statutory auditors the nature and scope of the audit
	
•	
Discuss and ascertain from the statutory auditors post the completion of the audit, areas of concern, if any
	
•	
Review management letters/letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors
	
•	
Provide a right to be heard to the independent statutory auditors and the key management personnel in the meetings of the Audit Committee 
when it considers the auditor’s report but not the right to vote
	
Internal Audit Department
	
•	
Approve appointment, re-appointment, replacement and removal of the concurrent auditors and outsourced internal auditors and the fees and 
other compensation to be paid to them
	
•	
Review with management performance of internal auditor and adequacy of the internal control systems
	
•	
Review the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the 
official heading the department, reporting structure, coverage and frequency of internal audit including information systems audit
	
•	
Discuss with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on
	
•	
Review the internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses
	
•	
Review the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors/vigilance department into matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and report the matter to the Board of Directors
	
•	
Approve, review and monitor the risk based internal audit plan each year
	
•	
Review appointment, removal and performance of Head – Internal Audit
	
Whistleblowing/Vigil mechanism
	
•	
The Committee shall review the Bank’s mechanism for its Directors and Employees to raise genuine concerns; whether it provides adequate 
safeguards against victimization of persons who use such mechanism and provides for direct access to the chairman of the Audit Committee 
in appropriate or exceptional cases
	
Review Statement of Deviations, if any:
	
•	
Quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to Stock Exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 
32 (1) of SEBI Listing Regulations
	
•	
Annual Statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32 (7) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations
	
Inspections conducted by regulators 
	
•	
Read the audit inspection reports of the inspection team of Reserve Bank of India or any other regulator, approve action plans for corrective 
actions to be taken and monitor compliance thereof
	
Risk Management
	
•	
Review the implementation and effectiveness of the financial and risk management policies and process and highlight any gaps observed to 
the Board of Directors
	
Process Improvement
	
•	
Establish a process of reporting by the management or independent statutory auditor or internal auditors, as the case may be, to the Audit 
Committee with regard to any significant judgment made in preparation of the financial statements along with their views on appropriateness 
of such Judgments
	
•	
Following completion of the annual audit and internal audit plan, review separately with each of management, the statutory auditors and the 
internal auditing department any significant difficulties encountered during the course of the audit, including any restrictions on the scope of 
work or access to required information
	
•	
Review any significant disagreement among management and the independent statutory auditors including auditors in connection with the 
preparation of the financial statements
311
Report on Corporate Governance
	
•	
Review any significant disagreement among management and the internal audit department in connection with the observations made in the 
internal audit report
	
•	
Review with management the extent to which changes or improvements in financial or accounting practices, as approved by the Audit 
Committee, have been implemented
	
•	
Perform any other activities consistent with this Charter and governing law, as the Audit Committee or the Board deems necessary or 
appropriate
	
Powers:
	
•	
To investigate any activity within its terms of reference
	
•	
To seek information from any Employee
	
•	
To obtain outside legal or other professional advice
	
•	
To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary at its Meetings
	
•	
The Audit Committee shall have the same powers, functions and duties as laid down in Section 177 of the Act, the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
regulations/circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India, as amended from time to time.
	
The Charter of the Audit Committee also includes the purpose and composition of First Tier Audit Committee (“FTAC”).
	
The Bank has First Tier Audit Committee (“FTAC”) as per the guidelines issued by the RBI. The FTAC presently comprises four members 
viz., Ms. Shanti Ekambaram, Deputy Managing Director (Chairperson), Mr. Devang Gheewalla, Group Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Himanshu Vasa, 
President and Chief Compliance Officer and Mr. Ashish Athalye, Chief of Internal Vigilance. Where the internal audit report pertaining to specific 
businesses, the specific business head also attends the meeting. The FTAC screens the matters entrusted to the Audit Committee and also the 
routine matters such as overseeing the program of inspections and compliance of inspection reports so as not to burden the Audit Committee with 
matters of detail. During the year, 21 meetings of the FTAC were held.
II.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee1
	
Current Composition:
1.
Mr. Uday Shankar (Chairperson)
2.
Mr. C S Rajan
3.
Mr. Uday Kotak (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, fourteen (14) meetings of the NRC were held on 2nd May, 2023, 27th May, 2023,  24th June, 2023, 14th/15th July, 2023, 
17th July, 2023, 19th August, 2023, 2nd September, 2023, 4th October, 2023, 17th November, 2023, 11th December, 2023, 27th December, 2023, 
20th January, 2024, 5th February, 2024 and 19th February, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Uday Shankar
14/14
100
Mr. C S Rajan (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
3/3
100
Mr. C. Jayaram
14/14
100
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
11/11
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of the NRC is in accordance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act read with relevant rules made thereunder, 
Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the criteria specified by the RBI vide its various applicable regulations, guidelines, notifications, 
directions, circulars, etc.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the NRC of the Bank is three members. Atleast half of the members attending the meeting of NRC shall be 
Independent Directors, of which, one shall be a member of Risk Management Committee.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the NRC.
	
iv.	
Mr. Uday Shankar, Chairperson of the NRC, was present at the last AGM to answer the queries of the members.
	
v.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be a member of the NRC,  on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on  30th April, 2024.
1GRI 2-10
Statutory Reports
312
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The brief terms of reference of the NRC, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
Identify persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down, recommend to the Board their appointment and removal and specify the manner for effective evaluation of performance of Board, 
its committees and individual directors to be carried out either by the Board, by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee or by an 
independent external agency and review its implementation and compliance
	
•	
Formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board a policy 
relating to the remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees
	
•	
For every appointment of an Independent Director, the Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required of an Independent Director. The person 
recommended to the Board for appointment as an Independent Director shall have the capabilities identified in such description. For the 
purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may:
	
	
o	
use the services of an external agencies, if required
	
	
o	
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and 
	
	
o	
consider the time commitments of the candidates
	
•	
To formulate the criteria for Evaluation of Performance of Independent Directors and the Board of Directors
	
•	
To determine whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the Independent Director, on the basis of the report of Performance 
Evaluation of Independent Directors
	
•	
While formulating the Policy ensure that:
	
	
o	
the Level and Composition of Remuneration is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required 
to run the Bank successfully
	
	
o	
relationship of Remuneration to performance is clear and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and
	
	
o	
Remuneration to Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Material Risk Takers involves a balance between Fixed and Incentive Pay 
reflecting short and long-term performance objectives appropriate to the working of the Bank and its Goals
	
•	
To recommend to the Board, Remuneration (in whatever form payable) to senior management
	
•	
To review the current board composition and determine future requirements and making recommendations to the Board for approval
	
•	
To devise a Policy on Board Diversity
	
•	
To satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointment to the Board of Directors and senior management
	
•	
To recommend to the Board, the appointment and changes in the following positions:
	
	
o	
Chief Financial Officer;
	
	
o	
Company Secretary;
	
	
o	
Compliance Officer; and
	
	
o	
Chief Risk Officer
	
	
o	
Such other official, whose appointment shall have to be recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee under applicable 
laws
	
•	
To review adequacy and appropriateness of Human Resource Strategy of the Bank	
	
•	
To review:
	
	
o	
the composition of the existing committees of the Board and to examine annually whether there is any need to have a special committee 
of Directors to meet the business requirements of the Bank and accordingly recommend to the Board for formation of a special committee
	
	
o	
the Terms of Reference of the Board Level Committees and recommend the changes therein, if any, to the Board
313
Report on Corporate Governance
	
•	
To Validate ‘Fit and Proper’ status of all Directors on the Board of the Bank in terms of the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) 
or other regulatory authorities
	
The details of the performance evaluation criteria for Independent Directors of the Bank have been mentioned in the Directors’ Report. Further, the 
Bank has Board approved Compensation Policies in place, one for Employees including Executive Directors and Managing Director & CEO and one 
for the Non-Executive Directors (other than Part-time Chairperson), the details of which have been mentioned in the Directors’ Report.
III.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
Current Composition: 
1.
Ms. Ashu Suyash (Chairperson)
2.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
3.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, two (2) meetings of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee ("SRC") were held on 7th September, 2023 and 28th March, 2024. 
The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Ms. Ashu Suyash
2/2
100
Mr. C. Jayaram
2/2
100
Mr. Uday Kotak (till 1st September, 2023)
0/0
-
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
1/1
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of SRC is in accordance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act read with relevant rules made thereunder and 
Regulation 20 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the SRC is three members, including at least one Independent Director.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary functions as the Compliance Officer under the SEBI Listing Regulations and acts as the Secretary to SRC.
	
iv.	
Ms. Ashu Suyash, Chairperson of the SRC, was present at the last AGM to answer the queries of the members.
	
v.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be a member of the SRC, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on 30th April, 2024.
	
The brief terms of reference of SRC, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
Resolve the grievances of the security holders of the Bank including complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc.
	
•	
Oversee and review the performance of registrar and share transfer agents and recommend measures for improvements in the quality of 
investors services.
	
•	
Review measures for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
	
•	
Review adherence to the service standards adopted by the Bank in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar & Transfer Agent.
	
•	
Review measures and initiatives taken for reducing quantum of unclaimed dividend and ensuring timely receipt of dividend/ 
annual report/statutory notices by the shareholders of the Bank.
	
•	
Carry out such other functions as may delegated by the Board from time to time.
	
During the year under review, 23 investor complaints were received and no complaint was pending as on 31st March, 2024.
Statutory Reports
314
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
IV.	
Risk Management Committee 
	
Current Composition:
1.
Dr. Ashok Gulati (Chairperson)
2.
Ms. Ashu Suyash
3.
Mr. C S Rajan
4.
Mr. Eli Leenaars
5.
Mr. Uday Kotak
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, five (5) meetings of the Risk Management Committee ("RMC") were held on 21st June, 2023, 25th July, 2023, 12th September, 2023, 
14th December, 2023 and 14th March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Dr. Ashok Gulati
5/5
100
Mr. C S Rajan
5/5
100
Ms. Ashu Suyash
5/5
100
Mr. Eli Leenaars (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
0/1
-
Mr. Uday Kotak
5/5
100
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
4/4
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of RMC is in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the criteria specified by the 
RBI vide its various applicable regulations, guidelines, notifications, directions, circulars, etc.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the RMC is three members, including at least half members attending the meeting being Independent Directors, 
of which, one member should have professional expertise/qualification in risk management.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to RMC.
	
iv.	
The RMC meets the Chief Risk Officer on a one-to-one basis, without the presence of the Managing Director & CEO, on a quarterly basis.
	
The brief terms of reference of RMC, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
To identify, monitor and measure the risk profile of the Bank
	
•	
To develop policies and procedures pertaining to credit, market, liquidity, operational and reputation risks
	
•	
To Monitor and review the Risk Management Plan
	
•	
To seek, if required, information from any employee, obtain outside legal or other professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders with 
relevant expertise, if it considers necessary
	
•	
To review the cyber security framework of the Bank
	
•	
To oversee formulation of a detailed Risk Management Policy, which shall include:
	
	
o	
A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the Bank, in particular including financial, operational, 
sectoral, sustainability (particularly ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or any other risk as may be determined by the 
Committee
	
	
o	
Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks
	
	
o	
Business Continuity Plan
	
	
o	
Overseeing the methodology, processes and systems that are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with the business of the 
Bank
	
•	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk management systems
	
•	
To periodically review the Risk Management Policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity
315
Report on Corporate Governance
	
•	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions to be taken
	
•	
The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by the Risk Management 
Committee
	
•	
To review and approve risk appetite statements for the Bank
	
•	
To review performance against approved risk appetite
	
•	
To oversee establishment of the overall risk management framework for credit, market, liquidity, operational and information risks (including 
technology and cyber risks)
	
•	
To review assessment of various risks on a periodic basis and overall Bank risk profile; identify emerging risks and ensure that exposures are 
in line with the risk appetites and approved limits
	
•	
To review the Bank’s credit concentration
	
•	
To review exposure to industries and outlook
	
•	
To review and comment on stress testing scenarios, methodologies and results if any, placed before the committee.
	
•	
To monitor compliance of various risk parameters by operating departments
	
•	
To review the adequacy of capital, under the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) and approve the outcomes for placing 
to the Board
	
•	
To have oversight over the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), Credit Risk Management Committee (CRMC) and Operational Risk Executive 
Committee (OREC)
	
•	
To coordinate its activities with other Committees, in instances where there is any overlap with activities of such Committees, as per the 
framework laid down by the Board of Directors
V.	
Group Risk Management Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.
Ms. Ashu Suyash (Chairperson)
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
3.
Mr. Eli Leenaars
4.
Mr. Uday Kotak
5.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, two (2) meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee (“GRMC”) were held on 27th September, 2023 and 27th March, 2024. 
The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Ms. Ashu Suyash (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
0/1
-
Mr. Uday Khanna
2/2
100
Mr. Eli Leenaars (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. Uday Kotak
2/2
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram (till 31st December, 2023)
1/1
100
Mr. Prakash Apte (Chairperson and member till 31st December, 2023)
1/1
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
1/1
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum requirement for the meetings of GRMC is three members, including one Independent Director.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to GRMC.
Statutory Reports
316
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
The brief terms of reference of the Group Risk Management Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, 
as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
Issues relating to the Group from a risk perspective
	
•	
Oversee/monitor Group Risk appetite
	
•	
Analyse the material risks to which the Group, its businesses and subsidiaries would be exposed. It would discuss all risk strategies, both at an 
aggregated level and by type of risk and make recommendations to the Board in accordance with the Group’s overall risk appetite
	
•	
To review failures in internal controls
	
•	
Articulate the leverage of the Group and monitor the same
VI.	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.
Mr. C S Rajan (Chairperson)
2.
Dr. Ashok Gulati
3.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
4.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, seven (7) meetings of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance ("CSR & ESG") Committee 
were held on 24th April, 2023, 23rd May, 2023, 14th July, 2023, 27th September, 2023, 29th November, 2023, 27th December, 2023 and 
21st March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. C S Rajan
7/7
100
Dr. Ashok Gulati (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. C. Jayaram
7/7
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. Prakash Apte (Chairperson and member till 31st December, 2023)
6/6
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
5/6
83
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of the CSR & ESG Committee is in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 of the Act read with relevant rules made 
thereunder.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of CSR & ESG Committee is three members, including one Independent Director.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the CSR & ESG Committee.
	
iv.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be a member of the CSR & ESG Committee, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on 
30th April, 2024.
	
The brief terms of reference of the CSR & ESG Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
To review and recommend the following to the Board for its approval:
	
	
o	
Bank’s CSR Policy defines the activities to be undertaken by the Bank and that the policy conforms to the CSR mandate as specified under 
Sections 134 and 135 of the Act read with Schedule VII to the Act and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, as amended from time to time and in line with the Government of India’s notifications issued from time to time (“applicable CSR 
laws and rules”);
	
	
o	
Bank’s prescribed CSR expenditure requirement for the financial year is as per applicable CSR laws and rules
	
	
o	
Bank’s CSR Projects, Budget and Expenditure for the financial year are as per applicable CSR laws and rules
	
	
o	
Bank’s CSR annual action plan for implementing the Board approved CSR Projects, Budget and Expenditure, payments are as per 
applicable CSR laws and rules. The components of the Bank’s CSR annual action plan are as follows: 
317
Report on Corporate Governance
	
	
	
–	
the list of CSR projects or CSR programmes or CSR activities (“CSR Projects”) that are approved to be undertaken in areas or 
subjects are as per applicable CSR laws and rules; 
	
	
	
–	
the CSR Project Scope and Design
	
	
	
–	
the CSR Project implementation plan
	
	
	
–	
the CSR Project expenditure payment schedule and/or plan, as applicable 
	
	
	
–	
monitoring and reporting mechanism of each CSR Project; and
	
	
	
–	
Impact assessment of the Bank’s CSR projects, if and where required, as per applicable under CSR laws and rules
	
	
o	
Amendment of the Bank’s CSR annual action plan, budget, design and scope of CSR Projects including the budget and expenditure, if 
necessitated at any point of time and with reasonable justification to that effect
	
•	
To review, note and update on the following to the Board, for its noting:
	
	
o	
Periodical review/progress of CSR projects including ensuring adherence to the CSR Projects (both – the ones implemented directly by 
the Bank or implemented with partner organisations) as per the design and scope approved by the Board 
	
	
o	
Certification by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) or the person responsible for financial management regarding the utilisation of the CSR 
Expenditure/payments
	
	
o	
The CSR Administrative Overheads Expenditure is as per applicable CSR laws and rules
	
	
o	
Disclosures of the Bank’s CSR Projects, Expenditure and all such information as per applicable CSR laws and rules are available on the 
Bank’s website, annual report and such other documents and communication platforms stipulated in applicable CSR laws and rules
	
	
o	
Periodical update on the fund utilisation and progress of Bank’s CSR Projects 
	
	
o	
CSR Process Manual
	
•	
To carry out such other functions as may be prescribed under applicable CSR laws and rules amended from time to time including the functions 
delegated by the Board from time to time
	
Roles, Responsibilities, Functions and Powers for ESG:
	
•	
To assist the Board in development of the Group’s ESG goals and objectives
	
•	
To oversee the development and implementation of a framework for achievement of the Group’s ESG goals and objectives
	
•	
To oversee compliance with ESG regulations applicable to the Bank
	
•	
To monitor progress on the Group’s ESG framework implementation from time to time
	
•	
To oversee reporting and disclosure of the Group’s ESG performance in accordance with appropriate regulations and standards
	
Roles, Responsibilities, Functions and Powers for Donation
	
•	
To periodically review/approve Donations by the Bank, to not for profit organisations, as per authorisation matrix approved by the Board from 
time to time.
VII.	 Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of Frauds
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (Chairperson)
2.	
Mr. C S Rajan (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
3.	
Mr. Uday Khanna
4.	
Ms. Ashu Suyash
5.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
Statutory Reports
318
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, three (3) meetings of the Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of Frauds (“Special Committee on Frauds”) 
were held on 31st August, 2023, 16th November, 2023 and 29th January, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as 
under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. Uday Khanna
3/3
100
Ms. Ashu Suyash (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. C. Jayaram
3/3
100
Mr. KVS Manian (appointed w.e.f. 2nd September, 2023)
1/2
50
Mr. Uday Kotak (Chairperson and member till 1st September, 2023)
1/1
100
Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023)
2/2
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (Member till 1st September, 2023 and Chairperson and member till 
31st December, 2023)
2/2
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of the Special Committee on Frauds is in accordance with the criteria specified by the RBI vide its various applicable 
regulations, guidelines, notifications, directions, circulars, etc.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the Special Committee on Frauds is three members, including one Independent Director and the Managing 
Director & CEO being the Chairperson.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Special Committee on Frauds.
	
iv.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be a member of the Special Committee on Frauds, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, on 
30th April, 2024. Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the Special Committee on Frauds on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation. 
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The brief terms of reference of the Special Committee on Frauds, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as 
follows:
	
•	
To monitor and review all frauds, involving an amount of ` 10 million (i.e., ` 1 crore) and above
	
•	
To identify the systemic lacunae, if any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug the same
	
•	
To identify the reasons for delay in detection, if any, reporting to top management of the Bank and RBI/Serious Fraud Investigation 
Officer (“SFIO”), etc.
	
•	
To monitor recovery position
	
•	
To ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels and disciplinary actions, if required, are taken timely
	
•	
To review the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds such as strengthening of internal control environment
	
•	
To monitor and review red flag accounts as and when they are classified as per the guidelines prescribed by the RBI which shall include the 
synopsis of the remedial action taken together with their current status
	
•	
To review electronic banking frauds and monitor the progress of mitigating steps taken by the Bank in case of electronic frauds and the efficacy 
of the same in containing fraud numbers and values
VIII.	 Customer Service Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. Uday Shankar (Chairperson)
2.	
Mr. Uday Khanna
3.	
Mr. Uday Kotak
4.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
319
Report on Corporate Governance
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, four (4) meetings of the Customer Service Committee (“CSC”) were held on 27th June, 2023, 2nd December, 2023, 19th March 2024 
and 26th March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Uday Shankar
3/4
75
Mr. Uday Khanna (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
2/2
100
Mr. Uday Kotak
4/4
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
2/2
100
Mr. KVS Manian
3/4
75
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
2/2
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The composition of the CSC is in accordance with the criteria specified by the RBI vide its various applicable regulations, guidelines, notifications, 
directions, circulars, etc.
	
ii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the CSC is three members including one Independent Director.
	
iii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the CSC.
	
iv.	
Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the CSC on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The brief terms of reference of the CSC, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To bring about ongoing improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank
	
•	
To oversee the functioning of the customer service standing committee, compliance with the recommendations of the committee on 
procedures and performance audit and public services and also mount innovative measures for enhancing the quality of customer service and 
improving the level of customer satisfaction for all categories of cliental, at all times
	
•	
To review matters pertaining to customer service, grievance redressal mechanism, fair practices, recovery mechanism, outsourcing and other 
customer service related matters
	
•	
To review customer service/customer care aspects in the Bank and submit a detailed memorandum in this regard to the Board of Directors, 
once every six months
	
•	
To initiate prompt corrective action wherever service quality/skill gaps have been noticed
	
•	
To review and monitor Comprehensive Deposit Policy, setting out the rights of the depositors in general and small depositors in particular and 
other aspects as laid down in the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”)
	
•	
To review the status of settlement of claims in regard to deceased depositors
	
•	
To review and monitor the product approval processes
	
•	
To review and monitor Banking Ombudsman Awards passed by Banking Ombudsman relating to the Bank
	
•	
To review and monitor the steps and remedial actions taken by the Bank to reduce the customer complaints
	
•	
To review and monitor the service delivery channels
	
•	
To review and monitor the customer rights policy as mandated by RBI
	
•	
To formulate, review and monitor comprehensive policies for customer satisfaction and conduct annual survey of customer satisfaction
	
•	
To review the feedback obtained from the periodically audit of customer services
	
•	
To review of branding, marketing, digital and customer engagement activities of the Bank
	
•	
To control measure for ATMs and reconciliation of transactions at ATMs failure – time limit
	
•	
To understanding the broad trends and concentration in the growth of customer grievances and their resolution including mis-Selling, 
particularly third-party products and appropriateness of products to different customer segments.
	
•	
To examine any other issues having a bearing on the quality of customer services rendered
Statutory Reports
320
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
IX. 
Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Borrowers as Willful Defaulters
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. C S Rajan (Chairperson) (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
2.	
Mr. Uday Khanna
3.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
	
Meetings:
	
During FY 2023-24, no meeting of the Review Committee for Classification and Declaration of Borrowers as Willful Defaulters (“Review Committee”) 
was required to be held.
	
Notes:	
	
i.	
The composition of the Review Committee is in accordance with the criteria specified by the RBI vide its various applicable regulations, 
guidelines, notifications, directions, circulars, etc.
	
ii.	
Mr. Uday Kotak was the Chairperson and a member of the Review Committee till 1st September, 2023 and Mr. Dipak Gupta was appointed 
as a member of Review Committee w.e.f. 2nd September, 2023. Mr. Prakash Apte was Chairperson of the Review Committee from 
2nd September 2023 to 31st December, 2023. Mr. Prakash Apte was the Chairperson and member and Mr. Dipak Gupta was a member of the 
Review Committee till 31st December, 2023. Mr. C. Jayaram was a member of this Committee till 30th April 2024.
	
iii.	
The quorum for the meetings of the Review Committee is three members, including one Independent Director and the Managing Director & CEO.
	
iv.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Review Committee.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The brief terms of reference of the Review Committee of the Board, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as 
follows:
	
•	
To consider the Recommendation order passed by the Identification Committee and also consider the Written Representation, if any submitted 
by the Borrower before the Review Committee and pass necessary order, in accordance with law
	
•	
To put in place a system for proper and timely classification of borrowers as willful defaulters or/as non-cooperative borrowers and review the 
efficacy of the said system at least on an annual basis
	
•	
To review the status of non-cooperative borrowers at least on half yearly or at such other intervals as may be required by Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”)
	
•	
To decide on removal of the names from the list of non-cooperative borrowers as reported to Central Repository of Information of Large Credits 
(“CRILC”)
	
•	
To review, note and decide on any matter pertaining to willful defaulters or non-cooperative borrowers
	
•	
To review order passed by the Committee which decides classification of the borrower as non-cooperative borrower
	
•	
To review the information relating to the non-cooperative borrowers to be submitted to CRILC
	
•	
To hear the grievance of the borrowers who represent that they have been wrongly classified as willful defaulters
	
•	
To carry out such other functions as may delegated by the Board from time to time
X.	
Large Expenditure and Share Transfer and Other Matters Committee (earlier known as Share Transfer and Other Matters Committee)
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. C S Rajan (Chairperson)
2.	
Mr. Uday Kotak
3.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
4.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
321
Report on Corporate Governance
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, fourteen (14) meetings of the Large Expenditure and Share Transfer and Other Matters (“LESTOM”) Committee were held on 
16th June, 2023, 22nd June, 2023, 23rd June, 2023, 25th July, 2023, 4th August, 2023, 19th August, 2023, 1st September, 2023, 3rd October, 2023, 
1st November, 2023, 5th December, 2023, 5th January, 2024, 5th February, 2024, 13th February, 2024 and 20th March, 2024. The details of attendance of 
the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. C S Rajan (appointed w.e.f. 1st August, 2023)
10/10
100
Mr. Uday Kotak
14/14
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
4/4
100
Mr. KVS Manian
12/14
86
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
12/14
86
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
9/10
90
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the LESTOM Committee is any three members.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the LESTOM Committee.
	
iii.	
Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the LESTOM Committee on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The brief terms of reference of the LESTOM Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To approve transfer, transmission, transposition, name deletion, dematerialization, rematerialization, consolidation and splitting/sub-division of 
share, debenture or any other securities certificates of the Bank to the extent permitted in line with the provisions of applicable laws
	
•	
To issue new/duplicate share/debenture certificates
	
•	
To apply for registration of the Bank with various authorities of any state or centre including GST tax authorities, income tax authorities, shops 
& establishment authorities and to do or perform all matters relating to such matters
	
•	
To apply, in the name of and for the Bank for telephone, telex, fax and other telecommunication and electrical/electronic connections and to do 
all matters relating to such applications
	
•	
To open, operate and close bank accounts of the Bank and change the operating instructions of existing bank accounts of the Bank
	
•	
To authorise persons to sign on behalf of the Bank’s share certificates, share allotment letters and fixed deposit receipts
	
•	
To authorise persons to represent the Bank at General Meetings of any company or cooperative society of which the Bank is a shareholder/
member
	
•	
To fix the dates for closure of the Bank’s register of members and debenture holders and transfer books of shares or debentures and/or fixing 
record dates, in consultation with the stock exchanges
	
•	
To authorise the opening of securities general ledger account or any other account with any scheduled banks or with any department of the 
Reserve Bank of India
	
•	
To authorise persons to execute loan agreements, demand promissory notes and any other documents as may be necessary for lending out 
of any line of credit sanctioned to the Bank
	
•	
To authorise officials of the Bank to sign documents for registration of motor vehicles and to do all acts and things for the transfer of any such 
motor vehicles
	
•	
To authorise employee(s) or others to execute, for and on behalf of the Bank, agreements, applications, deeds, documents and any other 
writings in connection with the business of the Bank and, if required, to issue power of attorney in favour of such persons for the purpose
	
•	
To authorise employee(s) or others to represent the Bank before any court, tribunal, consumer redressal forum or any statutory or other 
authority on any matter relating to the operations of the Bank or with which the Bank is in any way connected or to represent the Bank generally 
or for any specific purpose or purposes and, if required, issue power of attorney in favour of such persons for the purpose
	
•	
To appoint or change nominees to hold shares for and on behalf of the Bank in any subsidiary/associate companies
	
•	
To grant permission and authorise incorporation of companies, with a prefix “Kotak Mahindra” before the name
	
•	
To authorise the use of the common seal of the Bank and to appoint persons to sign/countersign documents, etc. on which the common seal 
is to be affixed
Statutory Reports
322
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
•	
To approve appointment of any employee/Director of the Bank or any other person as a nominee on the Board of other companies under 
certain circumstances to protect the interest of the Bank’s exposures/investments in such companies
	
•	
To approve appointment of any employee of the Bank as a part-time employee of any other company under certain circumstances to protect 
the interest of the Bank’s exposures/investments in such companies
	
•	
To approve appointment of any employee/director of the Bank or any other person as an appointee on the Board of other companies (including 
Section 8 companies) LLPs, firms, if so invited
	
•	
To carry out the activities in respect of equity shares of erstwhile ING Vysya Bank Ltd. being rights shares held in abeyance for various reasons
	
•	
To authorise employee(s) to delegate authority to any other employee(s) or others in respect of any of the matters stated herein subject to it 
being permissible under applicable law
	
•	
To authorise employee(s) to execute, for and on behalf of the Bank, agreements, applications, or documents in connection with the minority 
investments made by the Bank, which have been approved in accordance with Bank’s policies or by the Board and its various Committees, from 
time to time
	
•	
To authorise employee(s) to execute, for and on behalf of the Bank, non-binding term sheets, expression of interest and any other writings in 
connection with evaluation of inorganic growth opportunities (such as acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures, asset purchases etc.) or minority 
financial investments
	
•	
To evaluate tie ups with multiple insurers after assessing the overall impact of the open architecture regime in insurance distribution and 
studying the market conduct under the applicable regulations and recommend to the Board for further tie up with other insurance companies 
as permitted by regulations
	
•	
To, inter alia, finalise the structure and terms and conditions of the Non-Convertible Debentures, within the approval granted by the Board from 
time to time. (Arising out of authority given by the Board at its earlier meetings for issuance of NCDs)
	
•	
To approve expenses as mentioned in the Expense Approval Authorities, as approved by the Board from time to time
XI.	
Management Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (Chairperson)
2.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, one (1) meeting of the Management Committee was held on 28th March, 2024. The details of attendance of the Directors at the 
said meeting is, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f 1st January, 2024)
1/1
100
Mr. KVS Manian
1/1
100
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
1/1
100
Mr. Uday Kotak (Chairperson and member till 1st September, 2023)
0/0
-
Mr. Dipak Gupta (member till 1st September, 2023 and Chairperson and member till 
31st December, 2023)
0/0
-
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the Management Committee is any two members.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Management Committee.
	
iii.	
Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the Management Committee on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The terms of reference of the Management Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To bring operational flexibility in processing of credit proposals
	
•	
To discharge other responsibilities prescribed in different directives of Reserve Bank of India including periodical calendar of reviews
	
•	
To carry out such other functions as may delegated by the Board from time to time
323
Report on Corporate Governance
XII.	 Committee on Derivative Products
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (Chairperson)
2.	
Mr. Eli Leenaars (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
3.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, two (2) meetings of the Committee on Derivative Products were held on 14th June, 2023 and 29th September, 2023. The details of 
attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
0/0
-
Mr. KVS Manian
2/2
100
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
2/2
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (Chairperson and member till 31st December, 2023)
2/2
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the Committee on Derivative Products is three members.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee on Derivative Products.
	
iii.	
Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the Committee on Derivative Products on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The terms of reference of the Committee on Derivative Products, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To examine and accord approval, after approval from the Senior Management Committee of the Bank, for the new products after their 
comprehensive evaluation (including of various parameters), before being offered to the customers of the Bank
	
•	
To decide on the implementation of regulatory guidelines and framework regarding foreign exchange and rupee derivative products, including 
Suitability and Appropriateness (S&A) framework for derivative products
XIII.	  ESOP Allotment Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (Chairperson)
2.	
Mr. C S Rajan (appointed w.e.f. 1st May, 2024)
3.	
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, nine (9) meetings of the ESOP Allotment Committee were held on 17th May, 2023, 30th June, 2023, 31st July, 2023, 
31st August, 2023, 29th September, 2023, 31st October, 2023, 28th December, 2023, 31st January, 2024 and 11th March, 2024. The details of attendance 
of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Mr. C. Jayaram
9/9
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
2/2
100
Mr. Uday Kotak (till 1st September, 2023)
4/4
100
Mr. KVS Manian (appointed w.e.f. 2nd September, 2023)
5/5
100
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
8/9
89
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
7/7
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the ESOP Allotment Committee is three members.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the ESOP Allotment Committee.
	
iii.	
Mr. C. Jayaram ceased to be the Chairman and member of the ESOP Allotment Committee, on completion of his term as a Non-Executive Director, 
on 30th April, 2024. Mr. KVS Manian ceased to be a member of the ESOP Allotment Committee on 30th April, 2024, on account of his resignation.
Statutory Reports
324
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The terms of reference of the ESOP Allotment Committee, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To allot shares arising out of the options exercised in accordance with the terms and conditions of the various ESOP Schemes of the Bank
	
•	
To carry out such other functions as may delegated by the Board from time to time
XIV.	 Credit and Investment Committee
	
Current Composition:
1.	
Ms. Ashu Suyash (Chairperson)
2.	
Ms. Ketaki Bhagwati (appointed w.e.f. 18th May, 2024)
3.	
Mr. Uday Kotak
4.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, twenty two (22) meetings of the Credit and Investment Committee (“CIC”) were held on 21st April, 2023, 17th May, 2023, 
16th June, 2023, 17th July, 2023, 18th August, 2023, 24th August, 2023, 15th September, 2023, 21st September, 2023, 27th September, 2023, 
17th October, 2023, 16th November, 2023, 23rd November, 2023, 4th December, 2023, 9th December, 2023, 18th December, 2023, 15th January, 2024, 
24th January, 2024, 1st February, 2024, 15th February, 2024,  27th February, 2024, 13th March, 2024 and 26th March, 2024. The details of attendance of 
the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Ms. Ashu Suyash
22/22
100
Mr. Uday Kotak (Chairperson till 1st September, 2023)
22/22
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 1st January, 2024)
7/7
100
Mr. Dipak Gupta (till 31st December, 2023)
14/15
93
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the CIC is two members (of which one shall be Managing Direct & CEO).
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the CIC.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The brief terms of reference of CIC, as amended and forming part of its comprehensive Charter document are, as follows:
	
•	
To approve and/or recommend to the Board credit exposures (Single and/or and Group exposures) as per the thresholds determined by the 
Board of Directors from time to time
	
•	
To approve and/or recommend to the Board investments in Initial Public Offerings as per the thresholds determined by the Board of Directors 
from time to time
XV.	 Subsidiary Oversight and Governance Committee
	
During FY 2023-24, the Board has constituted the Subsidiary Oversight and Governance Committee (“SOGC”).
	
Current Composition:
	
1.	
Ms. Ashu Suyash (Chairperson)
	
2.	
Mr. Uday Khanna
	
3.	
Mr. Uday Kotak
	
4.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
325
Report on Corporate Governance
	
Meetings and Attendance:
	
During FY 2023-24, four (4) meetings of the SOGC were held on 26th October, 2023, 30th November, 2023, 4th March, 2024 and 27th March, 2024. 
The details of attendance of the Directors at these meetings are, as under:
Name of Director(s)
Attendance Status
% attendance of Director
Ms. Ashu Suyash
4/4
100
Mr. Uday Khanna
4/4
100
Mr. Uday Kotak
4/4
100
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (appointed w.e.f. 15th March, 2024)
1/1
100
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the SOGC is higher of one-third of total strength or two members.
	
ii.	
The Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the SOGC.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
The SOGC has been constituted to review such matters as may be delegated to it or as it may deem fit for oversight and governance function
XVI.	 IT Strategy & Digital Payments Promotion Committee
	
The Bank had in place a Non-Board level IT Strategy & Digital Payments Promotion Committee (“ITSC”) comprising three Directors of the Bank along 
with other members of the management of the Bank. In the light of the RBI Master Direction on Information Technology Governance, Risk, Controls 
and Assurance Practices (“RBI Master Direction”) issued by the RBI dated 7th November, 2023, the Board of the Bank reconstituted the ITSC, as a 
Board Level Committee, effective from 1st April, 2024, as given below, in line with the aforesaid RBI Master Direction.
	
Current Composition:
	
1.	
Mr. Uday Shankar (Chairperson)
	
2.	
Mr. Eli Leenaars
	
3.	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani
	
Meetings:
	
During FY 2023-24, five (5) meetings of the ITSC were held on 18th July, 2023, 24th November, 2023, 27th December, 2024, 5th February, 2024 and 
19th March, 2024. 
	
Notes:
	
i.	
The quorum for the meetings of the ITSC is two members, including at least one Independent Director. 
	
ii.	
The Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”)  and Chief Investor Security Officer (“CISO”) are permanent invitees to the ITSC meetings. 
	
iii.	
The CISO acts as Secretary to the ITSC.
	
Roles, Responsibilities and Functions:
	
•	
Decide the composition and perform oversight functions over the IT Steering Committee (at a senior management level) and Information 
Security Committee
	
•	
Work in partnership with other Board committees and Senior Management to provide inputs on relevant matters
	
•	
Drive, monitor and promote/facilitate Digital Payments
	
•	
Guide in preparation of IT Strategy and ensure that the IT Strategy aligns with the overall strategy of the Bank towards accomplishment of its 
business objectives
	
•	
Ensure that the Bank has put an effective IT strategic planning process in place
	
•	
Satisfy itself that the IT Governance and Information Security Governance structure fosters accountability, is effective and efficient, has 
adequate skilled resources, well defined objectives and unambiguous responsibilities for each level in the Bank
Statutory Reports
326
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
•	
Ensure that the Bank has put in place processes for assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks
	
•	
Review the cyber security risks/arrangements/preparedness of the Bank on a quarterly basis. CISO to make a presentation to the Committee 
and to the Board/Risk Management Committee, if requested
	
•	
Assist the Risk Management Committee of Board in periodic review of IT related risks and Cyber Security related risks at least on a yearly basis
	
•	
Ensure that the budgetary allocations for the IT function (including for IT security), cyber security are commensurate with the Bank’s IT maturity, 
digital depth, threat environment and industry standards and are utilised in a manner intended for meeting the stated objectives
	
•	
Review, at least on annual basis, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery Management of 
the Bank
	
•	
Assess the IT capacity requirements of the Bank and measures taken to address the issues
	
•	
Approve documented standards and procedures and keep them upto date for administering need-based access to an information system
	
•	
Approve Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO), wherever necessary, for all critical information systems
	
•	
Such other matters as may be delegated from time to time by the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof or as prescribed under any 
applicable law
	
The Committee may investigate activities within its scope, seek information from any employee, obtain outside legal or professional advice and 
secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary, in order to carry out the responsibilities assigned to it
	
CODE OF CONDUCT
	
The Bank has adopted the Codes of Conduct, applicable to the Board of Directors and Employees including Senior Management Personnel, 
respectively.
	
Both the Codes of Conduct have been posted on the website of the Bank viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/
policies.html
	
All the Directors of the Board and Senior Management Personnel of the Bank have affirmed compliance with their respective Codes. A declaration 
signed by the Managing Director & CEO to this effect is given at the end of this Report.
	
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
	
The Bank believes in familiarizing the Independent Directors and Non-Executive Directors with the nature of the industry in which the Bank operates, 
business model and other important matters relating to the Bank’s business through induction programmes at the time of their appointment.
	
Presentations on critical parameters, such as, business strategy, financial outlook, financial reports and their integrity, risk, compliance, environmental, 
social and governance, corporate social responsibility, financial inclusion, human resources, consumer banking business, wholesale banking business, 
technology, customer service and cyber security awareness, etc., were made to the Directors periodically.
	
The complete details of the familiarisation programs conducted for the Directors of the Bank are available on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://
www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/familiarisation-programme.html
	
Induction program for new Directors
	
Presentations were made to familiarise the new Directors with the nature of the industry in which the Bank operates. A three-day program was 
conducted covering presentations on Kotak Mahindra Group structure, Financials, the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations (important provisions), 
Commercial Bank, Human Resources, Consumer Bank, Kotak Securities, Investment Banking, Wealth Management, Wholesale Bank, Asset 
Reconstruction, Treasury, Risk Management, Internal Audit, Asset Management, Information Technology, Digital, Customer Service, Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance, etc.
327
Report on Corporate Governance
FEES PAID TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS
The Profit and Loss Account of the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March, 2024, include the following fees paid/payable to their respective 
Statutory Auditors:
(` in crore)
Entity Name(s)
Auditor’s Name(s)
Statutory 
Audit Fees
Other 
Matters
Total
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited*
Price Waterhouse LLP
 3.60 
 0.46 
 4.06 
KKC & Associates LLP
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited  
(Overseas Branch and Representative Office)
KPI Ahli
 0.09 
 0.01 
 0.10 
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
M M Nissim & Co. LLP 
 1.56 
 0.09 
 1.65 
Mukund M. Chitale & Co.
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
Kalyaniwalla & Mistry LLP 
 0.32 
 0.04 
 0.36 
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
Gokhale & Sathe
 0.09 
 0.02 
 0.11 
Kotak Securities Limited 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
 1.25 
 0.09 
 1.34 
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
 0.21 
 0.01 
 0.22 
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
Price Waterhouse LLP 
M M Nissim & Co. LLP
 0.88 
 0.10 
 0.98 
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
V. C. Shah & Co.  
MSKA & Associates
 0.41 
 0.07 
 0.48 
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
Price Waterhouse Chartered  
Accountants LLP
 0.41 
 0.05 
 0.46 
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
V. C. Shah & Co.
 0.03 
 0.01 
 0.04 
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
Manohar Chowdhry & Associates
 0.02 
 - 
 0.02 
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (formerly 
known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
Price Waterhouse LLP
 0.42 
 0.01 
 0.43 
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
 0.06 
 - 
 0.06 
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
Ernst & Young LLP
 1.49 
 0.08 
 1.57 
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
Ernst & Young Mauritius
 0.41 
 0.01 
 0.42 
Kotak Mahindra, Inc.
KNAV CPA LLP
 0.20 
 - 
 0.20 
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. 
Limited
Ernst & Young LLP
 0.46 
 0.01 
 0.47 
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
Ernst & Young Middle East
 0.12 
 0.03 
 0.15 
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
V. C. Shah & Co.
 0.01 
 - 
 0.01 
BSS Microfinance Limited
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
 0.20 
 0.01 
 0.21 
Sonata Finance Private Limited**
B R Maheswari & Co. LLP
 0.05 
 - 
 0.05 
Total
 12.29 
 1.10
 13.39
* Excludes fees paid for audit of Overseas Branch which is done by a non-network firm.
** Audit fees for Sonata Finance Private Limited is w.e.f 28th March, 2024 (date on which it became subsidiary of the Bank).
Note:  
On 26th June, 2023, the Bank has incorporated ""Kotak Karma Foundation"" (“the Foundation”) under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, as a wholly owned subsidiary for setting 
up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Bank for furtherance of part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives. Being a Section 8 company and as per terms of articles, 
the Foundation would operate with restrictions to transfer funds to the parent, hence, in accordance with the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on “Consolidated Financial 
Statements”, the Company has been excluded from consolidation. Fees for Statutory Audit is to V. C. Shah & Co. of H 0.01 crore.
The Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss Account includes fees to Statutory Auditors of the Bank and their network firms for services post their 
appointment, as under:
(` in crore)
Entity Name(s)
Name of the Firm(s)
Total Fees
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Price Waterhouse LLP
 1.97
KKC & Associates LLP
2.09
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
0.48
Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP
0.21
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited
Price Waterhouse LLP
0.46
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
0.46
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
Price Waterhouse LLP
0.51
Total
 6.18
Statutory Reports
328
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Particulars of Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”):
Sr. 
No.
Name(s)
Designation
Particulars of change in SMP, if any
1.
Mr. Milind Nagnur
Chief Technology Officer and Chief Operating Officer
Appointed as Chief Operating Officer w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
2.
Mr. Paul Parambi
Group Chief Risk Officer
Re-designated as Group Chief Risk Officer w.e.f. 1st March, 2024
3.
Mr. Virat Diwanji
Group President – Consumer Bank
-
4.
Mr. Jaideep Hansraj
Group President – One Kotak
Appointed w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
5.
Ms. Oisharya Das
Group President, Kotak Private Banking
-
6.
Mr. Jaimin Bhatt
Group Chief Financial Officer
Till 31st March, 2024
7.
Mr. Devang Gheewalla
Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
8.
Mr. T.V. Sudhakar
Chief Compliance Officer
Till 22nd October, 2023
9.
Mr. Himanshu Vasa
Chief Compliance Officer
Appointed w.e.f. 23rd October, 2023
10.
Ms. Avan Doomasia
Company Secretary
-
11.
Mr. Anantha Raman R.
Head - Internal Audit
-
SHAREHOLDER RELATED INFORMATION
GENERAL MEETINGS
The details of General meetings of the members of the Bank held during the last three years are given, as below:
General Meetings
Day, Date, Time and Location
Special Business
Thirty-Eighth 
Annual General 
Meeting
Saturday, 19th August, 2023, 10:00 a.m. IST 
through Video Conferencing/Other Audio 
Visual Means, deemed to have been held at 
the Registered Office of the Bank at 27BKC, C 
27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai – 400 051
There was no Special Business at the Thirty-Eighth Annual General Meeting of 
the Bank
Thirty-Seventh 
Annual General 
Meeting
Saturday, 27th August, 2022, 10:00 a.m. IST 
through Video Conferencing/Other Audio 
Visual Means, deemed to have been held at 
the Registered Office of the Bank at 27BKC, C 
27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai – 400 051
Ordinary Resolutions:
i.	
Re-appointment of Mr. KVS Manian as Whole-time Director of the Bank 
for a period of three years, with effect from 1st November, 2022 or the date 
of approval by the RBI, whichever is later and payment of remuneration to 
him
ii.	
Appointment of Ms. Shanti Ekambaram as Whole-time Director of the 
Bank for a period of three years, with effect from 1st November, 2022 
or the date of approval by the RBI, whichever is later and payment of 
remuneration to her
iii.	
Material Related Party Transaction with Infina Finance Private Limited 
from Thirty-Seventh Annual General Meeting to Thirty-Eighth Annual 
General Meeting
iv.	
Material Related Party Transaction with Mr. Uday Kotak from Thirty-
Seventh Annual General Meeting to Thirty-Eighth Annual General Meeting
Thirty-Sixth Annual 
General Meeting
Wednesday, 25th August, 2021, 11:00 a.m. IST 
through Video Conferencing/Other Audio 
Visual Means, deemed to have been held at 
the Registered Office of the Bank at 27BKC, C 
27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai – 400 051
Ordinary Resolutions:
i.	
Appointment of Dr. Ashok Gulati as a Director and an Independent Director 
of the Bank for a period of five years, with effect from 6th March, 2021 to 
5th March, 2026
ii.	
Material Related Party Transaction with Infina Finance Private Limited
iii.	
Material Related Party Transaction with Mr. Uday Kotak
iv.	
Related Party Transaction for payment of remuneration to Mr. Jay Kotak, 
son of Mr. Uday Kotak, Managing Director & CEO and a Key Managerial 
Person, who is holding an Office or Place of Profit in the Bank
329
Report on Corporate Governance
General Meetings
Day, Date, Time and Location
Special Business
Special Resolutions:
i.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Uday Khanna as an Independent Director of the 
Bank for a second term, with effect from 16th September, 2021 up to 
15th September, 2024.
ii.	
Issuance of Redeemable Unsecured Non-Convertible Debentures/Bonds/
other debt securities on a private placement basis for an amount not 
exceeding ` 5,000 crore.
iii.	
Payment of Compensation by way of Fixed Remuneration to Non-
Executive Directors (excluding the Non-Executive Part-time Chairman), up 
to the overall ceiling of ` 20 lakh per annum or such higher amount as may 
be prescribed by RBI, for a period of 5 years, with effect from FY 2021-22.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended from 
time to time and the provisions of Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has been providing remote e-voting facility to its members to 
enable them to cast their votes by electronic means on all resolutions.
POSTAL BALLOT
In accordance with the General Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020 and General Circular No. 17/2020 dated 13th April, 2020 read with other 
relevant circulars, including General Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25th September, 2023, issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India 
(“MCA circulars”), the approval of the members of the Bank for the below mentioned resolutions was sought through 3 (three) separate postal ballot events, 
during FY 2023-24.
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and pursuant to the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 of the Act read with the Rules and 
the MCA circulars, in respect of both the postal ballot events, the Bank had extended only the remote e-voting facility for its members, to enable them to 
cast their votes electronically instead of submitting the postal ballot forms.
Mr. P. N. Parikh, Practising Company Secretary and Partner in Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries (FCS: 327 and COP: 1228) acted as the Scrutiniser 
in these postal ballot events and conducted the same in a fair and transparent manner.
The Bank had engaged the services of National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) for providing remote e-voting facilities to the members, enabling 
them to cast their vote in a secure manner.
POSTAL BALLOT CONDUCTED DURING SEPTEMBER– OCTOBER 2023:
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 2nd September, 2023, had appointed Mr. Dipak Gupta to carry on the duties of 
Managing Director & CEO, as an interim arrangement, from 2nd September 2023, subject to the approval of the RBI and the members of the Bank.
The Notice of Postal Ballot dated 29th September, 2023 along with Explanatory Statement and remote e-voting instructions were sent to all the members in 
electronic form only, on the same date i.e. Friday, 29th September, 2023, for recording their assent or dissent through electronic means. The remote e-voting 
commenced on 1st October, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ended on 30th October, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). Voting rights of Members were reckoned in proportion to 
their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank as on 29th September, 2023.
The Scrutiniser had submitted his report dated 31st October, 2023 on postal ballot (through remote e-voting process). The resolution was deemed to have 
been duly passed on the last date specified for remote e-voting i.e. 30th October, 2023. 
The details of the voting pattern are, given below:
Resolution No. 1
Appointment of Mr. Dipak Gupta as Managing Director & CEO of the Bank from 2nd September, 2023 
to 31st December, 2023 and payment of remuneration to him
Ordinary/Special
Ordinary
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.9374
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.0626
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Statutory Reports
330
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
POSTAL BALLOT CONDUCTED DURING NOVEMBER-DECEMBER 2023:
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 17th November, 2023, had approved and recommended the following items for approval of the 
members of the Bank:
i.	
Appointment of Mr. Ashok Vaswani as a Director and Managing Director & CEO of the Bank and payment of remuneration to him
ii.	
Approval of ‘Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023’ for eligible employees of the Bank
iii.	
Approval of ‘Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023’ for eligible employees of the subsidiaries of the Bank
The Notice of Postal Ballot dated 22nd November, 2023 along with Explanatory Statement and remote e-voting instructions were sent to all the members 
in electronic form only, on the same day i.e. Wednesday, 22nd November, 2023, for recording their assent or dissent through electronic means. The remote 
e-voting commenced on 23rd November, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ended on 22nd December, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). Voting rights of Members were reckoned 
in proportion to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank as on 17th November, 2023.
The Scrutiniser had submitted his report dated 23rd December, 2023 on postal ballot (through remote e-voting process). The resolutions were deemed to 
have been duly passed on the last date specified for remote e-voting i.e. 22nd December, 2023. The details of the voting pattern are, given below:
Resolution No. 1
Appointment of Mr. Ashok Vaswani as a Director and Managing Director & CEO of the Bank and 
payment of remuneration to him
Ordinary/Special
Ordinary
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.3439
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.6561
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 2
Approval of ‘Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023’ for eligible employees of the Bank
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
98.8356
% of Votes against on votes polled
1.1644
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 3
Approval of ‘Kotak Mahindra Equity Option Scheme 2023’ for eligible employees of the subsidiaries 
of the Bank
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
98.7806
% of Votes against on votes polled
1.2194
Result
Passed with requisite majority
POSTAL BALLOT CONDUCTED DURING FEBRUARY – MARCH 2024:
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 20th January, 2024, had approved and recommended the following items for approval of the 
members of the Bank:
i.	
Payment of remuneration to Mr. C S Rajan as Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
ii.	
Appointment of Mr. Eli Leenaars as a Director and an Independent Director of the Bank
iii.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Uday Shankar as an Independent Director of the Bank
iv.	
Issuance of Unsecured, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures/Bonds/other Debt Securities on a private placement basis during FY 2024-25
v.	
Material Related Party Transaction(s) with Mr. Uday Kotak during FY 2024-25
vi.	
Material Related Party Transaction(s) with Infina Finance Private Limited during FY 2024-25
The Notice of Postal Ballot dated 10th February, 2024 along with Explanatory Statement and remote e-voting instructions were sent to all the members in 
electronic form only, on the same day i.e. Saturday, 10th February, 2024, for recording their assent or dissent through electronic means. The remote e-voting 
commenced on 12th February, 2024 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ended on 12th March, 2024 (5:00 p.m. IST). Voting rights of Members were reckoned in proportion 
to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank as on 8th February, 2024.
331
Report on Corporate Governance
The Scrutiniser had submitted his report dated 13th March, 2024 on postal ballot (through remote e-voting process). The resolutions were deemed to have 
been duly passed on the last date specified for remote e-voting i.e. 12th March, 2024. The details of the voting pattern are, given below:
Resolution No. 1
Payment of remuneration to Mr. C S Rajan as Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.9978
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.0022
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 2
Appointment of Mr. Eli Leenaars as a Director and an Independent Director of the Bank
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.9927
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.0073
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 3
Re-appointment of Mr. Uday Shankar as an Independent Director of the Bank
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.0176
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.9824
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 4
Issuance of Unsecured, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures/Bonds/other Debt Securities on 
a private placement basis during FY 2024-25
Ordinary/Special
Special
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.2370
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.7630
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 5
Material Related Party Transaction(s) with Mr. Uday Kotak during FY 2024-25
Ordinary/Special
Ordinary
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.9964
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.0036
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Resolution No. 6
Material Related Party Transaction(s) with Infina Finance Private Limited during FY 2024-25
Ordinary/Special
Ordinary
% of Votes in favour on votes polled
99.9961
% of Votes against on votes polled
0.0039
Result
Passed with requisite majority
Currently, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through postal ballot
FINANCIALS COMPLIANCE CALENDAR
For each calendar quarter, the quarterly and annual standalone and consolidated financial results of the Bank are reviewed and taken on 
record/approved by the Board, within the statutory prescribed time period and then disclosed to the Stock Exchanges as required under Regulation 30 read with 
sub-para 4 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said financial results along with the earnings update and investor 
presentation, are posted on the website of the Bank and are available for the current as well as at least previous five financial years. Every quarter, the 
Managing Director & CEO and the Whole-time Director(s) along with the senior officials of the Bank and its subsidiaries participate on a call with the 
analysts/investors, the transcripts of which are posted on the website of the Bank. The Bank also has dedicated personnel to respond to queries from 
investors.
Statutory Reports
332
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BOARD MEETING CALENDAR FOR FY 2024-25
Standalone and Consolidated Financial Results for:
Tentative Date
Quarter ending 30th June, 2024 (unaudited)
End of the subsequent month from the end of the quarter.
Quarter and half year ending 30th September, 2024 (unaudited)
Quarter and nine month ending 31st December, 2024 (unaudited)
Financial year/quarter ending 31st March, 2025 (audited)
The Annual General Meeting to consider such annual accounts is held in the second quarter of the financial year
Equity Shares
The Equity Shares of the Bank have face value of ` 5/- each and are listed on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”). 
The International Security Identification Number (“ISIN”) in respect of the Equity Shares and the Market Scrip Code/Symbol are, as under:
Name & Address of Stock Exchange(s)
Market Scrip Code/Symbol
International Security 
Identification Number (“ISIN”)
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001
500247
INE237A01028
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra, Mumbai 400 051
KOTAKBANK
The annual listing fee for FY 2024-25 has been paid to BSE and NSE on time. Annual Custody/Issuer fee for FY 2024-25 has also been paid to the 
Depositories, based on invoices received.
As required under Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Mr. S. Anand SS Rao, Company Secretary in Practice, has examined the records relating 
to share transfer, etc., on an annual basis and has issued a certificate confirming compliance with the said provisions. The Bank has, accordingly submitted 
the same to BSE and NSE, where its equity shares are listed.
TRADING OF SHARES TO BE IN COMPULSORILY DEMATERIALISED FORM
The equity shares of the Bank are traded only in dematerialised form. Transfer of shares held in physical form cannot be processed.
Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank shall (i) effect issuance of certificates in dematerialised form only, for any requests received for 
sub-division, split, consolidation, renewal, exchanges, endorsements or issuance of duplicate certificates; and (ii) execute requests for transmission and 
transposition of securities, held in physical or dematerialised form, in dematerialised form only. Investors holding shares in physical form are advised to 
dematerialize their existing holdings.
SIMPLIFIED NORMS FOR PROCESSING INVESTOR’S SERVICE REQUEST BY RTAs AND NORMS FOR FURNISHING PAN, KYC DETAILS AND 
NOMINATION
SEBI has mandated:
a)	
furnishing of details of PAN, Nomination, Contact details, Bank Account details and Specimen signature for their respective folio numbers by the 
holders of physical securities
b)	
processing of any service request in respect of physical securities only upon registration of the details of PAN, bank account and nomination; and
c)	
linking of PAN with Aadhaar number
In terms of the said SEBI mandate, folios, wherein any of the above mentioned document/details (except for nomination) are not available, such members 
will not be eligible to lodge any grievance or avail service request from the Registrars and Transfer Agent or receive any dividend from the Bank in physical 
mode.
The Bank has written individually to the concerned members to take appropriate action in this regard. Members holding Equity Shares of the Bank in 
physical mode are advised to contact the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Bank, viz., KFin Technologies Limited for further details or for updating 
their PAN, KYC and Nomination details.
333
Report on Corporate Governance
BREAK-UP OF THE SHARES HELD IN PHYSICAL AND ELECTRONIC MODE AS ON 31ST MARCH, 2024
Equity Shares
Physical Mode
Electronic Mode
No. of Shares
% of Shares
No. of Shares
% of Shares
3,100,058
0.15
NSDL
1,935,411,976
97.36
CDSL
49,408,864
2.49
Total Shares
1,984,820,840
99.85
Preference Shares
The Bank had issued 1,000,000,000, 8.10% Non-Convertible Perpetual Non–Cumulative Preference Shares (“PNCPS”) (INE237A04014) of face value of 
` 5/- each, in 2018, in dematerialised form. The PNCPS were listed with BSE and NSE, with effect from 6th August, 2018.
The Bank exercised the Call Option on PNCPS and upon payment of Call Option Price (i.e., the face value of PNCPS) and the dividend due thereon, the 
PNCPS stood extinguished on 13th March, 2024.
Debentures and Bonds
The Bank has issued Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCD”)/Bonds on private placement basis and the same are listed on the BSE/NSE. Details of the 
outstanding Non-Convertible Debentures/Bonds as on 31st March, 2024 are, as follows:
ISIN
Description
Coupon 
Rate (p.a.)
Redemption Date
Quantity
Face Value 
(` in lakh)
Amount 
(` in lakh)
BSE Scrip 
Code
NSE 
Symbol
INE237A08940
Senior, Unsecured, 
Rated , Listed 
Redeemable, 
Long Term Bonds 
in the Nature of 
Debentures
8.25%
28th April, 2026
1,500
10
15,000
974396
KMB29
INE237A08957
7.63%
1st December, 2029
15,000
10
150,000
958687
KMB26
INE237A08965
7.85%
20th March, 2030
30,000
1
30,000
974682
KMB30
INE237A08973
7.55%
24th June, 2030
189,500
1
189,500
974924
KMB30
INE237A08981
7.60%
14th February, 2031
100,000
1
100,000
975387
N.A.
Transfer of unclaimed dividend and shares/fractional entitlements to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act and the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016 (“Rules”), any dividend which remains unpaid or unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of its transfer to the unpaid account, shall 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central Government. Further, all shares in respect of which the 
dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority.
During FY 2023-24, the Bank has transferred unclaimed/unpaid dividend aggregating ` 45.16 lakh pertaining to FY 2015-16 to IEPF.
The table given below gives the dates of dividend declaration and the corresponding dates when unclaimed/unpaid dividends are due to be transferred to 
the Fund:
Financial Year
Dividend Type
Date of Declaration
Due Date of Transfer
2016-17
Final
20th July, 2017
19th August, 2024
2017-18
Final
19th July, 2018
18th August, 2025
2018-19
Final
22nd July, 2019
21st August, 2026
2019-20
As per the notification of RBI dated 17th April, 2020, banks were advised not to declare dividend on equity shares 
for FY 2019-20.
2020-21
Final
25th August, 2021
24th September, 2028
2021-22
Final
27th August, 2022
26th September, 2029
2022-23
Final
19th August, 2023
18th September, 2030
No dividend on PNCPS and interest on NCDs has remained unclaimed/unpaid for any financial year.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Rules and the subsequent various circulars/notifications issued by MCA in this regard, the Bank has transferred a 
total of 195,990 equity shares to IEPF Authority during FY 2023-24 (cumulative till date: 4,231,737). The voting rights on the equity shares transferred 
to the IEPF Authority shall remain frozen till the rightful owner claims the shares. The details of such equity shares transferred to IEPF are available 
on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/investor-information/investor-info.html Till date, 774,825 equity shares 
(including 194,726 equity shares during FY 2023-24) have been released by the IEPF Authority to the rightful claimants. 
Statutory Reports
334
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Bank has initiated necessary steps for the transfer of relevant unclaimed/unpaid amounts and Equity Shares to IEPF Authority during FY 2024-25. 
The Bank has also uploaded on its website, the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Bank as on 31st March, 2024 and the same can be 
accessed at https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/investor-information/investor-info.html
The details of Equity Shares liable to be transferred during FY 2024-25 as also those already transferred to the IEPF Authority are available on the website 
of the Bank viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/investor-information/investor-info.html
The procedure to claim unpaid/unencashed amounts/unclaimed shares transfered to IEPF Authority is available on the Bank’s website viz., https://www.
kotak.com/en/investor-relations/investor-information/iepf.html
Share Price Details
Market price data - Monthly High, Low, Closing price of Equity Shares of the Bank, on BSE vis-à-vis S&P BSE 100 and S&P BSE Bankex:
Month
High
	
	
Low
Close
S&P BSE 100
S&P BSE Bankex
April 2023
1,943.40
1,734.05
1,937.70
18,324.96
48,981.83
May 2023
2,063.00
1,896.50
1,994.60
18,909.41
50,017.52
June 2023
1,977.75
1,815.85
1,847.20
19,571.34
50,500.57
July 2023
1,987.00
1,836.20
1,856.50
20,150.32
51,432.39
August 2023
1,865.90
1,747.00
1,759.60
19,764.93
49,371.95
September 2023
1,835.55
1,729.00
1,735.70
20,123.30
50,174.68
October 2023
1,780.00
1,688.20
1,739.15
19,558.03
48,448.07
November 2023
1,784.00
1,718.00
1,755.50
20,718.71
50,292.51
December 2023
1,926.00
1,747.60
1,908.10
22,384.89
54,378.31
January 2024
1,918.70
1,752.60
1,824.55
22,509.19
51,999.08
February 2024
1,849.95
1,666.80
1,690.80
22,921.27
52,456.58
March 2024
1,803.50
1,691.05
1,785.80
23,294.04
53,515.19
Market price data - Monthly High, Low, Closing price of Equity Shares of the Bank, on NSE vis-à-vis NIFTY 50 and NIFTY Bank:
Month
High
	
	
Low
Close
Nifty 50
Nifty Bank
April 2023
1,943.30
1,733.20
1,938.05
18,065.00
43,233.90
May 2023
2,064.40
1,890.00
2,014.35
18,534.40
44,128.15
June 2023
1,979.15
1,815.30
1,846.55
19,189.05
44,747.35
July 2023
1,987.75
1,836.05
1,856.55
19,753.80
45,651.10
August 2023
1,865.75
1,746.50
1,758.75
19,253.80
43,989.15
September 2023
1,836.00
1,729.00
1,735.70
19,638.30
44,584.55
October 2023
1,779.95
1,688.40
1,739.40
19,079.60
42,845.95
November 2023
1,784.25
1,717.85
1,755.45
20,133.15
44,481.75
December 2023
1,926.50
1,748.25
1,908.10
21,731.40
48,292.25
January 2024
1,919.00
1,752.40
1,825.25
21,725.70
45,996.80
February 2024
1,850.00
1,667.40
1,689.45
21,982.80
46,120.90
March 2024
1,803.90
1,695.00
1,785.50
22,326.90
47,124.60
335
Report on Corporate Governance
Shareholding-Equity Shares
Category
As on 31st March, 2024
As on 31st March, 2023
No of Equity 
Shares held
% of Equity 
Shares
No of Equity 
Shares held
% of Equity 
Shares
A
Promoter & Promoter Group Holding
Promoters & Promoter Group
514,880,396
25.90
515,504,681
25.95
Sub Total
514,880,396
25.90
515,504,681
25.95
B
Non-Promoters’ Holding
Institutional Investors
a.
Mutual Funds
254,784,254
12.82
218,361,346
10.99
b.
Banks/Financial Institutions, Qualified Institutional 
Buyer, Insurance Companies (State/Central 
Government Institutions)
177,522,711
8.93
175,502,776
8.83
c.
National Pension System Trust
29,507,381
1.48
25,820,200
1.30
d.
Foreign Institutional
714,507,075
35.94
7,504,97,911
37.78
Sub-Total
1,176,321,421
59.17
1,170,182,233
58.90
C
Others
a.
Private Corporate Bodies
37,199,568
1.87
39,749,459
2.00
b.
Indian Public including Directors and Relatives
182,707,647
9.19
184,550,650
9.29
c.
NRI/OCBs/Foreign Bodies DR
10,350,960
0.52
9,653,008
0.49
d.
Foreign Bank
32,813,072
1.65
32,813,072
1.65
e.
Foreign Bodies
25,966,992
1.31
25,966,992
1.31
f.
Foreign Nationals
 -
-
-
-
g.
NBFCs
652,407
0.03
656,944
0.03
h.
Alternate Investment Fund
3,379,637
0.17
3,766,068
0.19
i.
Clearing Members
150,398
0.01
216,339
0.01
j.
IEPF
3,498,400
0.18
3,497,136
0.18
Sub-Total
296,719,081
14.93
300,869,668
15.15
Grand Total
1,987,920,898
100.00
1,986,556,582
100.00
Note: The increase in capital during FY 2023-24 is pursuant to allotment of 1,364,316 equity shares of ` 5/- each under the Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2015 of the Bank
Top 10 Equity Shareholders of the Bank as on 31st March, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Investor(s)
Total Shares held
% of total equity 
shares
1.
Mr. Uday Kotak
511,261,456*
25.72
2.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
128,353,776
6.46
3.
SBI Mutual Fund
73,564,986
3.70
4.
Europacific Growth Fund
57,542,420
2.89
5.
Invesco Developing Markets Fund
56,045,749
2.82
6.
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
53,310,661
2.68
7.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
32,800,000
1.65
8.
National Pension System Trust
29,507,381
1.48
9.
UTI Mutual Fund
29,000,298
1.46
10.
ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund
28,128,851
1.41
* Includes 234,356 shares held in the name of Kotak Trustee Company Private Limited as trustee for USK Benefit Trust – III, of which, Mr. Uday Kotak is the sole beneficiary
Statutory Reports
336
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel (other than Directors) as on 31st March, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Key Managerial Personnel
No of Shares
% of total Equity 
Shares
1.
Mr. Jaimin Bhatt, Chief Financial Officer
1,232,392
0.06
2.
Ms. Avan Doomasia, Company Secretary
Nil
NA
Distribution Schedule as on 31st March, 2024	
Sr. 
No.
Category (Shares)
Equity
No. of Holders
% To Equity Share 
Holders
No. of Shares
% To Equity Shares
1.
1 - 100
596,282
84.22
12,760,193
0.64
2.
101 - 200
44,980
6.35
6,796,733
0.34
3.
201 - 300
17,954
2.54
4,560,619
0.23
4.
301 - 400
9,308
1.31
3,389,666
0.17
5.
401 - 500
6,670
0.94
3,110,359
0.16
6.
501 - 1000
12,983
1.83
9,626,838
0.48
7.
1001 - 2000
7,996
1.13
12,075,249
0.61
8.
2001 - 3000
2,972
0.42
7,502,443
0.38
9.
3001 - 4000
2,521
0.36
9,354,879
0.47
10.
4001 - 5000
1,174
0.17
5,470,838
0.28
11.
5001 - 10000
2,201
0.31
15,740,048
0.79
12.
10001 and above
2,966
0.42
1,897,533,033
95.45
TOTAL
708,007
 100.00
1,987,920,898
 100.00
CREDIT RATINGS
Details of Credit ratings obtained by the Bank for securities outstanding as on 31st March, 2024 are, as under:
DOMESTIC RATING:
Type of Instrument
Amount (` in crore)
Credit Rating/Outlook
Infrastructure Bonds
` 10,650*
CRISIL AAA/Stable
Fixed Deposits
-
CRISIL AAA/Stable
Certificate of Deposit
` 22,000**
CRISIL A1+
* The rating with regard to the Infrastructure Bonds aggregating ` 7,000 crore has been newly assigned during the year
** The amount of Certificate of Deposit for which the rating has been re-affirmed stands enhanced at ` 25,000 crore in April 2024
Additionally, below rating agencies have also rated the Bank’s debt instruments: 
Rating Agency
Type of Instrument
Amount (` in crore)
Credit Rating/Outlook
ICRA
Infrastructure Bonds
11,038*
ICRA AAA/Stable
India Ratings
Infrastructure Bonds
Long Term Debt
7,150*
3,000
IND AAA/Stable
IND AAA/Stable
*The rating with regards to the Infrastructure Bonds aggregating ` 7,000 crore has been newly assigned during the year
337
Report on Corporate Governance
INTERNATIONAL RATING:
S&P Rating
Rating
Outlook
Short Term
A-3
Stable
Long Term
BBB-
Stable
There has been no change in the Credit Ratings during the year.
MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (“KLI”), incorporated on 31st August, 2000, in Mumbai, is a material subsidiary of the Bank. In compliance 
with the SEBI Listing Regulations, Mr. Prakash Apte (till 31st December, 2023) and Mr. C S Rajan (from 1st January, 2024), have been on the Board of KLI, as 
Independent Directors of the Bank.
M M Nissim and Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants have been appointed as the Statutory Auditors of KLI, 
for a term of five years and to hold office from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of KLI held on 12th May, 2022 till the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting of KLI to be held in the year 2027. Details of the fees paid to them (audit fees and fees paid for other matters) is available in the section 
‘Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors’, of this Report.
DISCLOSURES1
•	
During FY 2023-24, the Bank has not entered into any materially significant transactions with its related parties or transactions which could 
lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties. The members of the Bank have, vide Postal Ballot notice dated 
10th February, 2024, approved related party transactions by the Bank/its subsidiaries, as potential “material related party transactions” under the 
provisions of  Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, with Infina Finance Private Limited and with Mr. Uday Kotak, Non-Executive Director of 
the Bank, for FY 2024-25, with respect to Deposits and other transactions/arrangements/service, etc., at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary 
course of business. The Bank has not entered into any material financial or commercial transactions with its subsidiaries and other related parties as 
per AS-18 and the SEBI Listing Regulations that may have potential conflict with the interest of the Bank at large. Further, there were no related party 
transactions, which were not in the ordinary course of business or not at an arm’s length basis.
	
The Audit Committee reviews the Related Party Transactions of the Bank on a quarterly basis. The Bank’s Policies on dealing with Related 
Party Transactions, determining ‘material’ subsidiaries and determination of materiality of events or information are available on the Bank’s 
website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
•	
There were no instances of non-acceptance of any recommendations of the Board level Committees by the Board.
•	
During the last three years, there was no non-compliance by the Bank and no penalties or strictures were imposed on the Bank by the Stock 
Exchange(s) and/or SEBI and/or any other statutory authorities on any matter relating to capital market except as have been disclosed to the Stock 
Exchanges.
•	
None of the Directors are related to any other Director.
•	
The Bank has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy. It covers not just employees and directors, but also suppliers, vendors, service providers and other 
concerned stakeholders of the Bank to enable them to raise their concerns relating to the fraud, malpractice or any other untoward activity or event 
which is against the interest of the Bank or society as a whole. The Bank has a digital platform through which concerns may be raised and the same 
is managed and hosted by an independent third party service provider who has proven expertise in this area, thereby ensuring absolute confidentiality. 
The Bank hereby affirms that no personnel has been denied access to the Audit Committee.
•	
The Bank has complied with the mandatory requirements regarding Corporate Governance under the SEBI Listing Regulations, including those 
covered under Regulations 17 to 27, Clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and those covered under paras (2) to (10) of Clause C of 
Schedule V thereto.
•	
All the amounts raised by the Bank through private placement of Non-Convertible Debentures during FY 2023-24 have been fully utilised towards the 
purposes for which these amounts were raised and there has been ‘no deviation’ in utilisation of the proceeds so raised.
•	
The relevant disclosures in relation to the number of complaints under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 have been mentioned in the Directors’ Report of the Bank.
•	
The Bank’s Policy for determining material subsidiaries, in line with the SEBI Listing Regulations, is available on its website viz., URL: https://www.
kotak.com/content/kotakcl/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
1GRI 2-15
Statutory Reports
338
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
•	
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to Corporate Governance, the Bank’s Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions is available 
on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html
•	
The Managing Director & CEO and the Chief Financial Officer of the Bank have duly provided the compliance certificate to the Board of Directors, as 
specified in Part B of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
•	
Disclosure with respect to demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense account:
Particulars
Records/No. of 
shareholders
Equity Shares
Opening Balance as on 1st April, 2023
0
0
Add: Shares Transferred to the Account
1
1,000
Less: Claims received and shares transferred to the Shareholder
0
0
Closing balance as on 31st March, 2024
1
1,000
PLANT LOCATIONS
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants. However, the Bank has 1,948 branches (excluding branches at DIFC, Dubai and GIFT city, 
Gujarat) and 3,291 ATMs as on 31st March, 2024. The locations of the branches are displayed on the Bank’s website viz., URL: https://www.kotak.com/en/
reach-us.html
DISCLOSURE REGARDING COMMODITY PRICE RISKS OR FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISKS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations, the Bank does not take any commodity price risk. However, the Bank engages in certain 
bullion related activities under the ambit of the Bullion Policy of the Bank. The Bank engages in the consignment sale of bullion. The Bank offers gold 
forwards and hedges the risk by covering the position on back-to-back basis in the interbank market. In addition to that, the Bank provides gold metal 
loans and manages the corresponding risk by hedging the exposures on a back-to-back basis with gold suppliers and in the interbank market. During 
FY 2023-24, the Bank had no exposure/positions of its own account in commodities. The Bank takes foreign exchange (FX) risk and hedges it as per the 
structure prescribed under the Investment Policy of the Bank.
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with all the mandatory requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with the non-mandatory requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations, as under:
1.	
THE BOARD:
	
The office of Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank is maintained by the Bank at its expense and all the expenses incurred in performance of his duties 
are reimbursed by the Bank.
2.	
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS:
	
The quarterly results and important announcements made under Regulation 30 of the SEBI Listing Regulations are sent by email to those members 
whose email Ids are registered with the Bank/Depository Participant(s) for communication purposes.
3.	
AUDIT QUALIFICATIONS:
	
During the period under review, there were no audit qualifications in respect of the Bank’s standalone and consolidated financial statements. The Bank 
continues to adopt best accounting practices and has complied with the Accounting Standards and there is no difference in the treatment.
4.	
SEPARATE POSTS OF CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING DIRECTOR & CEO:
	
Mr. C S Rajan, a Non-Executive Independent Director, is the Part-time Chairman and Mr. Ashok Vaswani is the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank.
5.	
REPORTING OF INTERNAL AUDITOR:
	
The Head - Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of the Board.
339
Report on Corporate Governance
OTHER DISCLOSURES
A.	
THE MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT
	
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis Report, giving an overview of the banking and financial services industry, the Bank’s business and its 
financials, is provided separately as a part of this Integrated Annual Report and is annexed to the Directors' Report.
B.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
The financial results, along with earnings update approved by the Board of Directors, are uploaded on the website of BSE (https://www.bseindia.com/), 
NSE (https://www.nseindia.com/) and the Bank’s website (https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results.html?source=website) 
within regulatory prescribed timelines. These results are also published in one English and one Marathi Regional Language newspaper, within 48 
hours of the conclusion of the relevant Board Meeting. Along with the quarterly results, detailed earnings update and investor presentations are also 
given on the website of the Bank. Further, a quarterly investors’/analysts’ conference call is made to discuss the financial results and performance 
of the Bank and the Group, the transcripts and links to the audio/video recordings of which are posted on the website of the Bank. The Investor 
Relations section of the website also displays the earnings updates and presentations made to investors and analysts, since 2011. The Bank’s 
website also displays all official press/media releases issued by the Bank from time to time. The Investor Relations section also has several other 
details such as Basel III and Liquidity Coverage Ration and Net Stable Funding Ratio disclosures, Governance related disclosures, composition of the 
Board of Directors and Committees thereof, Subsidiaries, Key Company Policies, SEBI Listing disclosures, Investor Information, Shareholding Pattern, 
Contact and Registration Details, details of Registrar & Transfer Agent, Dividend Payment History, etc. The Annual Reports of the Bank along with 
its subsidiaries Annual Reports, since 2011, are also made available on the website (https://www.kotak.com/en/investor-relations/financial-results/
annual-reports.html?source=website).
	
The financial results and updates on other important events are sent by e-mail to those members whose e-mail ids are registered with the Bank or the 
Depository Participants. The Bank also publishes its Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account together with the Auditors’ Report in a newspaper 
as required in terms of Section 31 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Rule 15 of the Banking Regulation Companies Rules, 1949. The financial 
results are also sent by e-mail to equity research analysts working with various brokerage houses. The financial results and other information filed 
with the stock exchanges by the Bank from time to time, are also available on the website of the stock exchanges. The management of the Bank also 
meets various investors, including its Institutional members.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and keeping in view the relaxations granted by the MCA circulars and circulars of 
SEBI, the Bank shall despatch the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2024 and all other documents required to be attached 
thereto, only by electronic mode, to the members whose email address is registered with the Bank/Depository Participant(s). Those members, whose 
e-mail address is not registered with the Bank or with their respective Depository Participant(s) and who wish to receive the said financial statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024, can get their e-mail address registered by following the steps as detailed in the Notice convening the Thirty-ninth 
Annual General Meeting.
	
INVESTOR HELPDESK1
	
Investors are requested to write to the Registered Office address of the Bank or to KFin Technologies Limited (“KFin”), our Registrars & Share Transfer 
Agents, for addressing their correspondence or complaints or may address their correspondence or complaints to designated email address 
viz., investor.grievances@kotak.com or einward.ris@kfintech.com in terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
For queries, etc. related to dividend payments, IEPF claims and all other investor related activities as also for lodgment of any documents or for any 
grievances/complaints, investors may contact or write to the Bank or KFin. The Company Secretarial Department regularly monitors and reviews the 
status of the investor correspondence and complaints received at the Registered Office and also by KFin, to ensure timely redressal of complaints.
	
As advised by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), the Bank has a designated email id of its Compliance Officer 
i.e. investor.grievances@kotak.com for the purpose of registering complaints by the investors. The same has also been displayed on the website of 
the Bank.
1GRI 2-26
Statutory Reports
340
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
INVESTOR INFORMATION
Date of Incorporation
21st November, 1985
Registration No.
11-38137 TA
Corporate Identification No.
L65110MH1985PLC038137
Registered Office
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
27BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai- 400 051
Tel. No. +91-22-616661615
Website: www.kotak.com
E-mail : investor.grievances@kotak.com
Contact (Nodal officer – IEPF)
Ms. Avan Doomasia, Company Secretary
Tel. No. +91-22-61661615
E-mail : KotakBank.Secretarial@kotak.com
Registrar & Transfer Agent 
(For Equity)
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Hyderabad- 500 032, Telangana
Toll free number : 1- 800-309-4001
Website: https://ris.kfintech.com
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
(For Debt Securities)
Link Intime India Private Limited
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai –400083
Tel No.: +91-22-49186000
Website: https://linkintime.co.in
E-mail: mumbai@linkintime.co.in
Debenture Trustees
(For Kotak Mahindra 8.25% 2026 - Debentures)
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Asian Building, Ground Floor, 17, R Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, Mumbai – 400 001
Tel No.: +91-22-40807001
Website: https://idbitrustee.com/
E-mail: itsl@idbitrustee.com
(For Kotak Mahindra 7.63% 2029, Kotak Mahindra 
7.85% 2030, Kotak Mahindra 7.55% 2030 and Kotak 
Mahindra 7.60% 2031 - Debentures)
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited
GDA House, Plot No. 85, Bhusari Colony (Right), Kothrud, Pune 411038
Tel.: +91-20-66807200
Website: www.catalysttrustee.com
Email: dt@ctltrustee.com
Thirty-Ninth Annual General Meeting, Date and Time
Saturday, 3rd August, 2024 at 11:30 a.m. (IST)
Venue
Through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means. Venue of meeting shall be deemed to 
be the Registered Office
Financial Year
1st April, 2023 to 31st March, 2024
Dividend Payment Date
Between Monday, 5th August, 2024 and Saturday, 10th August, 2024 (subject to declaration at the AGM)
For Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
C S Rajan	
Ashok Vaswani
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
Place	 : Mumbai	
Place	 : Mumbai
Date	
: 29th June, 2024	
Date	 : 29th June, 2024
DECLARATION
In accordance with Schedule V (D) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
I hereby confirm that all the Directors and the Senior Management Personnel of the Bank have affirmed compliance to the Code of Conduct for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2024.
For Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Ashok Vaswani 
Managing Director & CEO
Place	: Mumbai
Date	 : 29th June, 2024
341
Report on Corporate Governance
To,	
 
The Members 
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited 
27BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400051
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited having 
CIN L65110MH1985PLC038137 and having registered office at 27BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400051 (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read 
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal 
www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors 
on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Reserve Bank of India or any such 
other Statutory Authority.
Sr.  
No.
Name of the Director
DIN
Date of appointment on the Board of the Company
1.
Mr. C S Rajan
00126063
22nd October, 2022
2.
Mr. Uday Khanna
00079129
16th September, 2016
3.
Mr. Uday Shankar
01755963
16th March, 2019
4.
Dr. Ashok Gulati 
07062601
6th March, 2021
5.
Ms. Ashu  Suyash
00494515
24th January, 2022
6.
Mr. Cornelis Petrus Adrianus Joseph Leenaars 
10438792
1st January, 2024
7.
Mr. C Jayaram
00012214
1st October, 1999
8.
Mr. Amit Desai
00310510
18th March, 2022
9.
Mr. Uday Kotak#
00007467
21st November, 1985
10.
Mr. Ashok Vaswani  
10227550
1st January, 2024
11.
Mr. KVS Manian
00031794
1st November, 2019
12.
Ms. Shanti Ekambaram
00004889
1st November, 2022
13.
Mr. Prakash Apte*
00196106
18th March, 2011
14.
Mr. Dipak Gupta$
00004771
1st October, 1999
# Mr. Uday Kotak ceased to be the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, w.e.f. 1st September, 2023 on account of his resignation and became a Non-Executive Director of the Bank, 
w.e.f. 2nd September, 2023.
* Mr. Prakash Apte completed his term as the Part-time Chairman of the Bank, on 31st December, 2023 and ceased to be a Director and the Part-time Chairman of the Bank on the 
completion of his term, as aforesaid.
$ Mr. Dipak Gupta was appointed as the Managing Director & CEO from 2nd September, 2023 till 31st December, 2023. He ceased to be a Director and the Managing Director & CEO of 
the Bank on the completion of his term as approved by the Reserve Bank of India, as aforesaid. 
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. 
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Rupal Dhiren Jhaveri
FCS No: 5441
Certificate of Practice No.: 4225
ICSI UDIN: F005441F000617063
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1139/2021
Place: Mumbai
Date: 25th June, 2024
Statutory Reports
342
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To The Members, 
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LIMITED 
27BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra-East, Mumbai-400051
I have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited ("the Bank") for the year ended on 
31st March, 2024, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46, clauses (a) to (i) of sub-regulation 
(1A) of Regulation 62 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. My examination was limited to the review of procedures 
and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Bank for ensuring compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an 
expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to me and the representations made by the Directors and the 
management, I certify that the Bank has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year 
ended on 31st March, 2024.
I further state that such certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Rupal Dhiren Jhaveri 
Company Secretary 
FCS: F5441 
CP: 4225 
UDIN: F005441F000633816 
PR No.: 1139/2021
Date: 25th June, 2024 
Place: Mumbai
343
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
FY 2023-24 began in the aftermath of the regional banking crisis in the US and Europe in the backdrop of one of the most aggressive monetary tightening 
episodes globally. At the same time, global supply chains and commodity prices continued to normalize since their disruption following the Russia-Ukraine war. 
Central banks globally had responded to the elevated inflation levels by raising interest rates to multi-decadal highs. While the rate hiking cycle was nearing its 
peak, most central banks began preparing to stay put for a prolonged period to tame inflation (as its drivers shifted from supply-side to demand-side). Further, 
lending support for a prolonged pause was the emergence of the Middle-East crisis towards end-2023, which clouded the inflation outlook amid uncertainties 
relating to energy prices. However, the resilience in the global economy continued, especially in the US. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
global real GDP growth in Calendar Year (“CY”) 2023 stood at 3.2% compared to its April 2023 projection at 2.8% and CY2022 growth at 3.5%.
India started FY 2023-24 on a firm footing, with Q1FY24 real GDP growth at 8.2% (up from 6.2% in Q4FY23). Notably, investment growth at 8.5% continued 
to outpace private consumption growth (which improved to 5.5% from 1.5% in Q4FY23) buoyed by the Central Government’s thrust on capital expenditure. 
Real Gross Value Added (GVA) increased by 8.3% (from 6% in Q4FY23), aided by services growth at 10.7% (mainly financial, real estate services). In Q2FY24, 
real GDP growth of 8.1% was buoyed mainly by investment growth of 11.6% (the Central Government’s capex thrust was again visible here) and Government 
expenditure growth of 14%, while private consumption growth remained tepid. Real GVA growth moderated but remained robust at 7.7%, led by a strong 
industrial sector growth of 13.6%. In Q3FY24, real GDP growth surprised on the upside at 8.6%, while real GVA growth was at 6.8%. GDP growth continued 
to be led by investment growth of 9.7%, while GVA growth was led by services and industry growth of 7.1% and 10.5%, respectively (though the latter slowed 
from Q2FY24). In Q4FY24, real GDP growth further surprised on the upside at 7.8% (although slower than Q3FY24). Real GVA growth also moderated to 
6.3%. Notably, the wide divergence between real GDP-GVA growth rates due to the high growth in net indirect taxes (indirect taxes-subsidies) continued 
in Q4FY24.
The National Statistics Office (NSO) estimates real GDP growth in 
FY 2023-24 at 8.2% (revised up from 7.6% as per the NSO’s second advance 
estimate), improving sharply from 7% in FY 2022-23. On a value-added 
basis, real GVA growth is estimated at 7.2% in FY 2023-24 (higher than 
6.7% in FY 2022-23), led by industry growth of 9.5% (mainly manufacturing 
and construction) and services of 7.6% (mainly financial, real estate and 
professional services).
The FY2025 Interim Union Budget focused squarely on fiscal consolidation. 
Capital expenditure growth was muted across defence, railways and roads 
(though there is some buffer for higher allocation), while refraining from 
any outsized populist measures. The government, in its interim budget, 
prioritized fiscal consolidation and rationalized expenditure to improve the 
quality of the fiscal situation. It has targeted central GFD/GDP at 5.1% in 
FY2025BE (compared to 5.6% in FY2024RE), staying on course to reach 
the targeted 4.5% level by FY2026. The strong focus on fiscal consolidation 
was further visible in (1) an 8% YoY decline in subsidies, (2) a modest 6% 
YoY increase in the rural social sector schemes and (3) a muted 5% YoY 
increase in capex in defence, railways and roads. The central government 
has targeted an 11% growth in tax revenues and total expenditure growth 
of 6%. The divestment target has been pegged at ` 500 billion.
Domestic Price Dynamics
Headline CPI Inflation in FY 2023-24 started off on a positive note, with the 
Q1FY24 average at 4.6% (compared to 6.2% in Q4FY23). However, with a late 
start to the monsoons and weak rainfall, the surge in prices of vegetables, 
cereals, and pulses caused headline inflation to surge to 7.4% in July 2023 
before moderating to 6.8% and 5% in the next two months (Q2FY24 average 
at 6.4%). Food inflation continued to remain volatile, contributing the most 
to headline inflation in the following months. However, a significant respite 
was the steady fall in core inflation (CPI excluding food, beverages and fuel) 
amid the normalization in global commodity prices. Core inflation averaged 
4.3% in FY 2023-24. Additionally, crude oil prices were lower by 13.7% in FY 
2023-24 from the previous year. Further providing comfort was the lower 
inflation trajectory witnessed in H2FY24 (average of 5.2% compared to 
average of 5.5% in H1FY24).
Source: CEIC, Kotak Economics Research
	 CPI Inflation
	 Food Inflation
	 CORE CPI Inflation
CPI inflation has averaged 5.36% in FY 2023-24 against 6.66% in 
FY 2022-23
May-20
Jul-20
Sep-20
Nov-20
Jan-21
Mar-21
May-21
Jul-21
Sep-21
Nov-21
Jan-22
Mar-22
May-22
Jul-22
Sep-22
Nov-22
Jan-23
Mar-23
May-23
Jul-23
Sep-23
Nov-22
Jan-24
Mar-24
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
FY 2023-24 Real GVA growth at 7.2%
Real GVA growth in FY 2024 (%)
Source: CEIC, Kotak Economics Research
7.2
Real GVA
Industry
Services
	
9.5
	
7.6
1.4
Agriculture and Allied
Statutory Reports
344
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Monetary Policy and Interest Rates
On the monetary policy front, the RBI maintained status quo on the repo rate (at 6.5%) and the stance (“withdrawal of accommodation”) through 
FY 2023-24. Amid the volatility arising from food inflation and global geopolitics impacting energy prices, the MPC exercised caution and has remained 
committed to bring down headline CPI inflation to the 4% target.
Banking system liquidity remained in surplus zone through most of H1FY24, led largely by the RBI’s FX intervention (US Dollar purchases) and the withdrawal 
of the ` 2,000 bank notes from circulation. In order to offset the surplus liquidity, the RBI introduced a temporary incremental CRR (I-CRR) hike of 10% on 
the incremental Net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) during 19th May to 28th July, 2023. In the October 2023 monetary policy meeting, with regard to the 
surge in unsecured loans, the RBI issued an advisory to banks and non-banking financial corporations (NBFCs) to strengthen internal surveillance, address 
risk build-up and implement suitable safeguards to ensure robust risk management and stronger underwriting standards.
The system liquidity shifted to the neutral-to-deficit zone from mid-September 2023 (with only brief moves into surplus) due to limited government spending 
and the RBI’s FX intervention (US Dollar sales). Consequently, the overnight money market rates increased and stayed around the upper end of the LAF 
corridor at 6.75% (the monetary policy operating target framework required overnight rates to be closer to the repo rate). From February 2024, liquidity 
conditions improved and overnight rates moderated towards the repo rate. The RBI used fine-tuning liquidity operations (variable repo and variable reverse 
repo operations) to keep the overnight rates anchored around the repo rate of 6.5%.
The Indian bond market continued to track cues, mainly from US treasury yields, crude oil prices and the domestic inflation trajectory. With inflation having 
peaked, markets were preparing for the end of the global “synchronized” monetary tightening and expectations of a prolonged pause. Consequently, while 
US treasury yields were on an uptrend, comforting domestic inflation in Q1FY24 caused the downtrend in bond yields, with the Indian 10-year benchmark 
yield falling to 6.94% in May 2023 (the lowest in FY 2023-24). Following this, however, with the domestic inflation outlook turning adverse and the US Federal 
Reserve pushing back against expectations of early rate cuts (amid robust US growth and labour market data and inflation remaining sticky and elevated), 
bond markets came under pressure. However, in late-September 2023, bond markets received support from the announcement of the inclusion of India’s 
government securities in J.P. Morgan’s GBI-EM bond index (the inclusion would be staggered over 10 months starting from June 2024). Following this 
announcement, however, the RBI Governor’s mention of possibility of OMO sales (in the October 2023 monetary policy) to manage system liquidity soured 
bond market sentiments. The 10-year benchmark yield surged to FY 2023-24’s high of 7.40% following the MPC meeting. However, since then, heavy FPI 
inflows in the debt segment, fading expectations of OMO sales amid persistent tightness in system liquidity and a moderating domestic inflation trajectory 
have aided in the softening of bond yields. Further aiding bond market sentiments was the significantly lower-than-expected gross borrowing number of 
` 14.1 trillion (as well as a lower-than-expected GFD/GDP ratio of 5.1%) in the FY 2024-25 Interim Budget. Consequently, the 10-year benchmark yield ended 
FY 2023-24 at 7.06% (26 bps lower than the previous year’s closing).
Source: Bloomberg, Kotak Economics Research
The spread between repo rate and 10-year benchmark  
G-Sec yield has narrowed
	 10-year G-Sec yield (%)
	 Repo Rate (%, RHS)
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
7.8
7.5
7.3
7.0
6.8
6.5
6.3
6.0
Source: RBI, Kotak Economics Research
The system liquidity surplus has fallen; has mostly been in 
deficit zone in H2 FY2023-24
	 System Liquidity (` bn)
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
-1,000
-2,000
-3,000
-4,000
External Sector Dynamics and the USD/INR
The external sector in FY 2023-24 came under pressure initially from a widening of the goods trade deficit (mainly due to the rising oil prices amid OPEC+ 
production cuts). However, the outlook improved in Q2-Q3FY24, aided by a surge in services surplus and robust FPI inflows in the debt segment (following 
the announcement of the inclusion of Indian government securities in the J.P. Morgan GBI-EM bond index). In Q1FY24, a widening of the non-oil goods trade 
deficit and a fall in services surplus weighed on the current account balance. The current account deficit widened to 1.1% of GDP (from 0.2% in Q4FY23). In Q2-
Q3FY24, however, an improvement in the net services surplus, aided by software exports and transfers, helped reduce the impact of the widening of the goods 
trade deficit. At the same time, though the capital account surplus moderated in Q2 to USD 13 billion from USD 34 billion from the previous quarter (fall in FDI, 
FPI and banking capital), the improvement in FPI and banking capital inflows in Q3FY24 (pushing up capital account to USD 17 billion) helped offset the current 
account deficit. Positively, in Q4FY24, the current account turned surplus to 0.6% of GDP, aided by moderating trade deficit, even as services surplus eased 
marginally. The capital account surplus also remained robust at USD 25 billion (versus USD 15 billion in Q3FY24), led by continued FPI flows. Consequently, in 
Q4FY24, the BOP registered a surplus of USD 30.8 billion. Overall, in FY 2023-24, the BOP registered a surplus of USD 63.7 billion, with the current account deficit 
at 0.7% of GDP (from 2% deficit in FY 2022-23) and capital account surplus of USD 86 billion (from USD 59 billion in FY 2022-23).
345
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
On the FX front, the INR has broadly retained its depreciation bias (1.5% fall in FY 2023-24 from the previous year) amid the RBI’s regular FX intervention, 
US Dollar strength amid delays to the start of the US Federal Reserve’s rate cut cycle and volatile crude oil prices (amid voluntary OPEC+ production cuts 
and geopolitical conflicts). In Q1FY24, the DXY index was on an uptrend, tracking the rate hikes by the US Federal Reserve. However, following the peak 
of the tightening, the DXY index fell briefly to sub-100 levels (from 104-levels in mid-June). Tracking these cues, along with FPI inflows to the tune of USD 
16 billion in Q1FY24, kept the INR supported against the US Dollar in the range of ` 81.61- ` 82.86. However, robust growth and elevated inflation above 
the Fed’s target lent support to the US Dollar again, weighing on the INR in Q2FY24. Positively, the inclusion of the Indian government securities in the J.P. 
Morgan GBI-EM index helped increase FPI flows in Q3FY24, which lent support to the INR. However, delays in the monetary easing cycle by the Fed in the 
backdrop of resilience of the US economy and sticky inflation have kept the DXY index elevated, keeping the pressure on the INR. Overall, the INR traded in 
a range of ` 81.61-83.48 in FY 2023-24, with the RBI managing the volatility by intervening on both sides opportunistically. The FX reserves in FY 2023-24 
increased by USD 67.1 billion.
Source: CEIC, Kotak Economics Research
Exports (% YoY, 3m MA)
Imports (% YoY, 3m MA)
Import and export growth normalized in FY 2023-24
Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24 
Mar-24
60
50
40
20
20
10
0
(10)
(20)
Source: Bloomberg, Kotak Economic Research
INR fell remained under pressure from persisting US Dollar strength
USD/INR
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24 
Mar-24
84.0
83.5
83.0
82.5
82.0
81.5
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Bank, along with its subsidiaries (the Group), offers a comprehensive range of financial products and services to its customers. The key businesses are 
Commercial Banking, Investment Banking, Stock Broking, Vehicle Finance, Advisory Services, Asset Management, Life Insurance and General Insurance.
The financial results of the subsidiaries and associates used for the preparation of the consolidated financial results are in accordance with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’) specified under Section 133 and relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
During the year, domestic rating of fixed deposits and long-term instruments issued by the Bank and the major entities in the Group continued to be rated “AAA”.
Entity-Wise Capital and Reserves of the Group
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
96,639.46
 83,459.95*
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
9,176.48
 8,305.90
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
3,329.02
 2,814.81
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
519.61
476.20
BSS Microfinance Limited
1,009.85
626.63
Sonata Finance Private Limited
389.41
NA
Kotak Securities Limited
8,286.15
 7,107.97
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
1,181.03
 1,000.38
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
5,863.23
 5,327.70
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited^
447.12
 341.07
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited and Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
2,520.94
2,107.51
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited#
864.58
805.72
International Subsidiaries
1,962.36
1,746.49
Other Entities
94.09
88.10
Total
132,283.33
114,208.44
Add: Share in Associates
1,587.34
 1,350.96
Less: Consolidated Adjustments
(3,978.27)
 (3,305.31)
Consolidated Capital and Reserves
129,892.40
 112,254.09
*Includes Preference Share Capital of ` 500 crore
^During FY 2023-24, the Bank has infused additional capital of ` 195 crore
#Formerly known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited
Statutory Reports
346
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
On 28th March, 2024, the Bank acquired 100% of the issued and paid up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”), a Non-Banking Finance 
Company – Micro Finance Institution registered with the RBI, for a total consideration of ` 537 crore. With this acquisition, Sonata has become a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Bank
On 18th June, 2024, pursuant to completion of relevant conditions, including the receipt of relevant regulatory approvals, Zurich Insurance Company Limited 
has completed the acquisition of 70% of the share capital of Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (“KGI”). KGI has ceased to be a wholly-
owned subsidiary of the Bank on 18th June, 2024 and the Bank now holds the remaining 30% of the share capital of KGI.
Consolidated Performance
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
94,273.91
68,142.03
Consolidated Profit After Tax
18,213.21
14,925.01
Consolidated Capital and Reserves
129,892.40
112,254.09
Key Ratios
Return on Average Assets (RoAA) %
2.66%
2.62%
Return on Average Equity %
15.08%
14.36%
Earnings per equity share (diluted) (`)
91.45
74.94
Book-value per equity share (`)
653.41
562.55
Net Interest Margin (NIM) %
5.31%
5.36%
Gross NPA %
1.38%
1.76%
Net NPA %
0.36%
0.41%
Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) %*
21.82%
23.25%
CET I*
20.72%
22.27%
*As per Basel III norms issued by the RBI
The financial results of subsidiaries are explained later in this discussion. A snapshot of the entity-wise Profit before Tax (PBT) and Profit after Tax (PAT) 
is as follows:
Financial Results of Subsidiaries
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
PBT
PAT
PBT
PAT
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
 18,013.72
 13,781.58
14,390.99
10,939.30
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
 1,188.36
 888.06
 1,110.06
 828.96
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
 690.51
 514.21
 439.32
 326.26
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
 43.40
 43.40
 27.83
 27.83
BSS Microfinance Limited
 509.04
 383.22
 396.29
 297.21
Sonata Finance Private Limited*
 (16.64)
 (13.71)
NA
NA
Kotak Securities Limited
 1,635.18
 1,226.17
 1,150.19
 865.22
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
 276.69
 215.01
 192.48
 149.28
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
 1,041.24
 688.62
1,462.72
 1,053.31
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited
 (88.95)
 (88.95)
 (117.28)
 (117.28)
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited and 
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
705.84
525.18
713.33
554.76
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited#
 76.87
 58.84
 51.95
 42.27
International Subsidiaries
219.74
188.72
90.32
76.31
Others
7.91
5.99
0.27
(0.70)
Total
 24,302.91
 18,416.34
19,908.47
15,042.73
Add: Share in Associates
236.38
144.57
Less: Inter-company and Other Adjustments
(439.51)
(262.29)
Consolidated PAT
 18,213.21
14,925.01
*Acquired on 28th March, 2024
#Formerly known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited
347
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Contribution of the Associate Companies to the Group for FY 2023-24
(` in crore)
Name of the Company
Investment by 
Kotak Group
% shareholding 
of the Group
Contribution 
to Profit
Contribution 
to Capital and 
Reserves
Infina Finance Private Limited
1.10
49.99%
128.13
1,224.83
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
100.02
49.90%
108.25
362.51
Assets Under Management (AUM) Across the Group
Assets Under Management (AUM), including undrawn commitments, as on 31st March, 2024 were ` 560,140 crore (` 420,880 crore as on 31st March, 2023), 
comprising assets managed and advised by the Group.
The Group has a wide distribution network of branches and franchisees across India, an International Business Unit at Gujarat International Finance Tec-
City (GIFT), overseas branch at the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and international offices in London, New York, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Mauritius 
and Singapore.
BANK AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES: FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
BANK HIGHLIGHTS
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (“Bank”) is the flagship company of the Kotak Group. The principal business activities of the Bank are organised into Consumer 
Banking, Commercial Banking, Wholesale Banking, Treasury, Private Banking and resolution of acquired stressed assets. The Consumer, Commercial and 
Wholesale Banking businesses correspond to the key customer segments of the Bank. The Treasury offers specialised products and services to these 
customer segments. It further undertakes asset liability management as well as proprietary trading for the Bank.
Profit Before Tax (PBT) of the Bank for FY 2023-24 was ` 18,013.72 crore as against ` 14,390.99 crore for FY 2022-23. Profit After Tax (PAT) of the Bank 
was ` 13,781.58 crore in FY 2023-24 compared with ` 10,939.30 crore in FY 2022-23. RoAA for FY 2023-24 was 2.61% compared to 2.47% for FY 2022-23.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Synopsis of the Profit and Loss Account	
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Net Interest Income
25,993.20
21,551.92
Other Income
10,273.10
7,083.05
Net Total Income
36,266.30
28,634.97
Employee Cost
6,856.37
5,519.83
Other Operating Expenses
9,822.48
8,267.16
Operating Expenditure
16,678.85
13,786.99
Operating Profit
19,587.45
14,847.98
Provision and Contingencies (Net)
1,573.73
456.99
Provision on Advances (Net)
1,594.81
637.02
General Provision Covid-19 related
(124.90)
(159.55)
Provision on Other Receivables
24.60
0.57
Provision on Investments
79.22
(21.05)
PBT
18,013.72
14,390.99
Provision for Tax
4,232.14
3,451.69
PAT
13,781.58
10,939.30
 
AUM - ` 560,140 crore – 31st March, 2024
AUM - ` 420,880 crore – 31st March, 2023
Domestic MF Debt
 134,469 
Offshore Funds
 51,236 
Insurance 
 74,322 
Alternate Assets*
45,433
NPS & PMS
7,909
1%
8%
13%
9%
24%
Domestic MF Debt
 124,762
Domestic MF Equity
 156,382 
Offshore Funds
 30,057 
Insurance 
 59,151 
Alternate Assets*
 46,077 
NPS & PMS
 4,452 
1%
11%
14%
7%
30%
37%
44%
Domestic MF Equity
 246,771 
*including undrawn commitments, wherever applicable
Statutory Reports
348
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Net Interest Income
Net Interest Income (“NII”) of the Bank for FY 2023-24 was ` 25,993.20 crore compared to ` 21,551.92 crore for FY 2022-23. The Bank had a Net Interest 
Margin (“NIM”), excluding dividend income and interest on income-tax refund, of 5.32% for FY 2023-24 compared to 5.33% for FY 2022-23. During the year:
•	
The yield on interest earning assets increased from 8.49% for FY 2022-23 to 9.42% for FY 2023-24, mainly due to an increase in the yields of advances 
and investments and a change in asset mix. 58% of the loan book as on 31st March, 2024 is linked to the Repo rate up from 57% as on 31st March 
2023. Repo rates have been constant in FY 2023-24 at 6.50%, which were increased in FY 2022-23 from 4.00% to 6.50%.
•	
Cost of funds increased from 3.71% in FY 2022-23 to 4.77% in FY 2023-24, primarily due to a change in the liability mix and an increase in the interest 
rates of term deposits, certificate of deposits and borrowings.
•	
Average interest earning assets increased by 10.75% from ` 401,932.08 crore for FY 2022-23 to ` 482,303.85 crore for FY 2023-24.
Non-Interest Income
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Commission, Exchange and Brokerage
 7,048.54
 5,440.01
Profit on Sale / Revaluation of Investments
 921.98
 (976.80)
Profit on Exchange Transactions (Net) (Including Derivatives)
 1,403.27
 1,636.66
Profit on Recoveries of Non-Performing Assets Acquired / Stress assets acquired
303.10
310.98
Income From Subsidiaries/Associates Towards Shared Services
147.20
122.33
Dividend From Subsidiaries
308.90
242.27
Others
140.11
307.60
Total Other Income
10,273.10
7,083.05
Non-interest income increased from ` 7,083.05 crore in FY 2022-23 to ` 10,273.10 crore in FY 2023-24 due to:
•	
Increase in commission, exchange and brokerage income, mainly due to an increase in services charges on loans, direct banking fees and charges, 
credit card fees, third party distribution income and referral fees.
•	
Higher profit on sale of Exchange Transactions (Net) (Including Derivatives).
Employee Cost
Employee cost of the Bank increased from ` 5,519.84 crore for FY 2022-23 to ` 6,856.37 crore for FY 202324, primarily due to an increase in employee count 
and an increase in retirement obligations. The employee base increased from 73,481 as on 31st March, 2023 to 77,923 as on 31st March, 2024.
Other Operating Expenses
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rent, Taxes And Lighting
 833.67
 825.47
Printing and Stationery
 194.41
 168.68
Advertisement, Publicity and Promotion
 970.91
 632.64
Depreciation on Bank’s Property
 614.79
 461.73
Directors’ Fees, Allowances and Expenses
 5.74
 3.57
Auditors’ Fees and Expenses
 4.16
 3.88
Law Charges
 31.80
 43.57
Postage, Telephone Etc.
 417.84
 366.54
Repairs And Maintenance
 1,102.66
 929.35
Insurance
 468.90
 390.72
Professional Charges
 1,955.94
 1,647.68
Brokerage
 770.58
 707.83
Goods and Service Tax (GST) Expenses
 518.99
509.47
Other Expenditure
 1,949.14
1,592.10
Reimbursement From Group Companies
 (17.05)
 (16.07)
Total
 9,822.48
 8,267.16
Other operating expenses were ` 9,822.48 crore for FY 2023-24 compared to ` 8,267.16 crore for FY 2022-23, with the increase primarily in:
•	
Technology spends
•	
Promotional spends
•	
811 acquisition cost and higher amount of fee payments to business correspondents, which is consistent with business volumes
349
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
•	
Payment network costs
•	
SMS, telephone and printing and stationery expenses
•	
ATM acquiring fees and subvention expenses
•	
Recovery expenses and legal charges
•	
Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities.
The Bank’s Cost-to-income ratio was 45.99% for FY 2023-24 compared with 48.15% for FY 2022-23.
Provisions and Contingencies (excluding tax)
Provisions and contingencies (excluding tax) were ` 1,573.73 crore for FY 2023-24 compared to ` 456.99 crore for FY 2022-23, primarily due to higher 
specific provision on loans (excluding Covid-19 related provisions) by ` 957.79 crore, higher provision on investments in FY 2023-24 as against reversal of 
provision in FY 2022-23.
The Bank held an aggregate COVID-19 related provision of ` 387.45 crore as of 1st April, 2023. During the year, the Bank has reversed provisions aggregating 
to ` 124.90 crore based on actual collections / reduction in underlying outstanding and continues to hold provision of ` 262.55 crore as at 31st March, 2024.
Credit cost on Advances (excluding COVID-19 and restructuring provisions) was 45 bps for FY 2023-24 compared to 22 bps for FY 2022-23.
Provision for Tax
Provision for tax increased from ` 3,451.69 crore for FY 2022-23 to ` 4,232.14 crore for FY 2022-23, primarily due to higher profits in FY 2023-24.
BALANCE SHEET
The assets and liabilities composition of the Bank, is as follows:
(` in crore)
Liabilities
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Capital and Reserves
 96,639.46
 83,459.95
Deposits
 448,953.75
 363,096.05
–	
Current Account Deposits (CA)
 75,208.29
 70,030.24
–	
Fixed Rate Savings Account Deposits (SA)
109,078.50
111,400.09
–	
Floating Rate Savings Account Deposits (SA)
 20,016.66
 10,384.93
–	
Term Deposits (TD) Sweep
47,051.95
23,338.89
–	
Other TDs
197,598.35
147,941.90
Borrowings
28,368.10
23,416.27
Other Liabilities and Provisions*
26,395.74
19,890.21
Total
 600,357.05
 489,862.48
(` in crore)
Assets
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Cash and Bank Balances
 52,788.40
 32,542.31
Investments
 155,403.76
 121,403.73
–	
Government Securities
 113,672.84
 89,852.54
–	
Credit Substitutes
 31,595.28
 27,108.81
–	
Other Securities
 10,135.64
 4,442.38
Advances
 376,075.27
 319,861.21
Fixed Assets and Other Assets
 16,089.62
 16,055.23
Total
 600,357.05
 489,862.48
*Includes Employees’ Stock Options (Grants) Outstanding of ` 79.29 crore as on 31st March, 2024 (` 60.31 crore as on 31st March, 2023).
The Bank has redeemed Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Share Capital of ` 500 crore during the quarter ended 31st March, 2024 and created capital 
redemption reserve to that extent, out of the profits available for appropriation.
The Bank’s capital adequacy continues to be healthy, with overall CRAR at 20.55% (CET1 ratio 19.25%) as compared to 21.80% (CET1 ratio 20.64%) as on 
31st March, 2023.
Statutory Reports
350
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Deposits
The Bank’s strategy is based on its fundamental philosophy to build a 
low-cost and stable liability franchise. The Bank’s deposits grew to 
` 
448,953.75 
crore 
as 
on 
31st 
March, 
2024 
compared 
to 
` 363,096.05 crore as on 31st March, 2023. CASA deposits increased to 
` 
204,303.46 
crore 
as 
on 
31st 
March, 
2023 
compared 
to 
` 191,815.26 crore as on 31st March, 2023. CASA ratio stood at 45.51% as 
on 31st March, 2024 compared to 52.83% as on 31st March, 2023.
Fixed Rate Savings account (SA) deposits stood at ` 109,078.50 crore 
and Current account (CA) deposits stood at ` 75,208.29 crore. Growth 
in low-cost deposits was impacted by a higher interest-rate environment 
and resultant alternate opportunities available with depositors to deploy 
funds at a higher return. Total Term deposits (TD), including certificate of 
deposits, grew by 42.84% to ` 244,650.29 crore.
CASA plus term deposits below ` 5 crore account for 79% of the total deposits.
Advances
The classification of advances of the Bank is as follows:
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Home Loans (HL) and Loan Against Property (LAP)
 106,725.96
 92,731.16
Consumer Bank Working Capital (Secured)
 35,997.34
 29,388.63
Personal Loans, Business Loans and Consumer Durables
 20,048.48
 15,773.02
Credit Cards (CC)
 14,504.66
 10,090.36
Consumer Banking Advances
 177,276.45
 147,983.17
CV/CE
 36,832.99
 27,792.34
Agriculture Division
 27,850.12
 27,528.38
Tractor Finance
 15,801.78
 13,908.74
Retail Micro Finance
 9,983.00
 6,225.00
Commercial Banking Advances
 90,467.89
 75,454.46
Corporate Banking Advances
 87,310.46
 72,404.90
SME
 27,247.22
 23,107.65
Others
9,426.71
6,593.12
Advances (A)
 391,728.73
 325,543.30
Credit Substitutes
 31,595.28
 27,108.81
Customer Assets (A+B)
 423,324.01
 352,652.10
IBPC and BRDS (C)
 15,653.46
 5,682.09
Net Advances (A-C)
 376,075.27
 319,861.21
Advances grew at 17.57% to ` 376,075.27 crore as on 31st March, 2024 compared to ` 319,861.21 crore as on 31st March, 2023. Customer Assets grew at 
20.04% to ` 423,324.01 crore as on 31st March, 2024 compared to ` 352,652.10 crore as on 31st March, 2023. Growth in Advances was seen mainly in the 
retail banking segment through home loans and loans against property (LAP), consumer bank working capital (Secured), personal loans, business loans, 
consumer durables and credit cards.
The Bank’s credit deposit ratio stood at 83.77% as of 31st March, 2024 over 88.09% as of 31st March, 2023.
Asset Quality
The position of Gross and Net NPA is, as under:
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Gross NPA
5,274.78
5,768.32
Gross NPA %
1.39%
1.78%
Net NPA
1,270.57
1,193.30
Net NPA %
0.34%
0.37%
Deposits
(` crore)
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
104,609
117,226
124,472
121,785
129,095
43,013
52,087
64,662
70,030
75,208
110,787
110,121
119,002
155,235
225,653
4,412
666
3,548
16,046
18,997
	 CA
	 SA
	 TD
	 CD
351
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Slippages for FY 2023-24 were ` 5,001.11 crore (FY 2022-23: ` 3,989.93 crore), whereas recoveries and upgrades were ` 3,236.73 crore (FY 2022-23: 
` 3,900.97 crore). The provision coverage ratio, including technical write-off, was 80.07% as of 31st March, 2024 as compared to 83.77% as of 31st March, 
2023. Total provisioning towards advances (including specific, standard, Covid related, etc.) held as on 31st March, 2024 was ` 5,903.15 crore.
Restructuring
Standard Restructured Fund Based outstanding under the Covid resolution frameworks was ` 154.14 crore as at 31st March, 2024 (0.04% of Advances) and 
under MSME resolution frameworks was ` 228.52 crore as at 31st March, 2024 (0.08% of Advances). The Bank has maintained restructuring provision of 
` 101.72 crore as on 31st March, 2024.
Directed Lending
Priority Sector Lending and Investments
The RBI guidelines on priority sector lending require banks to lend 40.0% of their adjusted net bank credit (ANBC), to fund certain types of activities carried 
out by specified borrowers. Out of the overall target of 40.0%, banks are required to lend a minimum of 18.0% of their ANBC to the agriculture sector. Sub-
targets of 10.0% for lending to small and marginal farmers (out of agriculture) and 7.5% lending target to micro-enterprises were introduced from fiscal 
2016. Average lending to non-corporate farmers is notified by the RBI on basis of the banking system’s average level at the beginning of each year. The RBI 
notified a target level of 13.78% of ANBC for this purpose for fiscal 2022 (FY 2022-23: 13.78%). The banks are also required to lend 12.0% of their ANBC to 
certain borrowers under the ‘weaker section’ category. Priority sector lending achievement is evaluated on a quarterly average basis.
The shortfall in the amount required to be lent to the priority sectors and weaker sections may be required to be deposited in funds with government 
sponsored Indian development banks such as the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Small Industries Development Bank of India, 
the National Housing Bank, MUDRA Limited and other financial institutions as decided by the RBI from time to time. These deposits have a maturity of up 
to seven years and carry interest rates lower than market rates. As at 31st March, 2024, the Bank’s total investment in such bonds was ` 3,253.85 crore (31st 
March, 2023: ` 4,544.50 crore), which was fully eligible for consideration in overall priority sector lending achievement.
In FY 2016, the RBI introduced Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) scheme to enable banks to achieve the priority sector lending target and sub-
targets by purchase of PSLC instruments in the event of shortfall and at the same time incentivize the surplus banks; thereby enhancing lending to the 
categories under the priority sector. In FY 2023-24, the Bank has sold Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) amounting to ` 64,754.00 crore (FY 2022-
23: ` 58,383.75 crore) and purchased PSLCs amounting to ` 11,290.00 crore (FY 2022-23: ` 9,360.00 crore).
As prescribed in the RBI guideline, the Bank’s priority sector lending achievement is computed on a quarterly average basis. Total average priority sector 
lending for FY 2023-24 was ` 1,21,619.65 crore (FY 2022-23: ` 114,217.85 crore), constituting 44.06% (FY 2022-23: 48.80%) of ANBC, against the requirement 
of 40.0% of ANBC.
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ORDER DATED 24TH APRIL, 2024
The Bank has received an order from the Reserve Bank of India dated 24th April 2024, directing the Bank to cease and desist, with immediate effect from (i) 
onboarding new customers through the Bank’s online and mobile banking channels and (ii) issuing fresh credit cards. The order was based, inter alia, on the 
deficiencies observed by the RBI in their IT Examination of the Bank.
The order does not impact servicing and cross-sell of products (excluding new credit cards) to the existing customer base through all channels and does 
not impact on-boarding of new customers through other than online / mobile banking channels.
The Bank is in the process of taking concrete steps to adopt new technologies to strengthen its IT systems and continues to work with the RBI to swiftly 
resolve balance issues at the earliest.
Management has evaluated the impact of the order and assessed that there is no impact on going concern and has no material impact on financial 
statements, including internal financial controls over financial reporting for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
A BRIEF ANALYSIS OF THE PERFORMANCE OF VARIOUS DIVISIONS OF THE BANK IS, AS FOLLOWS:
CONSUMER BANKING
Branch Banking
The Consumer Banking business services a wide spectrum of customers across domestic individuals 
and households, non-residents, small and medium business segments, for a range of products from 
basic Savings and Current Accounts to Term Deposits, Credit Cards, Unsecured and Secured Loans, 
Working Capital, Digital Payments, Protection and Investments.
Network
As of 31st March, 2024, the Bank had 1,948 branches, 3,291 Automated Teller Machines (“ATMs”) 
and Recyclers and 4,435 Micro ATM installations. The Bank also has a branch at Dubai International 
Financial Centre (“DIFC”) and Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (“GIFT City”).
Branches and ATM growth
Mar-20
1,600
Mar-21
1,604
Mar-22
1,700
Mar-23
1,780
	   Branches
 ATM
2,519
2,598
2,705
2,963
Mar-24
1,948
3,291
Statutory Reports
352
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Key initiatives taken during the year are:
Products and Services
The Bank is continuously working towards building digital synergies that will enhance overall customer experience during onboarding.
ActivMoney, a two-way auto sweep facility, was re-launched and re-positioned as a tool for smarter money management aiding higher income and liquidity. 
The product allows flexibility to access funds anytime and offers attractive rates on FD and penalty waiver in case of pre-closure. The on-boarding process 
was simplified to just a few clicks in the digital assisted account opening journey as well the mobile banking journey. To popularize the ActivMoney facility, 
the Bank launched an extensive Print and TVC media campaign.
The Bank increased the additional rate for senior citizen retail (below ` 2 crore) fixed deposits in a few select long term tenors. The Bank also offered the 
senior citizen rate benefit on select few popular tenors of bulk deposits (` 2 crore to less than ` 5 crore). These attractive rates were popularized by way of 
print media and backed by extensive Direct to customer outreach.
The Bank has further streamlined its existing account opening journeys using assisted biometric route, and approximately 90% of the accounts are opened 
through its assisted biometric journey.
With the vision of providing our most premium customers, the exclusivity that they deserve, Privy League a flagship programme for High Net Worth 
customers was re-launched in FY 2023-24. The programme entails multiple first-of-its kind experiences, namely, Debit Card with unique and exclusive 
designs, access to Luxury Concierge, multiple lifestyle discounts / membership on Favourite categories such as Dining and Travel.
The Bank has successfully integrated the investment process through Kotak Cherry, with the savings on-boarding journey, enabling customers with an 
option to activate seamless investments in Mutual Funds, including Systematic Investment Plans ("SIP"). Easy and convenient transaction process from 
Cherry has led to growth in SIP registration.
Mirroring some of the initiatives in the Privy Savings Account space, the Bank also introduced new variants of Debit Card to deliver superior features and 
experience to customers, namely, Privy Neon Card, Privy Platinum LED Card and Privy Black Metal Card.
The Bank launched the digital journey for current account opening for small businesses and opened up a new avenue of online bank account opening, 
backed by a convenient and paperless experience. This journey also offers an online current account with a pay-as-per-usage feature and a free QR code.
The Bank launched the Global Service Account - A current account specially designed to meet the unique banking needs of the service export sector.
Kotak Start-up Current Account was relaunched with enhanced features like preferential trade and forex pricing, specially curated offers and much more to 
help start-ups in their entrepreneurial journey.
Recognising the promotion of start-ups as one of the crucial pillars for building the economy, the Bank has participated in multiple start-up events in 
collaboration with IIT Madras, IIM Ahmedabad, etc. to interact with the start-up community and increase awareness of financial solutions. The Bank has 
also signed an MOU with I-Hub Gujarat to participate in upcoming programmes/events to increase visibility in the start-up ecosystem.
The Bank launched an option for customers to upgrade their accounts through net and mobile banking to avail various benefits available with their current 
account with the bank. The Bank also launched an automated customer profiling tool to provide need-based recommendations and customised solutions 
for business banking customers. The solution has the functionality to share standardised content with prospective customers, which helps in ease of 
business and increases transparency.
The Bank has also received the Receiving Office License for mobilisation in GOI Floating Rate Savings Bonds (FRSB) 2020 (Taxable) or RBI Bonds in 
FY 2023-24. This is a popular investment instrument amongst retail investors as it has attractive rate of interest and high credibility. The Bank has also 
digitised the investment process in RBI Bonds. Customers can log-in to internet banking and invest in RBI Bonds seamlessly.
In FY 2023-24, the Bank has also introduced One-view investment portfolio statement. This 360 degree investment portfolio statement provides the 
customer holding details and current value for all your investments in Fixed Deposits, Mutual Funds, Portfolio Management Services (PMS), Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF), DP holdings with Kotak Bank, Insurance (ULIP Funds), National Pension System, along with Bank Account balance. This one-view 
portfolio statement can be accessed by log-in to the internet banking. This provides various reports including the consolidated holdings, transaction report, 
capital gains/loss report, grand fathering report, etc.
The Bank offers a wide array of exclusive benefits like complimentary protection benefits, free credit card and lifetime zero charges to customers, amongst 
others, on the Bank’s Corporate Salary Account. The account has been designed for corporate professionals providing a gamut of attractive deals and 
services across lifestyle, travel, healthcare and dining. The Bank during the year has invested on consumer research, to garner critical understanding of 
latent consumer needs. Consequent to the research undertaken, the Bank is building customer-centric value propositions specific to microsegments within 
salaried customer base amongst others. The Bank has worked on opening the gates towards larger acquisition of premium customers, creating a new 
Salaried offering with protection benefits and focused on a specialized proposition for the women workforce.
353
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
The Kotak remit platform, which facilitates customers to digitally remit money abroad, has become one of the primary modes of such transactions. This, 
along with centralized processing of all other outward remittances, has improved operational efficiency and enhanced the execution Turn Around Time (TAT). 
The Bank has forged successful strategic partnerships with multiple brokers to facilitate international investment and has enabled Kotak GIFT City and 
DIFC on the Kotak Remit platform. This would further facilitate individual customers to remit funds with ease for capital investments abroad.
During the year, the Bank enabled the bundling of a Cyber Insurance policy as well, along with the digital 811 account onboarding journey. In Life Insurance 
products, the Bank created customized solutions targeting various sections and persona. A High IRR Non-Participating Guaranteed Product – Kotak 
Guaranteed Fortune Builder was also added in the bouquet of Life Insurance Products.
The Bank also targeted the Millennials with a unique proposition. T.U.L.I.P was launched in the second half of the financial year, which primarily caters to 
protection needs, along with customer’s investment objective. It is a Unit Linked Insurance Plan that provides higher Life Insurance coverage.
In line with its customer first objective, the Bank launched RM e-Konnect, a revolutionary platform that facilitates customers to seamlessly connect with 
their Relationship Manager. This omni-channel interface enables the Bank’s Privy League Black customers, to interact with their Relationship Manager and 
Service Manager over chat, voice or video calls, in a secure environment, through Internet Banking or the Mobile Banking app. Customers can schedule 
meetings with their Relationship Manager and also request for information regarding their Investment portfolio through a scheduled call with an Investment 
Specialist or seek view on the Forex rates from a Forex Specialist. Customers can also use the RM eKonnect platform to review and authorize their Mutual 
Fund investment transactions, with a click of a button.
From 2021, Kotak811 operates as a ‘Semi-Autonomous’ Digital Bank within the Bank, with additional focus on service, user experience, engagement and 
cross-selling. As of March 2024, Kotak811 had over 2.3 crore customers residing in more than 1,000 cities and towns across India. In FY 2023-24, the 
customer base grew by approximately 35% YoY, while deposits increased by 38% and overall throughput increased by 52% YoY. Kotak811 has also started 
contributing meaningfully to the Bank, across various parameters. In FY 2023-24, 72% of new Savings account were acquired by Kotak811 and over 50% of 
Credit Cards, Unsecured Loan, Insurance policies (non-life) and Recurring Deposits were cross sold to Kotak811 customers.
The Bank continues to focus on building the human capital, with the focus of nurturing talent and building human capital, leveraging technology and expertise.
The Bank signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Manipal Academy of Higher Education, to launch the Kotak NextGen Bankers Programme to skill 
and foster industry-ready talent to address the evolving needs of the banking industry. The 12-month Post Graduate Diploma in Relationship Management 
will train banking aspirants in customer experience and culminate in them being deputed as Branch Relationship Manager at Bank Branches.
The Bank’s internal employee response agent KAIRA has AI integrated into our information and knowledge retrieval processes, making it easier for 
employees to access the right information at the right time. This helps improve our information management, thus enhancing efficiency, and ultimately 
delivering a superior customer experience
Kotak Learning and Performance Partner (KLAPP) was further enriched with enabling tools to aid our frontline customer facing staff so as to offer 
customised solutions to our customers on investments and current accounts.
Kotax
The Bank also offers bulk tax payment solution using Net banking and Host-to-Host channel for payment of Direct Taxes. This has provided ease to 
Corporate and SME Clients for quicker tax payments using seamless digital journey and enhanced customer experience. As digital transactions are being 
encouraged and scaled up across ecosystems, the Bank is making strides into opening of other options to further ease tax-paying journey for tax payers.
Mobile Banking
The Bank has launched a ‘Net Banking Lite platform’ for accessing Net Banking from Mobile Devices. It has also improved the Scan and Pay with new 
features such as gallery upload, generate QR, etc. underpinned by enhanced technology.
Consumer Assets
Consumer Assets team scaled up business across both secured and unsecured products registering an overall growth of 20% during 
FY 2023-24.
Secured business consisting of Home Loans and Loan Against Property 
(LAP) registered a growth of 15% during FY 2023-24, while Working Capital 
had a growth of 22% during same period.
Unsecured business had a strong growth, led by Credit Card registering a 
growth of 44% in book size during FY 2023-24, while Industry during same 
period registered a growth of 21%. Also, card spends per card registered a 
growth of 20% versus Industry growth of 0.5% during same period.
The Bank has launched Myntra Kotak co-brand credit card in FY 2023-24 
catering to rising trend of lifestyle purchases among millennials and GenZ 
Consumer Banking Advances 
(` in crore)
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
177,276
82,809
87,579
118,164
147,983
Statutory Reports
354
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
customers. It has also enhanced value proposition of PVR card by upgrading this to PVR-INOX card that now provides offers across both PVR and INOX 
movie screens.
Unsecured business consisting of Personal Loan, Business Loans and Consumer Durables registered a strong growth of 27% during FY 2023-24. This is 
driven by analytics-based offers provided to existing customers thus enhancing overall customer value proposition.
With an aim of catering to developing geographies, the Bank made significant inroads this year into sourcing business banking clients from semi-urban 
regions and the high growth micro enterprises segment. The Bank’s investment into supply chain finance gave its returns this year with the asset growth 
being strong for the year. Further, the macro-economic ecosystem has remained healthy this year despite global turbulence which has helped maintain the 
health of business banking assets book and give good risk-adjusted returns.
COMMERCIAL BANKING
The Bank’s Commercial Banking business focuses on meeting the banking and financial needs of various segments, with specialised units offering financial 
solutions in the areas of Commercial Vehicles (“CV”), Construction Equipment (“CE”), Tractor and Farm Equipment (“Tractor”), SMEs operating in the Agri 
Value Chain and Micro Finance. The majority of the customers that this business serves in these segments is in semi-urban and rural area and form a part 
of the priority sector. This business plays a significant role in meeting the financial inclusion goals by financing deep into ‘Bharat’.
Trend of commercial advances over the last five years is as below:
Commercial Banking Advances 
(` in crore)
Mar-24
90,468
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
48,009
53,529
61,515
75,454
Commercial Vehicle
The Commercial Vehicle (“CV”) Industry was almost flat at 1% growth for FY 2023-24, whereas the bank has grown 29% in unit terms in the same period. 
The Bank has grown at 27% in goods segment and 57% in passenger segment for FY 2023-24 in unit terms. In the goods space, the industry remained 
flat with 2% drop in unit terms, although there is a significant improvement in unit sales of high tonnage models over the previous year. Overall operator 
economics continues to be fine with freight demand remaining good and improvement in availability of return load. In the passenger space, industry has 
grown at 29% over FY 2022-23 as all verticals such as Staff, School and Tour and Travels have displayed improved demand. The CV business has grown 
quite strongly during this period and disbursements have grown YoY by 37%. This has helped the Bank’s market share growth, during FY 2023-24, by over 
100 bps. Collection efficiency and Gross Non-Performing Assets (“GNPA”) continue to show stable trends.
Construction Equipment
The Construction Equipment (“CE”) industry registered a healthy growth of around 24% in FY 2023-24. Growth in the Infra sector was led by the Government’s 
continuous increase in budgetary capital allocation to the sector. The Government’s ambitious targets under the National Infrastructure Pipeline have 
helped in boosting the spending towards infrastructure development, specifically in segments like roads, metros, railways, mining, sanitation, etc. Apart 
from this, improvement in the overall macro-economic environment has led to a strong revival in construction activities and pick-up in demand for CE 
assets. Disbursements followed a healthy industry growth and grew at 34%. Cash flows in the segment have improved and the delinquency levels remained 
under control throughout the year.
Tractor and Farm Equipment
In the Tractors and Farm equipment (“Tractor”) segment, disbursements grew by 9% in FY 2023-24 despite industry decline of 7.6%, thus gaining market 
share and maintaining dominant position amongst all other banks and NBFCs in the sector. For the second consecutive year, the Bank crossed the 
milestone figure of over one lakh new tractor loans. The Bank’s continued focus on refinance business led to a strong disbursement growth of 32% in 
FY 2023-24. Tractor Portfolio registered growth of 14% in FY 2023-24, demonstrating continued commitment towards making a difference in the lives and 
livelihood of the farmer community. Focus on new products/customer segments and on deeper geographies aided the effort. Collection efficiencies in 
FY 2023-24 were better than previous years, however, some stress was visible in geographies where monsoon was deficient or erratic.
Agri Business
Agri Value chain saw volatility across multiple commodities and incremental risks due to factors related to extreme weather, regional conflicts and the 
upcoming elections. These factors continue to hamper limit utilizations leading to a muted growth in advances. So also, the Bank continues to see 
aggressive appetite of lenders in this space and hence the Bank has become more selective and cautious in choice of business. Overall collections and 
355
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
recoveries in this segment have improved during the year. The Bank’s continued focus has been to improve processes to reduce the TAT for on boarding 
new clients. Fresh initiatives that have been setup for small ticket Agri loans to farmers in the dairy and other sectors have started showing initial traction. 
Under this model, the entire farmer on boarding process follows a digital journey (RM assisted).
Micro Credit
The microcredit business segment reported a growth of 60%, including Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”), in advances in FY 2023-24. The Bank has 
completed the acquisition of Sonata in March 2024, thereby extending the outreach of the business to sixteen states through a network of over 1,400 BC 
branches. Including the customer base that the acquisition of Sonata that has now come into the Bank fold, the Bank now has close to 27 lakh customers 
in the microcredit segment. The demand for credit in semi-urban and rural markets continues to be good. The Bank is on track to leverage its outreach and 
cater to the requirements of its increasing customer base.
Gold Loan
Gold loan industry in India experienced healthy growth of over 25%, driven by factors like increased gold prices and the need for quick, collateral-based 
financing solution. Gold loan business has grown quite strongly and registered disbursement growth of 51% and book growth of over 27% at YoY level. The 
Bank is now offering gold loans from over 600 branches (approximately 30% of total branch network of bank).
Crop Loan
Crop Loan NPA recovery and portfolio quality have improved in comparison with the last year due to better resolution and collection focus.
WHOLESALE BANKING
The Bank’s Wholesale Business has a number of units catering to various customer and industry segments, including major Indian corporates, 
conglomerates, financial institutions, public sector undertakings, multinational companies, financial sponsors including private equity funds, portfolio 
investors, new age companies, small and medium enterprises and realty businesses, offering a wide range of banking services covering their working 
capital, medium-term finance, project finance, trade and supply chain finance, foreign exchange services, other transaction banking requirements, custody 
services, debt capital markets, structured financing solutions and treasury services. The focus has been on customised solutions delivered through efficient 
technology platforms backed by high quality service. The Bank’s core focus has been to acquire quality customers on a consistent basis and ensure value 
add through cross-selling of varied products and services.
Industry
The year FY 2023-24 witnessed green shoots in private capex in some sectors though overall capex growth in the economy was still primarily driven by 
infrastructure spend. After a few years of muted banking credit growth to the industry vertical, the year saw a return of credit demand in this space. Credit 
offtake was higher in the SME and Mid-Market space than the larger corporates. As in the past few years, banking credit offtake by the services space 
including bank lending to Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), Real Estate, Wholesale Trade and other services grew at a much faster rate.
While, on the one hand, the Wholesale Banking sector witnessed strong growth in assets during the year, tight liquidity conditions, on the other hand, 
muted liability growth. Consequently, cost of deposits rose impacting net interest margins for banks. Focus on garnering greater flows of customers, 
supplementing asset incomes through cross-selling of other transaction banking products and non-risk income streams became all the more critical to 
generate healthy returns.
Wholesale Bank Continued on its Growth Path
The Bank continued the positive momentum from the previous year by maintaining a focus on acquiring new customers in a profitable manner. The addition 
of New-to-Bank customers across assets and liabilities continued to be healthy across segments in FY 2023-24. In addition to focussing on new clients, the 
business segments also continued their efforts to increase wallet share with existing clients with an aim to improve the overall quality of income. This has 
further strengthened the foundations of the Bank to offer comprehensive solutions to corporate banking customers.
Asset growth for the Bank, during the year, was broad based across customer sectors and business segments. The Bank witnessed healthy asset growth 
in the conglomerates, large corporates, multinational and financial institutions space.
SME and Mid-Market Focus
The Bank is cognizant of concentration risks and is focused on growing its granular book at a higher rate. The SME business has seen a significant 
ramp-up through a focused acquisition strategy and several initiatives taken for improving turn-around times coupled with investment in people, process, 
technology and product offerings. These efforts have resulted in growth across key metrices in the SME business including Assets, Fees and Income. The 
book remains pristine, which is a result of strong risk monitoring and proactive measures being taken to maintain portfolio hygiene. During the year, the 
Bank also created a separate focused Mid-Market vertical to better capture opportunities in this space. The business saw good momentum with twice the 
number of clients being onboarded this year as compared to the previous year. The book is of high quality with majority of the book comprising Working 
Capital and flows based lending.
Statutory Reports
356
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Infrastructure Lending
The infrastructure sector in the country is witnessing multi-fold increase in investments. Sponsors are now of high quality, which has significantly improved 
governance hygiene in the sector. The legal framework has been strengthened, which has improved enforceability of contracts which, in turn, has increased 
ability of banks to lend to this sector. Access to funding including through capital markets has improved through structures such as InvITs. The Bank has 
historically adopted a cautious approach to this sector, but with these changes is now more confident in financing projects in this space. The year saw 
significant growth in the Bank’s long-term funding to infrastructure projects while maintaining a risk adjusted view on return. Nearly 90% of the infrastructure 
book comprises high-rated borrowers rated AA- and above and is diversified across corporates, private equity funds, InvITs which have a well-established track 
record and high creditworthiness. The Bank strives to provide holistic solutions to clients at each stage of the project lifecycle including at under-construction 
stage by providing products suiting customer needs such as capex LCs and buyers credit which are refinanced through long-term project financing and 
post completion of the projects, refinancing of the project loans by issuance of NCDs from capital market players. In addition, the Bank also provides bridge 
financing under extant RBI guidelines. The Bank’s ability to structure, underwrite and syndicate has helped it to provide complete solutions on larger financing 
requirements of these projects. The Bank is also focusing on providing cash management and escrow solutions to these projects, thereby improving non-risk 
incomes. A large part of the long-term infrastructure book has been financed through infrastructure bonds which provides ALM comfort.
Real Estate Lending
Growth in the real estate book has been muted during the year due to large repayments driven by robust sales by developers across residential projects. The 
Bank remains bullish on this sector and is actively trying to increase business with marquee developers across both commercial and residential sectors.
Financial Institutions
The Bank is selectively growing exposure to the Financial Institution space. The credit cycle is currently benign and the Bank has calibrated its exposures in 
a meaningful manner which are ROE accretive.
Trend of wholesale banking advances in the last five years is as below:
Wholesale Banking Advances
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24
20,291
16,682
20,444
23,108
27,247
64,564
84,855
62,401
79,083
69,466
89,910
72,405
95,513
87,310
114,558
	 Corporate Banking 
	 SME
Syndication & Debt Capital Markets
In addition to direct lending to its clients, the Bank arranged for debt for its clients from the capital as well as loan markets. The Bank was able to close a diverse 
range of marquee transactions, including large Infra transactions in the Renewable and Road sectors, Real Estate sector loans and bond deals, credit bond in 
the fertilizer sector, the first retail mall REIT funding, structured funding in thermal power sector, promoter financing for private equity exit, securitization and 
others. The Bank also assisted a number of its large corporate customers to access the bond markets and raise NCDs at competitive pricing.
Focus on Transaction Banking & Non-Asset Income Streams
The Bank continues to focus on income from other non-credit income streams including from Forex, Cash Management and other Transaction Banking 
products. The Bank is especially focused on increasing penetration in Trade assets. The Bank has invested in bolstering its Trade product and sales 
expertise, introducing newer products, providing structured solutions to customers’ trade requirements and in digitizing the Trade journey. The Bank expects 
these initiatives to result in greater share of customer flows and consequently higher liability and fee incomes going forward. This year, the proportion of 
non-risk income stream increased resulting in higher profitability and improved Return on Equity.
The Bank offers a comprehensive product portfolio including a diverse range of financial products under Cash Management Services and Trade. In the 
payments technology stack, enhanced focus is on UPI stability along with strategic initiatives including Merchant Management system. A new payments 
platform has been introduced enhancing customer User Interface/User Experience and increasing transaction processing speed significantly. The Bank 
has witnessed four times growth in tax payments from the platform. It is focused on ensuring operational resilience and offering structured solutions to 
meet client specific requirements. In the Collections stack, the Bank has enhanced its NACH tech stack on scalability, resiliency and faster settlements. 
Along with this, customer experience has also been enhanced by building and scaling the product portfolio. In the Acquiring business, the Bank is helping 
merchants accept transactions from foreign card holders. The aim is to grow this offering further in the coming year. The Bank has also seen a significant 
increase in market share in the capital market and IPO transactions with specialized processing teams and enhanced focus on regulatory compliance.
357
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Over the years, the Bank has also built a significant credit substitute book, driven by customer preferences and strengthening capital markets. This year, the 
Bank witnessed a Mark-to-Market profit in this book given the movement of interest rates.
The Bank follows an integrated Corporate and Investment Banking approach for coverage of large conglomerates and corporate groups. Over the years, this 
strategy has helped strengthen the Bank’s position with clients and increase the wallet share. The Bank witnessed good growth in its non-credit business 
streams with these clients with improved customer service and solutioning.
The increase in the cost of funds has got the focus back on liabilities and liquidity management. The focus on increasing the liability side of our business, 
mainly core current account, term deposits and other non-risk income streams continued in line with the overall intention to improve the quality of income 
from our clients.
Custodial Services
The Custody and Clearing business continued on a growth trajectory on the back of a robust domestic growth and returning confidence in the Foreign 
Portfolio Investors. This year, the Bank took multiple new initiatives to maintain and keep its leadership position including launching commodity clearing for 
FPIs in the BSE derivative segment. The Domestic Custody business continued to grow at a fast pace during the year and the Bank on-boarded a number 
of marquee Portfolio Management Services and Alternative Investment Fund names in addition to a few large family office clients. With vibrancy in Indian 
Stock Markets, the business is well positioned to continue on its growth path in the coming year.
Internal Credit Rating
Over the years, the Bank has ensured that growth has been achieved in a profitable manner without compromising the health of the book. Its portfolio is 
well-diversified and industry, group and company specific exposure limits are reviewed periodically. The entire portfolio is rated by internal credit rating 
tools, which facilitates appropriate credit selection and monitoring. Exposure, over the years, has been confined to segments with credit comfort in terms 
of better rated exposure, industries with a positive outlook and where pricing has been adequate for the risk being underwritten. These practices helped 
ensure that the overall portfolio continued to show robust characteristics throughout the year and the Wholesale Bank this year again witnessed low credit 
cost, delivering continued improvement in the risk-reward ratio. Pricing models such as Risk Adjusted Return on Capital (RaRoC) measurements are now 
embedded in the system. Due to these initiatives, the focus is high on ensuring the right risk-return balance and on maximising non-credit income streams. 
The Bank’s focus on Risk management has helped the business to optimise its Risk Weighted assets as a percentage of assets in the past few years.
Global Arrangements
The Bank has a co-operation agreement with ING Bank globally covering a number of countries, which also helps the Bank in targeting a greater number of 
multinational corporates in India. Dedicated marketing efforts have helped the Bank to make significant inroads into identified corridors such as Germany, 
Switzerland, Austria, Italy, France, Nordic region, Taiwan and Korea. Replicating this model, the Bank has now formed a dedicated desk to cater to MNCs 
entering India, offering end-to-end solutions by partnering with various agencies to co-create a sustainable ecosystem.
Technology Investments & Efficiency Improvements
The Bank continued its journey in investing in and ramping up Kotak fyn, its unified portal exclusively for corporate and business banking customers. 
Kotak fyn offers the entire product suite across Trade, Payments, Collections and Account Services. The Bank has seen a 4 times growth, this year in 
onboarded base and 3 times growth in activated base. The Bank has further strengthened the existing fyn proposition with the enablement of tax payments, 
fund transfers, bulk trade transactions, H2H connectivity with customer ERPs and EDPMS/IDPMS regularization modules resulting in 60% increase in 
transactions via fyn. In order to provide an omni-channel experience to its customers, the Bank also launched the revamped Kotak fyn mobile app. The app 
enables customers to approve transactions on the go and raise multiple service requests thereby easing the life of the corporate users.
In addition to fyn, the Bank has also invested significantly in improving the resiliency of its technology systems and further digitizing customer journeys 
and workflows. Electronic bank guarantees and digital offerings for supply chain finance are some examples which are seeing good adoption. As a result 
of this customer-focused approach and investments in technology, the Wholesale Banking team has already seen significant improvements in key product 
usage metrics in the fiscal year. The Bank’s vision is to go beyond normal and create unique experiences by offering best-in-class product suite to its clients.
The Bank has also undertaken key projects with a high focus on digitizing and reinventing the operating model to address customer pain points. The Bank 
identified a need to reduce Turn-Around-Time and simplify processes and documentation and this resulted in the launch of Project DRONA (Digitize and 
Re-invent Operating Model and Support Architecture). Project DRONA has helped identify process gaps, duplication of activities, multiple handoffs and 
rigidity of documentation. A key outcome of DRONA was a reduction in steps by about a third in a customer onboarding journey. Through DRONA, the Bank 
has been able to reduce handoffs significantly, thereby achieving improved productivity. The Bank will continue to strive towards making it even better and 
simpler and achieving best in class industry standards.
Furthermore, the Bank has made investments in its CRM to manage all prospect and customer relationship data in a central location, enabling the tracking 
and analysis of customer journeys in real-time. This has led to the automation of repeatable tasks and process improvements, thereby creating customer 
delight. Digitization of processes, business process automation, and workflow-based processing has helped in the delivery of services within the assured 
service levels. There has been improvement in various business metrics that play a pivotal role in enhancing customer experience.
In summary, a good growth in Assets, focus on fee incomes, favourable risk-return metrics through the year, strong liability incomes and controlled credit 
costs have helped the Wholesale Bank preserve its profitability and maintain a healthy After Tax Return on Equity (ATROE) despite the challenges faced 
during the year.
Statutory Reports
358
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
PRIVATE BANKING
The Bank’s private banking arm caters to a number of distinguished Indian families and is one of the oldest and the most respected Indian private banking 
firms, managing the wealth of 58% of India’s Top 100 Families (Derived from Forbes India Rich List 2023), with clients ranging from entrepreneurs to 
business families and professionals.
It provides an open architecture proposition to its clients, offering a plethora of private banking products. This business has a strong distribution capability 
for private clients through distribution/referral model across equities, fixed income and alternates, catering to Ultra HNI and HNI (High Networth Individual) 
investors. In addition to comprehensive financial solutions that go beyond investments, the division provides banking and credit, consolidated reporting, 
referral for estate planning services, family office services and other various products and services to its Private Banking clients. With an in-depth 
understanding of client requirements and expertise across various asset classes, this business offers the widest range of financial solutions.
The private banking arm has added approximately 2,280 new families in FY 2023-24.
•	
Further strengthened its propositions for the Global Indian
•	
Continued to leverage analytics to not only offer the right product mix for clients, but to also connect with them timely to address their needs
•	
Focused on technological initiatives both at the client level and at the internal team level with the aim of enhancing productivity and customer 
experience, coupled with improving cost efficiencies and reducing TAT
•	
Continued to build the new brand theme of ‘Live Your Purpose’ through unique client engagements throughout the year
Private Banking has been consistently featured as the Best Private Bank, India across multiple Global and Domestic platforms. Some of the recent accolades 
include:
•	
India’s Best for Philanthropic Advisory, Euromoney Global Private Banking Awards, 2024
•	
Best Private Bank in India, PWM The Banker, Global Private Banking Awards, 2023
•	
Best Private Bank in India - Highly commended, The Asset Triple A Private Capital Awards, 2023
GIFT CITY
The GIFT City branch commenced operations in FY 2016-17. The GIFT Branch caters to various banking needs for overseas, IFSC and domestic customers 
– including term and trade loans, deposits, and managing their currency and interest rate risks. Additionally, the branch also caters to requirements of the 
Exchanges and its members at GIFT IFSC acting as a clearing banker.
The branch is regulated by International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) – a unified regulator at GIFT IFSC, which provides regulatory oversight 
and fosters ease of doing business at IFSC.
The Branch operates with defined governance, administrative and functional framework. Branch has carefully curated a portfolio spread from short-and 
long-term trade loans, working capital and long-term client loans, investments in bonds, deposits and borrowings, leading to continued growth in profitability, 
while maintaining high standards of controls and governance. Additionally, the Branch is actively improving upon its technology platforms to enhance client 
experience including net banking and digital journey. The Branch is also actively working on extending its product bouquet and client reach.
DIFC BRANCH
The Bank’s branch at Dubai International Financial Centre (“DIFC”), Dubai, United Arab Emirates, started operations in October 2019. The DIFC Branch is 
authorized by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA) as a Category 1 licensed entity, enabling it to accept deposits from eligible clients and provide 
loans to professional clients (individuals and corporates who qualify as per DFSA rules). The DIFC Branch complements the Bank with its ability to advise 
and arrange global investment products to its clients through its reach and relationships with various manufacturers of investment and wealth products.
TREASURY
FY 2023-24 began with the US Federal Reserve continuing its rate hiking cycle with two more hikes of 25 bps each in the April and July FOMC meetings. US 
interest rates, which had gone down sharply in the aftermath of the SVB crisis, recovered as conditions normalized and scaled new highs. With the FOMC 
subsequently indicating a long pause to observe the impact of the rate hikes, the markets started pricing in rate cuts with the yield curves inverting sharply. 
However, as inflation proved sticky and with the FOMC signalling that the rates will remain high for long, market reversed its earlier moves with the yields 
moving higher again, close to the peak levels seen earlier in the year.
The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) however held the policy rate flat throughout the year as it waited for the impact of the earlier rate hikes on inflation. The 
central bank focussed on managing the liquidity tightly and ensured that the overnight rates did not deviate from the policy corridor. The benchmark 10 
yr GOI bond yields moved in sync with the global markets tracking US yields closely. However, with Indian Government Bonds getting included in the JP 
Morgan and subsequently Bloomberg bond indices, the yield was well supported on the higher side and traded in the broad range of 7.00% to 7.25% in the 
latter part of the year.
359
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Global currency markets were volatile within a range while broadly tracking interest rate differentials. The USD, which had started weakening following the 
highs of the previous year strengthened marginally in line with the views on US interest rates. The USD index itself was in the broad range of 99.50-107.50 
for most part of the year. The Japanese Yen continued to depreciate, touching a level of 150 as against 130 seen in the beginning of the year. The Indian 
Rupee was volatile in the first half of the year and depreciated to levels of 83 and higher from 82 levels seen in the beginning of the year. However, in the 
second half, the exchange rate was tightly controlled by the RBI and it remained in a tight 83.00 to 83.50 range.
Market levels in FY 2023-24
Open
High
Low
Close
Net change
10y India GILT yield
7.33
7.40
6.94
7.06
(3.4%)
10y US GILT yield
3.46
5.02
3.46
4.20
21.0%
USD/INR
82.08
83.57
81.61
83.41
1.3%
US Dollar Index
102.63
107.35
99.58
105.02
2.4%
EUR/USD
1.0848
1.1276
1.0448
1.0790
(0.5%)
Nifty
17,428
22,778
17,313
22,327
28.6%
Gold (USD per Troy ounce)
1,964
2,230
1,811
2,230
13.3%
Source: Bloomberg
Against this backdrop, the trading desks (FX and Derivatives desk, Equities desk and Fixed Income desks) fine-tuned their trading strategies, focussing on 
spread-based strategies and short-term churn while eschewing risk, in the absence of any clear direction on global interest rate outlook.
The Treasury Primary Dealer (PD) desk was able to achieve its regulatory targets of retail distribution, trading volumes and auction bidding for Government 
securities and T-Bills successfully.
The Treasury client coverage teams continue to focus on servicing its FX customers for conversion as well as for hedging their exposures. Foreign 
exchange flows from customers grew as compared to the previous year on increased trade as well as capital flows. However, as forward premiums shrunk 
to record low levels and with a benign view on the Indian Rupee, customers reduced their hedging activity to minimum levels. The Upgrade of its technology-
based solutions to provide customers an enhanced experience in the Bank’s online rate taking platform, improving pricing efficiency and optimisation of 
existing processes continued to be focus areas.
The Bullion desk continued building the annuity book of Gold Loans – providing stability and sustained profitability.
System liquidity fluctuated between surplus and deficit – however the levels of surplus or deficit and the consequent overnight rates were tightly managed 
by the RBI on a daily basis. The Balance Sheet Management Unit (BMU) managed the liquidity requirements of the Bank optimally and efficiently, ensuring 
adequate liquidity and ALM to support the needs for credit and investment. Liquidity ratios remained above prudential internal thresholds.
The BMU maintained heightened vigil while managing Liquidity and Interest Rate Risks and regulatory investments of the Bank.
The Technology team within the treasury contributed by not only maintaining treasury applications through the year, focussing on resilience and stability, 
but also continuing to upgrade the existing platforms as well building capabilities for newer products.
The Bank’s Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), which also functions as the Investment Committee, maintained a cautious and vigilant approach with a 
conservative risk appetite in its oversight of Market Risk, Interest Rate and Liquidity Gaps, counterparty and country exposures.
ASSET RECONSTRUCTION
The Bank’s Asset Reconstruction Division (ARD) looks at opportunities and takes exposure in distressed/Non-Performing Assets (“NPA”) accounts through 
Security Receipts (“SR”) investments, Stressed/NPA portfolio buyout from other banks, priority funding and working capital assistance with an aim to 
resolve and turn them around. The Bank has been active in the distressed asset buyouts and investments space, for almost two decades.
The Resolution Process has gained momentum and functioning of various judicial forums like Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs), Debt Recovery Appellate 
Tribunals (DRATs), High Courts and National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) has improved. 
The Bank adopts various measures thoughtfully (with compassion) and diligently to resolve the stressed and bad accounts.
The Bank did sizable investment, both in corporate and retail stressed assets space in FY 2023-24, and expects a lot of opportunities in the acquisition side, 
especially in retail stressed loans segment in the coming years.
Statutory Reports
360
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SUBSIDIARIES HIGHLIGHTS
KOTAK MAHINDRA PRIME LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited (“KMPL”) is primarily engaged in car financing, including financing of retail customers of passenger cars, multi-utility vehicles 
(MUVs) and financing to car dealers. KMPL finances new and used cars under retail loan and lease contracts. KMPL is also engaged in two-wheeler finance, 
loan against property and other lending.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Net Interest Income
 1,870.39
 1,646.27
Other Income
 499.95
 360.70
Total Income
 2,370.34
 2,006.97
Operating Expenses
 999.75
885.73
Provisions (Net)
 182.23
11.18
PBT
 1,188.36
 1,110.06
PAT
 888.06
 828.96
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Net Customer Assets
34,480.87
28,792.68
Car, Two Wheeler and Car Dealers
29,846.56
23,178.36
LAP
3,822.60
1,651.05
CRE, Corporate and Others
811.72
3,963.27
RoAA %
2.53%
2.77%
Capital Adequacy Ratio %
25.17%
28.39%
Tier I %
24.62%
27.72%
Covid provision held
0.78
2.08
The passenger car market in India grew 8.47% in FY 2023-24 compared to 26.73% growth in FY 2022-23. Sales volume of cars and MUVs crossed 
42.07 lakh units in FY 2023-24 compared to 38.79 lakh units in FY 202223. KMPL disbursed 1,54,932 loans in FY 2023-24 compared to 1,34,862 loans in 
FY 2022-23 in car financing.
PBT for FY 2023-24 is ` 1,188.37 crore, which is higher than the PBT for FY 2022-23 of `1,110.10 crore. Steady state businesses have contributed to higher 
Net Interest Income and Other Income during FY 2023-24. The same is offset by lower NII on account of run down of acquired portfolio and CRE/Corporate 
loan book in FY 2023-24. Higher operating cost and credit cost have also offset growth in NII for the year. Provisions (net) for FY 2022-23 were lower due 
to higher recoveries in NPA accounts. NIM for FY 2023-24 was 5.60% compared to 5.82% for FY 2022-23.
Gross NPA was ` 673.19 crore (1.95% of gross advances), while net NPA was ` 279.03 crore (0.82% of net advances) as on 31st March, 2024.
KOTAK MAHINDRA INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited (“KMIL”) is primarily engaged in real estate developer finance, corporate loans and other activities such as holding 
long-term strategic investments.
Real Estate: KMIL’s Real Estate finance team offers real estate finance platforms in the country with expertise across all key asset classes. From structuring 
complex transactions to broadening the access to capital, its comprehensive financing solutions have made it a leading choice for real estate developers. 
Given the depth of its coverage, KMIL is able to capture the growth opportunities offered by the all-round growth in the market (especially residential) across 
major cities. KMIL has been able to balance growth aspirations without compromising on its credit standards. The asset quality has remained robust 
through FY 2023-24. KMIL continues to be judicious about the borrowers that it works with.
Corporate Lending: KMIL is focusing on increasing its Corporate Lending book. The book is diversified across sectors, including manufacturing, services, 
education and NBFCs (including investing in PTCs). All-round improvement seen across industries offers significant opportunities for growing wholesale 
book as companies look to refinance their debt and expand. KMIL is well-positioned to harness opportunities that are available in the current economic 
environment.
361
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Net Interest Income
608.36
443.92
Other Income
158.68
80.34
Total Income
767.04
524.26
Operating Expenses
82.06
74.97
Provisions (Net)
(5.53)
9.97
PBT
690.51
439.32
PAT
514.21
326.26
(` in crore)
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
Net Customer Assets
12,449.83
9,689.25
RoAA %
3.87%
3.26%
Capital Adequacy Ratio %
27.41%
28.65%
Tier I %
26.46%
27.15%
PBT for FY 2023-24 at ` 690.51 crore was higher than ` 439.32 crore for FY 2022-23, primarily due to increase in NII, recovery of NPA and reversal of mark 
to market losses.
Customer assets increased to ` 12,449.83 crore as on 31st March, 2024 as compared to ` 9,689.25 crore as on 31st March, 2023. PAT increased by 57.6% 
to ` 514.21 crore for FY 2023-24 from ` 326.26 crore in FY 2022-23. NIM for FY 2023-24 was 5.05%.
Gross NPA and Net NPA as on 31st March, 2024 was ` 27.07 crore (0.24% of Advances) and ` 9.28 crore (0.08% of Advances), respectively.
KOTAK INFRASTRUCTURE DEBT FUND LIMITED
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited (“KIDFL”) is an Infrastructure Debt Fund, set up under the NBFC route. It is engaged in providing finance for 
infrastructure projects, with more than one year of satisfactory operational history.
During the year, KIDFL forged strong relationships with multiple infrastructure clients. It continues to be judicious about credit underwriting and selection 
of customers.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Net Interest Income
38.05
16.27
Other Income
16.34
19.70
Total Income
54.39
35.97
PBT / PAT
43.40
27.83
Customer Assets increased by 33% to ` 1,305.78 crore as on 31st March, 2024 compared to ` 980.61 crore as on 31st March, 2023 mainly due to higher 
disbursement.
KOTAK SECURITIES LIMITED
Kotak Securities Limited (“KSL”) is one of the largest brokerage and distribution houses in India. KSL provides securities broking services in equity cash and 
derivative segment, commodity, debt and currency derivatives segment, depository and primary market distribution services. KSL is a trading member of 
BSE Limited, National Stock Exchange of India Limited, National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange Limited, Multi Commodity Exchange Limited and 
Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India Limited* and clearing member of clearing corporations NSE Clearing Limited and Indian Clearing Corporation Limited. 
KSL is also a depository participant with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) and repository 
participant with CDSL Commodity Repository Limited and National E-Repository Limited.
KSL is also registered as a portfolio manager and a research analyst with Securities and Exchange Board of India. Further, KSL is registered as Mutual Fund 
Distributor with Association of Mutual Funds in India. KSL is having a composite license issued by the IRDAI and also acts as Corporate Agent of Kotak 
Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited and Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited.
*applied for surrender
Statutory Reports
362
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
3,981.57
2,985.67
Total Expenses
2,346.39
1,835.48
PBT
1,635.18
1,150.19
PAT
1,226.17
865.22
PAT for FY 2023-24 at ` 1,226.17 crore is higher than ` 865.22 crore for FY 2022-23, primarily due to higher brokerage income pursuant to higher market 
volumes in the cash segment.
FY 2023-24 witnessed market volume growth in equity cash segment with average daily volumes (excluding proprietary segment) increasing to ` 56,866 
crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 40,640 crore in the previous financial year and steady volume in equity derivative segment compared to previous financial year. 
Consequently, KSL volumes also increased for equity cash. Further, KSL volumes for equity derivative segment witnessed strong growth, enabling the firm 
to gain market share.
Kotak Securities market share (excluding proprietary segment) for FY 2023-24 was:
•	
12.63% compared to 9.23% in FY 2022-23 for equity derivatives segment*
•	
10.24% compared to 10.55% in FY 2022-23 for cash segment
* Based on notional turnover for equity futures and premium turnover for equity options segment
KSL digital only - Trade Free Plans collectively accounted for 50% of overall KSL acquisition in FY 2023-24. Due to the continued thrust on digital, the Kotak 
Neo mobile trading application of KSL registered a massive adoption, resulting in 55%^ growth in the trading volume through the Kotak Securities Mobile 
apps.
^Based on notional turnover for futures of all segments, and premium turnover for options of all segments
Multiple initiatives were adopted to improve KSL value proposition. Key initiatives are mentioned below:
•	
Launched Neo Mutual Fund platform with simplified user journeys, offering greater accessibility and convenience to our valued clients.
•	
Launched InstaTrade, a comprehensive trading solution designed for efficiency and convenience by providing access to Charts, Option Chain, 
Positions, Orders, and P&L seamlessly on a single screen.
•	
Launched Trade free Pro Plan, offering one of the best pricing plan in the industry for Margin Trading Facility and equity delivery brokerage.
•	
Rolled out enhanced IPO module, featuring streamlined order processing and expedited handling of IPO applications for a smoother experience.
•	
Launched Sipit, a long-term investment product that enables SIPs in individual stocks and ETFs. Using Sipit, customers can systematically invest 
a pre-specified amount / quantity of shares over a predefined frequency. The product simplifies stock and ETF discovery for the user by leveraging 
research recommended stocks, smart screeners and utility tools like SIP calculator and portfolio analyser. Within 8 months of launch, we have already 
processed over one lakh SIPs through this feature.
•	
Introduced BSE derivatives trading, fulfilling a significant demand from our client base to enable trading in Sensex and Bankex futures and options.
•	
Launched Kotak Connect Plus, digital interface designed for financial distributors to streamline distribution of investment products, enabled with 
seamless web and app-based front end and powerful admin module for the distributor.
•	
As part of Startup Investments division, KSL invested in Data Sutram, AI-based B2B SaaS company providing alternate intelligence on any Indian 
consumer and MSME.
•	
Implemented Salesforce to enhance customer servicing, aiming to smoothen resolution of service requests.
•	
Launched Trade with Charts, a web-based platform offering traders comprehensive access to trading resources in a single location.
•	
Became Financial Information User (FIU) under Account Aggregator with plans to leverage it for segment activation, simplification of account opening 
and Analytics
•	
Launched “Bro Zero” brand campaign – a DVC targeted to the youth, using millennial lingo and relatable situations to create awareness about the 
Trade Free Youth plan, which was launched in FY 2022-23. The campaign had a reach of more than 39 crores, and increased the top of mind recall 
and awareness scores by 75% and 6%, respectively.
363
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
•	
Implemented real-time alerts for stocks and derivatives, utilizing 27 parameters, including Last Traded Price (LTP), Volume, and Greeks, enhancing 
monitoring capabilities and decision-making processes.
•	
KSL implemented a social media plan with a novel content strategy that highlights the advantages of its offerings and informs, engages, and 
promotes its key brand propositions to the people who connect with KSL via social media. KSL growth in its key platforms has been as follows:
	
o	
Instagram followers grew by 26.74% from 46.0k to 58.3k
	
o	
YouTube subscribers increased by 33.04% from 125.8k to 167.4k
	
o	
LinkedIn followers grew by 16.84% from 146.7k to 171.5k
As on 31st March, 2024, KSL had a national footprint of 1,196 branches and franchisees across 322 cities in India serving its customers.
Awards and Recognitions
•	
Customer Engagement Campaign of the Year (By ASSOCHAM)
•	
Best Use of Data Analytics in Marketing (By ASSOCHAM)
•	
4th Annual BFSI Excellence Awards 2023 - Sandeep Chordia Top 20 CDO of the year (By Quantic India)
•	
Pitch BFSI Marketing Awards 2023 - Most Effective Launch / Relaunch campaign (By Exchange4Media)
•	
Pitch BFSI Marketing Awards 2023 - Most Effective Marketing Campaign - Online Trading Platform (By Exchange4Media)
•	
Pitch BFSI Marketing Awards 2023 - Most Effective Performance Marketing Campaign (By Exchange4Media)
In FY 2023-24, the Institutional Equities division of KSL, registered stellar growth in revenues and maintained its leadership position in both the cash equities 
and derivatives segments. During FY 2023-24, overall market volumes in the institutional segment increased by 47% YoY for the cash segment and by 
30% YoY for the derivatives segment, which contributed to the strong growth in the division’s volumes and revenues. Kotak Institutional Equities was able 
to maintain its yields across client segments despite strong competition and continued to add new clients to its franchise. It also showed very strong 
performance in distribution of IPOs, QIPs, open offers and execution of block trades and maintained its leadership position.
The Institutional Equities research team continued to add new sectors and companies to its list of coverage. The division continues to upgrade its IT 
infrastructure by investing in latest technology across segments to improve operational efficiency and maintain its overall leadership position in the 
institutional segment.
KOTAK MAHINDRA CAPITAL COMPANY LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited (“KMCC”) is a leading, full-service investment bank in India offering integrated solutions encompassing high-
quality financial advisory services and financing solutions. The services include Equity Capital Market issuances, M&A Advisory and Private Equity Advisory.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
 FY 2023-24
 FY 2022-23
Total Income
431.68
323.93
Total Expenses
154.99
131.45
PBT
276.69
192.48
PAT
215.01
149.28
Equity Capital Markets
In FY 2023-24, Indian Equity Capital Markets witnessed a strong rebound in IPO activity as compared to FY 2022-23, while momentum in sell-down 
activity continued. FY 2023-24 also saw a revival of follow-on primary raises via QIPs and Rights Issues. Both Foreign and Domestic institutional investors 
supported the markets in strength with an inflow of USD 25.3 billion each from both categories during FY 2023-24. A total of ` 299,040 crore (versus 
` 140,856 crore in FY 2022-23, up 112% YoY) was raised in FY 2023-24 across deals other than blocks i.e. Initial Public Offerings (IPOs), Qualified Institutional 
Placements (QIPs), Further Public Offering (FPO), Rights Issues and Offers for Sale (OFS). All sectors saw capital market deals being executed on the back 
of strong investor response.
KMCC was ranked No. 1 in Equity Capital Markets (Source: Bloomberg) in FY 2023-24 and continued to be the Left Lead Banker of Choice having led 
marquee transactions such as Mankind Pharma, Concord Biotech, Honasa Consumer and Cello World in a Left Lead role.
Statutory Reports
364
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Top Equity Deals that were concluded by KMCC during the year included:
IPO: Mankind Pharma: ` 4,326 crore, Nexus Select Trust: ` 3,200 crore, JSW Infrastructure: ` 2,800 crore, Sustainable Energy Infra Trust: ` 2,263 crore, Cello 
World: ` 1,900 crore, Honasa Consumer: ` 1,701 crore, Concord Biotech: ` 1,551 crore, Samhi Hotels: ` 1,370 crore, India Shelter Finance: ` 1,200 crore, 
SBFC Finance: ` 1,025 crore, Blue Jet Healthcare: ` 840 crore, Signature Global: ` 730 crore, Utkarsh Small Finance Bank: ` 500 crore.
OFS: Coal India: ` 4,179 crore, Vedant Fashions: ` 2,883 crore.
QIP: Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Co. : ` 4,000 crore, Macrotech Developers: ` 3,282 crore, Federal Bank: ` 3,040 crore, Brookfield India Real 
Estate Trust: ` 2,305 crore, Chalet Hotels: ` 1,000 crore.
Rights: Grasim Industries: ` 4,000 crore.
Mergers and Acquisitions and Private Equity Advisory
The total M&A Advisory deal value in India for FY 2023-24 decreased to USD 80 billion from USD 183 billion in FY 2022-23, while deal volumes decreased 
to 2,766 in FY 2023-24 from 3,067 in FY 2022-23. The average deal size for FY 2023-24 decreased to USD 46 million from USD 62 million in FY 2022-23.
(Source: Bloomberg, as on 8th May, 2024)
KMCC advised on a diverse array of ten M&A transactions across a range of products and sectors, for a total deal value of USD 4.0 billion (not considering 
deals where values have not been disclosed):
•	
Across products, ranging from Acquisitions, Divestments, Mergers, Restructurings, Private Equity investments;
•	
Across sectors, ranging from Healthcare, Financial Services, Consumer, Real Estate, Digital, Specialty Chemical, etc.
Advisory deal values in FY 2023-24 showed degrowth of approximately 56% vis-à-vis the previous year considering the rising interest rate environment 
and buoyant capital markets. In FY 2023-24, financial sponsors accounted for around 30% of the transactions by value vis-à-vis 29% in FY 2022-23 and 
continued to constitute a significant part of India’s M&A activity.
The deal activity during FY 2023-24 was largely contributed by domestic majority, inbound minority and majority investments, corporate restructurings. 
Consolidation by market leaders, acquisition by global strategic players and financial sponsors were major drivers for M&A transactions in FY 2023-24 and 
the trend is expected to continue in FY 2024-25. Other factors such as building adjacencies by acquisition of new business, business consolidation and exits 
by financial sponsors are also expected to drive the M&A activity in FY 2024-25
Some of the key advisory deals that were announced by KMCC during the financial year included:
•	
Sell-side advisor for sale of controlling stake in Kotak Mahindra General Insurance to Zurich Insurance Group
•	
Sell-side advisor for sale of 75% stake in Glenmark Lifesciences to Nirma
•	
Sell-side advisor for sale of controlling stake in NivaBupa Health Insurance by Truenorth to joint venture partner Bupa
•	
Sell-side advisor for primary fundraise by NivaBupa from Temasek, Paragon Partners and Motilal Oswal PE
•	
Sell-side advisor for sale of 30% stake in Signet Excipients to IMCD Group
•	
Sell-side advisor to Renew Buy for its Series-D fundraise from Dai-ichi Life Holdings
•	
Buy-side advisor to Tata Consumer Products for acquisition of Capital Foods
•	
Buy-side advisor to Tata Consumer Products for acquisition of Organic India
•	
Financial advisor to ITC for demerger of its hotels business into ITC Hotels
•	
Financial Advisor for merger of Cohance Lifesciences with Suven Pharmaceuticals
KOTAK MAHINDRA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited (“KLI”), a 100% subsidiary of Kotak Bank, is in the business of Life Insurance, annuity and providing 
employee benefit products to its individual and group clientele. KLI has developed a multi-channel distribution network to cater to its customers and 
markets through agency, bancassurance and other alternate, group and online channels on a pan-India basis.
Network
KLI had 292 life insurance outlets across 147 locations. KLI has 119,016 life advisors, 25 Bancassurance partners and 236 brokers and corporate agency 
tie-ups.
365
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
	
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross Premium Income
17,708.38
15,320.46
First Year Premium ( Incl. Group and Single)
8,656.85
7,668.67
PBT – Shareholders’ Account
1,041.24
1,462.72
PAT – Shareholders’ Account
688.62
1,053.31
Solvency Ratio (as on 31st March)
2.56
2.83
The Indian Embedded Value (IEV) was ` 15,242 crore (31st March, 2023: ` 12,511 crore) as on 31st March, 2024, grew by 21.8% YoY. This is computed based 
on the principles prescribed by APS10. The methodology, assumptions and results have been reviewed by Willis Towers Watson Actuarial Advisory LLP.
The Value of New Business (VNB) for FY 2024 stood at ` 1,053 crore (FY23 - ` 1,373 crore) and the VNB margin was 28.5%.
The Net worth of KLI increased by 10.05% to ` 5,863.23 crore as on 31st March, 2024 from ` 5,327.70 crores as on 31st March, 2023.
PBT (Shareholders’) of the Company for FY 2023-24 stood at ` 1,041.24 crore against ` 1,462.72 crores in FY 2022-23. Profit was impacted by higher 
distribution cost and new business strain on non-par products.
KLI has announced a bonus of ` 1,007 crores for more than 7 lakh eligible policyholders for FY2023-24. This is the 23rd consecutive year that Kotak Life 
has declared a bonus on participating products.
An insurance company is considered to be solvent if its assets are adequate and liquid to pay off claims/liabilities as and when they arise. Solvency ratio 
indicates the Company’s claim / liability paying ability. KLI has solvency ratio of 2.56 against a regulatory requirement of 1.50.
KLI saw an increase in its AUM (including shareholders’) by 24.67% YoY to ` 80,143.15 crore in FY 2023-24.
KLI has been assigned CRISIL Corporate Credit rating of CRISIL AAA/Stable (Pronounced as CRISIL triple A rating with Stable outlook)
Revenue Performance
KLI has recorded a growth of 15.59% on the gross written premium, mainly coming from Individual single premium, renewal premium and Group premium. 
The summary of premiums is, as under:
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Individual Regular
 2,663.06
2,592.72
Individual Single
 1,597.10
1,359.23
Group Premium
 4,396.69
3,716.72
Total New Business Premium
 8,656.85
7,668.67
Renewal
9,051.53
7,651.79
Gross Premium
 17,708.38
15,320.46
Distribution Mix (Individual business APE (Single 1/10))
The distribution mix for Individual business APE (Single 1/10), is 50.08% 
for the Bancassurance channel and 49.92% for Agency and other 
channels.
Individual Product Mix
This year product mix of KLI in individual regular premium continues to be 
driven largely by Traditional business being at 74.91% and ULIP at 25.09%.
Protection Share
Protection share as % of Individual New Business and Total Group 
Business stood at 35.07%.
Overall protection business for FY 2023-24 has grown by 2.30% from 
` 3,076.17 crore to ` 3,147.04 crore YoY.
Individual Product Mix 
FY 2019-20
FY 2020-21
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
	 Reg - Traditional 
	 Reg - ULIP
18.44%
81.56%
18.71%
81.29%
24.21%
75.79%
15.16%
84.84%
25.09%
74.91%
Statutory Reports
366
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The total sum assured as on 31st March, 2024 stood at ` 1,441.28 (000 crore), a growth of 18.89% YoY
Group Business
The group business comprising Group term, Group Credit life business and Group Fund business (Including renewals) has grown by 16.51% in 
FY 2023-24 over FY 2022-23 from ` 4,044.94 crore in FY 2022-23 to ` 4,712.70 crore in FY 2023-24.
Conservation and Persistency
The conservation ratio stands at 88.09% in FY 2023-24 compared to 86.76% in FY 2022-23. As of March 2024, the persistency was 87.45% (13th month), 
75.28% (25th month), 65.61% (37th month), 64.37% (49th month) and 54.57% (61st month).
Industry Comparison
On an individual APE Basis (Single 1/10), KLI has registered a growth of 3.45% against private insurance industry growth of 8.03% and overall industry 
growth of 4.83%. KLI's market share for Individual New Business premium (APE terms) is 3.82% for FY 2023-24 among private insurers.
On group APE Basis (Single 1/10), KLI market share for Group New Business premium (APE terms) is 13.27% for FY 2023-24 among private insurers.
In FY 2023-24, Insurance industry as a whole registered a growth of 4.26% on Total New Business Premium – Adjusted Premium Equivalent (APE) terms 
(Single 1/10), while KLI registered a growth of 16.36% on Total New Business Premium- APE terms. On the same basis, KLI market share stood at 5.40% 
of private industry.
Claims Settlement Ratio
The individual claims settlement ratio for FY 2023-24 stood at 98.29%, while the group claims settlement ratio for FY 2023-24 stood at 99.23%.
Digital Initiatives
KLI mainly focused on below areas
Information Technology and Digital Initiatives
FY 2023-24 was a year of significant transformation as the Company embraced “Process Excellence” as strategic guiding principle to streamline operations, 
build value-driven solutions, analytics-based decision making capabilities and leveraged technology to deliver a suave customer experience.
Investing in Future
KLI made vital investments in scaling technological prowess and deploying cutting-edge platforms offering Customers, Distributors and Partner modern 
age competences as below:
A.	
Enrich Customer On-boarding and Servicing
	
•	
Digitizing Group Business through Suraksha Portal
	
	
Cloud enabled Suraksha Portal for Institutional customers facilitated faster data upload, digitized member on-boarding process and expedited 
cross system work-flows.
	
•	
Voluntary Coverage Portal for Corporate Solutions Group
	
	
Voluntary coverage portal built for Institutional business enabled their members / employees to digitally complete opted voluntary coverage 
enrolment journey through link triggered on email or SMS. This further bolstered higher voluntary participation and enhanced customer experience.
	
•	
CRMNext Service Platform
	
	
With an objective to empower touchpoints with pre-defined workflows, seamless business rule engine and simplify authentication process, 
9 critical service requests were built and made live on CRM service platform. From the total Insta. eligible service requests (SRs), 79% of them 
were processed instantly.
	
•	
Proposal and Claims Tracking through WhatsApp and Webchat
	
	
To provide customers with better visibility of Proposal status and Claims status, self-service digital channels WhatsApp and Webchat were 
enabled.
B.	
Fortify Distributor and Partner Engagement
	
Boost 360, a super-app for KLI advisors, partners and frontline sales employees. Boost empowers sales users with convenience of 10 Apps in 1 Super 
app and enabling cutting edge features like Customer Servicing Suite, Task and Activity Management, Increased revenue opportunities. It witnessed 
over 89,500 registered users and over 40,900 monthly active users, facilitating seamless business activities with over a million service requests met 
annually and over 60 million proactive nudges sent out.
367
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
C.	
Organisation Capability Additions
	
•	
SAS – Streamline Reporting and Data-Driven Decision Making
	
	
Comprehensive data warehouse has been built on SAS platform enabling automated business insights, data exchange across peripheral 
systems and analytical use cases. In-house capabilities catering to the IRDAI policy and claims reporting mart has helped KLI improve accuracy 
and quality of regulatory reporting as well as lift in productivity.
	
•	
SAP Treasury Management
	
	
Scalable SAP platform replaced conventional investment management practices / system thereby bringing automation in investment 
management activities, leading to improved efficiency.
Social and Rural Obligations
KLI has written rural policies 78,989 (FY 2022-23: 80,975) representing 22.65% of total policies against regulatory requirement of 20%. Further, KLI has 
covered 89,31,392 (FY 2022-23 : 80,63,445) social lives, which is more than the regulatory requirement of 5% total lives. KLI takes the social sector target 
not as an obligation, but with a sense of duty to the community.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (“KGI”) was incorporated on 20th December, 2014 under Companies Act, 2013 as a 100% subsidiary 
of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited. The Company received the certificate of registration from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) 
on 18th November, 2015 with registration no. 152 and subsequently commenced operations on 17th December, 2015.The Company is in the business of 
underwriting general insurance policies relating to Fire, Marine and Miscellaneous lines of business.
The general insurance industry as a whole registered 13.24% YoY growth in FY 2023-24, in which the private sector (excluding standalone health insurance 
companies) grew by 19.53%. KGI grew its premium (excluding re-insurance) from ` 1,134.09 crore in FY 2022-23 to ` 1,587.11 crore in FY 2023-24, 
registering 39.95% growth.
Financial and Other Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross Written Premium (GWP) (including re-insurance)
1,598.36
1,148.30
Profit/(Loss) Before and After Tax
(88.95)
(117.28)
Claims Ratio
65.56%
69.50%
Combined Ratio
113.21%
121.25%
Revenue Review
KGI’s Motor business grew 45.09% from ` 515.89 crore in FY 2022-23 to ` 748.48 crore in FY 2023-24, Health business (including Personal Accident) 
grew 42.68% from ` 483.37 crore in FY 2022-23 to ` 689.70 crore in FY 2023-24, Commercial business grew 7.48% from ` 149.04 crore in FY 2022-23 to 
` 160.18 crore in FY 2023-24.
Product Mix
In order to maintain a balanced product mix, KGI product mix for Motor, Health and Others has moved from 45:43:12 in FY 2022-23 to 47:43:10 in 
FY 2023-24.
Solvency
As on 31st March, 2024, the solvency ratio of KGI stood at 1.85 against the regulatory requirement of 1.50.
Investments
Investments of KGI as on 31st March, 2024 stood at ` 2,295.36 crore against the previous year amount of ` 1,743.80 crore, registering 31.63 growth%.
Distribution Network
KGI has a network of 30 branches catering to more than 300 locations. KGI has 55 corporate agents, 5,476 individual agents, 6,907 point of sale agents, 
553 brokers, 22 web aggregator, 24 micro insurance agents, 7 Insurance Marketing Firm and 2 Motor Insurance Service Providers.
Social and Rural Obligations
KGI has written a premium of ` 144.50 crore under rural obligation, representing 9.10% of the total premium. Further, KGI has covered 436,079 social lives 
against the regulatory requirement of 244,790.
Statutory Reports
368
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Claim Servicing
The number of claims settled by the Company has increased from approximately 155,400 in FY 2022-23 to approximately 206,600 in FY 2023-24, up 33%.
Awards and Accolades
GOLD - Most Effective Customer Engagement – Pitch BFSI Summit (Kotak Meter)
GOLD - Most Effective Use of Apps – Pitch BFSI Summit (Kotak Meter)
GOLD - Most Effective Content Marketing Strategy – Pitch BFSI Summit (#DriveLikeALady)
GOLD - Most Effective Mobile Campaign – Pitch BFSI Summit (Road Safety)
GOLD - Financial Services – DMAi Asia (#DriveLikeALady)
SILVER - Financial Services – DMAi Asia (Kotak Meter)
SILVER - Mobile Category – DMAI Asia (Kotak Meter)
KOTAK MAHINDRA ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY LIMITED AND KOTAK MAHINDRA TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited (“KMAMC”) is the asset manager of Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund (KMMF) and Kotak Mahindra 
Trustee Company Limited (“KMTCL”) acts as the trustee to KMMF. KMAMC also acts as a portfolio manager under the portfolio management regulations 
and an investment manager to an AIF.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
941.83
943.66
Total Expenses
371.19
337.81
PBT
570.64
605.85
PAT
424.41
474.77
KMMF - AAUM
346,589
287,058
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
140.53
111.82
Total Expenses
5.33
4.34
PBT
135.20
107.48
PAT
100.77
79.99
The mutual fund industry registered 22.81% YoY growth in FY 2023-24 over FY 2022-23 with the Annual Average Assets under Management (AAUM) for 
FY 2023-24 standing at ` 49.06 lakh crore.
During the same period, on the basis of AAUM, KMAMC was ranked no. 5 in the industry. The AAUM of KMMF stood at ` 346,589 crore for FY 2023-24, up 
20.74% from ` 287,058 crore in FY 2022-23. AAUM Market Share was 7.07% in FY 2023-24 (7.18% FY 2022-23).
KMAMC has 54.21 lakh unique investors (on the basis of RTA data) against the industry’s 445.88 lakh, a market share of 12.16% in March 2024, versus 
11.99% in March 2023.
KMAMC ended the year with AUM under the portfolio management business of ` 3,203.30 crore as on 31st  March, 2024 versus ` 1,595.98 as on 
31st March, 2023.
In FY 2023-24, the Company launched six open-ended funds and six passive strategies.
Revenue from operations increased to ` 926.37 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 803.21 crore in FY 2022-23, largely on account of an increase in AAUM. The 
overall costs increased to ` 371.19 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 337.81 crore in FY 2022-23. FY 2022-23 had a long-term capital gain of around ` 130 crore. 
Hence, the overall PBT decreased to ` 570.64 crore in FY 2023-24 compared to ` 605.85 crore in FY 2022-23.
As of March 2024, KMAMC had over 1 crore folios, with over 15 lakh new folios added in FY 2023-24. KMAMC had a robust distribution network with over 
75,000 empanelled distributors and 101 branches spread across 94 cities.
For KMTCL, the increase in PBT is on account of increase in AAUM in FY 2023-24.
369
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Average AUM
(` in crore)
Equity
Debt
FY 2023-24
200,923
FY 2023-24
145,666
FY 2019-20
FY 2020-21
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
72,066
81,401
130,488
153,486
FY 2019-20
FY 2020-21
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
101,328
121,425
142,449
133,572
Kotak Mutual Fund Marketing Campaign - Investor Awareness Program:
KMAMC has introduced “Seekho Paiso ki Bhasha,” an investor awareness and education initiative that has earned recognition in the Asia and India Book 
of Records. Under this initiative, KMAMC organized 992 Investor Awareness Programs nationwide to educate and inform potential investors about Mutual 
Funds. Throughout the fiscal year ending on March 31, 2024, Investor Awareness Programs were conducted at 100 locations, drawing approximately 59,405 
participants. These on-ground events aimed to educate attendees about mutual funds and their potential benefits. KMAMC conducted such programs in 
cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, Chennai, Kolkata, and various other locations.
Additionally, in an effort to enhance awareness about SIPs in mutual funds and emphasize the advantages of starting an SIP early, the company launched 
“Sahi Samay Pe SIP Karo” campaign. This initiative was designed to educate the audience on SIPs, their benefits, and demonstrate how SIP could help in 
achieving the financial goals when initiated at the right time or at an early age. The campaign featured a series of videos and was complemented by a digital 
outreach effort spanning Social Media pages, Google Display Network, and other channels, ensuring effective communication with the target demographic.
Prostart Online Training Module
•	
Focus on training – more than 540 distributor training events conducted covering over 19,600 participants
•	
Launched Video Learning Modules on KMAMC ProStart YouTube channel, which has over 6,320 subscribers and 1.84 lakh views
KOTAK MAHINDRA PENSION FUND LIMITED
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
6.38
3.13
PBT
(0.21)
(3.49)
PAT
(0.21)
(3.49)
AUM
4,706
2,856
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited (“KMPFL”) manages nine schemes under the National Pension System. It had total assets under management (AUM) 
of ` 4,706 crore as at 31st March, 2024, up 65% from ` 2,856 crore as on 31st March 2023.
KMPFL’s equity fund (NPS Tier 1) was among the top two best performing equity funds in the NPS industry (NPS Tier 1) over 5-year period as on 
31st March 2024. KMPFL’s government securities fund (NPS Tier 1) was among the top two best performing government securities funds in the NPS 
industry over 1 and 3-year period as on 31st March 2024.
Revenue from operations increased to ` 3.25 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 2.23 crore in FY 2022-23, on account of the increase in AAUM. The overall costs has 
marginal decrease to ` 6.59 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 6.62 crore in FY 2022-23. A one-time Capital gain of ` 2.66 is booked on account of switch made in 
mutual funds schemes and hence, the loss reduced from ` 3.49 crore in FY 2022-23 to loss of ` 0.21 crore in FY 2023-24.
KOTAK ALTERNATE ASSET MANAGERS LIMITED
(Formerly known as Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (“KAAML”) is India’s leading alternate asset manager in the business of managing and advising funds across the 
following asset classes, namely (a) Special Situations (b) Real Estate (c) Infrastructure (d) Private Equity (e) Private Credit and (f) Investment Advisory. It 
curates Investment products for Investors and manages these to invest in unique and interesting investment opportunities relevant to the Indian markets 
and financing requirements of businesses. KAAML also provides non-binding investment advisory services to High Networth Individual (HNI) Clients.
Statutory Reports
370
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Company changed its name from Kotak Investment Advisors Limited to Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited for better reflection of its business.
KAAML’s alternate asset management business is generating free cash flow from business. KAAML is investing in building the investment advisory business 
and the digital advisory and distribution business under Cherry. These businesses are longer gestation and are in development stage.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
413.12
322.38
Total Expenses
336.25
270.43
PBT
76.87
51.95
PAT
58.84
42.27
During the year, the Company has received new capital commitments of approximately ` 5,000 crore across various funds and strategies. The aggregate 
alternate assets managed / advised (including undrawn commitments, wherever applicable) as on 31st March, 2024 were ` 45,433 crore.
Alternate Asset Business:
The overview of the alternate assets business of the Company is, as follows:
Realty Fund: With a legacy spanning nearly two decades, Kotak Realty Fund manages a multi-billion dollar portfolio at the forefront of India’s real estate 
private equity scene. It has demonstrated resilience and expertise by navigating various market cycles and offering customized capital solutions tailored to 
each investment opportunity. With deep market knowledge and acumen, it has consistently delivered superior, risk-adjusted returns to marquee investors, 
reinforcing its position as a pivotal player in the real estate investment.
Infrastructure Fund: Kotak Infrastructure Investment Fund is India’s premier credit fund dedicated exclusively to the infrastructure sector. The fund aims 
to capture the burgeoning opportunities within India’s infrastructure landscape by providing an investment platform for marquee investors. Leveraging 
Kotak Group’s rich legacy, scale and deep expertise, the fund introduces a distinct investing approach covering operating assets across the traditional and 
emerging infrastructure spectrum.
Data Center Fund: India has emerged as the global leader in the data revolution. It has the highest data consumption per mobile user, backed by a unique 
digital payment interface, the lowest cost mobile data tariffs and increased smartphone penetration. Kotak Data Center Fund provides investors with the 
unique opportunity to participate in the growth from the buildout of Data Centers, which serve as the nerve centre of digital infrastructure.
Strategic Situation Fund: The Kotak Strategic Situation Fund exemplifies precision investing, identifying strategic scenarios, restructuring and turnaround 
prospects amidst India’s flourishing growth story. Its dynamic approach ensures a bespoke configuration of strategies that tap into unique opportunities. 
Leveraging Kotak’s trust and expertise, it provides appealing risk-adjusted returns via judicious, perceptive investment choices. During the year, the Company 
raised an additional ` 1,447 crore for Kotak Strategic Situations India Fund II, which focuses on providing strategic solution capital across growth and value 
companies. The Fund has raised a total commitment of ` 11,695 crore.
Private Equity: As a seasoned player in India’s private equity landscape since 2005, Kotak Private Equity specialises in harnessing the Indian entrepreneurial 
spirit to drive long-term, sustainable growth. Expertly aligning with macroeconomic trends layered with deep insights and adaptive strategies, it drives 
India’s growth story. Kotak Private Equity team continues its focus on proprietary investments in early stage healthcare and life sciences ventures with 
three deals in this segment.
Private Credit: Kotak Private Credit Fund positions itself at the heart of India’s economic progress, providing bespoke financial solutions designed to 
strengthen robust businesses. Armed with profound industry knowledge, the fund ignites business ambition and fosters innovation, generating superior 
risk-adjusted returns for marquee investors. During the year the company raised an additional ` 662 crore in Kotak Private Credit Fund.
Investment Advisory Business:
As a SEBI registered investment advisor, KAAML prides itself on providing advice, which is tailored to meet the specific needs and goals of each client and is 
built on the tenets of asset allocation. The advisory proposition is focused on dedicated advice based on client specific investment objectives, preferences 
and tailored solutions based on the risk profile of the client.
During the current year, the investment advisory practice achieved the key milestone of crossing ` 100,000 crore of assets under advice, across more than 
390 families. During the year, one out of every three clients have increased their assets with us. During the year we launched Kotak Selekt our investment 
advisory offering for clients in the ` 5 crore to ` 50 crore segment.
KOTAK MAHINDRA TRUSTEESHIP SERVICES LIMITED
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited (“KMTSL”), incorporated on 16th March, 2000, acts as a trustee to domestic venture capital funds, alternate 
investment funds. KMTSL also offers Kotak’s Estate Planning Services and with a legacy of over 16 years in this field, KMTSL has been instrumental in 
setting up private family trusts for many families across India, catering to a diverse mix of industries and sectors.
371
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Kotak’s Estate Planning Services plays an important role in providing a comprehensive platform covering the entire gamut of financial products and services 
for Ultra High Net Worth Individual (UHNI) and High Net Worth Individual (HNI) clients, comprising entrepreneurs, business families, and professionals. It 
also acts as a trustee to estate planning trusts, in which it assists in setting up private trusts for High-Net Worth individuals to achieve their succession and 
financial planning
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
19.45
14.05
Total Expenses
11.77
10.54
PBT
7.68
3.51
PAT
5.87
2.63
KOTAK INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES
Kotak International subsidiaries consist of following entities:-
1.	
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
2.	
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
3.	
Kotak Mahindra, Inc.
4.	
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited
5.	
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
434.73
270.27
PBT
219.74
90.32
PAT
188.72
76.31
The international subsidiaries have offices in Singapore, the UK, Mauritius, the US and the UAE.
The international subsidiaries are mainly engaged in investment management, advisory services, dealing in securities, broker-dealer activities and 
investments on own accounts.
The funds managed or advised by the international subsidiaries are India-centric equity and debt funds and target investors from across the globe seeking 
to invest into India. Though the international subsidiaries have the right blend of products to be offered to global investors through its network of sub-
distributors, it is heavily dependent on the performance of the Indian capital markets and funds, other product manufacturers and also the investment 
appetite of the global investors seeking to invest into India.
Business Update
The closing assets managed/ advised by the international subsidiaries was USD 6.19 billion (` 51,653.61 crore) as on 31st March, 2024 compared to 
USD 3.77 billion (` 30,982.11 crore) as on 31st March, 2023. This was primarily on account of net inflows into funds as well as positive movement in 
capital markets in India. The average AUM (AAUM) was USD 5.47 billion (` 45,317.06 crore) as on 31st March, 2024 compared to USD 3.62 billion 
(` 29,103.93 crore) as on 31st March, 2023.
Income from bond dealing business remained subdued in FY 2024 due to lower activity and volumes in the market across the globe.
Financial Update
The total income earned by International Subsidiaries increased to ` 424.73 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 270.27 crore during the FY 2022-23. The higher 
income from investment management (largely due to higher AAUM as mentioned above), advisory and other services (` 106.81 crore) and income from 
investments (including mark-to-market gain) (` 63.18 crore) was offset by lower income from dealing in securities (` 8.45 crore). The overall expenses 
increased to ` 214.98 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 179.95 crore in FY 2022-23. PBT stood at ` 219.75 crore in FY 2023-24 versus ` 90.32 crore in FY 2022-23.
Statutory Reports
372
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BSS MICROFINANCE LIMITED
BSS Microfinance Limited (“BSS”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of KMBL and working as Business Correspondent (“BC”) of the Bank. BSS facilitates 
microcredit loans to rural and semi-urban poor women. It has 855 branch offices across 13 states in India. Loans originated by BSS are eligible for priority 
sector advances of the Bank.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
996.07
633.10
Total Expenses
487.03
236.81
PBT
509.04
396.29
PAT
383.22
297.21
Disbursements grew to ` 8,213.32 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 6,597.33 crore in FY 2022-23. Further, PAT grew to ` 383.22 crore in FY 2023-24 from ` 297.21 
crore in FY 2022-23.
SONATA FINANCE PRIVATE LIMITED
Sonata Finance Private Limited (“Sonata”) is a Non-Banking Finance Company – Micro Finance Institution registered with the RBI. On 28th March, 2024, the 
Bank has acquired 100% of the issued and paid up share capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited for a total consideration of ` 537.12 crore.
Sonata has 563 branch offices across 10 states in India. Post acquisition by the Bank, Sonata will be providing services as a Business Correspondent.
IVY PRODUCT INTERMEDIARIES LIMITED
At present, IVY Product Intermediaries Limited earns income from investment of its surplus money in fixed deposits.
Financial Highlights
(` in crore)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
0.45
0.32
PBT
0.44
0.24
PAT
0.33
0.16
KOTAK KARMA FOUNDATION
On 26th June, 2023, the Bank has incorporated Kotak Karma Foundation under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, as a wholly owned subsidiary for 
setting up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) of the Bank for furtherance of part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives.
RISK MANAGEMENT
A.	
RISK MANAGEMENT
	
The Group views risk management as a core competency and tries to ensure sound management of risks through timely identification, assessment 
and management. Risk management is a key internal process and is aimed at ensuring that the results of the activities that imply assuming a risk 
are consistent with the strategies and risk appetite and that adequate balance exists between the risk and benefit in order to maximize the value for 
the shareholders. Risk management capabilities are critical in sustaining the current growth and profitability. The Group has continued to develop and 
fine-tune relevant policies, tools and processes and over the years, enhanced risk management system and processes to be in compliance with the 
changing regulatory requirements and to effectively manage and mitigate risks to which it is exposed.
	
The Group manages Risk under an Enterprise wide Risk Management (“ERM”) framework that aligns risk and capital management to business 
strategy, protects its financial strength, reputation and ensures support to business activities for adding value to customers while creating sustainable 
shareholder value. The ERM policy sets the approach for Risk Management and is adopted by legal entities in the group, with suitable modifications, as 
appropriate for their individual businesses. The policy guides the organization of the risk management function and the identification, measurement, 
management and reporting of risks. The ERM policy is complemented by policies and procedures/guidelines that are aligned to individual risks 
and guide businesses in risk management, whilst working towards achieving their business objectives. These specific policies set the principles, 
standards and core requirements for the effective management of those risks. The ERM framework supports the Managing Director & CEO (“MD & 
CEO”) and Group Chief Risk Officer (“Group CRO”) in embedding strong risk management and risk culture while facilitating effective risk oversight 
through a sound and well-defined internal governance model, with a clear structure of risk ownership and accountability. The ERM framework lays 
down the following components for effective Risk Management across the Group:
373
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
	
•	
An Independent Risk organisation and governance structure with a clear common framework of risk ownership and accountability
	
•	
Governance standards and controls to identify, measure, monitor and manage risks
	
•	
Policies to support and guide risk taking activities across the Group
	
•	
Risk Appetite statements
	
•	
Standardised risk metrics and risk reports to identify and communicate and risks
	
•	
Periodic stress testing to assess the impact of adverse business conditions on earnings, capital and liquidity.
	
The Bank has adopted the three lines of defence model towards risk management. Business units and the independent risk management function, 
work in collaboration to ensure that business strategies and activities are consistent with the laid down policies and limits. Responsibilities for risk 
management at each line of defence are defined, thereby providing clarity in the roles and responsibilities towards risk management function.
	
The model adopted, provides a formalized, transparent governance structure that promotes active involvement from the Board and Senior 
Management in the risk management process to ensure a uniform view of risk across the Bank.
	
At the first line of defence are the various business lines that the Bank operates, who assume risk taking positions on a day to day basis and manage 
it within approved framework and boundaries.
	
The second line of defence is made up of Risk Management, Finance and Compliance functions. This line provides independent review, challenge and 
oversight of the activities conducted by the first line and periodic reporting to the Board. The second line is responsible for frameworks, policies, appetite 
and limits, which the first line must adhere to and comply with in their operations. This line is also responsible for monitoring the risk management and 
reviewing the risks that the bank is exposed to and ensures that the management and the Board is sufficiently informed of the risk exposure.
	
The third line of defence is the audit function that provides an independent assurance at the institutional level on the design and operation of the 
internal control, risk management and control processes through the first and second lines of defense, independent assessment of the first and 
second line of defence and reports to the audit committee of the Board.
	
The risk management framework based on the three lines of defence governance model is further strengthened by a strong risk culture that is present 
at all levels. All employees are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context of their individual roles and responsibilities.
	
The Group CRO, who is appointed by the Board of Directors and reports directly to the MD & CEO, heads the independent risk function in the Bank and 
the Group. A disciplined, structured and integrated approach is adopted to managing risks. The Risk function provides an independent and integrated 
assessment of risks across various business lines. The risk management function has separate units responsible for management of credit risk, 
market risk, operational risk, liquidity and interest rate risk, group risk and technology risk. Each of these units reports to the Group CRO.
	
The Group has a well-established risk management structure, which includes the Board of Directors, supported by an experienced senior management 
team and various management committees as part of the Risk Governance framework. The risk management process is the responsibility of the 
Board of Directors, which approves risk policies and the delegation matrix. The Bank and every legal entity in the Group, operates within overall limits 
set by the Board and Committees to whom powers are delegated by the Board.
	
Every quarter, the Group CRO reports to the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and the Board, on the performance against risk appetite and 
the risk profile. Besides this, formal updates on various portfolios are provided to the RMC and Board periodically. Such regular and transparent 
risk reporting and discussion at senior management level, facilitates communication and discussion of risks and mitigating strategies, across the 
organisation. The RMC and Board members are appropriately qualified to discharge their responsibilities, have appropriate balance of industry 
knowledge, skills, experience, professional qualifications and relevant technical, financial expertise in risk disciplines or businesses.
	
The risk management processes of the Bank’s subsidiaries are the responsibility of their respective boards. A Group Risk Management Committee 
(“GRMC”) ensures that there is a holistic view of risks at overall Group level. The Board has oversight of the management’s efforts to balance growth 
and prudent risk management, while creating value for stakeholders.
	
As of date, the Bank and major lending entities of the Group continue to be rated “AAA”, reflecting the Group’s strong financial risk profile, sound asset 
quality, robust liquidity and strong capital adequacy.
B.	
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
	
The Group’s approach to capital adequacy is driven by strategic and organisational requirements while taking into account the regulatory and macro-
economic environment. Capital management involves an on-going review of the level of capitalisation against key objectives and to maintain a 
strong capital base to support long-term stability, planned business growth and risks inherent in various businesses. The strong Tier I capital position 
of the Group is part of the overall business strategy and a source of competitive advantage. It provides assurance to regulators and credit rating 
agencies, while protecting the interests of depositors, creditors and shareholders. Strong capitalisation also enables the Group to take advantage of 
attractive business opportunities. The Group strives to strike a balance between the need for retaining capital for strength and growth, while providing 
an adequate return to shareholders. The Group sets an internal capital adequacy ratio target that includes a discretionary cushion in excess of the 
minimum regulatory requirement.
Statutory Reports
374
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
In addition to the regulatory risk-based capital framework, the Group is also subject to minimum Leverage Ratio requirement. The leverage ratio is 
calculated by dividing Basel III Tier 1 capital by the total of on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet items at their credit equivalent values. The 
strong Tier 1 position of the group ensures a high leverage ratio for the group.
	
Capital planning is an important element of overall financial planning and capital requirements of businesses are assessed based on the growth 
plans. The Capital utilisation and requirement is monitored every quarter to ensure sufficient capital buffer above regulatory and internal requirement. 
Senior management considers the implications on capital, prior to making strategic decisions. During the year, the Bank and each legal entity in the 
Group placed emphasis on capital and liquidity to ensure that they were capitalised above internal and regulatory minimum requirements at all times, 
including under stress conditions.
C.	
RISK APPETITE
	
The risk appetite is set by the Board and is a top-down process consisting of specific quantitative and qualitative factors and provides an enforceable 
risk statement on the amount of risk the Group is willing to accept in support of its financial and strategic objectives. The risk appetite statements set 
the “Tone from the Top” and cover all key risk factors and clearly define the boundaries of risk taking. The Risk Appetite is set in a manner to facilitate 
sustainable growth and to manage risks in a way that sustains the confidence of all internal and external stakeholders.
	
The risk appetite is a key building block of the Bank’s risk management culture and risk management framework. Risk Appetite forms a key input 
to the business and capital planning process by linking risk strategy to the business strategy, through a set of comprehensive indicators. The Risk 
appetite statements are reviewed by senior management who recommend it to the Board for approval. Annual financial plans are tested against key 
risk appetite measures to ensure alignment. Regular monitoring of risk exposures is carried out to ensure that risk taking activity remains within risk 
appetite. Performance against approved risk appetite is measured every quarter and reviewed by the Senior Management, RMC and Board. Action is 
taken as needed, to maintain balance of risk and return. The framework is operational at the consolidated level as well as for key legal entities.
D.	
CREDIT RISK
	
Of the various types of risks which the Group assumes, credit risk contributes to the largest regulatory capital requirement. Credit risk arises as 
a result of failure or unwillingness on part of customer or counterparties’ to fulfil their contractual obligations. These obligations could arise from 
wholesale, retail advances, off balance sheet items or from investment and trading portfolio by way of issuer risk in debt paper, counterparty risk 
on derivative transactions and downgrade risk on non SLR investments and OTC contracts. The Group assumes credit risk in areas that are well 
understood and where there is sufficient expertise, resources and infrastructure to effectively measure and manage the risk and balance risk with 
reward.
	
The Group has a comprehensive top down credit risk framework defined by Credit policies and Standards that sets out the principles and control 
requirements under which credit is extended to customers in various business divisions. The policies and standards cover all stages of the credit 
cycle including origination, client ratings, risk assessment, credit approval, risk mitigation, documentation, administration, monitoring and recovery. 
These provide guidance in the formulation of business-specific credit policies and standards. The Group aims to have a consistent approach across 
legal entities when measuring, monitoring and managing credit risk.
	
Credit and investment decisions must comply with established policies, guidelines, business rules and risk assessment tools used to help make 
these decisions. Managing credit risk is the responsibility of several levels of employees - from those who deal directly with clients to authorizing 
officers. The Group has credit approving authorities and committee structures and a set of formal limits for the extension of credit, linked to the risk 
levels of the borrower and transaction. Authorities are delegated to positions commensurate with their function and the level of credit knowledge and 
judgement that employees holding that position are required to possess. The delegation of authority is reviewed at least annually.
	
The Credit philosophy in the Bank mandates that lending is based on credit analysis, with full understanding of the purpose of the loan and is 
commensurate to customer financials and ability to repay from business operations without compromising business continuity or finances. Off 
balance sheet transactions are subjected to the same rigorous credit analysis as on balance sheet transactions. Appropriate levels of collateralization 
is obtained based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower.
	
The Group evaluates the credit of every loan applicant and guarantor before approving any loan. The evaluation and approval process differs depending 
on whether the loan is a wholesale loan or a retail loan. The wholesale and retail portfolios are also managed separately owing to difference in the risk 
profile of the assets.
	
Wholesale lending is managed on a name-by-name basis for each type of counterparty and borrower Group. Internally developed credit rating models 
provide a consistent and structured assessment. The credit rating model considers a variety of criteria (quantitative, qualitative, financial and non-
financial) to standardize credit decisions and focus on the quality of borrowers. Financial considerations include financial variables and ratios based 
on customer’s financial statements and non-financial considerations include, among other things, the industry to which the borrower’s businesses 
belong, the borrower’s competitive position in its industry, its operating and funding capabilities, the quality of its management, technological 
capabilities and labour relations. Wholesale borrowers are assessed individually and further reviewed and evaluated by experienced credit managers 
who consider relevant credit factors and supplement it with their expert judgment in the final determination of the borrower’s risk. Depending on 
exposure and credit rating, levels of authority are defined so that credit decisions are always made at a level adequate to the risk involved. Wholesale 
credit is monitored at an aggregate portfolio, industry, individual client and borrower Group level. Annual credit reviews of borrowers are a key 
375
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
credit control measure. Parameters for new underwritings are clearly specified and internal ratings are assigned when a credit is initially approved. 
The ratings are reviewed at least once annually, with updated information on financial position, market position, industry economic condition and 
account conduct. Besides client account reviews, sector outlook and performance of borrowers within sectors are monitored and reported to senior 
management.
	
Retail portfolios typically consist of a large number of accounts of relatively small value loans. They comprise mortgage loans, vehicle loans, personal 
loans, credit cards, small business loans, etc. Some parts of retail lending are mainly schematic lending within pre-approved parameters. The credit 
assessment in such portfolios is typically done using a combination of client scoring, product policy, external credit reporting information such as 
credit bureaus where available and is also supplemented by Credit officer’s judgment, where applicable. Internal historical information from previous 
borrowings also forms an input into credit decisions. There are specific guidelines for each product and the credit decision will take into account 
the parameters like loan to value, borrower demographics, transaction history with the Bank and other financial institutions, income, loan tenor, 
availability of guarantors and other relevant credit information.
	
Retail clients are monitored on pools of homogeneous borrowers and products. Business-specific credit risk policies and procedures, including client 
acceptance criteria, approving authorities, frequency of reviews, as well as portfolio monitoring frameworks and robust collections and recovery 
processes are in place.
	
The delinquency status of borrowing accounts, a key indicator of credit quality, is closely monitored. An account is considered delinquent when 
payment has not been received in full, by the payment due date. Any delinquent account, including a revolving credit facility with limit excesses, is 
monitored and managed through a disciplined process by officers from business units and the Collections function.
	
The Bank’s credit process is divided into three stages namely, pre-sanction, sanction and post -sanction.
	
At the pre-sanction stage, the independent credit function conducts credit appraisal and assign a borrower credit rating based on the internal rating 
model. The credit rating takes into consideration the borrowers current and anticipated financial position and other relevant risk factors like Business 
risk, Industry and Management quality. The Bank has various rating models depending upon the borrower size and segment. Each credit rating 
assigned maps into a borrower’s probability of default. The borrower rating is supplemented by a separate risk rating assigned at the facility level, 
that takes into consideration additional factors, such as security, seniority of claim, structure, and any other form of approved credit risk mitigation. 
At a minimum, two independent credit officers are involved in the rating decisions and the ratings are finalised by a more senior credit officer. Credit 
approval procedures follow the check-and-balance principle. There is a multi-level credit approval process requiring loan approval at successively 
higher levels depending on the size and collateral of the proposal.
	
In the post-sanction process, the Credit Administration team processes documentation, on the completion of which, credit is disbursed. There is 
regular reporting on portfolio distribution by risk grades, monitoring of covenants prescribed as part of sanction and pending documentation, if any.
	
An independent loan review team conducts reviews of credit exposures, covering compliance to internal policies, sanction terms, regulatory 
guidelines, account conduct and suggests remedial measures to address irregularities, if any. The Bank has an Enterprise-wide Review Framework 
that considers various financial and non-financial parameters to identify signs of credit weakness at an early stage. Depending on the nature of the 
signals detected by the early warning system, a borrower may be classified into different internal attention levels. In the case of loans where there 
is significant deterioration, the Bank employs various recovery mechanisms, including transferring the account to an internal unit specialised in 
managing problem accounts, to maximise collection from these accounts. The approaches may range from auction of borrower securities, court 
proceedings, sale of assets or corporate restructuring as needed.
E.	
COLLATERAL AND CREDIT RISK MITIGATION
	
Credit Risk mitigation, begins with proper customer selection through assessment of the borrower, along financial and non-financial parameters, to 
meet commitments. The Group uses a number of methods to mitigate risk in its credit portfolio (on and off balance sheet), depending on suitability of 
the mitigant for the credit, legal enforceability, type of customer and internal experience to manage the particular risk mitigation technique. Common 
credit risk mitigation techniques are facility structuring, obtaining security / collateral, guarantees and lending covenants. While collateral cannot 
replace a rigorous assessment of a borrower’s ability to meet obligations, it is an important complement. Mitigating mechanisms like syndication, 
loan assignments as well as reduction in the amount of credit granted are also used. While unsecured facilities may be provided, within the Board 
approved limits for unsecured lending, collateral is taken wherever needed, depending upon the level of borrower risk and the type of loan granted.
	
The Bank has an approved Collateral management policy that sets out the acceptable types of collateral, valuation framework and the hair cut 
applicable. The haircut applied depends on collateral type and reflects the risk due to price volatility, time taken to liquidate the asset and realisation 
costs. Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination by an independent unit and the valuations are updated, as per policy, depending on 
the type of collateral, legal environment and creditworthiness of the borrower. In cases where the value of collateral has materially declined, additional 
collateral may be sought to maintain the cover as per sanction terms.
	
The main types of collateral / security taken include cash and cash equivalents, immovable property, movable fixed assets, inventory and receivables. 
Guarantees from higher rated entities are also obtained in cases where credit worthiness of the standalone borrower is not sufficient to extend credit. 
Guarantees that are treated as eligible credit risk mitigation are monitored along with other credit exposures to the guarantor.
Statutory Reports
376
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Legal enforceability of collateral obtained is critical, to improve recoveries in the event of a default. The Bank has specific requirements in its 
internal policies with regard to security verification and appropriate legal documentation. Periodic inspections of physical collateral are performed 
where appropriate and where reasonable means of doing so are available. The Credit Administration and Legal function ensure that there is timely 
registration, adequate legal documentation, in line with internal policies, to establish recourse to any collateral, security or other credit enhancements. 
The collateral obtained is released on repayment of all dues or on collection of the entire outstanding credit facility, provided no other existing right or 
lien for any other claim exists against the borrower.
F.	
CREDIT RISK CONCENTRATION
	
Credit concentrations are managed at two levels: portfolio level and individual credit level. To avoid undue concentration in credit exposures and 
maintain diversification, the Bank operates within Board approved limits or operational controls in its loan portfolio, that include -
	
•	
Single / Group borrower and Substantial exposure limits
	
•	
Sector and Industry limits
	
•	
Exposure limits on below investment grade accounts
	
•	
Country / Bank exposure limits
	
•	
Unsecured Retail exposures
	
The Bank has defined internal limits for managing borrower concentrations, which are tighter than regulatory norms. Exposures are monitored 
against approved limits to guard against unacceptable risk concentrations, and appropriate actions are taken in case of any excess. Concentration 
limits represent the maximum exposure levels the Bank will hold on its books. Besides controlling fresh exposure generation, loan sell-downs are 
used as a key tool in managing concentrations. Concentration levels in the credit portfolio are reported to senior management. Based on evaluation 
of risk and stress in various sectors, the Bank identifies stressed sectors and makes provisions for standard assets at rates higher than the regulatory 
minimum, in such sectors.
	
Concentration is also monitored in geographic locations in the retail portfolio, delinquency trends, types of credit facilities and collaterals. The risk 
appetite of the Bank mandates a diversified portfolio and has suitable metrics for avoiding excessive concentration of credit risk. Through periodic 
monitoring, analysis and reporting, the Bank ensures that the overall risk in the portfolio is diversified and consistent with the risk appetite mandate 
while achieving financial objectives.
G.	
MARKET RISK IN TRADING BOOK
	
Market Risk is the risk of possible economic loss arising from adverse changes in market risk factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, 
credit spreads, commodity and equity prices and implied volatilities. Market Risk in the Bank is managed through the Board Approved Investment 
Policy – which sets out the Investment Philosophy of the Bank and its approach to Market Risk Management. The Risk Management Committee 
of the Bank approves and reviews performance against the Bank’s Market Risk Appetite. The Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) of the 
Bank approves the market risk and limit framework, the allocation of limits to business units and desks, the risk monitoring systems and risk control 
procedures. The Bank’s Board Committee for Derivative Products and the Senior Management Committee for Derivatives are responsible for the 
oversight of the derivatives business.
	
The Bank has a comprehensive market risk limit-framework, including limits on sensitivity measures like PV01, Duration, Option Greeks (Delta, 
Gamma, Vega, etc.) and other limits like Value at Risk (VaR) limits, loss-triggers, value-limits, gap-limits, deal-size limits, tenor restrictions and holding-
period limits.
	
The Market Risk Management unit reports directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer and ensures that all market risks are identified, assessed, monitored 
and reported for management decision making. The unit is responsible for identifying and escalating any risks, including deviations and limit breaches 
on a timely basis. Major market risk limits like PV01, Bond Position Limits, Desk-wise FX Position limits, Greek limits, etc. are monitored on an intraday 
basis. The market risk control framework is enhanced by systems, policies and procedures.
	
The Bank uses Value at Risk (VaR) to quantify the potential loss from adverse moves in the financial markets. The VaR model is based on historical 
simulation and a confidence level of 99% for a one-day holding period. The effectiveness of the VaR model is periodically evaluated through a 
process of back-testing. The Bank periodically performs Stress testing and Scenario analysis to measure the exposure of the Bank to extreme, but 
low-probability market movements.
H.	
COUNTRY AND COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK
	
Country Risk is the risk of loss that the bank faces, which is specifically attributed to events in a specific country. Country risk may be triggered by 
deterioration of economic conditions, political and social turmoil, asset nationalization or expropriation, government’s refusal to pay external debt, 
foreign exchange control or currency depreciation in a country or a region.
377
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
	
The Bank has a Board approved Country Risk Policy, which takes into account direct and indirect risk (both funded and non-funded exposures) for 
the purpose of identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling country risk. As per the Policy, Asset-Liability Committee (“ALCO”) of the Bank is 
empowered to approve country limits.
	
Financial institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty, funding or other relationships. The Bank has exposure to many 
counterparties in the financial industry, directly and indirectly, including clearing houses, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other 
clients with which it regularly executes transactions. The Bank is exposed to counterparty risk arising from the potential inability of counterparties to 
fulfil their obligations under transactions.
	
As per the Investment Policy of the Bank, ALCO of the bank fixes counterparty limits for inter-bank participants based on their capital adequacy, 
resource raising ability, asset quality, earning, management and systems evaluation, liquidity and so on. These limits are reviewed from time to time. 
Pre-settlement credit risk for traded products arising from a counterparty potentially defaulting on its obligations is generally quantified by evaluation 
of the market price plus potential future exposure. This is used to calculate the regulatory capital and is included within the overall credit limits to 
counterparties for internal risk management.
	
Settlement risk is the potential loss incurred if a counterparty fails to fulfil its obligation after the Bank has performed its obligation under a contract 
or agreement at the settlement date. This risk is managed by close supervision of settlement transactions or by settling transactions on a delivery 
versus payment basis where possible, based on accepted market practices.
	
With a view to reduce counterparty and systemic risk, there are regulatory initiatives directing OTC trades to be cleared through Central Counterparties 
(“CCPs”). Derivative transactions are cleared through Central Counterparties, where possible, to reduce counterparty credit exposure through netting 
and the margining process. The Bank has a dedicated team that manages the interface with CCPs and understands the implications of the risk 
transfer from being distributed among individual bilateral counterparties to CCPs. The Bank operates within ALCO approved limits on individual CCP.
	
The Bank manages country and counterparty credit exposures through careful selection of market counterparts, placing concentration limits on 
particular counterparty exposures, daily limit monitoring, escalation of excesses, pre-deal excess approvals, regular risk reporting and stress testing.
I.	
INTEREST RATE RISK IN BANKING BOOK (IRRBB)
	
IRRBB consists primarily of risk inherent in ALM activities and relates to the potential adverse impact of changes in market interest rates on future net 
interest income. IRRBB arises from mismatches in re-pricing of interest rate sensitive assets (RSA), rate sensitive liabilities (RSL) and rate sensitive 
off-balance sheet items in the banking book. The intensity of the impact depends largely on timing mismatches in the maturity and repricing of assets 
and liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. The aim of managing interest-rate risk is to ensure that exposure to fluctuations in interest rates is kept 
within acceptable limits. The Group assesses and manages interest rate risk in its banking book as well as including trading book.
	
ALCO is the guiding body for management of IRRBB in the bank and sets the overall policy and risk limits. Balance Sheet Management Unit (BMU), 
which is part of the treasury, is entrusted with the responsibility of managing IRRBB and uses Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) to transfer risk from 
business units to centralised treasury. No interest rate risk is retained within any business other than treasury. Measuring interest rate risk in the 
banking book, includes conventional parallel yield curve shifts as well as scenarios in which the curvature of the yield curve changes.
	
As interest rate risk can impact both net interest income (“NII”) and value of capital, it is assessed and managed from both earning and economic 
perspective. Bank uses earnings at risk (EaR) as a short term risk indicator to assess the sensitivity of NII and NIM over a one-year period, to change 
in interest rates. From an economic perspective, which is a long-term risk indicator, it uses duration approach to determine the sensitivity of economic 
value of equity (EVE) to changes in interest rates.
J.	
LIQUIDITY RISK
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due without adversely affecting its financial condition or not 
being able to finance growth of its assets without incurring a substantial increase in costs. The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the 
Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets and maintain the sustainability of the business. Liquidity is managed through the 
Group Liquidity policy, which is designed to maintain high quality liquid assets to protect against adverse funding conditions and to support day-to-
day operations while maintaining a diversified funding profile. Diversification of funding sources is a key element of the funding strategy and funding 
sources are well diversified by source, instrument, term and geography. The choice of funding sources and instruments is based on a number of 
factors, including relative cost and market capacity as well as the Group’s objective to achieve an appropriate balance between the cost and the 
stability of funding. The organization strives to maintain a long term funding structure in line with the liquidity of its assets, with maturity profiles 
that are compatible with the generation of stable and recurrent cash flows, so that the Balance Sheet can be managed without liquidity strains in the 
short term. The funding of lending activity is fundamentally carried out using stable customer funds. The ongoing availability of this type of funding 
is dependent on a variety of factors such as general economic conditions, confidence of depositors in the economy, in the financial services industry, 
and in the Group, availability and extent of deposit guarantees, as well as competition between banks or with other products such as mutual funds, 
for deposits.
	
Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) of the Bank defines its liquidity risk management strategy and risk tolerances. Balance Sheet 
Management Unit (BMU) of the bank is responsible for managing liquidity under the liquidity risk management framework. The framework is 
designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality and funding tenor profile to support the liquidity risk appetite. Liquidity 
Statutory Reports
378
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
risk management strategies and practices are reviewed to align with changes to the external environment, including regulatory changes, business 
conditions and market developments. Actual and anticipated cash flows generated are monitored to ensure compliance with limits. Liquidity risk 
tolerance is an integral part of the Board approved risk appetite statements.
	
There is an internal funds transfer pricing mechanism under which each business is allocated the full funding cost required to support its assets, 
Businesses that raise funding are compensated at an appropriate level for the liquidity benefit provided by the funding. Limit setting and transfer 
pricing are tools designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds.
	
Liquidity risk is assessed in the Bank from both structural and dynamic perspective and the Bank uses various approaches like Stock approach, cash 
flow approach and stress test approach to assess this risk. The Bank has also set prudential internal limits in addition to regulatory limits on liquidity 
gaps, call borrowing, interbank liabilities, etc. Cash flow management is critical for liquidity risk management and the Bank has developed models 
for predicting cash flows for products with indeterminate maturity, products with embedded options, contingents, etc. The outcome of the models is 
periodically back tested to test their effectiveness.
	
The Bank also manages its intra-day liquidity positions so that payments and settlement obligations are met on a timely basis. The Bank dynamically 
manages the queue of payments, forecasts the quantum and timing of cash flows, prioritizing critical payment transactions, assessing the drawing 
power of intraday liquidity facilities, etc.
	
The Bank follows a scenario based approach for liquidity stress testing to evaluate the impact of stress on the liquidity position. The Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) aims to promote short-term resilience of a bank’s liquidity risk profile and measures the extent to which a Banking Group’s 
High-quality liquid assets (“HQLA”) are sufficient to cover short-term expected cash outflows in a stressed scenario, over the next 30 calendar days. 
The expected cash outflows are arrived by applying specific run off rates, prescribed by the regulator, against outstanding liabilities and off-balance 
sheet commitments. These outflows are partially offset by inflows, which are calculated at regulatory prescribed inflow rates. The HQLA have to 
meet the defined eligibility criteria laid down by the regulator. The composition of liquid assets is monitored, to ensure diversification by asset class, 
counterparty and tenor.
	
The Group is well above the minimum regulatory requirement of 100% for the LCR. The Group considers the impact of its business decisions on the 
LCR and regularly monitors the LCR as part of the liquidity risk management framework.
	
Besides LCR, the Basel III liquidity framework also envisage the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), which measures the ratio between available stable 
funding (>1 year) and the required stable funding (> 1 year) to support long-term lending and other long term assets. The Group is well above the 
regulatory requirement of 100%.
	
To supplement the monitoring of liquidity risk under normal business conditions, a framework has been designed to prevent and manage liquidity 
stress events. The bank has a Contingency Liquidity Plan (“CLP”) approved by ALCO and the Board, that plays an important role in its liquidity risk 
management framework. The CLP incorporates early warning indicators (EWIs) to forewarn emerging stress liquidity conditions and to maximize 
the time available to undertake appropriate mitigating strategies. The plan establishes an appropriate governance structure, lines of responsibility, 
contact lists to facilitate prompt communication with all key internal and external stakeholders and also defines strategies and possible actions to 
conserve or raise additional liquidity, under stress events of varying severity, to minimize adverse impact on the Bank.
K.	
OPERATIONAL RISK
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems and external events. The objective of 
operational risk management at the Bank is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels as defined in the 
risk appetite. The centralised and independent operational risk management function manages this risk as guided by the Board approved operational 
risk management policy.
	
The Board of Directors, Risk Management Committee and the Operational Risk Executive Committees (ORECs) have overall oversight function for 
operational risk management. The Group level IT Security Committee provides direction for mitigating the operational risk in IT security. There is a 
group wide IT security programme (ARISTI) to ensure complete data security and integrity. There is also a Committee on Frauds, which reviews all 
frauds above a threshold amount. Further, an Executive-level Fraud Risk Management Committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of 
the Group Chief Risk Officer.
	
The Business Units and support functions, are accountable for operational risks and controls in their respective areas, which they manage under the 
policies, standards, processes, procedures; and operational risk management framework laid down by the independent Operational Risk Management 
(ORM) function. The ORM function defines standardised tools and techniques such as Risk and control self-assessment (RCSA) to identify and 
assess operational risks and controls. The RCSA programme is executed by Business and support functions in accordance with the standards 
established by the ORM function. The ORM team provides independent challenge to the RCSAs and evaluates the residual risks. Key Risk Indicators 
(KRIs) are defined and tracked to monitor trends of certain key operational risk parameters. Internal audit and Internal Control teams provide oversight 
and assurance that activities are conducted as per laid down guidelines.
	
The Bank has an internal framework for reporting and capturing operational risk incidents. Significant incidents reported are investigated to assess 
weaknesses in controls and identify areas for improvement. The Bank has a Whistle blower policy and platform, which is open to employees and 
379
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
vendors for raising their concerns, with full confidentiality, on any fraud, malpractice or any other untoward activity or event. Disaster recovery and 
Business Continuity Plans (BCP) have been established for significant businesses to ensure continuity of operations and minimal disruption to 
customer services. These plans are periodically tested and reviewed to ensure their effectiveness.
	
Risk transfer via insurance is a key strategy to mitigate operational risk exposure at the Bank. The Operational Risk team helps to review and provide 
inputs on key insurance coverage basis trends and triggers emerging from unusual events or changes in risk profile basis introduction of new 
products or developments in the external environment.
	
The Bank has a Board approved Outsourcing policy which is aligned with the RBI Guidelines on outsourcing of financial services. While engaging the 
services of any Service Providers the respective business units ensure compliance with the banks outsourcing policy. The Outsourcing Framework is 
in place which covers process to be followed from vendor on-boarding till the end of vendor engagement. The Bank has a system of risk assessment, 
standardized score cards for service providers to assess the Materiality and Criticality of vendors. The Review of Vendors is conducted on an annual 
basis. Critical Audit / IT security observations and incidents related to vendors are monitored.
L.	
TECHNOLOGY RISKS
	
The Bank has committed significant resources to manage technology risk. A layered technology architecture is implemented to manage risks due 
to system failures, cyber-attacks, etc. Disaster recovery and Business Continuity Plans (“BCP”) have been established and various functional and 
technology initiatives have been taken to enhance system resiliency.
	
End-of-life/out-of-support systems pose operational and security risks such as vendor support, patch, bug fixes, etc. The Bank has a process for 
planned upgrades of out-of-support systems.
	
Effective access control mechanism is a key technology control to prevent unauthorised access. The access to business applications is provisioned 
by an independent team. The access is provided based on the roles and segregation of duties. Technology and Operational controls are implemented 
to manage privileged access to systems.
	
Cyber threats and the associated risks in the external environment have increased and the Bank works continuously to improve processes and 
controls to mitigate these risks. Cyber resilience framework is established to mitigate the threats such as data breaches, malware, denial-of-service 
attacks, etc.
	
New digital product offerings are thoroughly assessed for cyber risks prior to roll-out and on an ongoing basis.
	
During the year, cyber drills were conducted to assess the effectiveness of the prevention and detection controls. Several initiatives were taken to 
enhance the security monitoring and incident response capability.
	
Reviews were conducted for assessing the ransomware mitigation controls and Microsoft 365 controls.
	
The Bank constantly monitors the technology risk environment, emerging regulatory requirements and mitigation strategies.
	
Ongoing audits/tests are conducted to assess the robustness of its technology controls. Solutions are implemented for continuously monitoring the 
external threats/vulnerabilities.
M.	
REPUTATION RISK
	
Trust is the foundation for the banking industry and is critical to building a strong customer franchise. Reputation risk is the risk of current or 
prospective loss arising from stakeholder’s adverse experience while dealing with the institution, which results in an adverse perception / loss 
of Trust in the institution. Reputational risk may arise as a result of an external event or actual or perceived actions and practices, which include 
operational and regulatory compliance failures. The occurrence of such events may adversely affect perceptions about the Bank held by the public, 
shareholders, investors, regulators and rating agencies. The impact of a risk event on the Bank’s reputation may exceed any direct cost of the risk 
event itself and may adversely impact the Bank. Reputation Risk most often results from the poor management of other risks and can arise from a 
variety of sources including direct sources like poor financial performance, poor governance and indirect sources like increased operational risk or 
control failures. Reputation is critical to achieving Group Objectives and targets and damage to it can have negative effects on its business. Managing 
reputation is a priority area for the Group and there is Zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any activities that are not consistent with its values, 
Code of Conduct or policies and have the potential for unacceptable regulatory or reputational risk. The Group ERM policy lays down the framework 
to ensure reputation is managed effectively and consistently across the Group. This is supplemented by business procedures for identifying and 
escalating transactions that could pose material reputation risk, to senior management. Each employee has the responsibility to consider the impact 
on reputation of the Group, when engaging in any activity. The framework seeks to proactively identify and avoid areas that may result in potential 
damage to reputation and guidelines for managing crisis situations, if a reputation risk incident has occurred. The reputation risk management 
process is integrated with the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. While reputation risk can be difficult to quantify, the Bank has adopted 
a scorecard approach, based on expert judgment, to assess various reputation risk drivers and the overall level of reputation risk.
Statutory Reports
380
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
N.	
CONDUCT RISK
	
Conduct risk means any action that would cause harm to consumer protection, market integrity or competition. The scope and complexity of banking 
activities give rise to a wide variety of regulatory requirements and expectations of the supervisory bodies that must be met in relation to Conduct 
Issues. The Bank has identified conduct risk arising out of: Manipulation of financial benchmarks / markets, Mis-selling, Fair dealing with customers 
and Compliance with laws of the land. Minimising conduct risk is critical to achieving long term business goals and meeting regulatory standards. 
The Bank has processes for managing conduct risk and policies that guide staff in dealing with prevention of conflict of interest, employee conduct 
and dealing with proprietary and confidential information, so that they conduct themselves ethically and in compliance with the law. Conduct risk 
identification and mitigation are embedded in businesses and functions. Product approval, product review processes, Suitability and appropriateness 
policies, are some of the measures embedded in the Bank’s framework to mitigate conduct risk. Conduct Risk is managed by maintaining a positive 
and dynamic culture that emphasizes acting with integrity. Respective policies ensure that business decisions are guided by standards that take 
into account right conduct apart from commercial considerations. Conduct risk management is incorporated into HR practices, including recruiting, 
training, performance assessment, promotion and compensation processes. The group places zero tolerance on instances of professional or 
personal misconduct and abiding by the Code of Conduct is the responsibility of all employees in the Bank. Conduct risk is assessed in the ICAAP 
through a scorecard that considers the various drivers of conduct risk.
O.	
RISK CULTURE
	
Culture and values are a priority area for the Group. Risk culture refers to desired attitudes and behaviours relative to risk taking. The governance 
model places emphasis on accountability and ownership in ensuring an appropriate level of independence and segregation of duties between 
business and control functions. The management of risk takes place at different hierarchical levels and is emphasized through various levels of 
committees, business lines, control and reporting functions. The Group embeds a strong risk culture, through clear communication and appropriate 
training for employees. The objective is to develop a disciplined risk culture where managing risk is a responsibility shared by all employees. The 
Group only assumes those risks that can be managed, with clear understanding of the implications. Senior Management receives regular and 
periodic information on various matters for the respective business lines and clearly communicate their plans, strategy and expected outcomes 
to team members. The Bank has a structured induction programme for new employees to help them in understanding various businesses across 
the Group and how risk management culture and practices support in building and sustaining the organization. All employees are required to be 
familiar with risk management policies relevant to their roles and responsibilities and it is their responsibility to escalate potential risk issues to senior 
management, on a timely basis. The risk culture in the group lays emphasis on responsible business practices, prioritisation of customers’ needs 
and appropriate disclosures. Risk is taken into consideration when preparing business plans and when launching new products. These objectives are 
backed by suitable policies and processes for implementation.
	
The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) framework outlines the methodology used to manage the risks inherent in its activities, while ensuring 
the outcomes of risk-taking are aligned with its overall strategy and mandate. The framework reinforces a risk culture across the organization that 
ensures a high level of risk awareness and makes risk management an integral part of organisational decision-making. The Bank’s risk management 
practices and culture enables it to take the risks necessary to fulfill its mandate while ensuring the organization is financially sustainable.
P.	
INTERNAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY ASSESSMENT PROCESS (‘ICAAP’)
	
Every year, the Group undertakes the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’), which provides management with a view of overall 
risks, assessment and capital allocated to cover the risks. The ICAAP is linked to overall business planning and establishes a strategy for maintaining 
appropriate capital levels. ICAAP is an assessment of all significant risks (Pillar II), other than Pillar I risks, to which the Group is exposed and covers 
the consideration of whether additional capital is required, based on internal assessment. Once the risks are identified, the Group determines the 
method and extent of risk mitigation. Risk mitigation takes place through strengthening policies, procedures, improving risk controls and having 
suitable contingency plans. Finally, the Group determines the risks that will be covered by capital and the level of capital sufficient to cover those risks. 
The ICAAP outcomes are reviewed by senior management and formally approved by the Board. The ICAAP is periodically enhanced to include greater 
detail and more in-depth analysis. The Group was adequately capitalised to cover Pillar I and Pillar II risks.
Q.	
STRESS TESTING
	
Stress testing is a key element of the ICAAP and an integral tool in the Risk Management framework as it provides management a better understanding 
of how portfolios perform under adverse economic conditions. Stress testing is integral to strengthening the predictive approach to risk management 
and supplements other risk management tools by providing an estimate of tail risks to assess if capital levels are adequate under a forward-looking 
operating environment and in severe stress scenarios.
	
The Bank has a Board approved Stress testing policy which is aligned to regulatory guidelines and covers material risks. Indicative stress scenarios 
are defined in the policy. Liquidity stress tests are also part of this framework and aim to ascertain whether the Bank has recourse to adequate 
liquidity to withstand the impact of approved stress scenarios. As actual events can sometimes be more severe than anticipated, management 
considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. Reverse stress testing is used to explore extreme adverse events that would 
cause capital adequacy to fall below the internal capital threshold. While this identifies likely scenarios with an unacceptably high risk, there will be 
suitable measures to prevent or mitigate these that the Bank may implement.
	
The results of stress tests are interpreted in the context of the Bank’s internal risk appetite for capital adequacy and reported to management and 
the Board. The stress testing exercise provides an opportunity to develop suitable mitigating response prior to onset of actual conditions exhibiting 
the stress scenarios. The ICAAP integrates stress testing with capital planning and during the year, the Bank was above regulatory and internal target 
capital ratios under all approved stress scenarios.
381
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
R.	
PANDEMIC, WAR AND INFLATION
	
Pandemic-related disruptions of supply chains, manufacturing bottlenecks and general supply and demand conditions, as well as the war in Ukraine, 
have contributed to high inflation across many countries. Global central banks have hiked interest rates aggressively and some have signaled 
that interest rates could stay elevated for longer to rein in the still-high inflation. Inflationary pressures may potentially increase certain operating 
expenses, adversely affect consumer sentiment and consequent higher market interest rates may result in lower values financial of assets and 
increase borrowing costs and interest paid on deposits. Further, any further material escalation in geopolitical risks such as the Russia-Ukraine 
conflict and tensions in the Middle East, could aggravate ongoing global economic imbalances while increasing inflation, financial market volatilities 
and capital flight from emerging markets. With a strong balance sheet and adequate liquidity position, the Group is well positioned to navigate the 
current economic environment and support its customers.
COMPLIANCE
The Bank has, since inception, a well-established and comprehensive compliance framework and structure to identify, monitor and manage the Compliance 
Risk in the Bank. The framework, policy and the structure are also adhering to the regulatory prescriptions issued by the RBI and other regulators from time 
to time. In addition, all key subsidiaries of the Bank have independent Compliance Function. The Compliance officials of the Bank and the Group interact 
on various issues periodically to ensure that all the supervisory and regulatory instructions are interpreted and implemented in letter and spirit. This also 
helps exchange of views on the best practices and to understand compliance risks across the group. Guidance or directions are extended to the subsidiary 
companies’ Compliance Officers, keeping in mind the overall responsibility of the Bank as the Holding Company. The Compliance Function is responsible 
for all the aspects of regulatory compliance across the Bank. Compliance is given the utmost importance with the tone from the Top and the Senior 
Management of the Bank and subsidiaries are directly monitoring the same.
The compliance framework, approved by the Board, broadly sets out the compliance risk management processes and tools to be used by businesses, 
management and Compliance Officers for managing compliance risks. Apart from the Bank’s compliance framework, the Bank and all the subsidiaries have 
their own operating procedures. The Compliance team supports top management and manages and supervises the compliance framework along with 
providing compliance assistance to various businesses/support functions. The Bank has a Board approved New Products/Process approval policy and all 
new products/processes or modifications to the existing product/processes are approved by Compliance by satisfying that these products/processes are 
compliant with not only various RBI regulations but that of other financial services regulators, including the SEBI, the IRDAI and the PFRDA. As prescribed 
by the RBI, the Bank has a system of compliance review of its new products within six months of its launch to satisfy that all the regulatory prescriptions 
have been adhered to. These Review reports are issued to the concerned businesses / Product Heads.
The Compliance Department ensures that the applicable regulatory prescriptions including Anti-Money Laundering / Combating Financing of Terrorism / 
KYC aspects are dovetailed in to the new products / process notes. Compliance Department’s senior executives are members of various committees, which 
enable them to monitor the compliance risk of the institution effectively.
The Compliance Department monitors the changes in existing regulations as well as introduction of new regulations. The Bank has put in place Compliance 
tracking and Monitoring system to ensure that the regulatory instructions are implemented effectively within the organisation. The Bank also looks at 
regulatory websites and participates in industry working groups that discuss evolving regulatory requirements. In-house compliance newsletter keeps the 
employees abreast of the key regulatory updates affecting the businesses of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Compliance also disseminates the changes 
in the regulations by way of compliance alerts to the employees. Training on compliance matters is imparted to employees on an ongoing basis through 
both online and classroom sessions. The Compliance Department keeps the management/Board informed about important compliance related matters 
through periodic reporting.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Bank has put in place adequate internal controls, driven through various policies and procedures, which are reviewed periodically. Businesses have an 
Internal Risk Control Unit or Internal Controls functions to assess the efficacy of the control designs placed to mitigate identified risks and to identify new 
risks. Senior officers of the operating and business units, also monitor the mitigating measures taken.
The Bank has an Internal Audit (IA) function that is responsible for independently evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of all internal control designs 
and implementation, risk management, governance systems and processes. IA is manned by appropriately skilled, experienced and qualified personnel. 
This team of IA includes qualified Information technology, data security and cyber security related risks personnel as well.
The Internal Audit department and Compliance function ensure business units adhere to internal processes and procedures as well as to the regulatory and 
legal requirements and provide timely feedback to Management for corrective action. The audit function also proactively recommends improvements in 
operational processes and service quality, wherever necessary. The Bank takes corrective actions to minimise the design risk, if any.
The IA department adopts a risk based audit approach in congruence to the RBI Guidelines on Risk Based Internal Audit (RBIA). Audits are conducted 
across various businesses and functions i.e. Consumer, Commercial, Wholesale, Treasury (for domestic and overseas businesses). This includes audit 
of Operations units, Risk and Support functions, Information Security Audits, Information Technology audits, IT Governance and Infrastructure audits, etc. 
These are conducted to independently evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on an ongoing basis and pro-actively recommending 
enhancements thereof.
An oversight on the critical areas of operations is also kept through continuous off-site monitoring (COM) using centralised data led analysis and exception 
monitoring within IA. Further, using a risk based approach, critical units of the Bank including retail branches are subjected to Independent Concurrent Audit 
process in line with the RBI guidelines. These concurrent audits are conducted through reputed external CA / consultancy firms under the supervision of IA 
Statutory Reports
382
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
team of the bank. The senior leadership and the Audit Committee of the Board regularly review the IA reports and concurrent audit reports along with COM 
findings and their remediation.
The IA function ensures dynamic reviews of risk classifications of auditable areas and IT elements within the bank in preparing its Risk-Based Audit Plan and 
calendar. These reviews take into consideration the banks’ overall strategic plans, changing IT landscape, risk trends as well as risk classifications evaluated 
periodically by the Strategy, Risk and Information Risk management functions of the bank.
Proactive and collaborative work practices amongst Compliance, Risk, Fraud Control and Internal Audit functions of the bank are ensured using cross-
functional committee representations for these functions.
To ensure Independence, the Internal Audit function has a reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board with a dotted line reporting to the Whole-
Time Director of the bank. The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular training both in-house and external to build the required subject 
matter expertise across domains of business, risks, technology and regulations. The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness of controls, 
compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in the Bank and provides guidance and direction 
that may be required.
HUMAN RESOURCES
As on 31st March, 2024, the full-time employee strength of Group was over 116,000 as compared to over 103,000 Kotakites a year ago. The Bank standalone 
had over 77,900 employees as on 31st March, 2024.
In FY 2023-24, there was an increased focus on people process automation, employee wellness, engagement and development. With its focused efforts 
and colleague* centric initiatives, the Bank has been recognised among Top-25 Best Workplaces in BFSI by Great Place to Work™ (India) 2024. The Bank 
also introduced Five Pillars of Employee Engagement. These include - Best of Kotak for Kotakites, People Development, Recognizing and Celebrating Our 
Colleagues, Transparent Communication, and Colleague Value Proposition.
Key areas where several employee initiatives were introduced and re-engineered are as follows:
A.	
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION:
	
•	
The Bank is committed to providing an inclusive work environment, with gender diversity being a key vector. Currently, we are at 26.24% gender 
ratio. Several initiatives are being taken in this direction.
	
•	
The Bank has tied up with a leading day care benefit management provider to provide crèche facilities under its Day Care Policy to set up a 
reliable support system to take care of their children while they are working. In FY 2023-24, 516 Kotak Wonder Women (KWW) availed the 
benefit under the policy.
	
•	
The Bank offers a travel policy to provide higher level entitlements for women colleagues and bear travel expenses for a caregiver, if she is 
travelling with an infant of up to 1 year of age.
	
•	
The Bank continued supporting KWW during significant life phases through our unique New Mother Benefit Policy for KWW. The policy aims 
to provide assistance to KWW returning to work. It supports in setting up a reliable support system for them to take care of their infants. 
In FY 2023-24, 117 KWW availed the benefit under the policy.
	
•	
The Bank also organized KWW “Meet All” sessions to provide women colleagues an opportunity to network and excel as a group.
	
•	
As an equal opportunity employer, the Bank ensured that there is significant women participation in the workforce. Multiple campaigns were 
organised across businesses to promote women membership and hired fresh women graduates from campuses. 1,768 women were hired 
with STEM qualifications. The average age of women new joiners was 27.2 years.
	
•	
The Bank celebrated International Women’s Day 2024 on the universal theme #InspireInclusion. The day was observed in offices and branches 
pan India. The highlights were – (i) Launch of cab facilities for women colleagues commuting from the office to the residence post 7:30 PM; 
(ii) Special Reward and Recognition program focused on recognizing efforts made towards inclusivity at the workplace; and (iii) Showcasing of 
stories of women colleagues covering their views towards important aspects of their professional life.
B.	
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT:  The Bank continues to focus on colleague development through continuous learning initiatives, skill development, 
culture sensitization, managerial capability interventions and more such important areas.
	
•	
The Bank launched Kotak MyLearn- a new-age AI-based learning experience platform, with a dedicated focus on continuous learning.
	
•	
The Bank’s flagship managerial capability development program-DRONA, aims to address managerial capability in four impact areas - Managers 
as Assessors, Trainers, Mentors and Coaches.
	
•	
The Executive Education program for employees, in collaboration with IIM Campuses was launched, to develop the banks mid-level high 
performing talent.
	
•	
The Bank also launched the 5th cohort of Quantum Leadership, a senior leadership program aimed at developing strategic thinking while dealing 
with a disruptive environment. Coaching Connects were introduced for N-1 and N-2 leaders to support them in navigating the challenges in their 
current role and prepare them for the next role.
	
•	
In FY 2023-24, 94% of Bank’s employees were covered in at least one learning intervention.
.
383
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
	
•	
The Bank actively engages with young talent through this flagship initiative- Kotak Young Leaders Council, where young Kotakites become 
change makers and thinkers. It is a valuable learning opportunity where the chosen few who become the council get to interact with the 
leadership team and work as a cohort with them. Top 42 applicants across the bank were selected through a rigorous selection process and 
are being mentored by KLT and go through specific IDP.
C.	
COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES:
	
•	
Eureka is an idea generation portal where colleagues can submit open ideas or ideas for specific business problems. The Bank launched a 
dedicated program named ‘Ops Transformation’ under Eureka. This was a challenge for the Operations Function identifying problem areas and 
proposing solutions to issues relating to optimum cost utilization, improvement in productivity, process transformation, digital innovation and 
better customer experience. The program generated 153 ideas, out of which 50 were selected for implementation.
	
•	
My Kotak My Say: The Bank has been strengthening the platform for top-down communication. At the same time, the Bank has created a 
listening opportunity for Kotakites to voice through, ‘My Kotak My Say’, a bi-annual employee engagement survey conducted in collaboration 
with ‘Great Place to Work Institute’. My Kotak My Say Survey was conducted for the 4th time in December 2023. An overall 82% response rate 
organization-wide was recorded. 79% of Kotakites (same as the previous year) believe that Kotak is a Great Place to Work®! The Bank has also 
been certified as ‘One of India’s Top-25 Best Workplaces in BFSI by Great Place to Work® Institute (India) 2024.
	
•	
K-Applaud Policy: The Bank has encouraged a culture of appreciation via monetary and non- monetary reward programs through K-Applaud, 
Kotak’s Rewards and Recognition platform. The platform is available to colleagues on the Kotak Worklife Mobile App / Portal. Colleagues can 
appreciate their peers and can also avail discounts on various brands on the platform.
	
•	
Foundation Day: The Bank celebrated 38 years of Kotak Foundation Day, virtually, on 21st November, 2023. The Bank also launched a 21-day 
challenge to encourage managers to initiate fun activities and engagement within their teams, ahead of the 38th Kotak Foundation Day. As part 
of the celebrations Kotak Karnival a dynamic and colourful event was organised across 10 large offices nationwide, to commemorate our 38th 
Foundation Day. This included fun events, talent showcase by our colleagues as well as fun treats for all attendees.
	
•	
Colleague Experience: The Bank continues to focus on driving a better experience. During the year, the Bank launched and revamped several 
modules in line with the Mobile First approach. Eureka platform has been revamped with an aim to drive innovation and a digital first mind-set 
across the organization. The Kotak Worklife app continued to witness increased adoption. The Bank also deeply values colleague feedback and 
involvement in the development of new ideas and methodologies, which is critical for continuous improvement and business performance. 
Amber, a smart assistant tool, is a prime example of this ethos in action. By regularly engaging with colleagues at various stages of their tenure, 
Amber collects valuable insights directly from the workforce. In FY 2023-24, Amber was piloted for the Consumer Bank Division and has been 
rolled out PAN Bank in FY 2024-25.
	
•	
Caring Kotakite (Volunteering): The Bank firmly believes that every colleague can make a significant positive impact in the communities it 
serves. Driven by this conviction, the Bank introduced the ‘Caring Kotakite’ Volunteering policy, which is inclusive, impactful, and aligned with 
the Bank’s core values.
D.	
COLLEAGUE HEALTH AND WELLNESS: The Bank has sustained focused Health and Wellness initiatives. These cover physical, social, financial 
and emotional wellbeing.
	
•	
Various health and wellness related initiatives are in place through online and onsite interactions such as yoga, meditation, zumba, quiz 
sessions, etc. The Bank also has Doctor Consultation; Nutritionist and Emotional Assistance Program along with discounts on Pharmacy, on 
its Health to the Power Infinity site. Doctors and Nutritionists are also available on call and in-house.
	
•	
The Annual Health Check (AHC) program, initiated for this Financial Year in June 2023, witnessed good participation from eligible workforce. 
This program is applicable for colleagues above the age of 40 years, and offered at a discounted rate to other colleagues and their families.
	
•	
The Bank offers coverage to all Kotakites under Term life, Personal accident policy and Mediclaim policy.
	
•	
The Bank continued the Emotional Assistance Programme to support and guide Kotakites emotionally. These services can be availed by their 
family members as well.
Talent Engagement continues to be a key strategic priority for us. Towards this, we have introduced 5 pillars guiding our approach to Talent Engagement.
•	
The Best of Kotak for Kotakites - To uplift the proposition from a corporate salaried segment perspective to ensure the best we would offer to any 
external customer, and also to improve benefits
•	
People Development - to bring in specific focus on development and growth agenda for identified talent personas that include Leaders, KWWs 
(women), Hi-performers, branch managers, specialist/ niche talent, new hires, and a common minimum for the rest
•	
Culture of Appreciation - Aim is to celebrate and reward outstanding performances and contributions, with greater consistency of experience across 
the Bank.
•	
Transparent Communication – strengthen the agenda on communication, and communication channels, and make it an ongoing habit by leaders 
This includes regular update emails from CEO/CHRO/other CXOs, periodic townhalls, planned launch of a new intranet for colleagues
•	
Colleague Value Proposition - Aimed at enhancing the purpose and pride of what it means for every colleague to work with Kotak, with specific focus 
on the target talent personas
Statutory Reports
384
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Attrition Management:
The overall attrition FY 2023-24: 39.6% as against FY 2022-23: 45.9%. Higher attrition was observed primarily in field sales personnel and contact centre.
Steps taken by management to reduce attrition
•	
In an effort to improve the Bank’s attrition rate and enhance engagement, multiple initiatives have been introduced and strengthened throughout the 
year to address three major areas: Career Growth, Salaries and Benefits, and Manager/Management Style.
•	
Regarding Career Growth, the Bank has strengthened its current career programs for frontline, relationship roles, and the Customer Experience Centre 
(CEC). The ‘Ascend program’ was launched for Branch Relationship Managers and Elite Relationship Managers (up to M3 grade). The ‘Career Fair/
ACES program’ was introduced for frontline roles (Assistant Area Managers) in Emerging Markets. The ‘RACE reloaded’ program was launched for 
acquisition roles, leading to role changes across Retail Liabilities sales. The ‘PROPEL program’ aims at frontline roles in Corporate Salary, while the 
‘GROW program’ offers compensation rises based on Sales and Operations Performance (SOP), tenure, and role, running twice a year for individual 
contributors in CEC and Virtual Relationship Managers.
•	
In terms of Salaries and Benefits, the Bank introduced fixed incentives for the first six months in select businesses, implemented compensation 
fitment for employees with a higher focus on Branch Managers, Area Managers at mid-level, and select senior levels. Additionally, coaching sessions 
and booster incentives were provided to improve colleague stickiness.
•	
Addressing Manager/Management Style, the Bank launched the ‘DRONA’ (Managerial Coaching) Training program to train supervisors on supervisory 
skills. Transition Journeys have been introduced to enable new hires and new managers, and Key Leadership Connects, including Pan India Town 
halls and Regional Level Connects, have been organized.
•	
Also, Amber- the Bank’s conversational AI assistant to the CHRO was introduced in the Consumer Bank segment to ensure continuous gathering of 
colleague pulse and take immediate action to address colleague concerns, including pre and post-exit connects.
Through these comprehensive initiatives, the Bank aims to foster a more engaged and committed workforce, ultimately reducing attrition rates and 
enhancing overall experience.
*Colleague refers to all employees on full time (permanent and fixed term contracts) and part time roles.
TECHNOLOGY
The Bank has noteworthy advancements in the areas of Growth & Transformation and Risk & Resiliency, which have resulted in a number of projects 
being executed across these two themes. Furthermore, the Bank has led the way in embracing digital innovation and top-tier engineering talent to provide 
customer-centric solutions and operational excellence in a time when technology is changing the banking industry.
On Risk & Resiliency, the Bank has shown significant improvement in uptime and stability metrics for critical applications. Architecture review board is now 
in place and Cloud 2.0 architecture blueprint with best practices for information security and operational resiliency is functional for all new initiatives. The 
firm has invested and implemented an enterprise service management tool for asset and inventory management, and change management.
On the theme of Grow & Transform, various customer journeys were launched in Consumer and Commercial banking space including journeys for small 
business loans, top up loans and corporate salary customers. Additionally, the Bank hired more than 500 highly qualified and experienced engineers to 
strengthen its technological foundation.
In order to improve customer service, the legacy tool has been replaced with a state-of-the-art platform called K Force, which has resulted in notable gains 
in customer feedback and responsiveness.
The Bank will continue to invest to fortify its IT systems. The primary focus is on accelerated execution of the comprehensive plan for core banking 
resilience, continued demonstration of sustainable compliance to cyber security controls and strengthening of digital payment security controls.
Technological Initiatives:
The Bank’s unwavering commitment to technological advancement is evidenced by its strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing customer experience 
and operational efficiency. The Bank has heavily invested in cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence and data analytics, to enable risk 
management, fraud detection, and personalized services.
•	
Launched cloud-based vehicle loan origination system with in-house technical capabilities to enable digital onboarding and streamlined loan 
application and approval process. Customers can now complete the loan application process online with minimal paperwork, enhancing user 
experience.
•	
Launched 811 Mobile Application with favourable ratings on app store and play store.
•	
Implementation of Aadhar seeding allowed 811 accounts to function as consumers’ primary accounts, to ensure larger Government Direct Benefit 
Transfer share.
•	
Deployment of new eMBark platform – marking a crucial stride towards bolstering resilience and in-house development.
•	
More than 25 apps were built on the cloud this year using Cloud 2.0 principles and governance. eMBark, RTS, ROS, call audit platform, to name a few.
385
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Digital Transformation
The digital transformation journey of the Bank is anchored on the pillars of innovation, agility, and security. The bank has enhanced its digital platforms to 
offer customers seamless Omni channel experience, to streamline banking procedures, to enable instantaneous fund transfers, to enable digital account 
opening, and to provide secure authentication mechanisms. In addition, the Bank’s digital infrastructure has been strengthened by the use of strong 
cybersecurity protocols, guaranteeing the integrity and confidentiality of client data.
•	
The bank has implemented a cloud-based micro services architecture powered by Fin Mechanics for Rates FRA product. This replaces a legacy on 
premise monolith system.
•	
To simplify the on boarding of CMS (Cash Management) customers, Instant CMS as an option to fyn (Banks corporate trading portal) customers.
•	
Introduction of V-KYC module for personal loans eliminated the need to physically meet customers and significantly cut turnaround time.
•	
In line with overall digital ecosystem growth across the country and UPI being the centre of it, bank Enabled customers to transact via their Rupay 
Credit Card on UPI channel
•	
Digital route enabled for opening of Current Account through RM assisted journey for Public Limited, Private Limited and Limited Liability Partnership
Process Optimization
•	
AI-Powered Efficiency: Call audit engine AI model actively auto audits calls, reducing manual workload analyzing calls across consumer, commercial 
and ARD, businesses
•	
Observability initiative to proactively monitor core banking systems via a platform initiative for monitoring both Whitebox and Blackbox metrics for all 
Critical Apps across Kotak
•	
Advanced security controls like micro segmentation /Web application firewall / Database Activity Monitoring / File Integrity Monitoring implemented 
across applications
•	
Trade finance and Trade ops platform was upgraded and aligned to support the new Swift standard in full. This enhanced banks capabilities in the 
international bank guarantee business allowing to offer customers better service levels to deliver bank guarantees in the hands of the beneficiaries
Enhanced Customer Engagement
Leveraging technology to foster deeper customer engagement, the Bank has introduced a range of digital solutions to cater to the evolving needs of 
customers.
•	
The Bank launched the integration of New To Bank (NTB) and Do-It-Yourself (DIY) journeys with Myntra as part of an exclusive partnership
•	
In Financial Inclusion Savings Account on-boarding application, changes have been implemented to digitize and go paperless
•	
The Kotak MB App continues to be an excellent one-stop shop for customer banking needs. Not only were various new features launched, but the 
Bank also has further strengthened the security aspects for fraud monitoring/prevention. On net banking, enhancement of user experience and 
providing new services continued to be key focus areas
BANK’S BUSINESS STRATEGY
Refer section Strategy on page 36 for bank’s business strategy.
SAFE HARBOUR
This document contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations of the Bank’s management. Actual results may vary significantly 
from the forward-looking statements contained in this document due to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include the effect of 
economic and political conditions in India and outside India, volatility in interest rates and in the securities market, new regulations and government policies 
that may impact the businesses of Kotak Group as well as its ability to implement the strategy. The Bank’s management does not undertake to update 
these statements.
This document does not constitute an offer or recommendation to buy or sell any securities of the Bank or any of its subsidiaries and associate companies. 
This document also does not constitute an offer or recommendation to buy or sell any financial products offered by Kotak Group, including but not limited 
to units of its mutual fund, life insurance policies and general insurance policies.
All investments in mutual funds and securities are subject to market risks and the NAV of the schemes may go up or down depending upon the factors 
and forces affecting the securities market. The performance of the sponsor, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited, has no bearing on the expected performance of 
Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund or any schemes there under.
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary to conform to current year’s presentation.
Statutory Reports
386
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the company
L65110MH1985PLC038137
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
21st November, 1985
4.
Registered office address
27BKC, C-27, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai 400051
5.
Corporate address
27BKC, C-27, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai 400051
6.
E-mail
esg.connect@kotak.com
7.
Telephone
(022)-6166 1615
8.
Website
https://www.kotak.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
FY 2023-24
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)
11.
Paid-up Capital
INR 993.96 Crore
12.
Name and Contact Details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Ms. Chaitanya Kommukuri
esg.connect@kotak.com
13.
Reporting boundary
The disclosures under this report are made on standalone basis for Kotak 
Mahindra Bank Limited and includes all offices, branches and ATMs where 
we have operational control
14.
Name of assurance provider
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable Assurance of BRSR Core as per SEBI guidelines
Limited assurance on additional select Indicators
II.	
PRODUCTS/ SERVICES -
	
16.	 Details of business activities: (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
Sr. 
no.
Description of main 
activity
Description of business activity
% of turnover 
of the entity
1
Corporate/ Wholesale 
Banking
Wholesale borrowings and lending and other related services to the corporate sector 
which are not included under retail banking.
37.5%
2
Retail Banking
Comprises -
Digital Banking: Business involving digital banking products acquired by Digital Banking 
Unit including existing digital banking products as identified by the Management in 
accordance with the instructions of the RBI vide its circular dated April 7, 2022.
Other Retail Banking: Includes retail lending, deposit taking and other retail services/ 
products other than above.
45.8%
3
Treasury, BMU and 
Corporate Centre
Money market, forex market, derivatives, investments and primary dealership of 
government securities, Balance Sheet
Management Unit (BMU) responsible for Asset Liability Management and Corporate 
Centre which primarily comprises of support functions.
16.7%
	
17.	 Products/ Services sold by the entity: (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
Sr. 
no.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total turnover contributed
1
Corporate/Wholesale Banking, Retail Banking, Treasury, BMU and 
Corporate Centre
64191
100%
III.	
OPERATIONS –
 
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
1948
(Branches)
207
(Corporate Office)
2155
International
2*
-
2
	
	
*Located in DIFC, Dubai and GIFT City, Gujarat
387
BRSR - Section A: General Disclosures
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity
	
	
a.	
Number of locations:
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
30 
(including Union Territories)
International (No. of Countries)
2
	
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
Kotak Mahindra Bank does not export any products/services. Thus, this question is not applicable.
	
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
	
We serve a diverse array of customers through our various business activities including consumer banking, commercial banking, 
wholesale banking, custodial services, private banking and asset recovery. For more information, please refer to our Business Overview 
section on page 14.
	
	
Our customers encompass individuals, corporations, government entities, trusts and societies, as well as sole proprietorships and partnerships, etc.
IV.	
EMPLOYEES -
	
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:#1
	
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employee
1
Permanent (D)
60,438
44,401
73.5%
16,037
26.5%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
17,485
13,130
 75.1%
4,355
24.9%
3
Total employees (D + E)
77,923
57,531
73.8%
20,392
 26.2%
Workers
The Bank does not employ any workers; accordingly, worker related KPIs are nil and  
the same have not been included in any of the prescribed tables in the BRSR.
4
Permanent (F)
5
Other than Permanent (G)
6
Total Workers (F + G)
	
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
25
18
72.0%
 7
28.0%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
-
-
-
3
Total employees (D + E)
25
18
72.0%
7
28.0%
Differently Abled Workers
Not Applicable
4
Permanent (F)
5
Other than Permanent (G)
6
Total Workers (F + G)
	
	
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
	
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:# 1 
Total
No. and percentage of Females
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
12
2
16.7%*
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
5
 2
40.0%
	
	
*Gender diversity of Board of Directors is 27% as on date of publishing of this report.
	
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
1GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8, GRI 405-1
Statutory Reports
388
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)#2
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
39.6
39.7
39.6
45.3
47.8
45.9
38.7
40.0
39.0
Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
	
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
V.	
HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES) -
	
23.	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/  
Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity*
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
1
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
BRSR boundary is limited to 
the Bank on a standalone 
basis.
While subsidiaries form 
part of Group’s voluntary 
disclosures on business 
responsibility they do not 
form part of BRSR.
2
Kotak Mahindra Investments Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
3
Kotak Infrastructure Debt Fund Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
4
Kotak Securities Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
5
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
6
Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
7
Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited (Note 1)
Subsidiary
100.00%
8
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
9
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Company Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
10
Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
11
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (Formerly known as 
Kotak Investment Advisors Limited)
Subsidiary
100.00%
12
Kotak Mahindra Trusteeship Services Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
13
Kotak Mahindra (UK) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
14
Kotak Mahindra (International) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
15
Kotak Mahindra Inc.
Subsidiary
100.00%
16
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
17
Kotak Mahindra Financial Services Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
18
IVY Product Intermediaries Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
19
BSS Microfinance Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
20
Sonata Finance Private Limited (with effect from 28th March, 
2024) (Note 2)
Subsidiary
100.00%
21
Kotak Karma Foundation (Note 3)
Subsidiary
100.00%
22
Infina Finance Private Limited
Associate
49.99%
No
23
Phoenix ARC Private Limited
Associate
49.90%
	
	
*Percentage of Shareholding includes direct and indirect holdings through subsidiaries
	
	
Note 1: Pursuant to the receipt of all regulatory approvals as applicable, the transaction for acquisition of 70% shareholding in Kotak Mahindra General Insurance 
Company Limited (“KGI”) by Zurich Insurance Company Limited by way of a combination of primary and secondary acquisitions, for a total consideration of 
approximately ` 5,560 crore was completed upon fulfilment of other conditions precedent. Accordingly, KGI has ceased to be a subsidiary of your Bank, with effect 
from 18th June, 2024. The Bank now holds the remaining 30% of the share capital of KGI. KGI is an Associate Company of the Bank effective 18th June, 2024.
	
	
Note 2: The Bank has acquired 100% of the issued and paid up capital of Sonata Finance Private Limited, a Non-Banking Finance Company – Micro Finance Institution 
registered with the RBI for a total consideration of ` 537.12 crore. With this acquisition, Sonata has become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank w.e.f. 28th March, 2024.
	
	
Note 3: On 26th June, 2023, the Bank has incorporated "Kotak Karma Foundation" ("The Foundation") under Section 8 of Companies Act, 2013, as a wholly owned 
subsidiary for setting up a Centre of Excellence for part of Bank’s CSR initiatives. Being a Section 8 company as per terms of articles, the Foundation would operate with 
restrictions to transfer funds to the parent, hence in accordance with the requirements of Accounting Standard 21 on "Consolidated Financial Statements", the Company 
has been excluded from consolidation.
VI.	
CSR DETAILS
	
24	
(i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 (Yes/No): Yes
	
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in `): 56,072.0 Crore
	
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in `): 96,066.1 Crore
2GRI 401-1
389
BRSR - Section A: General Disclosures
VII.	 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES -
	
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:3
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place4 
(Yes/No)  
(If yes, then provide 
web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
FY (2023-24)
FY (2022-23)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
E-mail at Kotak
Corporate Social
Responsibility
https://www.
kotak.com/en/
about-us/corporate-
responsibility.html
0
0
Community 
grievances 
are received 
through our NGO 
partners, in this 
reporting period 
no community 
grievances were 
reported to us by 
the NGO partners.
0
0
Investors and
Shareholders
Yes
23
0
35
0
Employee & 
Workers
Yes 
https://kotak.
service-now.com/
now/sow/home
205
19
Including 45 
POSH cases, and 
160 other cases
71
18
Including 56 
POSH cases 
and 
15 other cases.
Customers
YES
https://www.
kotak.com/en/
customer-service/
important-customer-
information/
banking-policies.
html
2,92,085
16,418
The number 
of complaints 
reported for FY 
23-24 exclude 
complaints 
redressed in 0 
and 1 day.
2,35,655
11,218
The number 
of complaints 
reported for FY 
22-23 exclude 
complaints 
redressed in 0 
and 1 day.
Value Chain 
Partners
0
-
Vendors route 
their grievances 
through the 
business team 
that they engage 
with, there 
have been no 
substantial 
grievances 
reported in this 
reporting period
0
0
Vendors 
route their 
grievances 
through the 
business 
team that 
they engage 
with, there 
have been no 
substantial 
grievances 
reported in 
this reporting 
period
Others
(Please 
specify)
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk 
or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications.
	
	
Please refer to the ‘Stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment’ section on page 42-45 for details of our material topics. The risks, 
opportunities and management of the topics have been discussed at length in the respective sections wherein the material topics have been covered.
3GRI 2-16 | 4GRI 2-26
Statutory Reports
390
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and 
Core Elements.
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
Policies | Investor Relations - Kotak Mahindra Bank Banking Policies (https://www.
kotak.com/en/investor-relations/governance/policies.html, https://www.kotak.com/
en/customer-service/important-customer-information/banking-policies.html)
List of relevant policies is mentioned on page 391 of the report and the description 
of relevant policies is mentioned on page 419-421 of the report.
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trusted) standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
ISO  
45001: 
2018
ISO 
27001: 
2022
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
Principle 3: We aspire to have women represent at least a third of our workforce
6.	 Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals, and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not 
met.
Please refer to ESG Data Tables (Workforce Breakdown of the Bank) on page 422.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement 
by 
director 
responsible 
for 
the 
business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements Message from MD and CEO
Please refer to pages 74 & 82 from 'Empowering Colleagues' section and page 63 
from 'Embracing Sustainability' section.1
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance 
Committee (“CSR and ESG Committee”) of the Board
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
Yes. Board level CSR and ESG Committee. Composition given below is as of March 
31, 2024, which has since changed. Further details are found in the 'Embracing 
Sustainability' section of the Integrated Annual Report
Mr. C.S. Rajan (Non-Executive Independent Part-time Chairman)
Other members:
•	
Dr. Ashok Gulati (Independent Director)
•	
Mr. C Jayaram (Non-Executive Director)
•	
Mr. Ashok Vaswani (Managing Director & CEO)
1GRI 2-22
391
BRSR - Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
10.
Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other – 
please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
Table of Description of Policies
(pages 419-421) mentions oversight responsibilities
Annually
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
Policies of the Bank are
approved/reviewed by Bank’s Board and/or top 
management
Annually
11.
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
12.
If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement the policies 
on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources available for the 
task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
	
List of Policies
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern 
themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable
Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers; Code of Conduct (Directors); Code 
of Conduct (Employees); Code of Fair Disclosure of UPSI; Compliance Policy; 
Compensation Policy; Compensation Policy for Executive Directors; ESG Policy 
Framework; Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework; Fraud Risk Management 
Policy; KYC and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Policy, Policy for Determination 
of Materiality of Events or Information; Policy on Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions; Stress Testing Policy; Vigilance Policy; Whistle Blower Policy 
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services 
in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Apex Information Technology Policy; Fraud Risk Management Policy; Information 
Security and Cyber Security Policy; Operational Risk Management Policy; Privacy 
Policy
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the 
well-being of all employees, including those in their value 
chains
Code of Conduct (Employees); Day Care Policy; Diversity Inclusion and Equity 
Statement; Employee Volunteering Policy; Health, New Mother Benefit Policy; Safety 
and Welfare at Work-Place Policy; Training Policy; Whistle Blower Policy
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and 
be responsive to all its stakeholders
Diversity Inclusion and Equity Statement; Policy on Board Diversity; Whistle Blower 
Policy
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote 
human rights
Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Statement; Equal Employment Opportunity Policy; 
Human Rights and Anti-discrimination Policy; Policy on Sexual Harassment of 
Women
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts 
to protect and restore the environment
ESG Management Systems Plan (EMSP); ESG Policy Framework; Environment 
Policy; Green Finance Framework; Sustainable Finance Framework
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing 
public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that 
is responsible and transparent
ESG Policy Framework; Compliance Policy
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth 
and equitable development
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy; ESG Policy Framework; Employee 
Volunteering Policy
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide 
value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Customer’s Compensation Policy; Collection of Dues and Repossession of Security 
Policy; Code of Conduct for Conduct for Collection of Dues - Credit Cards; Fair 
Practice Code (Bank); Fair Practice Code for Credit Card Operations; Fair Practice 
Code for Lenders; Fair Practice Code: Microcredit Loans; Information Security and 
Cyber Security Policy
Statutory Reports
392
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions. 
The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is 
mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be 
socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS 
ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the financial year:#
Segment
Total number  
of training and  
awareness  
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
Percentage of 
persons in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes**
Board of Directors1
28
Sessions on Human Resource Management, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Financial Inclusion, Customer Service, Cyber Security 
Awareness, Compliance, Risk Management, Technology, Economic 
Outlook, Commercial Banking, Strategy and Wholesale Banking
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
10
Sessions on Human Resource Management, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Financial Inclusion, Customer Service, Cyber Security 
Awareness, Compliance, Risk Management, Technology, Economic 
Outlook, Commercial Banking, Strategy and Wholesale Banking
100%
Employees other than 
BOD and KMPs
18,133*
Functional skills and knowledge programmes pertaining to skill 
upgradation, managerial or leadership capability training, culture 
building, digital technologies and compliance-related trainings
94%
Workers
Not Applicable
	
* This number includes 17,245 unique digital learning modules and 888 instructor-led training programmes (classroom).
	
** This represents participants who have attended any of the training programmes on any of the NGRBC principles
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
2. 
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year.2
	
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
Regulatory/ 
Enforcement 
agencies/ Judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal 
been 
preferred? 
(Yes / No)
Penalty/ Fine
Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI)
3.95 crore
RBI vide its order dated October 17, 2023, passed by the 
Adjudication Committee of Executive Directors of the Reserve 
Bank of India (‘RBI’), imposing a monetary penalty of Rs. 3.95 crore 
on the Bank for non-compliance with RBI Directions on ‘Managing 
Risks and Code of Conduct in Outsourcing of Financial Services 
by banks’, ‘Recovery Agents engaged by Banks’, ‘Customer 
Service in Banks’, and ‘Loans and Advances - Statutory and Other 
Restrictions’. This penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers 
vested in RBI conferred under the provisions of Section 47A(1)
(c) read with Sections 46 (4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 and emanates from statutory inspections and supervisory 
evaluation for financial years 2019-20 and 2021-22. The Bank has 
already initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align 
the operations / procedures in line with the stipulations of the RBI.
NA
1GRI 2-17 | 2GRI 2-27
393
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
Regulatory/ 
Enforcement 
agencies/ Judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal 
been 
preferred? 
(Yes / No)
Penalty/ Fine
Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI)
10,000
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its mail dated October 25, 2023 
had levied a penalty of Rs. 10,000 on Kotak Mahindra Bank, Baddi 
Branch for deficiencies observed during incognito visit of Senior 
RBI Official to the branch on September 04, 2023. The Bank has 
already initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align 
the operations / procedures in line with the stipulations of the RBI.
NA
Penalty/ Fine
Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI)
30,000
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its mail dated January 11, 2024 
had levied a penalty of Rs. 30,000 on Kotak Mahindra Bank, Sector 
9C, Chandigarh Branch for the deficiencies observed during 
incognito visit of Senior RBI Official to the branch on December 
21, 2023. The deficiencies pertained to non-providing of facility for 
exchange of soiled / mutilated notes to the public, non-display of 
board indicating the availability of note and coin exchange facility 
for information of general public and Cash Teller being unaware 
of the Note Refund Rules. The Bank has already initiated / taken 
corrective measures, as necessary, to align the operations / 
procedures in line with the stipulations of the RBI.
NA
Penalty/ Fine
Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI)
10,000
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its mail dated March 01, 2024 had 
levied a penalty of Rs. 10,000 on Kotak Mahindra Bank, Sonbhadra 
Branch during incognito visit of Senior RBI Official to the branch 
on December 14, 2023 for refusal by the Bank branch to exchange 
mutilated notes. The Bank has already initiated / taken corrective 
measures, as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in 
line with the stipulations of the RBI.
NA
Settlement
-
-
-
-
-
Compounding 
Fee
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
Regulatory/ 
Enforcement 
agencies/Judicial 
institution
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal 
been 
preferred? 
(Yes / No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Punishment
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in above Question, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary 
action has been appealed
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link to the 
policy.
	
Yes, our anti-corruption and anti-bribery guidelines are covered as a part of our Employee Code of Conduct. This Code is applicable to all employees 
(including overseas bank representative offices and overseas branches), whole-time Directors of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited and its subsidiaries 
and affiliate companies, whether permanent, part-time and on fixed term contract. The coverage of these guidelines includes aspects related to cash 
or gifts to an individual or relatives or associates, non-monetary favours, false political or charitable donations amongst others. Please find further 
details at: https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/code_of_conduct_employee-2972021.pdf
Statutory Reports
394
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of 
bribery/ corruption:1
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
Directors
No such cases have been reported in the current and previous reporting period
KMPs
Employees
Workers
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:2
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
No such cases have been reported in the current and previous reporting period against 
any BODs or KMPs.
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7. 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No action taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest during FY 2023-24, 
	
hence, no corrective action undertaken.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:#
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of days of accounts payables
35.2
34.4
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
9.	
Open-ness of business#
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, 
with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
KMBL does not engage in transactions with  
trading houses, dealers, and other such parties.
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
b.	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
Share of RPTs in*
a.	 Purchases 
(Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
9.4%**
6.6%
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
2.8%
2.6%
c.	 Loans & advances 
(Loans & advances given to related parties / Total loans & 
advances)
0.1%
0.3%
d.	 Investments 
(Investments in related parties / Total Investments made)
2.7%
3.6%
	
** 99.7% of transactions by value is with subsidiaries only, which is in line with previous year.
	
*Notes-
	
Note 1: In the absence of any definition in the BRSR, the Bank has considered the following definition of a trading house: “A trading house is a business that specialises in 
facilitating transactions between a home country and foreign countries.” There were no purchases from trading houses in FY 23-24.
1 	
GRI 205-3
2 	
GRI 2-15
395
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
	
Note 2: The Bank does not make any sales to dealers/distributors. The Bank’s products and services are offered to customers directly.
	
Note 3: Refer to the Bank’s disclosures on Related Party Transactions (RPT) provided in Schedule 18 forming part of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. 
RPT relevant to the required disclosures have been considered for reporting in the table above.
	
Note 4: For the numerator, the following RPT categories have been considered as purchases: ‘fixed assets purchased from and expenses for receiving services from related 
parties. For the denominator, i.e. total purchases, which includes Operating Expenses (with exclusions) under Schedule 16 and Addition to Fixed Assets under Schedule 10 
of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank has been considered.
	
Note 5: For the numerator, the following RPT categories have been considered as sales: ‘income from services rendered to’ and ‘dividend received from related parties’. For 
the denominator i.e. total sales, Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale of buildings & other assets (net) under Schedule 14 of 
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank has been considered.
	
Note 6: Total investments made and total loans and advances have been considered as per Schedules 8 and 9 respectively of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Bank.
	
Note 7: Sales include Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale of buildings & other assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the 
Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness  
programs held
Topics / principles covered  
under the training
Percentage of value chain partners covered 
(by value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programs
The majority of our outsourced vendors are required to adhere to a code of conduct for service providers, which is incorporated as part of the 
standard service contract with the objective of creating awareness on ESG and articulating our expectations from our vendors on ESG.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If yes, 
provide details of the same.
	
Yes, we have implemented processes to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board.
	
i.	
Every Director on the Board is required to make disclosure of his / her interest or concern in other entities (under Section 184 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 as also the parties to which such Director is related to (as under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013 and other laws applicable 
to the Bank). Such disclosure is required to be made as and when a Director attends the first Board Meeting after his/her appointment on the 
Board and, thereafter, at every first Board Meeting held in a financial year as well as within 30 days from any change in the disclosure previously 
given by such Director.
	
ii.	
Director, if interested or concerned in any transaction(s) or arrangement(s) to be entered into by the Bank, does not participate in the discussion 
and passing of the resolution thereon.
	
iii.	
The Bank has also put in place necessary mechanism and has formulated a Policy on Dealing with Related Party Transactions, keeping in view 
the requirements under Regulation 23 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013. This Policy provides a framework to ensure proper identification, approval and reporting of Related Party Transactions. 
Such transactions would be appropriate only if they are in the best interest of the Bank and its members.
	
iv.	
All transactions with Related Parties of the Bank are previously approved by the Audit Committee of the Bank. The Audit Committee also grants 
Omnibus Approval for Related Party Transactions of a recurring nature. Related Party Transactions, if not in the ordinary course or not at arm’s 
length, are placed before the Board (based on the Audit Committee’s recommendation) for its consideration and approval. If such transactions 
(which are placed before the Board of Directors) breach the threshold limits prescribed under Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 or if 
any transaction with a Related Party is material in nature as prescribed under Regulation 23 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, such transactions are also put up before the shareholders for their consideration and approval.
	
v.	
At the Audit Committee, only the Independent Directors who are members of the Audit Committee, consider and approve the transactions with 
related parties. At the Board, only those Directors who are not parties to the transaction(s) or arrangement(s) in subject or those who are not 
interested or concerned therein, participate to consider them. The interested Directors neither remain present nor do they vote on the resolution 
of Related Party Transaction. While seeking Shareholders’ approval, no Related Party of the Bank, whether party to a particular transaction or 
not, votes to approve such transaction.
	
vi.	
In terms of Regulation 20 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Bank does not extend any loans or advances on the security of its own 
shares, or commit to grant any loan or advance to or on behalf of its Directors, any firm in which a Director is interested as partner, manager, 
employee or guarantor, or any company or its subsidiary or holding company where Director of the Bank is a Director, Managing agent, manager, 
employee or guarantor or in which he holds substantial interest (as defined in Section 20 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949), or any individual 
in respect of whom a Director of the Bank is a partner or guarantor.
Statutory Reports
396
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social 
impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
As we operate in the financial services industry, this is not applicable
Capex
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
	
	
Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Code of Conduct covers aspects on Human Rights, Health and Safety, Operational Eco-efficiency, etc., and indicates 
applicability to the Bank’s vendors. Besides this, a focused Code of Conduct for service providers’ forms part of the service agreements with 
outsourced vendors.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
As a financial services organisation, our direct consumption of consumables and input materials is limited. We strive to improve energy 
efficiency, use cleaner sources of energy, and reduce paper consumption to a minimum. We expect our vendors to comply with our Code of 
Conduct for service providers which includes aspects on Human Rights, Health and Safety, Operational Eco-efficiency, etc. All service contracts 
that were proposed to be signed and renewed in FY 2023-24 included the Code of Conduct for service providers as an annexure
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics 
(including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
As a financial services organisation and by the virtue of the services we offer, there may not be direct significant impacts to waste generation. 
However, we have undertaken measures such as partnering authorised waste management vendors to recycle our e-waste, installing Organic Waste 
Composters (OWCs) across six of our corporate offices to convert our wet waste generated to manure, and have a buyback policy in place for 
batteries. Please find further details of our approach to waste management on page 68 of the ‘Embracing Sustainability’ section.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection 
plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken 
to address the same.
	
No, as we are a financial services company, the waste generated is incidental to providing the banking service. Therefore, Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) is not applicable to our activities. As per the E-waste Management Rules, 2022, bulk consumers shall ensure that e-waste 
generated by them is handed over only to a registered producer, refurbisher, or recycler, and segregated waste is sent to authorized waste processing/
disposal facilities/deposition centers, either on its own or through an authorized waste collection agency. Kotak recognises its responsibility as a bulk 
consumer and disposes its e-waste through CPCB/SPCB-authorized recyclers.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its 
services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of Product /
Service
% of total Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes/
No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes/No) 
If yes, provide the 
web-link.
Not Applicable
2. 
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products / services, 
as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action 
taken to mitigate the same.
Name of the Product/Service
Description of the risk concern
Action taken
Not Applicable
397
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or providing 
services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
Not Applicable
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
Not Applicable
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective category
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR 
VALUE CHAINS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Measures undertaken for Employee Wellbeing
	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:#
Category
% of employees covered by
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity benefits
Day Care facilities
Total  
(A)
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
 44,401
 44,359
99.9%
 44,358
99.9%
 NA
NA
 44,401
100.0%
 -
 -
Female
 16,037
 16,018
99.9%
 16,018
99.9%
 16,037
100.0%
 NA
NA
 16,037
 100.0%
Total
 60,438
 60,377
99.9%
 60,376
99.9%
 16,037
26.5%
 44,401
73.5%
 16,037
 26.5%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
 13,130
 13,123
99.9%
 13,123
99.9%
 NA
NA
 13,130
100.0%
 -
 -
Female
 4,355
 4,351
99.9%
 4,351
99.9%
 4,355
100.0%
 NA
 NA
 -
 -
Total
 17,485
 17,474
99.9%
 17,474
99.9%
 4,355
24.9%
 13,130
75.1%
 -
 -
	
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of Workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
Female
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
Female
Total
Not Applicable
Statutory Reports
398
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in the following 
format#
FY 2023-24 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Previous Financial Year
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the 
company
0.2%
0.2%
	
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24..
2. 
Details of retirement benefits, for FY 2023-24 and FY 2022-23# 1
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
employees 
covered as a % 
of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as a % 
of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF*
99.9%
Not Applicable
Y
99.6%
Not Applicable
Y
Gratuity**
77.5%
Y
76.4%
Y
ESI
0.0%
N
0
N
Other
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
	
* Employees based in Dubai are not covered under PF in India
	
**Employees under fixed-term contract are excluded from Gratuity, if their employment is for the fixed period below the gratuity eligibility limits.
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces:
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees any workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Nine of our largest offices with capacity to accommodate more than 17,000 employees have been equipped with disability friendly infrastructure. 
More than 600 branches and more than 950 ATMs have disability friendly entrances making them accessible to both our employees and customers 
who are Persons with Disabilities (PwD).
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to 
the policy.
	
Yes, we have an equal employment opportunity policy, which is in line with the Persons with Disability Act (PwD), 2016. Our commitment to Equal 
opportunity is also articulated in the Code of Conduct found here- https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/
Policies/code_of_conduct_employee-2972021.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave#2
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.0%
59.6%
Not Applicable
Female
99.4%
54.8%
Total
99.8%
58.3%
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If yes, give 
details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No
(If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes. An online ServiceNow tool, HR helpdesk mail box or through HR Relationship Manager on email.
Other than Permanent Employees
Our non-permanent employees can reach us through the same modes described above.
Permanent workers
Not Applicable
Other than permanent workers
1 GRI 201-3
2 GRI 401-3e
399
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:#3
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
 60,438
 1,385
2.3%
 56,115
 1,522
2.7%
-	 Male
 44,401
 1,012
2.3%
 41,505
 1,120
2.7%
-	 Female
 16,037
 373
2.3%
 14,610
 402
2.8%
Total permanent 
workers
Not Applicable
-	 Male
-	 Female
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:#4
Category
FY 2023-24*
FY 2022-23*
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
 57,531
 27,616
48.0%
 53,831
93.6%
 54,093
 15,647
28.9%
 49,941
92.3%
Female
 20,392
 9,828
48.2%
 19,191
94.1%
 19,388
 6,515
33.6%
 18,160
93.7%
Total
 77,923
 37,444
48.1%
 73,022
93.7%
 73,481
 22,162
30.2%
 68,101
92.7%
Workers
Not Applicable
Male
Female
Total
	
*In both the financial years, we have only considered training data for employees onboard as on 31st March of the reporting year.
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers*#5
Category
FY 2023 – 24
FY 2022 - 23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
%(D/C)
Employee
Male
 44,401
 37,152
83.7%
 41,505
 32,091
77.3%
Female
 16,037
 13,558
84.5%
 14,610
 11,471
78.5%
Total
 60,438
 50,710
83.9%
 56,115
 43,562
77.6%
Workers
Not Applicable
Male
Female
Total
	
*All employees who are eligible for performance appraisal underwent career development reviews. Temporary/contractual employees and employees on probation are not 
eligible for performance review.
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
3 GRI 2-30
4 GRI 403-5, 404-2
5 GRI 404-3
Statutory Reports
400
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
10.	 Health and safety management system:# 6
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage 
such system?
	
	
Yes, we have an occupational health and safety management system (ISO 45001:2018) implemented for six of our larger corporate offices.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
	
	
An occupational health and safety management system (ISO 45001:2018) is in place, and the OHSMS manual serves as a comprehensive guide 
that outlines the governance framework and an action plan for conducting audits by the oversight team. The manual also clearly defines the 
scope and responsibilities of the teams tasked with overseeing the OHSMS. A monitoring plan takes into account factors including parameters 
measured, locations, scope and the methods used. The senior management is responsible for overseeing the evaluation of OHS performance 
and determining its effectiveness. Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) exercise as per the requirements of ISO 45001:2018 
standard is conducted, where all the work-related hazards are identified and risks on a routine and non-routine basis are assessed, and their 
mitigation/preventive measures tabulated. The non-routine jobs are maintenance activities and extension of the premises etc. HIRA is reviewed 
annually or in light of any incident and revised accordingly if required. The updated HIRA is then circulated to all the relevant premises to ensure 
that the knowledge gathered is circulated and used by all.
	
	
At the ISO 45001:2018 certified premises, we adopted a process that includes, but is not limited to, how the work is organised, social factors, 
leadership and organisational culture, activities and situations, past relevant incidents, potential emergency situations, actual and proposed 
changes irrespective of the level and nature and changes in knowledge of and information about hazards. The Occupational Health & Safety 
(OH&S) Management Representative (HMR) ensures that hazard identification is conducted by persons with competence in relevant hazard 
identification methodologies and techniques and appropriate knowledge of the work activity. All jobs performed at our premises are supervised 
by the HMR. They ensure proper work permits are requested and granted prior to the job being undertaken, and also note and report work 
related hazards, if any. ‘Toolbox talks’ for routine and non-routine jobs are delivered to vendors undertaking work at our premises, as required 
which cover safety instructions and detailed processes to be followed to protect themselves from injuries or ill health and an OHSMS Hazard 
Identification Checklist is maintained. The methodology and criteria for the assessment of Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) risks are 
defined with respect to their scope, nature and timing to ensure they are proactive rather than reactive and are used in a systematic way. 
Employees are also encouraged to report any hazardous situations by either calling a designated helpline or writing to a location specific 
helpdesk to enable timely and appropriate action.
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes, we have processes in place for our employees to report on work-related hazards and enable them to remove themselves from such risks.
	
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, we provide our employees with access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services. We promote well-being of our employees 
through facilitating pre-emptive medical check-ups, in-house doctors and on call consultations. We also offer health and wellness initiatives, 
including yoga, meditation, Zumba and quiz sessions, online and onsite. Our “Health to the Power Infinity” website provides doctor consultations, 
nutritionist services, an Emotional Assistance Programme and pharmacy discounts with professionals available both on call and in-house.
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:#7
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health  
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
	
*Includes contractual workforce
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
Safeguarding the health and well-being of our employees is of utmost importance to us. In June 2023, we offered the Annual Health Check pan-India 
with the help of a partner. This program witnessed a 22% participation rate from our eligible workforce. Employees above 40 years receive sponsored 
benefits, while others and their families could avail it at a discounted rate.
6 	
GRI 403-1, GRI 403-3
7 	
GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
401
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
	
Additionally, we have introduced doctor and nutritionist consultations, emotional assistance programs, and pharmacy discounts at select premises. 
Employees can access these resources both on-call and through in-house facilities. Our Emotional Assistance Program (EAP) continues to support 
employees and their families. In FY 2023-24, we saw increased utilization of EAP services, with themed sessions on managing depression, anxiety, 
stress, and conflict resolution. To promote a holistic lifestyle, we facilitate online yoga, meditation, and Zumba sessions. Through these comprehensive 
health and wellness initiatives, we strive to create a supportive environment that fosters overall well-being for our employees and their loved ones.
	
Apart from the health related initiatives we also have safety related initiatives in place to safeguard the well-being of employees. We have proper safety 
signage at appropriate locations placed to create awareness, regular trainings are imparted and toolbox talks are imparted to the staff managing the 
upkeep of the premises and safety elements such as handrails and anti-slip strips on stairs are installed in the premises etc. We also have a dedicated 
helpdesk for employees to reach out to any facility for reporting issues related to their safety and well-being in the premises. Fire and evacuation 
drills are conducted across Kotak premises periodically. Trained fire wardens have been appointed across corporate offices to organise periodic fire 
evacuation drills and training sessions. In addition, we offer pre-emptive medical check-ups, in-house doctor consultations and ambulance facilities, 
and have slip proof floors and ergonomic seating facilities at major offices to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees.8 We also facilitate 
sessions on mental health, yoga and other health related aspects for ensuring the well-being of the employees.	
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:#
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
14.	 Assessments for the year:#
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
Six of our corporate offices (0.3 % of our total branches and offices) were assessed by a third party, 
housing 11,680 employees, which form 15% of our Bank’s workforce.
Working Conditions
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks / concerns 
arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
There is an Occupational Health and Safety system implemented (ISO 45001:2018) that subjects us to continual improvement. In line with the 
requirement of the ISO 45001 standard, HIRA is catalogued and addressed by the relevant teams, which is updated on an annual basis or with the 
findings due to incidents, if any. Also, the external assessment reports are considered and observations from them are used to enhance the internal 
systems and processes.
	
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
	
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers 
(Y/N)?
	
	
Yes, we provide term life insurance, health insurance and group personal accident insurance to all our employees. Further details can be found 
on page 397 of BRSR
	
2.	
‘Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
	
	
We communicate our expectation to our business partners and vendors through our service agreements which outlines the need to be in 
compliance with all relevant regulations. Compliance is tracked on a monthly basis.
8 GRI 403-6
Statutory Reports
402
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable Employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
Not Applicable
	
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, we provide transition assistance programmes by offering future skills trainings such as digital and leadership programmes to our 
employees who are nearing superannuation. We also offer sessions on various topics through “Refueling Hour” and “Learning A-Fair”. These 
sessions cover themes such as developing industry-agnostic skills like Excel proficiency, prompt engineering, stakeholder management, and 
interpersonal skills. The goal of these programs is to equip employees with knowledge and abilities that can aid in their continued employability 
and smooth transition to new career opportunities.
	
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
We expect all our value-chain partners to comply with our Code of Conduct, applicable 
human rights standards and maintain sound health and safety practices. As per the Bank’s 
ESG Management Systems Plan, we also undertake ESG evaluations of our customers as 
part of the credit procedures, for some eligible transactions.
Working Conditions
 
6. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
	
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Our stakeholder engagement strategy identifies key stakeholders based on their influence on our business strategy, vulnerability to business 
outcomes, and potential of the stakeholder to collaborate with us. The stakeholder engagement strategy has identified seven stakeholder groups that 
are perceived to be the most important for our business. This strategy is tailored for each stakeholder group when engaging with them in accordance 
with their needs and expectations.
2. 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable and 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(E-mails, SMS, Newspapers, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community meetings, Notices 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/others)- 
Please specify
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement1
Investors
No
•	 E-mails
•	 Letters
•	 Earning calls
•	 Meetings/ conferences
•	 Investor Grievance Cell
•	 Media
•	 Website
•	 Annual and 
quarterly investor 
meets.
•	 Need-based
•	 Financial results
•	 Key business developments
•	 Shareholder returns and dividends
•	 Issues related to issue of duplicate/exchange 
of share certificates claim from Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority
•	 Climate change
•	 Diversity and Inclusion
•	 Provision of information on financial and ESG 
performance
•	 Timely resolution of queries
•	 Provision of regular business updates
•	 Incorporation of feedback on our strategy 
and performance
1GRI 2-29 
403
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
Stakeholder
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable and 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(E-mails, SMS, Newspapers, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community meetings, Notices 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/others)- 
Please specify
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement1
Customers
No
•	 One-on-one interactions
•	 Focus group discussions
•	 Customer meets.
•	 Customer satisfaction 
surveys
•	 Customer helpline
•	 Customer grievance cell
•	 Social media Website
•	 Periodic 
structured 
feedback 
meetings
•	 Ongoing
•	 Need-based
•	 Needs of customers
•	 Customer experience and service quality
•	 Product features and benefits
•	 Technology interface for banking experience
•	 Cybersecurity and Fraud protection
•	 ESG initiatives and disclosure
•	 Product and process innovation
•	 Digital solutions
•	 Service quality and relationship management
•	 Timely resolution of grievances
Government 
and 
Regulatory 
Bodies
No
•	 Regulatory filings
•	 Compliance statements
•	 Meetings
•	 Letters
•	 e-mails
•	 Industry associations
•	 Need-based
•	 License request and renewal
•	 Compliance with filings and other regulatory 
requirements
•	 Participation in government financial sector 
plans and programmes
•	 Consultations sought by regulatory bodies 
and industry associations
•	 On-time submission of regulatory and 
statutory filings
Suppliers
No
•	 Meetings
•	 e-mails
•	 Letters
•	 Supplier and business 
associates’ performance 
reviews
•	 Awareness programmes
•	 Ongoing
•	 Need-based
•	 Product/Service/ Technology quality and 
support
•	 Contract commercial and technical terms 
and conditions
•	 Supplier and business associates’ statutory 
compliances
•	 ESG, Code of Conduct for service providers
•	 Supplier friendly terms
•	 On-time vendor payments
Distributors
No
•	 Meetings
•	 e-mails
•	 Letters
•	 Supplier and business 
associates’ performance 
reviews
•	 Awareness programmes
•	 Ongoing
•	 Need-based
•	 Product/Service/ Technology quality and 
support
•	 Contract commercial and technical terms 
and conditions
•	 Distributor and business associates’ statutory 
compliances
•	 ESG, Code of Conduct for service providers
•	 On-time payments
Employees
No
•	 Induction programmes
•	 Town halls
•	 e-mails
•	 Skip-level meetings
•	 Leadership meetings
•	 Employee engagement 
initiatives
•	 Rewards and recognition 
programmes
•	 Employee portal
•	 HR helpdesk
•	 Employee satisfaction 
surveys
•	 Employee volunteering 
initiatives
•	 Ongoing
•	 Need-based
•	 Policies and procedures
•	 Diversity and Inclusion
•	 Performance appraisal and rewards
•	 Training and career development
•	 Work environment
•	 Health and wellness
•	 Safety and security
•	 Community development
•	 Employee volunteering
•	 Cybersecurity
•	 Talent development programmes
•	 Career succession planning
•	 Flexible mode of working
•	 Internal job postings
•	 Employee benefits
2GRI 2-29
Statutory Reports
404
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Stakeholder
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable and 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(E-mails, SMS, Newspapers, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community meetings, Notices 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/others)- 
Please specify
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement1
Communities 
and NGOs
Yes
•	 Community development 
initiatives including need-
based local interventions 
identified by Group’s 
employees.
•	 Funding support
•	 Proposals and requests for 
new initiatives
•	 Impact assessment surveys
•	 Need-based
•	 Community development needs
•	 Financial Inclusion
•	 Financial infrastructure
•	 Human and organizational support
•	 Need-based community development 
programmes.
•	 Skill upgradation for the supporting staff
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if 
consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.2
	
There are identified teams who actively engage with designated stakeholder groups. The feedback received from each stakeholder group is relayed 
to the respective Board-level Committees. These Committees discuss the feedback received from the stakeholders and suitable actions are taken 
towards enhancing our practices.
	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (“CSR and ESG Committee”) - CSR & ESG Committee, 
inter alia, oversees the development, implementation and monitoring of the ESG framework, and provides feedback to the Board on the Bank's ESG 
performance, progress and compliance with relevant regulations and standards, thereby facilitating consultation between the Board and stakeholders 
on economic, environmental and social topics.
	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (“SRC”) -  SRC oversees matters related to resolution of security holders’ grievances, adherence to service 
standards for investor servicing, effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders, measures taken for reducing unclaimed dividends and other 
security holder-related matters, as per the responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
	
Customer Service Committee - CSC has been constituted to bring about ongoing improvements in the quality of customer service and improving the 
level of customer satisfaction for all categories of clientele, at all times. It oversees customer service related matters, including grievance redressal, 
fair practices and customer satisfaction and provides periodic reports to the Board on these topics.
2. 
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics (Yes / 
No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies 
and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental and social topics. For instance, we engage 
with our investors and stakeholders on ESG topics they consider critical for us as a Bank and provide necessary public disclosures on our ESG 
performance. Our approach to materiality involves identifying and articulating relevant topics, recognizing associated risks, opportunities, and 
impacts, preparing surveys and conducting stakeholder consultations, analyzing the responses received, presenting the findings to the management 
and Board, and ultimately integrating the materiality outcomes into our strategy. The material topics identified through this approach informs our ESG 
policy framework found here – kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/ESG-framework-2022.pdf
	
Our ESG policy framework outlines our commitment to each of the focus areas identified by us. We also encourage our employees and customers to 
follow environmental-friendly practices by leveraging technology. We have instituted diversity and inclusion, equal opportunities, and other employee-
related policies and practices to promote a fair workplace. Our Code of Conduct for service providers conveys our expectations from our business 
associates and vendors to address ESG topics in their operations. In order to create awareness about ESG among communities, we implement 
various programs that not only focus on their upliftment, but also enhance their practices to be more environmentally conscious through some of our 
CSR interventions.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder 
groups.
	
We are committed to ensuring accessibility and inclusivity for all stakeholders, including vulnerable and marginalized groups. To address the concerns 
of people with disabilities, we have installed ramps at over 600 branches and more than 950 ATMs to facilitate barrier-free access to our banking 
services.
2GRI 2-16
405
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
	
Financial literacy is a crucial aspect of empowering our customers and communities to effectively utilize our banking services. During the financial 
year, we organized 3,000 financial literacy camps through our rural branches. Additionally, we regularly conduct various digital campaigns to educate 
our customers and the community on financial matters. For further details on our financial inclusion efforts, please refer to pages 62-63 of the 
‘Embracing Sustainability’ section in this Report.
	
Furthermore, we undertake various need-based community programs aligned with our identified CSR focus areas, which include education and 
livelihood, healthcare, environment and sustainable development, and sports. These programs are designed to uplift and empower marginalized 
communities. For comprehensive details on our CSR initiatives, please refer to pages 86-91 of the ‘Supporting Communities’ section in this Report.
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format:#1
Category
FY 2023-24*
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
 60,438
 25,494
42.2%
 56,115
 50,996
90.9%
Other than permanent
 17,485
 4,842
27.7%
 17,366
 14,144
81.5%
Total Employees
 77,923
 30,336
38.9%
 73,481
 65,140
88.7%
Workers
Not Applicable
Permanent
Other than permanent
Total Workers
	
*Our Code of Conduct consists of elements on human rights. Hence, Code of Conduct, PoSH, Diversity, Inclusion and Equity trainings coverage has been considered in 
the above table. The data considered here are for only employees who underwent through COC and PoSH training in FY 23-24 as remaining employees has already gone 
through this training during their tenure at Kotak.
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:#2
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
Equal to  
Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to  
Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/D)
Number 
(F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
 60,438
 5,393
8.9%
 55,045
91.1%
56,115
7,008
12.5%
49,107
87.5%
Male
 44,401
 3,733
8.4%
 40,668
91.6%
41,505
4,934
11.9%
36,571
88.1%
Female
 16,037
 1,660
10.4%
 14,377
89.6%
14,610
2,074
14.2%
12,536
85.8%
Other than permanent
 17,485
 7,366
42.1%
 10,119
57.9%
17,366
9,037
52.0%
8,329
48.0%
Male
 13,130
 5,501
41.9%
 7,629
58.1%
12,588
6,229
49.5%
6,359
50.5%
Female
 4,355
 1,865
42.8%
 2,490
57.2%
4,778
2,808
58.8%
1,970
41.2%
Workers
Not Applicable
Permanent
Male
Female
Other than permanent
Male
Female
	
1GRI 406-1 | 2GRI 202-1 | #Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
Statutory Reports
406
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages:# 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of  
respective category*
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of  
respective category*
Board of Directors (BoD)
10
₹ 0.63 Cr
2
₹ 2.06 Cr
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
3
₹ 3.85 Cr
2
₹ 2.56 Cr
Employees other than BOD and KMP
44,398
₹ 5.5 lakh
16,035
₹ 4.5 lakh
Workers
Not Applicable
	
	
*The figures represent fixed component and does not include variable components of the compensation; Employee remuneration are for permanent employees only.
	
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
21.0%
21.4%
	
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to 
by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, our Human Resources function is responsible for the oversight of human rights issues as articulated in the Human Rights and Anti-discrimination 
Policy. Further details of the policy are found in ‘Description of Policies’ in the Annexures.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
We have established a Whistleblower mechanism accessible to internal stakeholders, allowing them to escalate any violations which includes those 
relating to human rights issues This internal digital platform ensures the confidentiality of the whistleblower’s identity. The grievance mechanism also 
includes a robust Whistleblower Policy to address employee grievances related to work environment and company policies, as outlined in the “Raising 
Concerns” section of the Code of Conduct. Additionally, we are committed to implementing adequate remediation measures to address identified 
risks and/or human rights violations. Further details can be found in our “Description of Policies” on Page 420.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:#9
FY 2023-24
FY 2022 - 23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution  
at the end  
of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
45
17
All the pending cases 
were resolved in Q1 
of FY 2024-25.
56
14
All the pending cases 
of  FY 2022-23 were 
resolved in  
FY 2023-24.
Discrimination at workplace
0
-
-
-
Child Labour
0
-
-
-
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
0
-
-
-
Wages
0
-
-
-
Other human rights related issues
0
-
-
-
	
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
7. 
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the 
following format:#
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
45
56
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.2%
0.3%
Complaint on POSH upheld
16
30
	
9 GRI 406-1 | # Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
407
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
We have a robust Code of Conduct for our employees that includes clauses on anonymity and confidentiality to ensure employees can freely raise their 
concerns without hesitation. We also make provisions to enable employees to raise anonymous complaints and have zero tolerance for workplace 
retaliation:
	
•	
Anonymity and Confidentiality: We maintain strict confidentiality regarding all complaints and related investigations, treating them with utmost 
sensitivity in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Employees are provided with the option to raise anonymous complaints, which 
are accessible only to authorized personnel, such as the Business Head, Human Resources team, and other control functions, as permitted by 
law. The final action taken is documented and maintained for future reference.
	
•	
Workplace Retaliation: Our organization has a zero-tolerance policy towards any form of retaliation against individuals who, in good faith, report 
suspected unethical or illegal conduct. This includes, but is not limited to, fraud, securities law or regulatory violations, potential breaches of 
company policies such as the Code of Conduct, or other inappropriate workplace behavior. Should an employee experience retaliation, they 
are encouraged to report the incident to the Human Resources team or through our designated Employee Portal (Kotak Worklife), where their 
concerns will be addressed promptly and appropriately.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
	
Yes, service agreements with service providers include a Code of Conduct for service providers that covers human rights.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
 Nil
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at 
Question above.
 	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
	
We respect human rights of all our stakeholders and ensure adherence with laws safeguarding these universal rights. We have instituted a Human 
Rights and Anti-Discrimination policy that outlines our commitment to the national and international laws.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
	
We respect human rights of all our stakeholders and ensure adherence with laws safeguarding these universal rights. We have instituted a Human 
Rights and Anti-Discrimination policy that outlines our commitment to the national and international laws.
	
We undertake proactive measures to safeguard human rights. We include in our annual survey some questions to understand how human rights are 
implemented in the organization. These questions covered topics such as workplace discrimination based on gender, caste, religion and physical 
disability, workplace challenges related to health and safety, commute to work, growth opportunities and amenities, and learning and development 
such as skill development, mentorship programs and career sponsorship. The objective of the survey was to assess organizational effectiveness on 
parameters such as respect, camaraderie, pride, fairness, and credibility. This survey was conducted in December 2023.
3. 
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, nine of our largest offices with capacity to accommodate more than 17,000 employees have been equipped with disability friendly infrastructure. 
More than 600 branches and more than 950 ATMs have disability friendly entrances making them accessible to both our employees and customers 
who are Persons with Disabilities (PwD).
Statutory Reports
408
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
We expect all our value-chain partners to comply with our Code of Conduct, applicable 
human rights standards and maintain sound health and safety practices. As per the Bank’s 
ESG Management Systems Plan, we undertake ESG evaluations of our customers as part of 
the credit procedures, for some eligible transactions.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks /concerns arising from the assessments at 
Question 4 above.
	
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:1
Parameter (in GJ)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
33,271
12,585
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C )
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
33,271
12,585
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
4,31,341
3,52,223
Total fuel consumption (E)
16,464
9,309
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NA
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
4,47,804
3,61,532
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
4,81,075
3,74,117
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations in 
₹ crore)
8.58
9.05
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy 
consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) (GJ / Revenue from operations in ₹ crore, 
PPP adjusted)
173.49
183.01
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity (GJ/FTE)
6.17
5.09
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Refer page no. 64 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and 
estimating the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. Due to the change in methodology the data for FY2023-24 is not comparable with 
previous year.
	
2.	
Coverage of reporting has been enhanced to include 37 new corporate offices, 240+ new Bank branches and 1000+ off-site ATMs  from last year. This data also 
includes energy consumed at Bank premises shared with a few subsidiaries.
	
3.	
Intensity ratios have been computed based on Total Revenue which includes Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale 
of buildings & other assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. For the purpose of calculation of revenue 
adjusted Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.22 INR/USD as per World Bank website has been considered.
	
4.	
FTE refers to full time employees of the Bank at the end of the financial year.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
Yes, reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24 
2. 
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) 
Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case 
targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
This is not applicable to us as we do not have any sites or facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs)
1 	
GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3
409
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:2
Parameter
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
0
0
(ii)	
Groundwater
0
15909.6
(iii)	
Third party water
0
85,813.5
(iv)	
Seawater / desalinated water
0
(v)	
Others
8,52,455.6
21,089.7
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
8,52,455.6
1,22,812.8
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
1,70,491.1
1,22,812.8
Water	 intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations) (kilolitres / Revenue from 
operations in ₹ crore)
3.04
2.97
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) (kilolitres/
Revenue from operations in ₹ crore, PPP adjusted)
61.48
60.08
Water intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Water	 intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity (KL/FTE)
2.19
NA
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Refer page no. 68 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and 
estimating the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. Due to the change in methodology the data for FY2023-24 is not comparable with 
previous year.
	
2.	
Intensity ratios has been computed based on Total Revenue which includes Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale 
of buildings & other assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. For the purpose of calculation of revenue 
adjusted Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.22 INR/USD as per World Bank website has been considered.
	
3.	
If we were to follow a similar methodology for estimating water withdrawal and consumption for FY 22-23, the number would be 7,25,481.9 kl and 1,45,096.4 kl respectively.
	
4.	
FTE refers to full time employees of the Bank at the end of the financial year.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes, reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:3
Parameter
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water
	
-	 No treatment
-
-
	
-	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	
To Groundwater
	
-	 No treatment
-
-
	
-	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	
To Seawater
	
-	 No treatment
-
-
	
-	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	
Sent to third-parties
	
-	 No treatment
6,81,964.5
-
	
-	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	
Others
	
-	 No treatment
-
-
	
-	 With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
6,81,964.5
-
	
Notes: 
	
1. Refer page no. 68 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and estimating 
the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. Due to the change in methodology the data for FY2023-24 is not comparable with previous year.
	
2. If we were to follow a similar methodology for estimating water discharge for FY 22-23, the number would be 5,80,386.5 kl.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - Yes, 
reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24
2 	
GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5
3 	
GRI 303-4
Statutory Reports
410
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
	
We do not have a zero liquid discharge mechanism, but have taken initiatives to minimise water discharge. These initiatives include the installation of 
low-flow plumbing fixtures to reduce water consumption at select large offices. We also have Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) at three of our larger 
corporate offices, the output from which is used for flushing purpose and horticulture.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 23-24
FY 22-23
NOx
As a financial services company, air emissions from our operations are not significant. We monitor 
our GHG emissions, which have been disclosed on page 410 and 413 under principle 6, of BRSR.
SOx
Particulate matter (PM)
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Others – please specify
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:5
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2022-23
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2 , 
CH4 , N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3 , if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
8,403.9
11,890
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2 , 
CH4 , N2O, HFCs, PFCs,SF6 , NF3 , if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
85,788.9
69,466
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
GHG emissions / Revenue from operations)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/₹ Cr.
1.68
1.97
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/₹ Cr.
34.00
39.80
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms
of physical output
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/ FTE
1.21
1.11
	
Notes:
	
1: Refer page no. 66 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and estimating 
the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. Due to the change in methodology the data for FY2023-24 is not comparable with previous year.
	
2: Coverage of reporting has been enhanced to include 37 new corporate offices, 240+ new Bank branches and 1000+ off-site ATMs  from last year. This data also includes 
energy consumed at Bank premises shared with a few subsidiaries.
	
3: Intensity ratios have been computed based on Total Revenue which includes Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale of 
buildings & other assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.22 INR/USD as per World Bank website has been considered.
	
4: FTE refers to full time employees of the Bank at the end of the financial year.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - 
	
Yes, reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.6
	
Yes, we undertake initiatives to reduce our GHG emissions. We have twelve LEED certified office premises across six cities and 4,130 square meters 
of carbon neutral floors installed at our main offices. Each of the LEED certified offices meet the requirements of the green building rating system 
certification established by the U.S. Green Building Council and have best-in-class resource efficient installations. These installations help monitor 
and control energy consumption. We are in the process of getting more of our premises to get LEED certified. There are other initiatives as well which 
help us reduce GHG emissions such as:
	
•	
Maintenance of temperature control around 240C for air conditioned premises at large offices 
	
•	
Pilot testing of an AI-driven module for monitoring energy consumption of air conditioners
	
•	
Implementation of pressure-independent Variable Air Volume (VAV) systems for optimised air distribution to facilitate temperature control as 
per user requirements and ensure energy savings during non-occupancy periods.
	
•	
Transition from physical servers to virtual servers that reduces both energy consumption and resource utilisation
5 	
GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4
6 	
GRI 305-5
411
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
	
•	
Implementation of sensor-based lighting systems and timer-controlled lighting across facilities
	
•	
Utilisation of non-emergency light fixtures with occupancy and daylight sensors to enable energy savings during non-occupancy hours
	
•	
Deployment of LED signages at our major corporate offices and branches 
	
•	
Energy-efficient lighting systems, specifically LEDs replaced traditional lighting fixtures across all facilities.
	
•	
All electronics are serviced regularly and any faulty or damaged appliances are replaced immediately. 
	
•	
We seek to purchase energy-efficient electronic equipment to minimise our environmental impact.
	
•	
We regularly communicate with our branches to avoid unnecessary consumption and promptly address any significant increases in electricity bills 
	
•	
Installation of electric vehicle charging stations at key offices to encourage the adoption of electric vehicles and support eco-friendly commuting options.
	
•	
Adoption of CFC-free refrigerants like R134A in HVAC systems to reduce environmental footprint and comply with sustainable practices. 
	
•	
Replacement of Precision Air Conditioners (PAC) with Hybrid Air Conditioners utilising R407C Refrigerant to further reduce our greenhouse gas 
emissions and enhance energy efficiency. 
	
•	
Low-emission tubular batteries for power backup instead of traditional generators. 
	
•	
Incorporation of low-VOC, low-emission materials in construction and maintenance activities across our premises to minimise environmental 
impact and ensure occupant health and safety.
	
•	
Ceasefire fire extinguishers, preferably the MAP-90 model, which emits low carbon.
	
For further details on initiatives, please refer to ‘Embracing Sustainability’ of this Report.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:7
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
5.5
1.4
E-waste (B)
9.0
19.4
Bio-medical waste (C)
0*
0
Construction and demolition waste (D)
92.0
17.6
Battery waste (E)
7.2
2.1
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
3.3
0.2
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
1,076.6
147.3
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
1,193.7
188.1
#Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total	waste generated/ Revenue from operations) (metric tonnes / Revenue from operations in  
₹ crore)
0.02
0.00
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste 
generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) (metric tonnes / Revenue from operations 
in ₹ crore, PPP adjusted)
0.43
0.09
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity (MT/FTE)
0.02
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or 
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Recycled
177.3
169.2
(ii)	
Re-used
0
0
(iii)	
Other recovery operations
0
0
Total
177.3
169.2
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method 
(in metric tonnes)
Category of disposal Method
(i)	
Incineration
0*
17.3
(ii)	
Landfilling
1,016.3
1.6
(iii)	
Other disposal operations
0
0
Total
1,016.3
18.9
	
Note: 1. FTE refers to full time employees of the Bank at the end of the financial year.
	
Refer page no. 68 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and estimating 
the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. Due to the change in methodology the data for FY2023-24 is not comparable with previous year.
	
# Intensity ratios have been computed based on Total Revenue which includes Interest Earned under Schedule 13 and Other Income, excluding profit/(loss) on sale of 
buildings & other assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. For the purpose of calculation of revenue adjusted 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.22 INR/USD as per World Bank website has been considered.
	
* Biomedical waste generated is 0.0036 metric tonnes, as we have rounded the number to 1 decimal point it appears as 0 in the table above.Out of the  0.0036 metric tonnes 
of biomedical waste generated 0.0031metric tonnes is incinerated and 0.0005 metric tonnes is sent to landfill has context menu
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - 
7	
GRI 306-3, GRI 306-4, GRI 306-5 	
Statutory Reports
412
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Yes, reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your company to 
reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
There is an internal process which guides the process of waste management at Kotak. We operate in the service industry, our waste mainly includes 
stationery waste and organic waste (generated through our canteen). Other categories of waste monitored include e-waste, construction waste, and 
plastic as well as scrap metal. Hazardous waste generated from our operations is negligible and includes used oil from fuel based generators. We 
have proper process for disposing the generated waste in accordance with the regulations. We collect and safely dispose all the hazardous waste 
including bio-medical waste through authorised waste management agencies, have buy-back policy for batteries and we attempt to reuse and recycle 
most of the waste generated. We also undertake various initiatives during the year to reduce our waste such as:
	
•	
Single Use Plastic (SUP) bottles: We do not procure SUP water bottles for our large offices including meeting rooms and cafeterias
	
•	
Installation of Organic Waste Converters (OWC): Organic waste generated from cafeteria, pantries, and landscaping is converted into manure 
by using OWCs. There are six large offices which have OWCs installed. 
	
•	
Minimisation of food wastage: Awareness initiatives are conducted to sensitise employees on food wastage, with posters placed at strategic 
locations to create maximum impact and regular e-mail communication. Waste generated each day in cafeterias is measured and displayed to 
sensitise employees. 
	
•	
Responsible disposal of e-waste: All the IT and e-waste generated is responsibly disposed through authorised vendors 
	
•	
Paper waste minimisation: Overall paper consumption across our operations has been reduced through implementation of default duplex 
printing on all printers and avoiding physical account statements and envelopes. More than 2.5 Crore sheets were saved due to this initiative.
	
•	
Digitalising of the physical  Most Important Terms & Conditions (MITC) of Financial Inclusion saving accounts. 
	
•	
Digitalising of Loan processing: In FY 2023-24, 98% of our personal loan business was transitioned to digital formats. This saves consumption 
of paper. 
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere 
reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are 
required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are 
being complied with? (Y/N)
We do not have any operations or offices in ecologically sensitive areas
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial 
year:
Name and brief details 
of project
EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain(Yes 
/ No)
Relevant Web link
We did not undertake any projects that required an EIA.
	
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-
compliances.
S. 
No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the non-
compliance
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control boards 
or by courts
Corrective action taken, if any
We are in compliance with all applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
413
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
i.	
Name of the area
	
ii.	
Nature of operations,
	
iii.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format: 
	
As we are a financial services company, this is not applicable to our activities
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
	
Not Applicable
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:8
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2 , 
CH4 , N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 , NF3 , if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
47,005.3
73,842.9
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/₹ Cr.
0.84 
1.79
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/FTE
0.60
1.01
	
Notes: 
	
1.  Refer page no. 67 in 'Embracing Sustainability' section which describes the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and 
estimating the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
	
2.  FTE refers to full time employees of the Bank at the end of the financial year.
	
Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 2023-24
3. 
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant 
direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
	
Not Applicable
4. 
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or 
reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such 
initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative 
(Web-link, if any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1.
Energy saving device installation
We have installed energy saving devices at 100 offsite ATMs 
12% energy savings
2.
Energy efficient lighting
We have replaced all CFL Lighting in Branches & small offices with 
LED Modules in FY 2022-23
3,800 tCO2 equivalent annually
3
Solar Installation - Pilot
Solar panels commissioned at three branches
Clean energy generation 
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
We have a Business Continuity Management (BCM) Policy that provides guidance for proactively identifying and mitigating risks that may cause 
disruption to business, to minimize the impact of disruption, and to ensure continuity of key products and services at acceptable levels. It is reviewed 
annually for its continual improvement. Critical Units in the Bank have a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) which prescribes tested half yearly, the results 
are communicated periodically and are reviewed to ensure their effectiveness. These results are also submitted to the regulator.
	
We also have an “IT Disaster Recovery Plan”, which comprises disaster recovery objective, disaster determination & recovery process, replication 
methodology, drill procedure & frequency, DR maintenance, RTO, RPO, etc. Kotak has an existing Primary DC site at Goregaon (Mumbai), Near-DR site 
at Airoli (Navi Mumbai) and Disaster Recovery DC hosted at Chennai. We have set up identified applications at our DR site. Bank prepares schedule 
and conducts DR drills for applications, according to regulatory directives.
6. 
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation 
measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
The EMSP lays out the criteria to conduct due diligence and evaluation of select borrowers using an ESG lens. The plan also categorizes the borrowers 
based on the potential of the sector which a company belongs to, impact social and environmental aspects through their business activities. The Plan 
indicates specific checklists for assessment which depends on the nature and category of the transaction. Capital expenditure and working capital 
loans above particular size and tenor thresholds are covered in the Plan for evaluation, that gives a score to be included in the credit assessment note, 
which is to be adjusted downwards for high-risk borrowers. Additionally the EMSP outlines an exclusionary list, implementation of which is subject 
to periodic supervision and monitoring. We have also introduced a Vendor Code of Conduct that articulates our expectations on our vendors ESG 
performance.
8	
GRI 305-3
Statutory Reports
414
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.
	
Currently, we do not assess environmental impacts for our value-chain partners. However, we encourage our value-chain partners to proactively 
align their business operations to environmental best-practices. We have implemented a code of conduct for all our outsourced vendors, which is 
incorporated as part of the standard service contract with the objective of creating awareness on ESG and articulating our expectations form our 
vendors on ESG.
PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER 
THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Public Policy Advocacy
 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations - 18
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the entity is a member 
of/ affiliated to.1
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1.
Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI)
National
2.
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
National
3.
Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCCI)
State
4.
Primary Dealers Association of India (PDAI)
National
5.
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA)
National
6.
Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI)
National
7.
Indian Banks’ Association (IBA)
National
8.
Data Security Council of India (DSCI)
National
9.
Media Research Users Council
National
10.
Indo German Chamber Of Commerce (IGCC)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on 
adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
During the FY 23-24, no instances of anti-competitive conduct were found, rendering corrective actions unnecessary2
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. 
No.
Public policy advocated
Method resorted for such 
advocacy
Whether Information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by 
Board (Annually/ Half 
yearly/Quarterly/Others– 
please specify)
Web Link, if available
1.
Mobilising private 
capital for Climate 
solutions
Climate Finance 
Leadership Initiative 
(CFLI) India
Yes
Half yearly
https://www.bloomberg.
com/cfli/mobilizing-
investment/india/
1 GRI 2-28 | 2GRI 206-1
415
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial 
year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification No.
Date of notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes 
/ No)
Relevant Web link
Kotak Mahindra Bank did not undertake any projects that require Social Impact Assessments.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the 
following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY (In 
INR)
Kotak Mahindra Bank did not undertake any projects that require Rehabilitation and Resettlement.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community*.
	
As a financial services company, our operations typically do not lead to grievances from the community at large. However, our CSR activities involve 
communities and our NGO partners are responsible for addressing the queries/grievances/complaints raised, which they may route to us on a case-
to-case basis. We have also established a grievance redressal mechanism specific to CSR projects, which is available on our website: https://www.
kotak.com/en/about-us/corporate-responsibility/feedback-form.html
	
Also, the MoUs signed with NGO partners have mention of the channel (email) on which the grievance can be reported.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:#
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
23%
-*
Directly from within India1
99%
99%
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.
	
* This number was not tracked for FY 2022-23
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a permanent 
or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Rural
0.6%
0.6%
Semi-urban
3.9%
3.9%
Urban
24.8%
25.0%
Metropolitan
70.7%
70.5%
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator for FY 2023-24.	
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not applicable
1GRI204-1 
Statutory Reports
416
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
2. 
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by 
government bodies:
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In ` Lakh)
Jharkhand
Pakur
37.5
Odisha
Kandhamal
37.5
Gujarat
Dahod
34.3
Jharkhand
Ranchi
53.5
Bihar
Muzaffarpur
37.5
Jharkhand
Hazaribhag
22.0
Madhya Pradesh
Chhatarpur
55.0
Kerala
Wayanad
3.0
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable 
groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No. As a financial services organisation, we do not require substantial input materials for our business.
	
(b)	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable
4. 
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), 
based on traditional knowledge
S. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes / No)
Basis of calculating benefit 
share
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of 
traditional knowledge is involved
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Sr 
No.
CSR Projects
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Education & livelihood
1,72,250
While many of our projects work for the 
benefit of economically weaker segments 
and tribal communities, we do not track % of 
beneficiaries from vulnerable/marginalised 
segment for same
2
Healthcare
 45,233
3
Sports
 132
4
Relief & rehabilitation
 6,300
5
Environment & sustainable development
 8,990
417
BRSR - Section C: Principle wise performance disclosure
PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS IN A 
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Bank has implemented a robust mechanism to receive and address consumer complaints and feedback effectively. As a service sector organization, 
customer centricity is our prime focus. We recognize the importance of prompt and efficient service delivery in ensuring customer satisfaction.
	
We adopt a holistic approach to establish service standards and continuously enhance the customer experience based on feedback received through 
multiple channels. Customers can conveniently provide feedback or lodge grievances through multiple modes. We ensure a streamlined process for 
grievance redressal, encompassing three escalation levels:
	
Level 1: Customer Experience Centre, Net Banking / Web form, Branch, PO Box
	
Level 2: Dedicated Nodal Officer
	
Level 3: Principal Nodal Officer
	
Further, in line with RBI recommendation, the Bank has incorporated the role of an Internal Ombudsman, who is an independent authority to review 
the Grievances raised by customers. Every complaint which is either partially or fully rejected, is shared with the Internal Ombudsman for review and 
consent. Only once the Internal Ombudsman consents, can the complaint be rejected. The decision taken by the Internal Ombudsman is binding 
on the Bank. If the customer is not satisfied with the response or has not received a response from the Bank within a month, then he/she can file a 
complaint with Banking Ombudsman. The details of the same is updated on the Bank’s website.
	
Every complaint has a specified turnaround time. Customer at the time of login of complaint, would ordinarily be informed of the same. Bank has 
dedicated teams to handle complaints at Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. Additionally, there are teams specifically working on the complaints escalated 
to the Chairman / Managing Director’s desk or the RBI banking Ombudsman under the Grievance Redressal desk.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental product and social parameters relevant to the Product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
Remark
FY 2022-23
Remark
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
 -
 -
 -
 -
Advertising
 -
 -
 -
 -
Cyber-security
 -
 -
 -
 -
Delivery of essential services#
2,86,154
16,189
The number 
of complaints 
reported excludes 
complaints 
redressed in zero 
and one day
1,768
44
The number 
of complaints 
reported excludes 
complaints 
redressed in zero 
and one day
Restrictive Trade Practices
 -
 -
 -
 -
Unfair Trade Practices
5,931
229
The number 
of complaints 
reported excludes 
complaints 
redressed in zero 
and one day
 -
 -
Other
 -
 -
 -
 -
	
# Complaints included under "Delivery of Essential Services" exclude from total complaints those that pertain to mis-selling, which are separately shown as unfair trade 
practices. This modification in methodology from last year reflects our view that 'Banking is as an essential service' . If the same methodology had been applied in FY 
2022-23, the no. of complaints received and pending resolution at the end of the previous year would have been 2,32,410 and 11,167 for Delivery of essential services and 
3,245 and 51 Unfair Trade practices respectively
	
Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for indicators marked with # for FY 2023-24.
Statutory Reports
418
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reason for Recall
Voluntary Recall
Not Applicable
Forced Recall
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link 
of the policy.
	
Yes, we have a policy on cybersecurity. The details of the cybersecurity policy can be found in the annexures on page 420. In addition, the Privacy 
Policy of Kotak can be found here: https://www.kotak.com/en/privacy-policy.html
	
For further details, please refer to pages 52-55 of the ‘Governance’ section.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber 
security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities 
on safety of products / services.
	
The Bank has Information Security and Cyber Security Policy (which is updated on periodic basis to comply with regulatory guidelines and best 
practices) through which Bank makes sure to proactively monitor internal and external infrastructure/applications to detect and timely respond to 
any vulnerabilities. Periodic Vendor security assessments are carried out to protect Bank’s data. There is regular cadence with senior management 
to appraise them about risks identified and action taken to mitigate same.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:* #
	
a)	
Number of instances of data breaches – 1
 
b) 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers- 100%
	
c)	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches – The impact of the breach is limited, as the information that may have been accessed by threat actor is 
not critical in nature. The Bank has since taken corrective actions to prevent occurrence of such incident.
	
* The above information in respect of data breach has been disclosed based on Bank's internally defined criteria for such incidents.
	
# Reasonable assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
	
Information about Kotak Mahindra Bank’s products and services are available on our website https://www.kotak.com/en/home.html
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
We carry out financial literacy and investor education programmes with an emphasis on expanding the knowledge of our customers and communities. 
Our goal is to create awareness among our existing and potential consumers with the requisite know how to make informed financial decisions and 
protect their data. We believe that financial literacy is a vital step in educating our customers on the effective usage of our banking services. During 
the financial year, we organised more than 3,000 financial literacy camps through our rural branches. We also conduct various digital campaigns to 
educate our customers on a regular basis.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
We proactively communicate with our customers through e-mail, SMS, WhatsApp, website, push notifications and our Mobile app to provide details 
regarding the potential and ongoing disruption of essential services. Additionally, we have established Relationship Management teams at our 
branches and a Customer Contact Centre staffed with a team of Virtual Relationship Managers, who regularly connect with our customers via 
phone and through digital channels. This approach ensures transparent information about our financial products and services, enabling a seamless 
customer experience.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) 
If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / 
services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, we recognise the importance of adequate, clear and transparent information being provided to our customers to enable informed decision 
making. We also train our employees to practice ethical lending practices and refrain from mis-selling of financial products to our consumers.
	
Yes, we track Net Promoter Score (NPS) at two levels- Relationship NPS (R-NPS) and Transaction NPS (T-NPS). This helps us understand our 
customers’ perception of the Bank as a whole. For further details please refer to pages 70-71 of ‘Generating value for customers’ section
419
Annexures - List of Policies
Sr. 
No
Name of the Policy1 
Description/link to publicly available policies 
1.        Policy on Board Diversity
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/board-
diversity-policy.pdf
2.        Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Banking-Codes-Standards-Board-of-India/Individuals-Customers/english.pdf  
3.        Code of Conduct (Directors) 
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/code_of_
conduct_directors.pdf
4.        Code of Conduct (Employees)
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/code_of_
conduct_employee-2972021.pdf
5.        Code of Conduct for Conduct for Collection 
of Dues - Credit Cards
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Code-of-Conduct/code-of-conduct-for-collection-of-dues-credit-cards.pdf 
6.        Code of Fair Disclosure of UPSI
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/code_of_
fair_disclosure_of_UPSI.pdf 
7.        Collection of Dues and Repossession of 
Security Policy
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Banking-Policies/policy-on-collection-of-dues-and-repossession-of-Security.pdf  
8.        Compliance Policy
The policy describes the compliance culture, function, risk and elucidates our approach 
to ensuring compliance. The Chief Compliance Officer and the compliance team have the 
responsibility to ensure the effectiveness and integrity of the compliance process with 
appropriate and robust monitoring of the adherence to the Policy.
9.        Compensation Policy
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/
compensation-policy-kmbl.pdf  
10.     Compensation Policy for Executive Directors
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/
compensation-policy-ned-final.pdf 
11.     Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
https://www.kotak.com/en/about-us/corporate-responsibility.html
12.     Customer’s Compensation Policy
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Banking-Policies/customer-compensation-policy.pdf 
13.     Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Statement
Please find details on pages 82-83 of the ‘Empowering Colleagues’ section of this report
14.     ESG Management Systems Plan (EMSP)
Please find details on page 58 of the ‘Embracing Sustainability’ section of this report
15.     ESG Policy Framework
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/ESG-
framework-2022.pdf 
16.     Employee Volunteering Policy
This policy provides a framework that enables and inspires our employees to utilize their time 
and skills in socially impactful volunteering activities. Our employees can enroll with social 
sector organisations or opportunities available on the Kotak Work Life Mobile App or Portal. 
17.     Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM)
Framework
Details of our ERM framework have been elucidated on page 372 of the Management discussion 
and analysis section of this report. 
18.     Environment Policy
Our Environment Policy elucidates our commitment to sound environmental management in 
line with national and local environmental regulations. It also covers our approach to manage 
our environmental impact through resource efficiency measures, waste management and 
transitioning our operations to a low carbon economy.  The policy also focuses on creating 
employee and stakeholder awareness on environmental management.
19.     Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
This policy is aligned to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and covers all our 
employees (current and prospective employees) including persons with disability, persons 
with benchmark disability and persons with disability having high support needs. The policy 
articulates our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all in employment, without 
any discrimination on the grounds of age, disability, gender, marriage and civil partnership, 
maternity, race, ethnic, social, and indigenous origin, nationality, colour, religion or belief, sexual 
orientation, socioeconomic status of an individual or other basis prohibited by law. 
20.     Fair Practice Code (Bank)
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Code-of-Conduct/fair-practice-code.pdf 
21.     Fair Practice Code for Credit Card Operations
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Code-of-Conduct/fair-practice-code-for-credit-card-operations.pdf 
1 	
GRI 2-23
Statutory Reports
420
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Sr. 
No
Name of the Policy1 
Description/link to publicly available policies 
22.     Fair Practice Code for Lenders
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Code-of-Conduct/fair-practice-code-for-lenders.pdf  
23.     Fair Practice Code – Microfinance Loans
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Code-of-Conduct/Fair-Practice-Code-Microfinance-Loans.pdf 
24.     Fraud Risk Management Policy
The aim of this policy is to help the field functionaries strengthen their precautionary measures, 
which would make the supervision and internal control mechanism more focused and effective. 
The policy defines the fraud-prone areas of the business, fraud risk control measures, and the 
classification and reporting of fraud cases, investigation, follow-up and closure mechanism.
25.     Grievance Redressal Policy
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/Customer-Service/Important-Customer-
Information/Banking-Policies/policy-for-grievance-redressal.pdf 
26.     Health, Safety and Welfare at Work-Place 
Policy
This policy governs health and safety practices in the workplace and documents our commitment 
to comply with laws concerning occupational health and safety. The scope of the policy covers 
all employees and partners working at our premises. We also have an Occupational, Health 
and Safety Management System Manual detailed on page 83 of the ‘Empowering Colleagues’ 
section of this report.
27.     Human Rights and Anti-discrimination 
Policy
This policy communicates our commitment towards respecting human rights and condemning 
any violations in this regard. The policy supports freedom of association, right to collective 
bargaining, equal remuneration, no discrimination, and other related human rights. This policy 
conforms to the requirements set forth in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights and complements Kotak’s Code of Conduct for employees. The policy expects all our value 
chain partners including business partners, suppliers, vendors, and contractors to reciprocate 
our commitment to human rights. This policy is applicable at every level of the organisation 
and to every aspect  of the workplace environment and employment relationship, including 
recruitment, selection, promotion, transfers, training, salaries, benefits, and termination. It also 
covers fair wages, decent working hours, and performance evaluations.
28.     Information Security and Cyber Security 
Policy
This policy institutes the Cyber Security Framework based on industry best practices and 
regulatory guidelines . As a part of the cyber resilience framework, a Cyber Crisis Management 
Plan (CCMP) has been established to effectively respond to a cyber-crisis. The policy details 
the Cyber Crisis Management Task Force structure, Cyber Crisis Management Life Cycle, 
protocol to activate the CCMP, incident classification, containment, investigation and recovery. 
The policy also stipulates Cyber Crisis Management Awareness programs to be undertaken for 
employees. 
29.     Apex Information Technology Policy
This Information Technology Policy provides guidelines for effective management of the 
Bank’s Information Technology systems. The policy is based on The international standard & 
Framework ISO IEC 20000, ITIL V-3, COBIT 4.1 and ISO 27001 and Indian regulations.  The policy 
ensures integrity, reliability and availability of the IT systems along with IT Change Management. 
It specifically articulates process to identify, record, perform impact analysis, prioritise, classify, 
resolve, escalate and close all incidents. The policy also specifies training of employees of IT 
security and requires all employees and third-parties to comply with the policy. 
30.     KYC and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
Policy
The objective of this Board approved policy is to have in place adequate policies, practices 
and procedures that promote high ethical and professional standards and prevent us from 
being used, intentionally or unintentionally by criminal elements. The KYC standards and AML 
measures enable us to understand our customers or beneficial owners and their financial 
dealings, which in turn helps us to manage our risks prudently. The policy lists guidelines to 
conduct our customer due diligence process (CDD), Non-face-to-face CDD, risk assessments to 
identify, assess and take effective measures to avoid terrorist financing and identify, review and 
monitor politically exposed persons. 
31.     New Mother Benefit Policy
Please find details on page 83 of the ‘Empowering Colleagues’ section of this report
32.     Operational Risk Management Policy
The policy guides governance and reporting structure for operational risk management. It 
establishes a proactive operational risk management culture, which includes identifying, 
preventing, reducing, avoiding or transferring operational risk inherent to the business.
33.     Policy for Determination of Materiality of 
Events or Information
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/KMBL_
materiality_policy1.pdf.  
421
Annexures - List of Policies
Sr. 
No
Name of the Policy1 
Description/link to publicly available policies 
34.     Policy on Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/dealing_
with_related_party_transactions.pdf
35.
Policy on Sexual Harassment of Women 
(POSH)
Please find details on page 84 of the ‘Empowering Colleagues’ section of this report
36.     Privacy Notice (for EU Users)
https://www.kotak.com/en/privacy-policy/privacy-notice.html  
37.     Privacy Policy
https://www.kotak.com/en/privacy-policy.html 
38.     Stress Testing Policy
Details of our stress testing policy have been elucidated on page 380 of the Management 
discussion and analysis section of this report.
39.     Whistle Blower Policy
https://www.kotak.com/content/dam/Kotak/investor-relation/governance/Policies/whistle_
blower_policy.pdf 
40.     Vigilance Policy
The policy covers primarily two types of vigilance – preventive and detective vigilance. The 
Vigilance Committee is responsible for instituting the anti-corruption measures. 
41.     Training Policy
This policy articulates our philosophy on learning with the objective of assimilating and 
upskilling our employees and creating future talent pipeline. The policy covers training and 
processes related to cost of training, categories of training, nomination procedure, process 
of approval, booking of training expense, settlement of expense and process of cancellation. 
The policy also describes the process enabling employees to undertake external learning and 
certification programs. 
Statutory Reports
422
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ESG DATA TABLES
WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN# 1
The boundary for FY 2023-24 includes all subsidiaries of the Group. To represent the Group completeness, Sonata Finance Private Limited (Sonata) employee’s 
numbers were also added to the headcount, however as new joiners and exits throughout the financial year (except for the last three days of March 2024) were 
not part of the Group, therefore, the new joiners and exits from Sonata were not considered in the Group’s totals. Please note that Sonata Finance Private 
Limited acquisition was concluded on March 28, 2024.
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN BY GENDER FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Percentage
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
296
25
92.2%
7.8%
Middle management
6,243
1,428
81.4%
18.6%
Junior employees
36,844
14,209
72.2%
27.8%
Fixed-term contractual employees
13,130
4,355
75.1%
24.9%
Other employees
1,018
373
73.2%
26.8%
Total full-time employees
57,531
20,390
73.8%
26.2%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
100.0%
Total employees
57,531
20,392
73.8%
26.2%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN BY GENDER FY 2023-24*
Category
Number
Percentage
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
513
46
91.8%
8.2%
Middle management
10,715
2,267
82.5%
17.5%
Junior employees
58,731
19,175
75.4%
24.6%
Fixed-term contractual employees
18,344
5,278
77.7%
22.3%
Other employees
1,019
373
73.2%
26.8%
Total full-time employees
89,322
27,139
76.7%
23.3%
Part-time employees of Insurance companies
11,290
7,708
59.4%
40.6%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
100.0%
Total employees
100,612
34,849
74.3%
25.7%
*Some of the board members hold positions on the board of more than one company among the Bank and its subsidiaries. Therefore, board diversity cannot be depicted by 
consolidation of directors in a single list at a Group level.
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- AGE-WISE COMPOSITION OF EMPLOYEES FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Percentage
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
206
115
-
64.2%
35.8%
Middle management
241
7,113
317
3.1%
92.7%
4.1%
Junior employees
26,973
23,962
118
52.8%
46.9%
0.2%
Fixed-term contractual employees
12,457
5,012
16
71.2%
28.7%
0.1%
Other employees
21
327
1,043
1.5%
23.5%
75.0%
Full-time employees
39,692
36,620
1,609
50.9%
47.0%
2.1%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
-
100.0%
-
Total employees
39,692
36,622
1,609
50.9%
47.0%
2.1%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
1  GRI 2-7, 405-1
423
ESG Data Tables
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- AGE-WISE COMPOSITION OF EMPLOYEES FOR FY 2023-24*
Category
Number
Percentage
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
357
202
-
63.9%
36.1%
Middle management
752
11,608
622
5.8%
89.4%
4.8%
Junior employees
43,250
34,389
267
55.5%
44.1%
0.3%
Fixed-term contractual employees
16,728
6,862
32
70.8%
29.0%
0.1%
Other employees
21
327
1,044
1.5%
23.5%
75.0%
Total full-time employees
60,751
53,543
2,167
52.2%
46.0%
1.9%
Part-time employees of Insurance 
companies
1,772
8,672
8,554
9.3%
45.6%
45.0%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
-
100.0%
-
Total employees
62,523
62,217
10,721
46.2%
45.9%
7.9%
*Some of the board members hold positions on the board of more than one company among the Bank and its subsidiaries. Therefore, board diversity cannot be depicted by 
consolidation of directors in a single list at a Group level. 
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
NEW JOINEES2
The hire rates have been calculated with the formula: No. of persons who joined the organisation in the FY *100 / Total number of persons in that category 
as on 31st March, 2024. 
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- NEW JOINEES BY GENDER FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
26
-
8.8%
-
Middle management
1,304
292
20.9%
20.4%
Junior employees
18,800
7,267
51.0%
51.1%
Fixed-term contractual employees
10,860
3,958
82.7%
90.9%
Other employees
3
-
0.3%
-
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
100%
Total employees
30,993
11,519
53.9%
56.5%
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- NEW JOINEES BY GENDER FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
40
3
7.8%
6.5%
Middle management
2,208
480
20.6%
21.2%
Junior employees
32,730
9,906
55.7%
51.7%
Fixed-term contractual employees
14,749
4,671
80.4%
88.5%
Other employees
3
-
0.3%
-
Part-time employees of Insurance companies
5,834
3,950
51.7%
51.2%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
100%
Total employees
55,564
19,012
55.2%
54.6%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
2  GRI 401-1
Statutory Reports
424
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- NEW JOINEES BY AGE FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
22
4
-
10.7%
3.5%
Middle management
160
1,431
5
66.4%
20.1%
1.6%
Junior employees
17,410
8,655
2
64.5%
36.1%
1.7%
Fixed-term contractual employees
12,020
2,796
2
96.5%
55.8%
12.5%
Other employees
2
1
-
9.5%
0.3%
-
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
-
100.0%
-
Total employees
29,592
12,907
13
74.6%
35.2%
0.8%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- NEW JOINEES BY AGE FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
38
5
-
10.6%
2.5%
Middle management
376
2,300
12
50.0%
19.8%
1.9%
Junior employees
29,658
12,934
44
68.6%
37.6%
16.5%
Fixed-term contractual employees
15,544
3,871
5
92.9%
56.4%
15.6%
Other employees
2
1
-
9.5%
0.3%
-
Part-time employees of Insurance 
companies
1,225
4,674
3,885
69.1%
53.9%
45.4%
Other part-time employees
-
2
-
-
100.0%
-
Total employees
46,805
23,820
3,951
74.9%
38.3%
36.9%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
WORKFORCE TURNOVER DATA#3
Turnover also includes attrition on account of death, superannuation, disciplinary action and non-regrettable exits by employees with low performance. The 
turnover rates have been calculated with the formula: No. of persons who have left the employment of the entity in the FY *100)/Average no. of persons 
employed in the category. In line with the BRSR guidance, Average number of persons employed in a category has been calculated as (Persons employed 
in the category at the beginning of FY + Persons employed in the category at the end of FY)/2.
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- PERMANENT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
40
5
13.8%
18.5%
Middle management
1,097
227
18.8%
17.1%
Junior employees
15,760
5,820
44.1%
42.8%
Other employees
108
29
10.1%
7.5%
Other part-time employees
-
1
-
66.7%
Total permanent employees
17,005
6,082
39.6%
39.7%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
3  GRI 401-1
425
ESG Data Tables
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK- PERMANENT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
20
25
-
9.8%
22.2%
Middle management
38
1,261
25
20.7%
18.8%
8.7%
Junior employees
13,066
8,506
8
49.5%
37.2%
7.4%
Other employees
-
2
135
-
0.5%
12.6%
Other part-time employees
-
1
-
-
66.7%
-
Total permanent employees
13,104
9,790
193
49.3%
32.5%
12.2%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- PERMANENT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
63
6
12.8%
13.5%
Middle management
1,989
416
19.9%
19.8%
Junior employees
25,846
7,582
47.4%
42.3%
Other employees
120
34
11.2%
8.8%
Other part-time employees
-
1
-
50.0%
Total permanent employees
28,018
8,039
42.4%
39.3%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA GROUP- PERMANENT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE FOR FY 2023-24
Category
Number
Rate
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
<30 years
30-50 years
>50 years
Senior management
-
39
30
-
11.2%
16.0%
Middle management
152
2,182
71
22.2%
20.1%
12.6%
Junior employees
20,933
12,468
27
52.4%
38.6%
11.7%
Other employees
14
5
135
62.2%
1.4%
12.6%
Other part-time employees
-
1
-
-
50.0%
-
Total permanent employees
21,099
14,695
263
51.9%
33.5%
12.8%
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
Statutory Reports
426
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT#
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE FOR FY 2023-24 4
Category
Average 
Classroom 
Training Hours
Average LMS 
Training Hours
Average Training 
Hours
Senior management
13.5
1.7
15.2
Middle management
17.4
12.3
29.7
Junior employees
28.8
25.4
54.2
Other employees
4.7
4.3
9.0
Temporary/Contractual employees
3.1
8.4
11.5
Total average training hours per employee
21.0 
20.0
41.0
Note : To track training hours conducted through the Bank’s Learning Management System (LMS), we have estimated training hours to be of 45 minutes (for long duration) and 
15 minutes (for short duration) . Actual training hours are taken for classroom training.
#Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE FOR FY 2023-244
Male
Female
Category
Average 
Classroom 
Training 
Hours
Average 
LMS 
Training 
Hours
Average 
Training 
Hours
Average 
Classroom 
Training 
Hours
Average 
LMS 
Training 
Hours
Average 
Training 
Hours
Permanent employees
26.5
20.3
46.8
31.9
26.5
58.4
Temporary/Contractual employees
3.0
6.7
9.7
3.3
14.0
17.3
Note : To track training hours conducted through the Bank’s Learning Management System (LMS), we have estimated training hours to be of 45 minutes (for long duration) and 
15 minutes (for short duration). Actual training hours are taken for classroom training.
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK: CADRE WISE PERFORMANCE REVIEW FY 2023-245
Category
Number of employees who underwent 
performance review
Percentage of employees who 
underwent performance review
Male
Female
Male
Female
Senior management
249
24
84.1%
96.0%
Middle management
5,659
1,298
90.7%
90.9%
Junior employees
30,230
11,864
82.1%
83.5%
Other employees
1,014
372
99.6%
99.7%
Total employees
37,152
13,558
83.7%
84.6%
Note: All employees who are eligible for performance appraisal underwent career development reviews. Temporary/contractual employees and employees on probation are not 
eligible for performance review.
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
4  GRI 404-1
5  GRI 404-3
427
ESG Data Tables
PARENTAL LEAVES# 6
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK: PARENTAL LEAVES AVAILED BY PERMANENT EMPLOYEES DURING FY 2023-24
Category
Male
Female
Number of employees that took parental leave
2,043
817
Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended
2,042
812
Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months 
after their return
1,059
353
#Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK: GENDER PAY RATIO BY CADRE FOR PERMANENT EMPLOYEES FOR FY 2023-24 7
Category
Ratio of CTC 
Female: Male 
(Average CTC)
Ratio of Basic 
Female: Male 
(Average Basic)
Senior management
1.10
1.20
Middle management
0.92
0.93
Junior employees
0.91
0.93
Other employees
0.78
0.77
# Limited assurance undertaken by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for the indicator.
6  GRI 401-3 a,b,c,d
7  GRI 405-2
Statutory Reports
428
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details
About this Report (ii), 4
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
About this Report (ii), 258
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
About this Report (ii)
2-4 Restatements of information
About this Report (ii)
2-5 External assurance
About this Report (ii)
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
14
2-7 Employees
74, 387, 422
2-8 Workers who are not employees
387
2-9 Governance structure and composition
294
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
311
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
295
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts
57
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting
57
2-15 Conflicts of interest
337, 394
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
389, 404
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
294, 392
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body
260
2-19 Remuneration policies
212, 304
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
212, 304
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
216, 287
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
390
2-23 Policy commitments
53, 255, 419
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
53
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
73, 84
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
73, 339, 389
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
263, 392
2-28 Membership associations
414
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
43, 402-403
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
84, 399
GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics
42
3-2 List of material topics
43, 44
3-3 Management of material topics
44, 53, 64, 74, 82, 83, 86
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
111
201-2 Financial Implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
51
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
138, 398
GRI 204: Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
415
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 
2016
205-2 Communications and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
53
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
394
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive Behavior 
2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
54, 414
429
Annexures - GRI Content Index
Statutory Reports
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
64, 65, 308
302-3 Energy intensity
64, 408
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
64, 65
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018
303-3 Water withdrawal
68, 409
303-4 Water discharge
68, 409
303-5 Water consumption
68, 409
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
66, 410
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
66, 410
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
67, 413
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
67, 410
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
68
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
68
306-3 Waste generated
68, 411
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
68, 411
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
68, 411
GRI 401: Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
75, 388, 423, 424
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime 
employees
79, 397
401-3 Parental leave
79, 398, 427
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
83, 400
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation
83
403-3 Occupational health services
400
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 
safety
84
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
84, 399
403-6 Promotion of worker health
84, 401
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationships
84
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
84
403-9 Work-related injuries
83, 400
GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
78, 426
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
76, 392, 399
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 
reviews
76, 399, 426
GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
52, 82, 387, 422
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
427
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
84, 406
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 
programs
87, 268
430
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
TCFD INDEX
TCFD Pillar
Recommended Pillar
Report Section
Page No.
Governance
Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
Risk Management
51, 57
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Risk Management
51
Strategy
Climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the 
short, medium, and long term
Risk Management
51
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning
Risk Management
51
Resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2-degree or lower scenario
Risk Management
51
Risk Management
Organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Risk Management
51
Organisation’s processes for managing climate related Risks
Risk Management
51
Processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are 
integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management
Risk Management
51
Metrics and Targets
Metrics used by the organisation to assess climate related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk management process.
Risk Management
51
Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
and the related risks
Embracing Sustainability
64-68
Targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance against targets
Embracing Sustainability
-
431
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report on Identified Sustainability 
Information in Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited’s Integrated Annual Report, which includes the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report   
To the Board of Directors of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited  
We have undertaken to perform a reasonable assurance engagement for Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (the 
“Bank”) vide our Engagement Letter dated April 15, 2024, and amendments thereto in respect of the agreed 
Sustainability Information referred to in “Identified Sustainability Information” paragraph below (the 
“Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with the Criteria stated in the “Criteria” paragraph 
below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in: 
(a) The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) section in the Integrated Annual
Report of the Bank for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, (the “Integrated Annual Report”)
pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended) (the
“LODR Regulations”).; and
(b) the “GRI Content Index” section in the Integrated Annual Report of the Bank for the financial year
ended March 31, 2024.
This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and environment experts. 
Identified Sustainability Information 
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, is summarised in 
Appendix 1 to this report.  
Our reasonable assurance engagement was with respect to the financial year ended March 31, 2024, 
information only and we have not performed any procedures with respect to prior periods or any other 
elements included in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, other than those listed in 
Appendix 1 to this report and, therefore, do not express any opinion thereon. 
Criteria 
The criteria used by the Bank to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information are as follows: 
(a) In respect of the information summarised in Part A “BRSR Core Indicators” in the Appendix 1 to
this report, the criteria used is the “BRSR Core”, which is a subset of the BRSR, consisting of a set of
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)/ metrics under nine Environmental, Social and Governance
(“ESG”) attributes, as specified by SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122
dated July 12, 2023 (the “SEBI Circular”).
432
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 2 of 8 
 
(b) In respect of the Identified Sustainability Indicators in the GRI Content Index included in the 
Integrated Annual Report and summarised in Part B “GRI Indicators” in Appendix 1 to this report, 
the criteria used is the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, 2021 (“GRI Standards”). 
 
 
Management’s Responsibilities 
 
 
The Bank’s Management is responsible for determining the Reporting Boundary of the Integrated Annual 
Report including the BRSR, and for selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the Identified 
Sustainability Information, taking into account applicable laws and regulations including the SEBI Circular 
and the GRI Standards, related to reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information, identification of key 
aspects, engagement with stakeholders, and content, preparation and presentation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information in accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility includes design, 
implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the Integrated Annual 
Report, which includes the BRSR, and the measurement of Identified Sustainability Information, which is 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Management and the Board of Directors 
of the Bank are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s compliance with the requirements of LODR 
Regulations and the SEBI Circular in relation to the BRSR, and the GRI Standards in relation to the Identified 
Sustainability Information in GRI Content Index included in the Integrated Annual Report. 
 
 
Inherent Limitations in Preparing the Identified Sustainability Information 
 
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-
financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can 
affect comparability between entities. In addition, Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) quantification is subject to 
inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the 
values needed to combine emissions of different gases. 
 
 
Our Independence and Quality Control 
 
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the 
International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, which is founded on the fundamental principles of 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.  
 
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1, “Quality 
Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance 
and Related Services Engagements”, the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 “Quality 
Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews of Financials Statements, or Other Assurance or 
Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements.  
433
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 3 of 8 
 
Practitioner’s Responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance opinion on the Identified Sustainability Information 
based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained.  
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements 
(“SSAE”) 3000, “Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (“SAE”) 3410, “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, both issued by the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the ICAI, and the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised), “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” both 
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (collectively referred to as “the 
Standards”). These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the Identified Sustainability Information is prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Criteria. A reasonable assurance engagement involves assessing the risks of material 
misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error, responding to the 
assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified 
Sustainability Information.  
 
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation 
of processes performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods 
and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. 
 
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we: 
 
● 
Obtained an understanding of the Identified Sustainability Information and related disclosures. 
● 
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and /or 
measurements of the Identified Sustainability Information. 
● 
Made enquiries of Bank’s Management, including the various teams such as ESG team, Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) team, etc., and those with responsibility for managing Bank’s Annual 
Reporting. 
● 
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the design of the key systems, processes, 
and controls for managing, recording and reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information as 
per Appendix 1, including at the sites and corporate office visited. This did not include testing of the 
operating effectiveness of management systems and controls. 
● 
Based on above understanding, the risks that the Identified Sustainability Information may be 
materially misstated, determined the nature, timing, and extent of further procedures. 
● 
Performed substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability Information within 
the standalone boundary to check that data had been appropriately measured with underlying 
documents recorded, collated, and reported. This included assessing records and performing testing, 
including recalculation of sample data.  
● 
Checked the consolidation for various sites and corporate office under the standalone reporting 
boundary (as mentioned in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR) for ensuring the 
completeness of data being reported. 
● 
Assessed the level of adherence to GRI Standards and the BRSR Core followed in preparing the 
Integrated Annual Report, including the BRSR.  
● 
Assessed the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, for detecting, on a test basis, any 
major anomalies between the information reported in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes 
the BRSR, on performance with respect to Identified Sustainability Information and the relevant 
source data/information. 
● 
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the Integrated Annual Report, 
which includes the BRSR, we have relied on the information in the audited books and records and 
audited standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024. 
434
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 4 of 8 
 
● 
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgments made by 
the Management in the preparation of the Identified Sustainable Information. 
● 
Obtained representations from the Bank’s Management. 
 
 
Exclusions 
 
 
Our reasonable assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we do not express an opinion on the 
same: 
● 
Operations of the Bank other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1 to 
this report. 
● 
Aspects of the Integrated Annual Report, and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative) included 
in the Integrated Annual Report, other than the Identified Sustainability Information. 
● 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period, i.e., the financial year ended March 31, 
2024. 
● 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future 
intentions provided by the Bank and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/or data. 
 
 
Opinion   
 
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, the Bank’s Identified Sustainability 
Information summarised in Appendix 1 to this report and included in the Integrated Annual Report, which 
includes the BRSR, for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, are prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Criteria.  
 
 
Emphasis of Matter 
 
We draw your attention to the following: 
 
(a) Notes to the BRSR under Section ‘C’ Principle 6 ‘Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect 
and restore the environment’ – Essential Indicator 1 - ‘Details of total energy consumption and energy 
intensity’, Essential Indicators 3 and 4 - ‘Details related to Water’, Essential Indicator 7 - ‘Details of 
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity’ and Essential Indicator 
9 - ‘Details related to Waste Management’; and  
 
(b) Notes under the GRI Indicators 303-5 ‘Water Consumption’, 306-3 ‘Waste Generated’, 306-4 
‘Waste diverted from Disposal’ and 306-5 ‘Waste directed to Disposal’,  
 
which describe the change in methodology and assumptions considered by the Bank in measuring and 
estimating the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.  
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
 
Restriction on Use  
Our obligations in respect of this report are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability is in 
no way changed by any other role we may have (or may have had) as auditors of the Bank or otherwise. 
Nothing in this deliverable, nor anything said or done in the course of or in connection with the services that 
are the subject of this deliverable, will extend any duty of care we may have in our capacity as auditors of the 
Bank. This deliverable has been issued solely at the request of the Board of Directors of the Bank to whom it 
435
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 5 of 8 
 
is addressed, solely to comply with the requirements of SEBI Circular and LODR Regulations, in reporting 
the Bank’s sustainability performance and activities and for publishing the same in the Bank’s Integrated 
Annual Report, which includes the BRSR. Our deliverable should not be used for any other purpose or by any 
person other than the addressees of our deliverable. We do not accept or assume any liability or duty of care 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this deliverable is shown or into whose hands it may 
come without our prior consent in writing.  
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
 
Sumit Seth 
Partner 
Membership Number: 105869 
UDIN: 24105869BKFWUS1597 
Place: Mumbai 
Date: July 10, 2024 
 
 
SUMIT SHASHIKANT 
SETH
Digitally signed by SUMIT 
SHASHIKANT SETH 
Date: 2024.07.10 19:22:38 +05'30'
436
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 6 of 8 
 
Appendix 1 
Identified Sustainability Information 
Part A. BRSR Core Indicators (Refer Note below) 
 
S. No. 
Principle/ 
Indicator 
Reference 
Attribute 
Parameter 
1. 
Principle 6 – E7 
Green-house gas (GHG) 
footprint 
1. 
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the 
GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)  
2. Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the 
GHG (CO2e) into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
3. GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2) 
a) Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
(MT) / Total Revenue from Operations 
adjusted for PPP 
b) Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
(MT) / Total Output of Product or 
Services 
2. 
Principle 6 – E3 and 
E4 
Water footprint 
1. 
Total water consumption 
2. Water consumption intensity 
a) Water Intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for PPP 
b) Water Intensity in terms of physical 
output 
3. Water Discharge by destination and 
levels of Treatment 
3. 
Principle 6 – E1 
  
Energy Footprint 
1. 
Total Energy Consumed 
2. % of energy consumed from renewable 
sources 
3. Energy intensity 
a) Energy Intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for PPP 
b) Energy Intensity in terms of physical 
output 
4. 
Principle 6 – E9 
  
Embracing circularity- 
details related to waste 
management by the 
entity 
1. 
Plastic waste (A) 
2. E-waste (B) 
3. Bio-medical waste (C) 
4. Construction and demolition waste (D) 
5. Battery waste (E) 
6. Radioactive waste (F) 
7. Other Hazardous waste (G) 
8. Other Non-hazardous waste generated 
(H) 
9. Total waste generated ((A+B + C + D + E 
+ F + G + H) 
10. Waste intensity 
a) Waste Intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for PPP 
b) Waste Intensity in terms of physical 
output 
11. For each category of waste generated, 
total waste recovered through recycling, 
re-using or other recovery operations. 
12. For each category of waste generated, 
total waste disposed by nature of disposal 
method. 
437
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 7 of 8 
 
S. No. 
Principle/ 
Indicator 
Reference 
Attribute 
Parameter 
5. 
Principle 3 – E1(C) 
 
Principle 3 – E11 
 
 
Enhancing employee 
wellbeing and Safety 
1. 
Spending on measures towards well-
being of employees and workers- cost 
incurred as a % of total revenue of the 
Bank. 
2. Details of safety related incidents for 
employees and workers 
a) Number of Permanent Disabilities 
b) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked) 
c) No. of fatalities 
6. 
Principle 5 – E3(b) 
 
Principle 5 – E7 
 
Enabling Gender 
Diversity in Business 
1. 
Gross wages paid to females as a % of 
wages paid. 
2. Complaints on POSH 
a) Total Complaints on Sexual Harassment 
(POSH) reported. 
b) Complaints on POSH as a % of female 
employees / workers 
c) Complaints on POSH upheld 
7. 
Principle 8 – E4 
 
Principle 8 – E5 
 
Enabling Inclusive 
Development 
1. 
Input material sourced from following 
sources as % of total purchases –Directly 
sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 
and directly from within India. 
2. Job creation in smaller towns- wages 
paid to people employed in smaller towns 
(permanent or non-permanent/on 
contract) as % of total wage cost 
8. 
Principle 9 – E7 
 
Principle 1 – E8 
Fairness in Engaging 
with Customers and 
Suppliers 
1. 
Instances involving loss/ breach of data 
of customers as a percentage of total data 
breaches or cyber security events. 
2. Number of days of accounts payable 
9. 
Principle 1 – E9 
 
Open-ness of business 
1. 
Concentration of purchases & sales done 
with trading houses, dealers, and related 
parties 
Ȍ Purchases from trading houses as % of 
total purchases 
Ȍ Number of trading houses where 
purchases are made from. 
Ȍ Purchases from top 10 trading houses as 
% of total purchases from trading houses 
Ȍ Sales to dealers / distributors as % of 
total sales 
Ȍ Number of dealers / distributors to 
whom sales are made. 
Ȍ Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % 
of total sales to dealers / distributors. 
 
2. Loans and advances & investments with 
related parties 
Share of RPTs (as respective %age) in- 
Ȍ Purchases 
Ȍ Sales 
Ȍ Loans & advances 
Ȍ Investments 
438
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP      
Independent Practitioner’s Reasonable Assurance Report 
Page 8 of 8 
 
For BRSR indicators, “E” indicates Essential indicator. 
 
 
Part B. GRI Indicators (Refer Note below) 
 
S.No. 
Indicator No. 
Indicator Name 
1 
303-5 
Water consumption 
2 
306-3 
Waste generated 
3 
306-4 
Waste diverted from disposal 
4 
306-5 
Waste directed to disposal 
5 
403-9  
Work-related injuries  
 
 
Note 
 
The Reporting Boundary for the above indicators is on a standalone basis. 
439
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, 252, Veer Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, 252, Veer 
Savarkar Marg, Shivaji Park, Dadar (West) Mumbai – 400028 
T: +91(22) 66691500, F: +91 (22) 66547804/ 07 
ZĞŐŝƐƚĞƌĞĚŽĨĨŝĐĞĂŶĚ,ĞĂĚŽĨĨŝĐĞ͗^ƵĐŚĞƚĂŚĂǁĂŶ͕ϭϭsŝƐŚŶƵŝŐĂŵďĂƌDĂƌŐ͕EĞǁĞůŚŝϭϭϬϬϬϮ
WƌŝĐĞtĂƚĞƌŚŽƵƐĞ;ĂWĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉ&ŝƌŵͿĐŽŶǀĞƌƚĞĚŝŶƚŽWƌŝĐĞtĂƚĞƌŚŽƵƐĞŚĂƌƚĞƌĞĚĐĐŽƵŶƚĂŶƚƐ>>W;Ă>ŝŵŝƚĞĚ>ŝĂďŝůŝƚǇWĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉǁŝƚŚ>>WŝĚĞŶƚŝƚǇŶŽ͗>>W/EͲϱϬϬϭͿǁŝƚŚĞĨĨĞĐƚĨƌŽŵ:ƵůǇϮϱ͕ϮϬϭϰ͘WŽƐƚŝƚƐ
ŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶƚŽWƌŝĐĞtĂƚĞƌŚŽƵƐĞŚĂƌƚĞƌĞĚĐĐŽƵŶƚĂŶƚƐ>>W͕ŝƚƐ/ůƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶŶƵŵďĞƌŝƐϬϭϮϳϱϰEͬEϱϬϬϬϭϲ;//ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶŶƵŵďĞƌďĞĨŽƌĞĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶǁĂƐϬϭϮϳϱϰEͿ
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on Identified Sustainability 
Information in Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited’s Integrated Annual Report, which includes 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
To the Board of Directors of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited 
We have undertaken to perform a limited assurance engagement for Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (the 
“Bank”) vide our Engagement Letter dated April 15, 2024, and amendments thereto in respect of the agreed 
Sustainability Information referred in “Identified Sustainability Information” paragraph below (the 
“Identified Sustainability Information”) in accordance with the Criteria stated in the “Criteria” paragraph 
below. The Identified Sustainability Information is included in: 
(a) the “GRI Content Index” section in the Integrated Annual Report of the Bank for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 (the” Integrated Annual Report”); and  
 
(b) the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) section of the Integrated Annual 
Report, prepared by the Bank pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (as amended) (the “LODR Regulations”). 
 This engagement was conducted by a team comprising assurance practitioners and environment experts. 
Identified Sustainability Information 
The Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, is summarised in 
Appendix 1 to this report.  
Our limited assurance engagement was with respect to the financial year ended March 31, 2024, information 
only and we have not performed any procedures with respect to prior periods or any other elements included 
in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, other than those listed in Appendix 1 to this 
report, and therefore, do not express any conclusion thereon. 
Criteria 
The criteria used by the Bank to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information are as follows: 
(a) In respect of the selected BRSR Indicators summarised in Part A “BRSR Indicators” in the Appendix 
1 to this report and included in the BRSR, the criteria used is the set of Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”) / metrics under Section A - General Disclosures and Section C - Principle wise Performance 
Disclosures under the nine Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) principles, as specified 
by SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023 (the “SEBI 
Circular”). 
440
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 2 of 8 

(b) In respect of the Identified Sustainability Indicators in the GRI Content Index included in the 
Integrated Annual Report and summarised in Part B “GRI Indicators” in the Appendix 1 to this 
report, the criteria used is the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, 2021 (the “GRI Standards”). 
 
Management’s Responsibilities  
The Bank’s Management is responsible for selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the 
Identified Sustainability Information, taking into account applicable laws and regulations, related to 
reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information, identification of key aspects, engagement with 
stakeholders, and content, preparation, and presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information in 
accordance with the Criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of 
internal control relevant to the preparation of the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, and 
measurement of the Identified Sustainability Information, which are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. The Management and the Board of Directors of the Bank are also responsible 
for overseeing the Bank’s compliance with the requirements of LODR Regulations and the SEBI Circular in 
relation to the BRSR, and the GRI Standards in relation to the Identified Sustainability Information in GRI 
Content Index included in the Integrated Annual Report. 
Inherent Limitations in Preparing the Identified Sustainability Information 
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-
financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can 
affect comparability between entities. In addition, Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) quantification is subject to 
inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and 
the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. 
Our Independence and Quality Control 
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ( “ICAI”) and the International Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) issued by the 
International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants, which is founded on the fundamental principles of 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.  
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP (the “Firm”) applies Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality 
Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance 
and Related Services Engagements”, the International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 
“Quality Management for Firms that perform Audits or Reviews of Financials Statements, or Other 
Assurance or Related Services Engagements” and ISQM 2 “Engagement Quality reviews”, and accordingly 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements.  
441
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 3 of 8 

Practitioner’s Responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Identified Sustainability Information 
based on the procedures we have performed and evidence we have obtained.  
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the Standard on Sustainability 
Assurance Engagements (SSAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information” and the 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (SAE) 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, 
both issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board  of the ICAI, and the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagement (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information” and the ISAE 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 
Statements” both issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (collectively referred 
to as “the Standards”). These Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited 
assurance about whether the Identified Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement. 
A limited assurance engagement involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of the Bank’s use of 
the Criteria as the basis for the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information, assessing the risks 
of material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or error, 
responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation 
of the Identified Sustainability Information. 
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in 
relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the 
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.  
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation 
of processes performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods 
and reporting policies and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records.  
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures referred above, we: 
• 
Obtained an understanding of the Identified Sustainability Information and related 
disclosures. 
• 
Obtained an understanding of the assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation 
and /or measurements of the Identified Sustainability Information. 
• 
Made inquiries of Bank’s Management, including the various teams such as ESG team, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team, etc., and those with the responsibility for 
managing Bank's Annual Reporting. 
• 
Obtained an understanding and performed an evaluation of the key systems and processes for 
managing, recording, and reporting on the Identified Sustainability Information as per 
Appendix 1 to this report, including at the sites and corporate office visited. This did not include 
testing of the design and operating effectiveness of management systems and controls. 
• 
Based on above understanding, the risks that the Identified Sustainability Information may be 
materially misstated, determined the nature, timing, and extent of further procedures. 
• 
Checked the consolidation for the boundary (as mentioned in the Integrated Annual Report, 
which includes the BRSR) for ensuring the completeness of data being reported. 
442
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 4 of 8 

•
Performed limited substantive testing on a sample basis of the Identified Sustainability
Information within the boundary to check that data had been appropriately measured with
underlying documents recorded, collated, and reported. This included assessing records and
performing testing, including recalculation of sample data.
•
Assessed the level of adherence to GRI Standards and BRSR followed by the Bank in preparing
the Integrated Annual Report, including the BRSR.
•
Assessed the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, for detecting, on a test basis,
any major anomalies between the information reported in the Integrated Annual Report,
including the BRSR, on performance with respect to Identified Sustainability Information and
relevant source data/information.
•
Where applicable for the Identified Sustainability Information in the Integrated Annual
Report, which includes the BRSR, we have relied on the information in the audited books and
records and audited consolidated/standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year
ended March 31, 2024.
•
Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgments
made by the Management in the preparation of the Identified Sustainable Information.
•
Obtained representations from the Bank’s Management.
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less 
in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had 
we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance 
opinion about whether the Identified Sustainability Information have been prepared, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the Criteria. 
Exclusions 
Our limited assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we do not express a conclusion on the 
same: 
●
Operations of the Bank other than the Identified Sustainability Information listed in Appendix 1 to
this report.
●
Aspects of the Integrated Annual Report, and data/ information (qualitative or quantitative)
included in the Integrated Annual Report, other than the Identified Sustainability Information.
●
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., the financial year ended March 31,
2024.
●
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future
intentions provided by the Bank and testing or assessing any forward-looking assertions and/or
data.
Limited Assurance Conclusion  
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes 
us to believe that the Bank’s Identified Sustainability Information summarised in Appendix 1 to this report 
and included in the Integrated Annual Report, which includes the BRSR, for the financial year ended March 
31, 2024, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria.  
443
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 5 of 8 

Emphasis of Matter 
We draw your attention to the following: 
a) Notes included in the BRSR under Section ‘C’ Principle 9 ‘Businesses should engage with and 
provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner’ – Essential Indicator 3 ‘Number of 
consumer complaints’, which describes the change in methodology considered by the Bank for 
disclosing consumer complaints in respect of ‘Delivery of Essential Services for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 and Section ‘C’ Principle 6 ‘Businesses should respect and make efforts to 
protect and restore the environment’ – Leadership Indicator 2 - ‘Details of total Scope 3 emissions 
and its intensity’, which describes the change in methodology considered by the Bank in measuring 
and estimating the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. 
 
b) Notes under the GRI Indicators 302-1 ‘Energy consumption within the organization’, 302-3 
‘Energy intensity’, 305-1 ‘Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions’, 305-2 ‘Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions’ 305-3 ‘Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions’ and 305-4 ‘GHG emissions intensity’, 
which describes the change in methodology considered by the Bank in measuring and estimating 
the aforesaid disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters. 
 
Restriction on Use 
Our obligations in respect of this deliverable are entirely separate from, and our responsibility and liability 
is in no way changed by any other role we may have (or may have had) as auditors of the Bank or otherwise. 
Nothing in this deliverable, nor anything said or done in the course of or in connection with the services that 
are the subject of this deliverable, will extend any duty of care we may have in our capacity as auditors of the 
Bank. This deliverable has been issued solely at the request of the Board of Directors of the Bank to whom it 
is addressed, solely to assist the Bank in reporting the Bank’s sustainability performance and activities and 
for publishing the deliverable in the Integrated Annual Report. Our deliverable should not be used for any 
other purpose or by any person other than the addressees of our deliverable. Accordingly, we do not accept 
or assume any liability or duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this deliverable 
is shown or into whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.  
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
 
 
Sumit Seth 
Partner 
Membership Number: 105869 
UDIN: 24105869BKFWUT5270 
Place: Mumbai 
Date: July 10, 2024 
SUMIT 
SHASHIKANT SETH
Digitally signed by SUMIT 
SHASHIKANT SETH 
Date: 2024.07.10 19:22:01 +05'30'
444
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 6 of 8 

Appendix 1  
Identified Sustainability Information  
Part A - List of other BRSR Indicators for Limited Assurance 
S. No.
Indicator No. 
Indicator Name 
Boundary 
(Refer Note: 1 
below)  
1 
Section A – 20a 
Number and percentage of Gender-wise Employees 
and Workers (including differently abled) 
Standalone 
2 
Section A – 20b 
Number and percentage of Gender-wise Differently 
abled Employees and workers 
Standalone 
3 
Section A- 21 
Number and percentage Gender Diversity of 
Representation of Women in Board of Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnels  
Standalone 
4 
Section A- 22  
Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers 
Standalone 
5 
Section C – Principle 1 
– E1
Percentage coverage by training and awareness 
programmes on any of the Principles during the 
financial year  
Standalone 
6 
Section C – Principle 1 
–E6
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest 
(Director, Key Managerial Personnels) 
Standalone 
7 
Section C – Principle 
3 – E1(a) and (b) 
Details of measures for the well-being of employees 
and workers 
Standalone 
8 
Section C- Principle 3- 
E2 
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial 
Year (excluding deductions and deposits with the 
authority which are not part of assurance scope) 
Standalone 
9 
Section C- Principle 3- 
E5  
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent 
employees and workers that took parental leave 
Standalone 
10 
Section C – Principle 
3 –E7  
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) 
or Unions recognised by the listed entity  
Standalone 
11 
Section C – Principle 
3 –E8  
Details of training given to employees and workers 
Standalone 
12 
Section C- Principle 3- 
E9  
Details of performance and career development 
reviews of employees and worker  
Standalone 
13 
Section C- Principle 3- 
E10  
Health and safety management system 
Standalone 
14 
Section C – Principle 
3 –E13  
Number of Complaints on working conditions & 
Health safety made by employees and workers  
Standalone 
15 
Section C – Principle 
3 –E14  
Assessments for the year (Health and safety practices, 
Working Conditions)  
Standalone 
16 
Section C – Principle 
3 –L3  
Number of employees and workers having suffered 
high consequence work related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities, who have been rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment  
Standalone 
17 
Section C- Principle 5- 
E1  
Number and Percentage of Employees and workers 
who have been provided training on human rights 
issues and policies of the entity  
Standalone 
445
Assurance statements
Statutory Reports
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 7 of 8 

S. No.  
Indicator No.  
Indicator Name  
Boundary 
(Refer Note: 1 
below)  
18  
Section C – Principle 
5 –E2  
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and 
workers  
Standalone  
19  
Section C – Principle 
5 –E3(a)   
Details of median remuneration/salary/wages  
Standalone  
20  
Section C – Principle 
5 –E6  
Number of Complaints on Discrimination at 
workplace, Child Labour, Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour, Wages and Other human rights related issues 
made by employees and workers (excluding complaints 
on Sexual Harassment which is not part of assurance 
scope)  
Standalone  
21  
Section C- Principle 6- 
L2  
Details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity  
Standalone  
22  
Section C- Principle 9- 
E3  
Number of consumer complaints in respect Delivery of 
Essential Services (number of other types of 
complaints are not part of assurance scope)  
Standalone  
  
 For BRSR indicators, “E” indicates Essential indicator and “L” indicates Leadership indicator. 
 
 Part B. List of agreed Indicators for Limited Assurance (as per GRI Standards)  
 
S. No.  
Indicator No.  
Indicator Name  
Boundary  
(Refer Note: 2 
below)  
1  
206-1  
Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-
trust, and monopoly practices  
Standalone  
2  
305-3  
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  
Standalone  
3  
306-1  
Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impacts  
Standalone  
4  
306-2  
Management of significant waste-related impacts  
Standalone  
5  
401-1  
New employee hires and employee turnover  
Consolidated  
6  
401-2  
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees  
Standalone  
7  
401-3  
Parental leave  
Standalone  
8  
403-1  
Occupational health and safety management system  
Standalone  
9  
403-2  
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation  
Standalone  
10  
403-3  
Occupational health services  
 
Standalone  
11  
403-4  
Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety  
Standalone  
12  
403-5  
Worker training on occupational health and safety  
Standalone  
13  
403-6  
Promotion of worker health  
Standalone  
446
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 
Page 8 of 8 

S. No.  
Indicator No.  
Indicator Name  
Boundary  
(Refer Note: 2 
below)  
14  
403-8  
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management system  
Standalone  
15  
404-1  
Average hours of training per year per employee  
Standalone  
16  
404-2  
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programs  
Standalone  
17  
404-3  
Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews  
Standalone  
18  
405-1  
Diversity of governance bodies and employees  
Consolidated 
19  
405-2  
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 
men  
Standalone  
20  
406-1  
Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions 
Taken  
Standalone  
21  
413-1  
Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs  
Standalone  
22  
302-1  
Energy consumption within the organization  
Consolidated  
23  
302-3  
Energy intensity  
Consolidated  
24  
305-1   
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  
Consolidated  
25  
305-2  
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  
Consolidated  
26  
305-4  
GHG emissions intensity  
Consolidated  
  
  
Note 
 
1) The Reporting Boundary for BRSR is on a standalone basis as described under Question No. 13 of 
Section A of the BRSR; and 
 
2) The GRI Indicators are disclosed on a standalone basis, except for certain indicators, which have 
been disclosed both on a standalone and consolidated basis as described under “Organizational 
Boundary for ESG Disclosures” section of the Integrated Annual Report. 
 
Notes
Corporate information
Registered Office
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
27BKC, C 27, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai - 400 051
Tel.: +91 22 61660001
E-mail: Kotakbank.Secretarial@kotak.com
Website: www.kotak.com
CIN: L65110MH1985PLC038137
Chief Financial Officer
Devang Gheewalla
Company Secretary
Avan Doomasia
Joint Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse LLP
Chartered Accountants
252, Veer Savarkar Marg, Shivaji Park, 
Dadar (W), Mumbai - 400 028
Maharashtra, India
KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Sunshine Tower, Level 19,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Elphinstone Road,
Mumbai - 400 013, Maharashtra, India
Registrar And Transfer Agent
(For Shares)
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32,
Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana, India
Toll free number : 1-800-309-4001
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: https://ris.kfintech.com/
Stay connected to your aspirations
Kotak Crème
The best of mutual funds 
at your ﬁngertips with 
Kotak Cherry²
Early access to premium 
banking with Zero charges¹ 
beneﬁt
0
Earn FD-like interest up to 7%# 
p.a. in your Salary Account with 
ActivMoney
Health insurance³ for you and 
your immediate family up to 
₹30 Lakhs^ (₹3 Lakhs deductible) 
at ₹823/^^
Special rates4 on Overdraft & Loans exclusively 
for you – Personal, Home and Vehicle Loan
A Premium Banking proposition curated for salaried professionals
*T&C Apply. Salary Account beneﬁt applicable post ﬁrst salary credit and account being salary variant. #For deposits above 7 days. For detailed terms and conditions, please visit www.kotak.com. ActivMoney (Auto Sweep) is a facility for automatically sweeping out funds 
above a pre-speciﬁed threshold. 1. It is offered only to employees working in speciﬁc corporates tagged as Crème. Available at net monthly salary of ₹50,000 and above. 2.  T&C apply. Mutual fund investments are subject to market risks, read all scheme-related documents 
carefully. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited, AMFI Registered Mutual Fund Distributor, AMFI Registration Number (ARN) 1390. Cherry is an execution platform of Kotak Investment Advisors Ltd (KIAL) which is a sub-distributor of KMBL. 3. Insurance is the subject matter of 
solicitation. Insurance is underwritten by Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Ltd. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. is a Corporate Agent of Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Ltd. Registered Address: 27 BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai – 400 051. IRDAI License No. CA0250. Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Ltd. Registered Ofﬁce : 27 BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai – 400051. Maharashtra, India. CIN: U66000MH2014PLC260291. IRDAI Regn. No 152. 
Participation by customers of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (the Master Policy holder) shall be purely on voluntary basis under the master policy which is issued by Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited is only the group 
administrator/master policyholder and insurance is underwritten by Kotak Mahindra General Insurance Company Limited. Trade logo displayed above belongs to Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. and is used under license. The advertisement contains only an indication of the covers 
offered. For more details on risk factors, terms, conditions, coverages and exclusions, please read the sales brochure/policy wording carefully before concluding a sale. ^^Premium mentioned above is the approximate per day premium for a policy tenure of one year for 1 
Adult with Sum Insured of ₹30 Lakhs^. ₹3 Lakhs of deductible will be applicable on aggregate basis. ^^The applicable premium is for 1 adult age band of 18 to 60 years. UID No.: 2790. Kotak Group Health Assure UIN:KOTHLGP22168V012122. 4. Terms & Conditions Apply. All 
loans and over-drafts are subject to complete documentation and at sole discretion of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd and subject to guidelines issued by RBI from time to time. Bank may engage the services of marketing agents for the purpose of securing loan asset .
To know more, speak to our representative
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
27BKC, C 27, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051
Website: www.kotak.com
BSE: 500247  |  NSE: KOTAKBANK  |  Bloomberg: KMB:IN
CIN: L65110MH1985PLC038137
Connect with us
