 
Religare Enterprises Limited 
CIN: L74899DL1984PLC146935 
Regd. Office: 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019              
Phone: +91-11- 4472 5676 
Corporate Office: Plot No. A – 3,4 & 5, Club 125, Tower B, Sector – 125,  Noida – 201301, U.P.      
Phone: +91-120-635 5040 
www.religare.com / investorservices@religare.com 
 
 
December 7, 2024 
 
The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.  
                BSE Limited 
Corporate Communications Department  
                Corporate Services Department 
“Exchange Plaza”, 5th Floor,  
 
 
 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
 
 
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001 
Mumbai - 400051 
 
Scrip Symbol: RELIGARE  
 
 
 
Scrip Code: 532915 
 
Subject: Notice of the 40th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report FY 2023-24 of Religare 
Enterprises Limited (“the Company”)  
 
Dear Sir(s), 
 
This has reference to our earlier intimations informing the date of the 40th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
of the Company scheduled to be held on Tuesday, December 31, 2024 at 11.30 A.M. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) Facility. 
 
In this regard, pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed herewith the copy of the Notice of the AGM along with the Annual 
Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.  
 
The AGM Notice and Annual Report are also being uploaded on the website of the Company at 
https://religare.com/. 
 
Further, as per Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India, the Company is pleased to provide Remote e-Voting facility to all its Members (“Remote e-Voting”) 
to enable them to cast their vote electronically for all the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM. 
Additionally, the Company is providing the facility of voting through e-voting system during the AGM (“e-
Voting”). The Company has engaged the services of KFin Technologies Limited for the purpose of providing 
Remote e-Voting and e-Voting facilities to all its Members. The Cut-off Date for determining the eligibility of 
shareholders to exercise remote e-voting rights and attendance at the AGM is Tuesday, December 24, 
2024. A person whose name is recorded in Register of Members or in the Register of Beneficial owners 
maintained by the Depositories as on Cut-off Date, shall be entitled to avail the facility of Remote e-voting or 
e-Voting at the AGM. 
 
The remote e-voting period shall commence on Saturday, December 28, 2024 (9.00 AM IST) and ends on 
Monday, December 30, 2024 (5.00 PM IST).  
 
Furthermore, with respect to the said AGM of the Company you are requested to take on record that the 
Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books shall remain closed from "Wednesday, December 25, 
2024 to Tuesday, December 31, 2024" (both days inclusive). 
 
The aforesaid documents, i.e. AGM Notice and Annual Report, are being dispatched electronically to all 
eligible shareholders whose email addresses are registered with the Company / KFin Technologies Limited, 
Registrar and Transfer Agents of the Company and the Depositories viz. the National Securities Depository 
Limited and Central Depository Services (India) Limited. 
 
This is for your information and records purpose. 
 
Thanking you, 
For Religare Enterprises Limited 
 
 
Vinay Gupta 
Company Secretary  
 
Enclosed as above 
Vinay Gupta
Digitally signed by Vinay Gupta 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=9786, 
pseudonym=d402fd718eb64effb23aed5c64d4b141, 
2.5.4.20=454c095d04cf89a6881d8f2464ceb92af406f95b
9ed531c786d61186becd7308, postalCode=110058, 
st=Delhi, 
serialNumber=6a7535ad3b0918e7ceabeeebe262a37d14
30685367b1d31bfe9a4b8f051f7c6d, cn=Vinay Gupta 
Date: 2024.12.07 16:31:38 +05'30'
Notice
Notice is hereby given that the 40th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of the members of Religare Enterprises Limited (“the 
Company”) will be held on Tuesday, December 31, 2024 at 
11:30 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio Visual 
Means (“VC” / “OAVM”) to transact the following businesses:
Ordinary Business:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
	
a)	
the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024 including Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Statement of Profit 
and Loss and Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 
on that date together with the Reports of the Board of 
Directors and the Auditors thereon.
	
b)	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
including Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the 
Statement of Profit and Loss and Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended on that date together with the Report 
of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 
01715298), who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers 
herself for re-appointment.
	
Explanation: Dr. Rashmi Saluja, whose office is liable to retire 
at the ensuing AGM, being eligible, seeks reappointment. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board 
of the Company, based on her performance are proposing her 
reappointment to the shareholders for consideration in the 
upcoming AGM. (Please refer annexure to the AGM Notice for 
details).
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, the approval of shareholders of the Company, be 
and is hereby accorded to reappoint Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 
01715298) as a Whole time Director of the Company, who is 
liable to retire by rotation.”
RELIGARE ENTERPRISES LIMITED
	
Regd off: 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
CIN: L74899DL1984PLC146935
Phone: +91-11-4472 5676,
Website: www.religare.com, E-mail: investorservices@religare.com
3.	
Appointment of Statutory Auditors
	
To appoint Statutory Auditors and to fix their remuneration and 
in this regard to consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or 
without modification(s), the following resolutions as Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 139, 
142 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
and in accordance with the Circular No. RBI/2021-22/25 - 
Ref. No. DoS.CO.ARG/SEC.01/08.91.001/2021-22 dated 
27th April, 2021 issued by the Reserve Bank of India, 
inter-alia, on Guidelines for appointment of Statutory Auditors 
of banks and NBFCs (“RBI Circular”), including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being 
in force and with the Company’s Policy on Appointment of 
Statutory Auditors, M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (Firm Registration No. 105215W/W100057), 
who have confirmed their eligibility to be appointed in terms 
of Section 141 of the Act and the RBI Circular, be and is 
hereby appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company 
to hold office for a period of three years, from the conclusion 
of this 40th Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of 
the 43rd Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held 
in the year 2027, at such remuneration as mentioned in the 
explanatory statement annexed herewith and /or as may 
be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors of the 
Company and the Statutory Auditors, plus taxes as applicable 
and reimbursement of out of pocket, travelling and other 
expenses, etc. in connection with the audit.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving effect 
to the above resolution, the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘Board’, which term shall be deemed 
to include any Committee constituted or to be constituted 
by the Board in this regard) be and is hereby authorised on 
behalf of the Company to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things as it may, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary 
or desirable for such purpose and with power on behalf of 
the Company to settle all questions, difficulties or doubts that 
1
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
may arise in regard including but not limited to determination 
of roles and responsibilities/scope of work of the Statutory 
Auditors, negotiating, finalising, amending, signing, delivering, 
executing, the terms of appointment including any contracts or 
documents in this regard and to alter and vary the terms and 
conditions of remuneration arising out of increase in scope of 
work, amendment in Accounting Standards or regulations and 
such other requirements resulting in the change in scope of 
work, etc. without being required to seek any further consent 
or approval of the members of the Company.”
By order of the Board of Directors
For Religare Enterprises Limited
Sd/-
Vinay Gupta
Company Secretary &
Compliance Officer
Membership No: F7806
Address: 1407, 14th Floor, 
Place: New Delhi 
Chiranjiv Tower, 43,
Date: December 04, 2024
Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
2
Annual Report 2023-2024
NOTES:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), vide its General 
Circulars No. 20/2020 dated May 05, 2020 read with General 
Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020 and General 
Circular No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020 and General 
Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024 (“MCA 
Circulars”) and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”) vide its Circulars numbers SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020 and SEBI/HO/CFD/
CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 03, 2024 (“SEBI 
Circulars”) (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the 
Circulars”), have permitted the companies to conduct the 
Annual General Meeting through Video Conferencing / Other 
Audio Visual Means (“VC” / “OAVM”) till September 30, 
2025, without the physical presence of members at a common 
venue. Hence, in accordance with the Circulars, provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), and SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“Listing Regulations”), the 40th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM” / “Meeting”) of the Company is being held through 
VC /OAVM on Tuesday, December 31, 2024 at 11:30 A.M 
(IST). The venue of the meeting shall be deemed to be 
the Registered Office of the Company at 1407, 14th Floor, 
Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019.
2.	
The attendance of the Members (members logins) attending 
the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
3.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars, since the physical attendance 
of Members has been dispensed with, there is no requirement 
of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the facility for 
appointment of proxies by Members under Section 105 of 
the Act will not be available for the AGM. However, the Body 
Corporate/Institutional/Corporate members are entitled to 
appoint authorized representative to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM and participate thereat and cast their votes through 
e-voting.
4.	
Since the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM facility, the 
attendance slip, proxy form and Route Map are not annexed 
to this Notice.
5.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 113 of the Act, the Body 
Corporate/Institutional/Corporate members intending for 
their authorized representatives to attend the meeting and 
to vote at the AGM through e-voting facility are requested to 
send scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) of the latest 
Board Resolution/Authority Letter etc., together with attested 
specimen signature(s) of the duly authorised representative(s), 
to the Scrutinizer at email scrutinizer.maks@gmail.com with 
a copy marked to einward.ris@kfintech.com and evoting@
kfintech.com. The scanned image of the above mentioned 
documents should be in the naming format “Religare 
Enterprises Limited, Event No. 8546”.
6.	
Dr. Rashmi Saluja, whose office is liable to retire at the ensuing 
AGM, being eligible, seeks reappointment. The Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and the Board of the Company, 
based on her performance are proposing her reappointment 
to the shareholders for consideration in the upcoming AGM. 
(Please refer annexure to the AGM Notice for details).
7.	
Relevant details in respect of Director retiring by rotation / 
person seeking appointment/re-appointment as Director at 
the AGM, in terms of Regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations 
and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) are 
also annexed to this Notice.
8.	
The Company has appointed M/s. KFin Technologies 
Limited, Registrars and Share Transfer Agent of the Company 
(hereinafter called “KFintech”), for conducting the AGM and 
for voting through remote e-voting or through e-voting at the 
AGM. The procedure for participating in the meeting through 
VC/ OAVM is explained in these notes and is also available on 
the website of the Company at www.religare.com.
9.	
In line with the MCA Circulars, the Notice calling the AGM along 
with Annual Report for FY 2023-24 have been uploaded on 
the website of the Company at www.religare.com. The Notice 
can also be accessed from the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com 
respectively and is also available on the website of KFintech 
i.e. e-voting agency at https://evoting.kfintech.com.
10.	 Pursuant to the provisions of the MCA Circulars on convening 
AGM through VC / OVAM:
a.	
Members can attend the meeting through login 
credentials provided to them to connect to Video 
Conference. Physical attendance of the Members at the 
Meeting venue is not required.
b.	
Facility for appointment of proxy to attend and cast vote 
on behalf of the member is not available.
c.	
Body Corporates are entitled to appoint authorised 
representatives to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM 
and participate thereat and cast their votes through 
e-voting.
11.	 The facility to join the meeting shall be opened 15 minutes 
before the scheduled time of the AGM and shall be kept open 
throughout the proceedings of the AGM. The meeting may be 
joined by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice.
12.	 Members may note that the VC/OAVM facility, provided 
by KFintech, allows participation of 1,000 Members on a 
first-come-first-served basis (“FIFO”). The large shareholders 
(i.e. shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), 
3
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
promoters, institutional investors, directors, key managerial 
personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee and Auditors, etc. can attend the 
AGM without any restriction on account of FIFO principle.
13.	 In accordance with the Secretarial Standard-2 on General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (“ICSI”) read with clarification /Guidance on applicability 
of Secretarial Standards dated April 15, 2020 issued by ICSI, 
the proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted 
at the Registered Office of the Company which shall be the 
deemed venue of the AGM.
14.	  Remote e-voting: Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended, Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the ICSI 
and Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, as amended 
read with circular of SEBI on e-voting facility provided by 
Listed entities and the MCA Circulars, the Company is 
providing facility to its Members to exercise their right to vote 
on the resolutions proposed to be passed at the AGM through 
remote e-voting facility.
15.	 Voting at the AGM: Members who could not vote through 
remote e-voting may avail the e-voting facility which will be 
made available at the Meeting (“e-voting”), facility to be 
provided by KFintech.
16.	 In case of joint holders attending the AGM, the Member whose 
name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per 
the Register of Members of the Company will be entitled to 
vote.
17.	 The institutional members are encouraged to attend and vote 
at the AGM.
18.	 Updation of PAN and KYC by the Physical shareholders: 
SEBI has mandated the submission of the Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) by every participant in the securities market. 
Shareholders holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, 
requested to submit their PAN to their Depository Participant(s).
	
SEBI further vide its Master Circular Ref. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
POD-1/P/CIR/2023/70 dated May 17, 2023 read with 
subsequent 
Circular 
Ref. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/
CIR/2023/181 dated November 17, 2023 has also provided 
for mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details, nomination, 
contact details, Bank A/c details and specimen signature for 
their corresponding folio numbers by the holders of physical 
securities. Any payment including dividend, interest or 
redemption payment shall be made only electronically upon 
complying with the aforesaid requirements of submission of 
PAN and other KYC details.
	
Accordingly, shareholders holding shares in physical form 
are requested to submit the aforesaid requisite information/
documents at the earliest with the RTA of the Company as per 
below details:
Sr. 
No.
Form
KYC to be submitted
1
Form ISR-1
Request for Registering PAN, 
Address, Email, Mobile, Bank 
Account details or changes / 
updations there of
2
Form ISR-2
Specimen Signature
3
Form SH-13 (Form 
ISR-3 for Opting-out 
of the Nomination)
Nomination or Declaration 
for Opting-in or Opting-out of 
Nomination
	
The relevant documents / information for same may be 
accessed from the Company’s website at: https://religare.
com/investor-information/.
19.	 Transmission: Pursuant to Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations as amended from time to time, securities of listed 
companies can be transferred only in dematerialized form. 
Further, SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/ CIR/2022/8 dated 25th January 2022, has mandated 
listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form 
while processing service request for issue of duplicate 
securities certificate / claim from unclaimed suspense account/ 
renewal/ exchange/ endorsement/ subdivision/ splitting/ 
consolidation/ transmission/ transposition of securities etc.
	
Therefore, to avail various benefits of dematerialization and 
to eliminate the risks associated with physical shares, the 
shareholders are advised to dematerialise their physical 
shares. They are requested to get in touch with any 
Depository Participant having registration with SEBI to open 
a Demat account or alternatively, contact the nearest branch 
of KFintech to seek guidance on the Demat procedure. 
Members may also visit the website of depositories viz. 
NDSL: 
https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php 
or 
CDSL: 
https://
www.cdslindia.com/investors/open-demat.html 
for 
further 
understanding the demat procedure.
20.	 Online Dispute Resolution Portal: SEBI has issued Master 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 
dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on December 28, 2023) for 
online resolution of disputes in the Indian securities market. 
Vide same, SEBI has established a common Online Dispute 
Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) which harnesses online 
conciliation and online arbitration for resolution of disputes 
arising in the Indian securities market.
	
Pursuant to above-mentioned circular, post exhausting the 
option to resolve their grievances with the RTA/ Company 
directly and through existing SCORES platform, the investors 
4
Annual Report 2023-2024
can initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal (https://
smartodr.in/login). The link to the ODR portal has been 
provided by the Company on its corporate website https://
religare.com/# under the Investor section.
	
The aforesaid Circular issued by SEBI in this regard can be 
accessed on the Company’s website at https://religare.com/.
21.	 Disclosure of Agreements to Stock Exchanges entered 
into by Shareholders of the Company: Regulation 30A of 
SEBI Listing Regulations requires disclosure to the Stock 
Exchanges of Agreements entered into by shareholders, 
promoters, promoter group entities, related parties, directors, 
key managerial personnel, employees of the Company 
or of its holding, subsidiary or associate company, among 
themselves or with the Company or with a third party whether 
solely or jointly which, either directly or indirectly or potentially 
or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the Management or 
Control of the Company or Impose any Restriction or Create 
any Liability upon the Company.
	
Disclosure of any rescission, amendment or alteration of 
such agreements, if any is also required to be provided. 
Shareholders are requested to provide a disclosure to the 
Company of the said agreements to which the Company 
is not a party at investorservices@religare.com within 2 
working days of entering into the agreement or signing an 
agreement to enter into such agreements in the format as 
prescribed by SEBI vide its Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2023/123 dated 13th July, 2023.
22.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
of the Company will remain closed from “Wednesday, 
December 25, 2024 to Tuesday, December 31, 2024” 
(both days inclusive).
23.	 Mr. Ankush Agarwal, Partner (Membership No. F9719 & COP 
No. 14486) or failing him Mr. Shailesh Kumar Singh, Partner 
(Membership No. F8619 & COP No. 16235) of M/s. MAKS & 
CO., Practicing Company Secretaries (FRN: P2018UP067700), 
has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote 
e-voting process and casting of votes through the e-voting 
system during the AGM in a fair and transparent manner.
24.	 The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
e-voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during the AGM, 
thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting 
and make, not later than 2 working days of conclusion of the 
AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairperson or a person 
authorised by him/her in writing, who shall countersign the 
same.
25.	 The Results declared along with the report of the Scrutinizer 
shall be placed on the website of the Company i.e. 
www.religare.com and on the website of KFintech at https://
evoting.kfintech.com immediately after the declaration of 
result by the Chairperson or any person authorized by him/
her in writing and the same shall be communicated to the 
BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited. 
The result will also be displayed on the Notice Board of the 
Company at its Registered Office. The resolutions, if passed 
by requisite majority, shall be deemed to have been passed 
on the date of the AGM i.e. December 31, 2024.
26.	 The relevant documents referred to in this Notice will be 
available for inspection electronically without any fees by the 
Members. Members seeking to inspect such documents can 
send an email to investorservices@religare.com
27.	 The copy of Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding, maintained under Section 
170 of the Act, the Register of contracts or arrangements 
in which Directors are interested under Section 189 of the 
Act and Certificate from Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
certifying that Company’s Employee Stock Options Schemes 
being implemented in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and in accordance with the 
resolutions of the Members of the Company will be available 
electronically for inspection by the members during the AGM.
28.	 Members desirous of seeking any information relating to 
the annexed Annual Audited Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, are 
requested to write to the Company on or before Friday, 
December 27, 2024 through email to investorservices@
religare.com. Same will be replied by the Company suitably.
29.	 The Company has designated an exclusive email ID 
investorservices@religare.com for redressal of shareholders 
complaints/grievances. For any investor related queries, you 
are requested to please write to us at the above Email ID.
30.	 Procedure for obtaining the Annual Report, AGM notice 
and e-voting instructions by the shareholders whose email 
addresses are not registered with the depositories or with 
RTA on physical folios:
	
In terms of the MCA and SEBI Circulars, the Company has sent 
the Annual Report, Notice of AGM and e-voting instructions 
only in electronic form to the registered email addresses of 
the shareholders whose email addresses are registered with 
the Company / Depositories. Therefore, those shareholders 
who have not yet registered their email address are requested 
to get their email addresses registered by following the 
procedure given below:
	
i.	
Members, who have not registered /updated their email 
addresses are requested to register / update the same 
in respect of physical holdings with the Company’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, KFin Technologies 
5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, Gachibowli, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad - 500032. 
Member may send an e-mail request at the email id 
einward.ris@kfintech.com along with scanned copy of 
Form ISR-1 and self-attested copy of PAN Card & Aadhar 
Card etc. Further, also send the original copy to KFintech 
on above said address.
	
ii.	
Members holding shares in dematerialized mode who 
have not registered /updated their email addresses with 
their Depository Participants are requested to register 
/ update their email addresses with the Depository 
Participants with whom they maintain their demat 
accounts.
	
iii.	
Shareholders may also visit the website of the company 
www.religare.com or the website of the Registrar 
and Transfer Agent https://evoting.kfintech.com for 
downloading the Annual Report and Notice of the AGM. 
Same can also be accessed from the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
www.nseindia.com respectively.
31.	 Instructions for the Members for attending the AGM 
through Video Conference:
	
i.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through video conferencing platform provided by 
M/s KFin Technologies Limited. Members may access 
the same at https://emeetings.kfintech.com under 
shareholders/members login by using their remote 
e-voting credentials. The link for AGM will be available in 
shareholders/members login where the EVENT and the 
name of the Company can be selected. Please note that 
the members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password 
may retrieve the same by following the remote e-voting 
instructions mentioned as below.
	
	
a.	
Launch internet browser (chrome/firefox/safari) by 
typing the URL: https://emeetings.kfintech.com
	
	
b.	
Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and 
password)
	
	
c.	
After logging in, click on “Video Conference” 
option
	
	
d.	
Then click on camera icon appearing against the 
AGM event of the Company to attend the meeting
	
ii.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops with Google Chrome for better experience.
	
iii.	
Further, Members will be required to allow Camera, if 
any, and hence use Internet with a good speed to avoid 
any disturbance during the meeting.
	
iv.	
Please note that Participants connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
	
v.	
Members, who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM, need to register themselves 
as a speaker by clicking on the ‘Speaker Registration’ 
option available on the screen after login at https://
emeetings.kfintech.com. The Speaker Registration 
option will be open during Friday, December 27, 
2024 to Saturday, December 28, 2024. Only those 
members who are registered will be allowed to express 
their views or ask questions. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of questions and number of 
speakers, depending upon the availability of time for the 
AGM.
32.	 Instructions for members for remote e-Voting
	
i.	
The Remote e-voting period commences on Saturday, 
December 28, 2024 (9.00 A.M. IST) and ends on 
Monday, December 30, 2024 (5:00 P.M. IST). During 
this period, Members of the Company, holding shares 
either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on 
Tuesday, December 24, 2024 (hereinafter called as the 
“Cut-off Date”), may cast their votes electronically.
	
ii.	
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled for voting 
thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution(s) is cast by the 
Member, the Member shall not be allowed to change it 
subsequently.
33.	 Remote e-voting: Information and Instructions
A.	
Procedure for Login for E-voting and Attending AGM 
through VC/OAVM for Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode.
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 09, 2020, on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in Demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their Demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
advised to update their mobile number and email Id in their 
Demat accounts to access e-Voting facility.
6
Annual Report 2023-2024
Login method 
for Individual 
shareholders holding 
securities in Demat 
mode is given 
below: Individual 
shareholders holding 
securities in Demat 
mode with National 
Securities Depository 
Limited (“NSDL”)
A.	
User already registered for IDeAS facility:
	
1.	
Open https://eservices.nsdl.com
	
2.	
Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under ‘IDeAS’ section.
	
3.	
On the new page, enter User ID and Password. Post successful authentication, click on “Access to 
e-Voting”
	
4.	
Click on Bank Name or e-Voting service provider and you will be re-directed to e-voting service 
provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
B.	
User not registered for IDeAS e-Services:
	
1.	
To register, open https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS “Portal or click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
	
3.	
Proceed with completing the required fields
C.	
By visiting the e-Voting website of NSDL:
	
1.	
Open https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit Demat account 
number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
	
4.	
Post successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page.
	
5.	
Click on Bank name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in Demat 
mode with Central 
Depository Services 
(India) Limited (“CDSL”)
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The 
users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login 
icon & New System Myeasi Tab.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible companies 
where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking the e-voting 
option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, 
there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website www.cdslindia.
com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN 
No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the 
user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also 
able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities 
in Demat mode) 
login through their 
depository participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your Demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility.
Once login, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected 
to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on 
Bank Name or e-Voting service provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider website 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option 
available at abovementioned website.
7
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities 
in Demat mode 
with NSDL
Members 
facing 
any 
technical 
issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk 
by 
sending 
a 
request 
at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in 
or 
call 
at 
022 – 48867000
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
Demat mode with 
CDSL
Members facing any technical issue 
in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll 
free no. 1800 22 55 33
B.	
Login method for remote e-voting for shareholders other 
than individual shareholders holding securities in Demat 
mode and shareholders holding securities in physical 
mode.
	
i.	
Initial password is provided in the body of the e-mail.
	
ii.	
Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://
evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.
	
iii.	
Enter the login credentials i.e. User ID and password 
mentioned in your e-mail. Your Folio No./DP ID Client 
ID will be your User ID. However, if you are already 
registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your 
existing User ID and password for casting your votes.
	
iv.	
After entering the correct details, click on LOGIN.
	
v.	
You will reach the password change menu wherein you 
are required to mandatorily change your password. 
The new password shall comprise minimum 8 characters 
with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), 
one numeric value (0-9) and a special character (@, #, 
$, etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost care to 
keep your password confidential.
	
vi.	
You need to login again with the new credentials.
	
vii.	
On successful login, the system will prompt you to select 
the EVENT i.e. Religare Enterprises Limited with event 
no. 8546.
	
viii.	 On the voting page, the number of shares (which 
represents the number of votes) held by you as on the 
cut-off date will appear. If you desire to cast all the votes 
assenting/dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares 
and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may be or partially 
in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number 
in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ taken together should not 
exceed your total shareholding as on the cut-off date. 
You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’, in which 
case, the shares held will not be counted under either 
head.
	
ix.	
Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall 
choose the voting process separately for each folio/
demat account.
	
x.	
Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and 
click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. 
Click ‘OK’ to confirm, else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you 
confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote 
subsequently. During the voting period, you can login 
multiple times till you have confirmed that you have 
voted on the resolution.
	
xi.	
Corporate/institutional 
members 
(i.e. 
other 
than 
individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned 
image (PDF/JPG format) of certified true copy of relevant 
board resolution/authority letter etc. together with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorised 
signatory(ies) who is/are authorised to vote, to the 
Scrutinizer through email at scrutinizer.maks@gmail.com 
and may also upload the same in the e-voting module in 
their login. The scanned image of the above documents 
should be in the naming format ‘BFL_EVENT No.’
	
xii.	
In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and 
e-voting User Manual available at the ‘download’ section 
of https://evoting.kfintech.com or call KFin on 1800 309 
4001 (toll free).
A.	
Voting at e-AGM
	
i.	
Only those members/shareholders, who will be present 
in the e-AGM and who have not cast their vote through 
remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred from 
doing so are eligible to vote.
	
ii.	
Members who have voted through remote e-voting will 
still be eligible to attend the e-AGM.
	
iii.	
Members attending the e-AGM shall be counted for the 
purpose of reckoning the quorum under section 103 of 
the Act.
	
iv.	
Voting at e-AGM will be available at the end of 
the e-AGM and shall be kept open for 15 minutes. 
Members viewing the e-AGM, shall click on the ‘e-voting’ 
sign placed on the left-hand bottom corner of the video 
screen. Members will be required to use the credentials, 
to login on the e-Meeting webpage, and click on the 
‘Thumbs-up’ icon against the unit to vote.
8
Annual Report 2023-2024
B.	
Instructions for members for attending the e-AGM
	
i.	
Members will be able to attend the e-AGM through VC/
OAVM or view the live webcast of e-AGM provided by 
KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com by using their 
remote e-voting login credentials and by clicking on 
the tab “video conference”. The link for e-AGM will be 
available in member’s login, where the EVENT and the 
name of the Company can be selected.
	
ii.	
Members are encouraged to join the meeting through 
devices (Laptops, Desktops, Mobile devices) with 
Google Chrome for seamless experience.
	
iii.	
Further, members registered as speakers will be 
required to allow camera during e-AGM and hence are 
requested to use internet with a good speed to avoid 
any disturbance during the meeting.
	
iv.	
Members may join the meeting using headphones for 
better sound clarity.
	
v.	
While all efforts would be made to make the meeting 
smooth, 
participants 
connecting 
through 
mobile 
devices, tablets, laptops, etc. may at times experience 
audio/video loss due to fluctuation in their respective 
networks. Use of a stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection can 
mitigate some of the technical glitches.
	
vi.	
Members, who would like to express their views or 
ask questions during the e-AGM will have to register 
themselves as a speaker by visiting the URL https://
emeetings.kfintech.com/ and clicking on the tab ‘Speaker 
Registration’ during the period starting from Friday, 
December 27, 2024 to Saturday, December 28, 2024. 
Only those members who have registered themselves 
as a speaker will be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the e-AGM. The Company reserves the 
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on 
the availability of time for the e-AGM. Only questions of 
the members holding shares as on the cut-off date will 
be considered.
	
vii.	
A video guide assisting the members attending e-AGM 
either as a speaker or participant is available for quick 
reference at URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/, under 
the “How It Works” tab placed on top of the page.
	
viii.	 Members who need technical assistance before or 
during the e-AGM can contact KFin at emeetings@
kfintech.com or Helpline: 1800 309 4001.
	
Procedure for Registration of email and Mobile: securities 
in physical mode
	
Physical shareholders are hereby notified that based ion 
SEBI 
Circular 
number: 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/37, dated March 16th, 2023, All holders of physical 
securities in listed companies shall register the postal address 
with PIN for their corresponding folio numbers. It shall be 
mandatory for the security holders to provide mobile number. 
Moreover, to avail online services, the security holders can 
register e-mail ID. Holder can register/update the contact 
details through submitting the requisite ISR 1 form along with 
the supporting documents.
	
ISR 1 Form can be obtained by following the link:
	
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx
	
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be provided 
by any one of the following modes.
	
a) 	
Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV): the authorized 
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents 
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with IPV 
stamping with date and initials; or
	
b) 	
Through hard copies which are self-attested, which can 
be shared on the address below; or
Name
KFIN Technologies Limited
Address
Selenium Building, Tower-B, 
Plot No 31 & 32, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, 
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana India 
- 500 032.
	
c) 	
Through electronic mode with e-sign by following the 
link:
	
	
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx
	
	
Detailed FAQ can be found on the link: https://ris.
kfintech.com/faq.html
	
For more information on updating the email and Mobile details 
for securities held in electronic mode, please reach out to the 
respective DP(s), where the DEMAT a/c is being held.
9
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
34.	 Instructions for members for e-Voting during the AGM 
session:
	
i.	
Only those Members / shareholders, who will be present 
in the AGM through Video Conference facility and have 
not cast their vote through remote e-voting, are eligible 
to vote through e-voting during the AGM.
	
ii.	
However, members who have voted through remote 
e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM
35.	  OTHER INSTRUCTIONS
	
i.	
A person who is not a Member as on the Cut-off Date 
should treat this Notice for information purposes 
only. A person whose name is recorded in the register 
of members or in the register of beneficial owners 
maintained by the depositories as on the Cut-off 
Date i.e. Tuesday, December 24, 2024 only shall be 
entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting or for 
participation at the AGM and e-voting thereat.
	
ii.	
The voting rights of the Members shall be in proportion 
to the paid-up value of their shares in the total voting 
capital of the Company as on the Cut-off Date 
i.e.  Tuesday, December 24, 2024.  The total voting 
capital of the Company for determining the voting rights 
of members as on Cut-off Date will be 355,605,663 
Shares (i.e. including 330,605,663 Equity Shares and 
25,000,000 Preference Shares),  unless any further 
changes in the paid up capital until Cut-off Date.
	
	
Members may note that the Company is currently under 
the mandatory open offer period due to the public 
announcement dated September 25, 2023 in relation 
to an open offer made to the public shareholders 
of the Company on behalf of M.B. Finmart Private 
Limited (“Acquirer 1”), Puran Associates Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited (“Acquirer 
3”), and Milky Investment & Trading Company (“Acquirer 
4”) (hereinafter “Acquirers”) for acquisition of upto 
90,042,541 fully paid-up equity shares of face value of 
` 10 each (“Equity Shares”) from the Public Shareholders 
of the Company, representing 26.00 % of the Expanded 
Voting Share Capital, at a price of ` 235.00 per Equity 
Share aggregating to total consideration of up to 
` 21,159,997,135/- payable in cash under Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 
of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“SAST 
Regulations”).
	
	
In this regard, 1,32,00,000 equity shares acquired 
by three shareholders i.e Acquirer 1, Acquirer 2 & 
Acquirer 3 (holding 44,00,000 equity shares each) in 
January 2024 are being held in the escrow account 
and they shall not exercise the voting rights over such 
shares till the currency of open offer period under the 
SAST Regulations.
	
	
Further, due to non-payment of dividend by the Company 
for two years on 0.01% 2,50,00,000 Non-cumulative 
Non-convertible 
Redeemable 
Preference 
Shares 
(“Preference Shares”) of face value of ` 10/- (Rupees 
Ten) each, voting rights triggered on the Preference 
Shares in terms of relevant provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013. However, the Company has filed a petition 
before the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, 
New Delhi Bench (“NCLT) on June 14, 2019 seeking 
rectification of Register of Members of the Company by 
cancellation of said Preference Shares and also sought 
interim relief with respect to suspension of voting rights 
and dividend rights attached to the said Preference 
Shares. The Hon’ble NCLT on September 29, 2021 
directed ordering the status quo on the respondents to 
restrain them from exercising their voting power with the 
resolution until further order. Further, vide order dated 
December 16, 2021, it was affirmed by Hon’ble NCLT 
that interim order will continue. The matter is currently 
sub-judice. Hence holders of said Preference Shares 
also will not be entitled to vote on the said resolution.
	
iii.	
In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect of 
voting by electronic means, Members may refer to the 
Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and E-voting 
user manual available at the download section of https://
evoting.kfintech.com (KFin Technologies Website) or 
contact Ms. Rajitha C – Corporate Registry of KFin 
Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Financial 
District, 
Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, 
Hyderabad - 500 032 at 1800 -309 -4001 (Toll Free) or 
send email at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
	
iv.	
You can also update your mobile number and e-mail id in 
the user profile details to get e- voting confirmation and 
which may be used for further communications.
By order of the Board of Directors
For Religare Enterprises Limited
Sd/-
Vinay Gupta
Company Secretary &
Compliance Officer
Membership No: F7806
Address: 1407, 14th Floor, 
Place: New Delhi 
Chiranjiv Tower, 43,
Date: December 04, 2024 
Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
10
Annual Report 2023-2024
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
This explanatory statement is in terms of Regulation 36(5) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”); however, the same is strictly not 
required as per Section 102 of the Act.
ITEM NO. 3
Appointment of M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 105215W/W100057) as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company
As per Section 139 of the Act, every company shall, at the first 
annual general meeting, appoint an individual or a firm as an auditor 
who shall hold office from the conclusion of that meeting till the 
conclusion of its sixth annual general meeting and thereafter till the 
conclusion of every sixth meeting. The listed company shall not 
appoint or re-appoint an audit firm as auditor for more than two 
terms of five consecutive years.
Further RBI has issued a Circular on ‘Guidelines for Appointment 
of Statutory Central Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory Auditors (SAs) of 
Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs (including 
HFCs)’ on April 27, 2021 (“RBI Circular”). These Guidelines 
provide necessary instructions for appointment of SCAs/SAs, the 
number of auditors, their eligibility criteria, tenure and rotation, etc. 
while ensuring the independence of auditors.
As per above said RBI Circular, an audit firm can be appointed 
for a continuous period of three years (counted as one tenure) 
only and shall not be eligible for re-appointment in the same 
entity for six years (two tenures) after completion of one tenure 
of three years.
M/s. S. P. Chopra & Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 000346N) was appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company to fill casual vacancy caused due to resignation of 
M/s. S.S. Kothari Mehta & Co., Chartered Accountants from 
August 12, 2021 till September 29, 2021 and to hold office for a 
period of three years from the conclusion of 37th Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) held in the year 2021 until the conclusion of the 40th 
AGM of the Company to be held in the year 2024. Their tenure will 
end at the conclusion of the upcoming AGM of the Company.
In order to comply with the requirements of the RBI Circular, the 
Board of Directors of the Company on recommendation of Audit & 
Governance Committee has recommended the appointment of M/s 
Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 105215W/W100057) as Statutory Auditors of the Company 
for a period of three consecutive years from the conclusion of 40th 
AGM until the conclusion of the 43rd AGM of the Company to be 
held in the year 2027, subject to meeting the eligibility norms as 
may be prescribed by the RBI or any regulatory authority every 
year. The first year of audit will be of the financial statements for the 
year ending March 31, 2025, which will include the audit / limited 
review of the quarterly financial results for the year.
The Board and Audit & Governance Committee considered various 
parameters like capability to serve financial services industry in 
which the Company and its subsidiaries operate, audit experience, 
market standing of the firm, clientele served, technical knowledge, 
independence etc., and found M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered 
Accountants to be best suited to handle the scale, diversity and 
complexity associated with the audit of the standalone and 
consolidated financial statements of the Company.
Considering the above, the Board and Audit & Governance 
Committee are of the view that appointment of M/s Kirtane & 
Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
105215W/W100057), as Auditors of the Company will be 
beneficial to the Company, shareholders and other stakeholders as 
well and therefore recommends their appointment as the Auditors 
of the Company for a period of three years from the conclusion of 
this 40th AGM until the conclusion of the 43rd AGM of the Company 
to be held in the year 2027.
M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 105215W/W100057), have conveyed their consent to be 
appointed as Statutory Auditors of the Company along with 
necessary eligibility certificate / disclosure / confirmation in terms of 
the Act and RBI Circular, confirming that they are not disqualified to 
be appointed as Statutory Auditors.
Disclosure under Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is as under:
Proposed statutory audit fees 
payable to the auditors
Fees of ` 32 lakhs in aggregate towards the statutory audit and limited review for the period / financial 
year ending March 31, 2025 which may be increased annually thereafter in commensurate with their 
scope of work, as per prevailing market practices and as per terms mutually agreed and decided by 
the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The above fees will be exclusive of the taxes as applicable and reimbursement of out of pocket, 
travelling and other expenses, etc. in connection with the audit.
Besides the audit services, the Company would also avail the other permitted services from the Statutory 
Auditors, as may be required from time to time, for which they will be remunerated accordingly as per 
mutually agreed terms and as approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Terms of appointments
M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 105215W/W100057), are 
recommended for appointment for a term of three years from the conclusion of 40th AGM until the 
conclusion of the 43rd AGM of the Company to be held in the year 2027.
Material change in the fees 
payable to the new auditor
Outgoing auditors were paid a statutory audit fee of ` 22 lakhs plus taxes and out of pocket expenses 
incurred in connection with the audit for the FY 2023-24.
The proposed remuneration is commensurate with size and operations of the Company and after 
considering the comparative quotation, prevalent market conditions and inflation adjustments in the 
existing remuneration being paid by the Company.
Basis of recommendation and 
auditor credentials
The recommendations are based on the fulfillment of the eligibility criteria prescribed by RBI guidelines 
and the Companies Act, 2013.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives is concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in 
the resolution set out in this Notice.
The Board recommends the resolution as mentioned at item no. 3 above for approval of the Members by way of an ordinary resolution.
12
Annual Report 2023-2024
Annexure to the Notice dated December 
04, 2024
The detailed statement having profile and other 
details/disclosures of Director retiring by rotation 
at the AGM is as under:
TURNAROUND STORY OF RELIGARE UNDER 
DR. RASHMI SALUJA’S CHAIRPERSONSHIP
Dr. Rashmi Saluja joined the Board of REL as an 
Independent Director in 2018. She was later entrusted 
by the Board with the responsibility to lead REL and was 
appointed as an Executive Chairperson in February 2020. 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja brings a multidisciplinary background 
to corporate leadership, holding advanced degrees 
including an MBBS, MD, LLB, PhD, and an MBA in Finance. 
Since 2018, she has been the driving force behind 
the transformative journey of REL and its subsidiaries. 
This transformation during her stint has resulted in 
enhancement of shareholder value as reflected by the 
surge in market capitalisation of REL from less than 
USD100 million to over USD1 billion.
In 2017-18, the erstwhile promoters of the company 
were impeached from the Board due to an Asset Liability 
mismatch and unpaid dues to lenders in Religare Finvest 
Limited. The group was facing significant challenges 
that included CARE Health Insurance, Religare Broking 
and Religare Finvest being sold at very low valuations. 
The situation further worsened when the key management 
was also on the verge of leaving the organisation.
In order to regain the confidence of the market, tackle 
the issues faced by the REL group and to ensure high 
standards of corporate governance, the Board of 
Directors and shareholders entrusted Dr. Saluja to take 
over the reins. This appointment was further approved 
by the RBI. Ever since then, REL has focused on 
providing growth, stability, support and assurance to 
all its businesses and stakeholders led by Dr. Saluja.
Her medical background distinguishes her leadership 
style, seamlessly integrating healthcare principles of 
precision, compassion, and systematic problem-solving. 
This distinctive approach has been particularly effective 
in diagnosing and addressing complex organizational 
challenges. Despite the volatile situation with lenders’ 
debt default on one side and investigations by multiple 
agencies and regulators on the other side, she remained 
firm and steady during the entire turbulent period and 
painstakingly took small steps as well as long strides 
as required to stabilise the group and get it functioning 
again. She led the team from the front, managing the 
expectations of all customers, employees, investors, 
banks and regulators.
She worked closely with an independent and experienced 
Board to uplift corporate governance to its highest 
standards guiding the organization through complex 
regulatory landscapes and be a good Corporate Citizen.
With 
uncompromising 
approach 
for 
corporate 
governance, efficient business models and a growth 
oriented outlook, she funneled all the energies and 
momentum in resolving the legacy issues of the group, 
refresh the operations and bring all businesses back 
to vibrancy.
A significant turnaround story under her leadership has 
been the revitalisation of Religare Finvest Limited and 
this has been on the back of a significant effort and 
relentless work put in during Covid times. The company 
repaid a substantial debt amount of ` 9,200 crore 
to the Banking System of India. Post deliberation and 
negotiations with Lenders on way of collection, REL’s 
subsidiary RFL agreed on the final One Time Settlement 
(OTS) with lenders in July 2022. In Dec 2022, RFL along 
with REL paid substantial amount and by March 2023, 
RFL paid the full and final payment of ` 2,178 crore to 
all its lenders. This helped the company in a successful 
debt resolution with all the lenders. RFL bore the brunt of 
legacy issues has now settled all its obligations with both 
its secured and unsecured lenders, and has become debt 
free. Dr. Rashmi Saluja has been instrumental in guiding 
and leading the teams from the front and engaged with 
relevant stakeholders and regulatory bodies to ensure 
RFL’s resurgence. With the engagements and measures 
taken, RFL has received communications from State 
Bank of India (SBI), the lead bank informing that the 
record of RFL, tagged as fraud by the bank, has been 
removed from the Central Fraud Registry database.
Another significant milestone in this journey was identifying 
the flagship business transformation: Care Health 
Insurance. Through a rebranding effort, the company 
prepared the entity to lead the health insurance space 
and serve the maximum number of people with its health 
insurance offerings. Dr. Saluja realized the importance 
of value accretion from Health Insurance business very 
early and made sure that the business remained well 
funded and quarantined throughout, from the challenges 
13
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
faced by RFL as reflected in the growth achieved by Care 
Health Insurance Limited (CHIL). REL transformed the 
business from grappling with low Gross Written Premiums 
and a solvency ratio on the brink of breach to becoming 
the fastest-growing and most efficient Standalone Health 
Insurance (SAHI) company. CHIL grew faster than the 
industry to be the 2nd largest SAHI company while 
maintaining its solvency ratio above the prescribed 
levels.
While revitalising RFL and stabilising health Insurance 
business, Dr. Saluja also guided and led the housing 
1,826 2,389 2,560 
3,881 
5,142 
6,864 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
GDPI - CHIL (₹ in Cr) 
57 
66 
102 
12 
246 
305 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
PAT - CHIL (₹ in Cr) 
1,302 1,776 
2,635 
3,566 
5,076 
6,633 
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Investment Book - CHIL (₹ in Cr)  
finance business. The housing finance business has 
consistently shown profits, upholding an impeccable 
credit record and forming a strategic co-lending 
arrangement with eye for future growth under her 
leadership. The business is helping the low-income 
segment customers by providing affordable housing 
finance. The company offers various types of loans, 
including home purchase, home construction, and 
home improvement loans. Its key focus is aligned with 
the government’s initiative of “Housing for All by 2022”. 
The Company also caters to Economically Weaker 
Sections (EWS), Lower Income Group (LIG), and Medium 
Income Group (MIG) segments of the population.
Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”) has also undergone 
significant growth under Dr. Saluja’s stewardship. 
Special emphasis has been laid to provide capital to 
ensure its sustained growth. The Board of RBL was 
revitalised with her appointment to the Board and 
strategic initiatives were laid out to improve the brand 
image and governance at RBL. The importance of 
technological and digital initiatives driving the broking 
industry at large, have also been put in place at RBL 
to ensure the best services to the customers. A new 
E-governance practice has been initiated and nurtured 
under the stewardship of Dr. Saluja.
14
Annual Report 2023-2024
Her strategic approach has focused on preserving 
and enhancing stakeholder value while systematically 
rebuilding and revitalising the Religare Group during 
critical periods. All the unsolved legacy issues with 
regulators such as RBI and SEBI have been resolved. 
Dr Saluja’s unwavering commitment to growth has 
enabled the company to navigate the transformation 
over the past five years. After embracing resilience, the 
management under her leadership has defended the 
company from external challenges and helped reshape 
it from its core. Consequently, Religare has grown into 
a comprehensive financial services provider offering a 
360-degree experience, creating value for the entire 
ecosystem including investors, lenders, shareholders, 
employees and customers. Some notable examples 
of purpose-driven actions include a strategic shift from 
selling off the NBFC business in favour of a full-scale 
revival and establishing Religare as a diversified 
financial services conglomerate. It is noteworthy that 
Dr. Saluja laid emphasis on fulfilling all regulatory 
207 
241 
281 
288 
369 
0
100
200
300
400
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Total Income - RBL (₹ in Cr)  
-21 
5 
19 
10 
33 
-40
-20
0
20
40
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
PAT - RBL (₹ in Cr) 
obligations and ensured that that the company and its 
subsidiaries did not ever default on the payment of its 
statutory dues.
While focusing on the turnaround and growth of Religare 
Enterprises, Dr. Saluja also kept her sight on upliftment 
of communities and social setup. She remained 
committed to social causes and actively engaged in 
several social initiatives to enhance welfare measures. 
She displayed unwavering commitment to delivering 
social impact through the Religare Care Foundation 
across key areas such as sports, healthcare, health and 
rehabilitation and skill development. It is to be noted that 
since the onset of Covid 2019, she spearheaded the 
collaboration with Hospitals for providing critical medical 
support to the target families.
Dr. Saluja is an embodiment of growth with purpose, 
corporate profit with social upliftment and business 
momentum with strong corporate governance.
15
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Additional Information for Director retiring by rotation/ seeking appointment at the AGM:
1
Name of Director seeking 
appointment
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
2
DIN
01715298
3
Date of Birth/ Age
December 14, 1973/ 50 Years
4
Date of first Appointment 
on Board
December 20, 2018
5
Qualifications, Experience 
and expertise in specific 
functional area
As per Brief Profile mentioned herein above.
6
Remuneration last drawn, 
if any:
In FY 2023-24, she has drawn the remuneration of ` 14.12 cr, which is inclusive of salary & allowances, 
retention bonus, accommodation, car & other perquisites (excluding ESOP perquisite).
She was granted 30,00,000 Stock Options on May 11, 2023 under the Religare Enterprises Limited 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2019 (Scheme) at an exercise price of ` 169.70 /- per share, the 
vesting period of which is 2 years equally and exercisable as per the terms of the Scheme. During FY 
24, she also exercised 25,00,000 stock options out of the earlier tranche of 25,00,000 stock options 
granted to her in the FY 22 (with vesting period of 1 year and exercisable as per the terms of the 
Scheme) under the said Scheme. Accordingly, in addition to aforementioned remuneration, perquisite 
component of ` 41.59 cr. arising pursuant to exercise of these stock options, also forms part of her 
remuneration for the FY 24.
Further during the year under review, Dr. Rashmi Saluja exercised 75,69,685 stock options of 
Care Health Insurance Limited (formerly Religare Health Insurance Company Limited) (“Care”) out 
of the 2,27,11,327 stock options granted to her under Religare Health Insurance Employee Stock 
Option Scheme 2014 (”Care ESOP Scheme”) in FY 2022-23. Accordingly, in addition, the perquisite 
component of ` 13.15 cr. arising pursuant to exercise of these Care stock options, also forms part of 
her remuneration for the FY 24.
7
Shareholding 
in 
the 
Company
26,66,386 (0.81%) as on March 31, 2024
8
Shareholding 
in 
the 
Company as a beneficial 
owner
Nil
9
No. of Board Meetings 
attended during the year
In FY 2023-24, she has attended 8 (Eight ) out of 8(Eight) Board Meetings
10
Terms and Conditions of 
appointment
Dr. Rashmi Saluja will be Executive Chairperson of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.
11
Directorship held in other 
Companies as on date
1.	
Care Health Insurance Limited
2.	
Religare Finvest Limited
3.	
Religare Broking Limited
4.	
R&R Natural Resources Private Limited
5.	
Religare Care Foundation
6.	
Religare Digital Solutions Limited
7.	
MIC Insurance web Aggregator Private Limited
8.	
GTTCI Limited
16
Annual Report 2023-2024
12
Name of the listed entities 
from which He/She had 
resigned in the past three 
years
Nil
13
M e m b e r s h i p /
Chairmanship 
of 
Committees as on date:
Religare Finvest Limited
• 
Member
	
Audit Committee
	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
Loan /Investment and Borrowing Committee
	
Risk Management Committee
	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Share Allotment Committee
	
IT Strategy Committee
• 
Chairperson
	
Screening Committee for the identification of non-cooperative borrowers
	
Review Committee for the identification of non-cooperative borrowers
Care Health Insurance Limited
• 
Member
	
Audit Committee
	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
Allotment Committee
	
Investment Committee
	
Policyholders Protection Committee
	
Risk Management Committee
	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Initial Public Offering Committee
	
Stakeholder’s Relationship Committee
Religare Broking Limited
• 
Member
	
Audit Committee
	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
• 
Chairperson
	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Loan / Investment and Borrowing Committee
14
Relationship 
with 
other 
Directors/ Manager / KMP
No inter-se relationship between Dr. Rashmi Saluja and other Directors of the Company
15
Skills 
and 
Capabilities 
required for the role and 
the manner in which the 
proposed person meets 
such
Requirements
Industry knowledge/experience & Technical Expertise, Governance, Leadership, Strategic thinking 
and decision making, Personal Attributes/Behavioural competencies – Dr. Rashmi Saluja has 
demonstrated exceptional leadership skills since her joining on the Board and leading the revival of 
the organization from the front, through challenging times, to build Religare a strong and integrated 
financial services group. Under her leadership, the Company has progressed significantly despite the 
challenges and constraints before it and has created a blueprint to move ahead with the approval of 
the Regulators.
17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OVERCOMING ODDS:
ANNUAL REPORT
2023-24
THE RELIGARE
RESURGENCE
01
02
04
07
08
10
12
16
76
63
116
297
153
OVERCOMING ODDS:  
THE RELIGARE RESURGENCE
CORPORATE OVERVIEW: A JOURNEY 
IN TRANSITION
DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS SEGMENTS: 
REL'S PILLARS OF STRENGTH
MESSAGE FROM  
THE CHAIRPERSON
KEY HIGHLIGHTS:  
WHEN NUMBERS SPEAK
CORPORATE 
INFORMATION
LEADING THE RESILIENCE: 
REL'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION  
AND ANALYSIS
REPORT ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS
OVERCOMING ODDS:  
THE RELIGARE RESURGENCE
THEME INTRODUCTION
How do you assess resurgence?
Is it simply tackling a few challenges? Is it simply maintaining efficient 
uniformity? Or is it being equipped to take on any adversity?
For Religare Enterprises Limited (REL), resurgence lies in ‘doing’ 
despite challenges and continuing ‘business as usual’ in the face of 
adversities it encounters.
Over the past five years, REL has confronted challenges of various 
scales, including looming debt defaults, rapid turnover in senior 
management, investigation by multiple agencies and the near sale of 
all its businesses. Despite these hurdles, REL has emerged stronger, 
stabilising and reviving the Group, retaining its management, and 
raising growth capital.
This is where REL defines resurgence.
REL attributes its resurgence to strategic initiatives governing its 
core businesses — stockbroking, lending and health insurance. 
This strategic focus has stabilised its operations and set the stage 
for exponential growth.
In the case of Care Health Insurance Limited (CHIL), REL transformed 
the business from grappling with low Gross Written Premiums 
(GWP) and a solvency ratio on the brink of breach to becoming the 
fastest-growing and most efficient Standalone Health Insurance 
(SAHI) company. CHIL grew faster than the industry and garnered 
significant increase in GWP, with 262 branches and partnership with 
over 24,820 hospitals.
Furthermore, Religare Broking Limited (RBL) faced challenges such 
as a lack of credit lines and operational losses. Today, it has been 
revived, achieving a substantial increase in total income and profit 
before tax. It has also undergone a robust digital transformation, with 
75% of its acquisitions happening digitally.
Similarly, Religare Finvest Limited (RFL) marks a historic revival, 
transitioning from a complete cessation of lending to becoming 
debt-free after completing its One-Time Settlement (OTS), 
positioning the business for a strong comeback.
Moreover, Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (RHDFCL) sustained its affordable housing finance asset 
base and secured co-lending arrangements despite challenges 
such as the stoppage of fresh lending lines and the rollover of funds.
Today, REL is in the process of unlocking value to maximise the 
strength of all stakeholders and enhance shareholder value. As the 
Group advances, it is strategically positioned to capitalize on its 
business segments and seize new growth opportunities.
This embodies the remarkable transformation of REL's journey, the 
Religare Resurgence: RELIGARE 2.0. 
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
1
A JOURNEY IN  
TRANSITION 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Key Initiatives: 
Where REL Shines
REL is a Core Investment Company (CIC) with a significant 
presence across four verticals. The Group offers a strategically 
placed suite of financial services through its operating entities 
and underlying subsidiaries. REL is listed on the National 
Stock Exchange (NSE) and the BSE (formerly Bombay Stock 
Exchange).
The core Financial Services businesses 
managed through its subsidiaries are  
as follows:
Revamped Board, 
Governance 
Structure
Guided the Entire 
Group Through 
Testing Times
Recovery Efforts 
for Lending 
Business
Settled SEBI 
Investigations: 
Improved 
Governance
INSURANCE (Health & Travel): 
Insurance Policy Holders 
Care Health Insurance Limited
1 MILLION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE:
Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited
3 500 Customers
SME FINANCE NBFC:
Religare Finvest Limited
600 Customers 
RETAIL BROKING (Equity & Commodities): 
Broking Customers 
Religare Broking Limited
1 MILLION
IRDAI APPROVED WEB 
INSURANCE AGGREGATOR:
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited
Annual Report 2023-2024
2
FY24 Highlights
REL’s (CORE)porate 
Structure
Funded All 
Subsidiaries
Ring-Fenced & 
Saved Various  
Subsidiaries  
During Turmoil
~$ 2.5 Billion 
Value Created 
Over 4 Years
1.9 Lakh
₹ 369 Cr
#ACTIVE CLIENTS:
TOTAL REVENUE:
E-GOVERNANCE 
FRANCHISEES ~ 44 000
MONTHLY LEAD 
GENERATION OF ~ 2 200
MIC WEB
AGGREGATOR
RFL
AUM
₹ 1 561 Cr
RHDFCL
₹ 282 Cr
GDPI: 
₹ 6 864 Cr
MARKET SHARE:
6.1 %
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
3
REL'S PILLARS 
OF STRENGTH
DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS SEGMENTS:
Care Health Insurance  
Limited: Standby in Sickness 
and in Health
Care Health Insurance Limited was incorporated in 2012 as 
Religare Enterprises’ subsidiary and was renamed in August 2020. 
It specialises in a range of health insurance products designed for 
families and individuals, OPD plans, cancer/critical illness insurance, 
heart insurance, etc. CHIL boasts of cashless claims approvals within 
two hours. Also, with over 19,000+ healthcare providers under its 
cashless network, CHIL assures swift medical treatment and services 
through its products. These include home care, diagnostics, doctor 
consultations, wellness services and preventive health check-ups.
Key FY24 Highlights
Gross Written Premium (GWP) for FY24 stood at ₹ 7,022 Crore, 
marking a 34% increase
The Claims Ratio increased to 58% in FY24, up by 400 bps
The Investment Yield was 7.1%, with the investment 
book valued at ₹6,633 Crore
The Combined Ratio rose to 95% in FY24, an increase of 
300 bps
The Solvency Ratio declined to 1.74 in FY24, down from  
1.82 in the previous year
The Expense of Management Ratio declined to 36.2% in FY24,  
down from 38.9% in FY23
PBT for FY24 was ₹ 410 Crore, reflecting a 25% increase
Annual Report 2023-2024
4
Religare Broking Limited: 
Prominence in Versatility 
Religare Broking Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Religare 
Enterprises Limited, is a prominent player in the Indian securities 
market, catering to over 1 million clients through both offline and 
online platforms. RBL provides a comprehensive range of services, 
including broking in equity, currency, commodities (via its subsidiary, 
Religare Commodities Limited) and depository participant services. 
RBL is a registered member of the NSE, BSE and MSEI and serves 
as a depository participant with NSDL and CDSL.
Key FY24 Highlights
PAT: ₹ 33 Crore, up by 247%
Total Income: ₹ 369 Crore, up by 28%
Fresh credit ratings by CRISIL: Short-Term A3+ and Long-Term 
BBB/Stable
E-Gov Revenue: Increased to ₹ 44 Crore in FY24 from ₹ 32 Crore, 
up by 37%
Average Daily Turnover: ₹ 16,070 Crore for FY24, up by 72%
Religare Finvest Limited: 
Stabilising India’s SMEs
Religare Finvest Limited, a key subsidiary of Religare Enterprises 
Limited, operates as a Non-Deposit-Taking, Systemically important 
Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC). With an extensive branch 
network and ISO 9001:2008 certification, RFL is dedicated to 
fuelling the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), which 
are integral to India’s economy. 
The Company specialises in SME financing, retail capital market 
financing and corporate loans, offering secured and unsecured 
lending solutions tailored to each customer’s unique needs. 
Emphasising a cluster-based lending approach, RFL is focused 
on creating a Direct to Customer (D2C) distribution model within 
targeted geographies, reinforcing its role as a critical provider of 
growth capital to India’s SMEs.
Key FY24 Highlights
CRAR improved to 115% as of March 2024, compared to 49% in 
March 2023
Net worth as of March 2024 is ₹ 740 Crore
Became debt-free during FY24
Loan book stands at ₹ 1,523 Crore
Over ₹ 9,200 Crore repaid to the Banking System
Successfully completed the One-Time Settlement (OTS) with all 
lenders, including those holding Non-Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs) and others
Removal of the fraud tag by the State Bank of India, Bank of 
Maharashtra, Union Bank of India and Central Fraud Registry
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
5
MIC Insurance Web Aggrega-
tor Private Limited:  
Strengthening Insurance  
Offerings
Religare Housing 
Development  
Finance Corporation 
Limited: Putting a Roof over 
the Unaddressed
Given its high-risk parameter, India’s informal sector remains 
significantly underserved by the larger financial institutions. 
This is where RHDFCL comes into play. RHDFCL is a Housing 
Finance Company that caters to the underserved, informal and 
low-income segments through its offerings. These include home 
improvement, purchase and construction loans supplemented 
by a well-rounded underwriting framework. RHDFCL’s loans are 
directed across semi-urban and urban India through its robust 
differentiated services. 
The insurance industry in India has experienced rapid growth in 
recent years, driven by increasing digitisation and a surge in 
InsurTech startups. Many companies are expanding their offerings 
through strategic acquisitions. In December 2023, REL announced 
the completion of a significant acquisition, acquiring a 100% equity 
stake in MIC Insurance Web Aggregator from IGEAR Holdings 
of The Indian Express Group. As a result, MIC has become a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of REL. This acquisition marks a crucial 
step in REL's growth trajectory and advances its digital evolution, 
positioning the Company for future success in the evolving 
insurance landscape.
Key FY24 Highlights
Prioritises affordable housing loans for low-income earners, 
first-time homebuyers,and the self-employed in small businesses
₹ 282 Crore AUM 
Forged strategic co-lending partnerships with a reputed housing 
finance company and an NBFC
Key FY24 Highlights
1.2 Million Unique Visitors
Monthly Lead Generation: ~2,200
Strategic Advantage for the REL Group
Annual Report 2023-2024
6
THE CHAIRPERSON
Dear Shareholders,
In the face of global geopolitical challenges that disrupted demand, 
escalated fuel prices, and strained foreign exchange rates, India 
has demonstrated remarkable resilience, maintaining its growth 
momentum. With stable macroeconomic conditions, a strong 
global perception, and a resilient currency, India stands out as 
an attractive destination for investors. Additionally, the banking 
sector has witnessed a significant turnaround, with asset quality 
improving and the Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPA) ratio 
dropping to its lowest level in a decade. These factors collectively 
highlight the robustness of India’s economic framework and the 
effectiveness of its growth strategies.
Our financial performance in FY24 reflects the strength of our 
business platform and our strategic positioning within the financial 
services industry. With a robust total income of ` 6,299 Crore in 
FY24, up from ` 4,863 Crore in FY23, we have demonstrated 
significant growth. This achievem+ent underscores our ability 
to capitalize on the vast, untapped opportunities within the 
sector. The remarkable increase in our income is a testament to 
the effectiveness of our strategies and the solid foundation we 
have built.
We are pleased to report that during the year, we have strategically 
expanded our business portfolio by acquiring MIC Insurance 
Web Aggregator, making it a wholly-owned subsidiary of Religare 
Enterprises Limited (REL). This acquisition aligns with our 
commitment to strengthening our presence in the insurance sector. 
MIC Insurance Web is an IRDAI-registered entity that we believe will 
contribute significantly to our growth trajectory.
In addition, we have successfully ring-fenced and supported our 
various subsidiaries through challenging times, ensuring their 
stability and growth. Our commitment to funding all subsidiaries has 
MESSAGE FROM
yielded impressive results across the board. Notably, Care Health 
Insurance Limited (CHIL) recorded a Profit Before Tax (PBT) of ₹ 410 
Crore, reflecting a 25% increase. Religare Broking Limited (RBL) also 
saw remarkable growth, with an average daily turnover of ₹ 16,000 
Crore for FY24, marking a 76% rise.
Moreover, it is with pleasure we announce that Religare Finvest 
Limited (RFL) has successfully completed the One-Time Settlement 
(OTS) payment of ₹ 2,178 Crore to 16 lenders. Notably, we made 
the full payment of ₹ 400 Crore well ahead of the three-month 
deadline stipulated in the agreement. As per the OTS agreement, 
RFL has received No-Dues Certificates (NDC) from these lenders. 
Additionally, RFL has repaid the Inter Corporate Loan of REL and has 
been a debt-free company since February 2024.
At REL, our approach to risk mitigation and governance is integral 
to our strategy. We focus on identifying, assessing, and mitigating 
potential economic, regulatory, or industry-specific risks that 
could impact our operations, financial performance, sustainability, 
and reputation. 
In the face of these challenges, the Board remains committed 
to prioritising long-term growth, stakeholder engagement, and 
value creation. This unwavering commitment has driven both the 
Board and management to work tirelessly towards revitalising and 
expanding our operations, all while upholding the highest standards 
of corporate governance. Our relentless efforts, coupled with 
continuous and strategic engagement with our lenders, have yielded 
positive outcomes that are crucial at this critical juncture. We deeply 
appreciate the support of our stakeholders as we navigate these 
transformative times, ensuring that we create lasting value for 
all involved.
Furthermore, REL will concentrate on maximising the value of our 
active customer base while driving large-scale customer acquisition 
through strategic partnerships. We are also committed to leveraging 
technology to enhance revenue per customer, improve customer 
experiences, optimise costs, and build robust, scalable systems.
As we advance towards our vision of transforming the Religare 
Group into a comprehensive, 360-degree financial services 
conglomerate, I extend my heartfelt gratitude to our shareholders, 
regulators, lenders, customers, and all other stakeholders for their 
unwavering trust and support.
With Best Regards, 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja  
Executive Chairperson
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
7
WHEN NUMBERS SPEAK
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS:
REVENUE 
₹ 6 299 Cr
EPS₹ 0.08
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
₹ 217 Cr
NET WORTH 
₹ 2 343.14 Cr
•	
EPS as per Audited Financial Statement for FY2024 stood at ` 7.13 
respectively after taking into consideration the exceptional item.
•	
PBT as per Audited Financial Statement for FY2024 stood at ` 448 
Crore after taking into consideration the exceptional item.
8
Annual Report 2023-2024
REL’S RESURGENT JOURNEY
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
*	
EPS as per Audited Financial Statement for FY2023 and FY2024 stood at ` 96.06 and ` 7.13 respectively after taking into consideration 
the exceptional item.
	
PBT as per Audited Financial Statement for FY2023 and FY2024 stood at ` 3,259 Crore and ` 448 Crore respectively after taking into 
consideration the exceptional item.
₹ 6 901
`492
`2,270
`4,151
`4,692
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2024
Market Cap (` in Crore)
₹ 2 343
`101
`- 47
`- 982
`2,058 
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2024
0.08
`- 39.55
`- 19.65
`- 51.33
`- 6.47*
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2024
Net Worth (` in Crore)
Earnings Per Share (`)
`2,397
Revenue (` in Crore)
₹ 217* 
`-31*  
`-1,031* 
`- 497* 
`-1,030* 
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2024
Profit Before Tax (` in Crore)
FY2020
₹ 6 299
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
`2,530
`3,372
`4,863 
FY2024
9
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Dr. Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson, Religare 
Enterprises Limited (REL)
Executive Chairperson
Dr. Rashmi Saluja brings a multidisciplinary background to corporate 
leadership, holding advanced degrees including an MBBS, MD, LLB, 
PhD, and an MBA in Finance. Since 2018, she has been the driving 
force behind the transformative journey of Religare Enterprises 
Limited (REL). 
Dr. Saluja has worked closely with an independent and experienced 
Board to uplifting corporate governance standards guiding the 
organization through complex regulatory landscapes. Her strategic 
approach has focused on preserving and enhancing stakeholder 
value while systematically rebuilding and revitalizing the Religare 
Group during critical periods.
Her medical background distinguishes her leadership style, 
seamlessly integrating healthcare principles of precision, 
compassion, and systematic problem-solving. This distinctive 
approach has been particularly effective in diagnosing and 
addressing complex organizational challenges.
Dr. Saluja has taken up several social initiatives to enhance welfare 
measures. Her leadership extends beyond corporate achievements, 
with a commitment to delivering social impact through the Religare 
Care Foundation across key areas such as: 
REL'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
LEADING THE RESURGENCE:
Health and Rehabilitation:
-	
During the pandemic, Religare collaborated with Sir Gangaram 
Kolmet Hospital to establish three Covid-care centres 
specifically for Delhi Police personnel and their families, 
providing critical medical support during the challenging 
healthcare crisis.
-	
In 2022, Religare took over the complete rehabilitation of Vinod 
Gupta, a triple amputee. Today, with Religare’s help, Vinod is 
back on his two feet and back to work, leading a fruitful life. 
-	
In August 2023, Religare and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) 
partnered with the Arunachal Pradesh Government to establish 
a Centre of Excellence for Renal Sciences at the Tomo Riba 
Institute of Health & Medical Sciences (TRIHMS) situated at 
Naharlagun town. This tripartite agreement aimed to transform 
the state into a healthcare services hub, involving renal 
transplant operations, medical training, specialist posting of a 
nephrologist from SGRH, and empanelment of SGRH under the 
Chief Minister Arunachal Pradesh Arogya Yojana (CMAAY). 
Education:
-	
In 2021, Religare partnered with Ucch Prathmik Vidyalaya 
in Nandgaon, Mathura District, Uttar Pradesh, completely 
transforming the 80-year-old school. The school now boasts 
a modernized infrastructure, providing an enhanced learning 
environment for approximately 300 students.
10
Annual Report 2023-2024
-	
In September2022, Religare supported Prem Mahavidhyalaya in 
Mathura to revive and expand the school, adding classrooms, a 
library, and science labs. The project meticulously preserved the 
school's heritage, including restoring the temple block, recreating 
murals, and developing a museum dedicated to the founder of 
the school, freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Ji.
-	
Religare signed an MoU with the Army Wives Welfare 
Association (AWWA) in November 2023 to upgrade and 
modernize Asha Schools for differently-abled children across 
six cities - New Delhi, Pune, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Secunderabad 
and Udhampur. The initiative encompasses infrastructure 
improvements, curriculum development, faculty training, and 
comprehensive student support which includes medical, 
nutritional, transportation, vocational guidance, placement and 
internship assistance.
Skill development programmes/Special Training:
-	
In January 2023, Religare partnered with the Sapna 
Foundation to establish a skill development centre for 
underprivileged women in and around Nithari Village, Noida. 
fostering self-reliance through training and a student-operated 
boutique under expert guidance.
Sports:
-	
Religare joined forces with the Yogeshwar Dutt Sports & 
Education Trust run by Olympic medal winner and Padma Shri 
awardee, Shri Yogeshwar Dutt to create a world-class sports 
facility in Rohtak, featuring a 150-bed hostel for 300 young 
wrestlers aged 5 to 25, preparing them for the global stage.
Dr Saluja has personally spearheaded these initiatives from the fore 
front just like she has led the company, demonstrating her vision, 
commitment to building a stronger society and compassion to help 
people in need.
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha has done his B.A. (Hons) and M.A. from Delhi 
University in Humanities and M. Phil from Madras University in 
Strategic Studies.
He started his career as an Executive in TISCO, Jamshedpur and in 
1981, joined the Indian Police Service. After serving in UP Police and 
IB, MHA, in different capacities, both in India and abroad, he worked 
as Joint Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs and finally as 
Secretary Security, Cabinet Secretariat, Rashtrapati Bhawan, from 
where he superannuated in September 2016.
He is an alumnus of FBI National Academy, Quantico, Virginia, USA 
and National Defence College, New Delhi. As Joint Secretary in the 
MEA he had led the evacuation of Indians in Bengazi area from the 
sea during the war in Libya in 2011. He has been a keen sportsperson 
and was Secretary of All India Police Sports Control Board for several 
years. He is a recipient of Police Medal for Meritorious Service and 
President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.
Being from the Indian Police Services, he has dealt with various 
matters related to Information Technologies (IT) such as Cyber Fraud, 
Cyber Securities on different matters, monitoring of Social Media 
matters including IT hardware and Software matters thereto, for more 
than a decade. Currently, he is the Chairman of Delhi Gymkhana Club 
Ltd, as a Government of India nominee.
11
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Tripathi started his career as a lecturer of political science from 
Lucknow University from January 1976 to July 1977 and joined 
the Indian Administrative Services in the year 1977 and is a retired 
IAS officer. During his illustrious career, as an IAS officer, spanning 
over 40 years in public service 1977 to December 2017, (including 
5 years as Chairman - Public Grievances Commission & Police 
Complaints Authority), he held various key senior positions at State 
and Centre level such as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Govt. 
of NCT Delhi; Chief Secretary – Govt. of NCT Delhi; Joint Secretary 
- Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India; Director 
- Indian Institute of Mass Communication; CEO - Delhi Jal Board, 
NCT Delhi; Commissioner Sales Tax - NCT Delhi; Development 
Commissioner & Chief Electoral Officer - A&N Islands; Director 
Total Literacy Campaign (National Literacy Mission) - Department of 
Education, Ministry of HRD; Commissioner Land - Delhi Development 
Authority; Commissioner Excise & Entertainment Tax – NCT Delhi; 
Secretary - New Delhi Municipal Committee; Deputy Commissioner 
and Secretary to Lt. Governor in Arunachal Pradesh etc. He has 
also been on the Board / Governing Council of Indraprastha Apollo 
Hospital, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, TATA Power Ltd., BSES 
Rajdhani Power Ltd., BSES Yamuna Power Ltd., Institute of Biliary 
and Livery Sciences, Delhi, and National Law School, Delhi.
Dynamism and human approach are the hallmark of his persona. 
He is known as committed professional having rich and varied 
experience. He has successful leadership and governance abilities, 
expertise in management and administrative matters, project 
execution and operational matters. His firm and tactful handling of 
sensitive and tricky issues has seen the organisation, with which he 
was associated, emerge a winner at all times.
Mr. Tripathi is a post graduate in political science from Allahabad 
University and a Gold Medalist for securing highest marks in political 
science at under-graduate level in the University.
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Non- Executive Independent Director
Mr. Hamid Ahmed, born in New Delhi, India, in 1977, did schooling 
from St. Columba’s School New Delhi. In 1998, he completed B.A. 
(Eco.) from Delhi University. He started his career as a Trustee of 
Hamdard Laboratories India after getting his M.B.A. from London, 
U.K in 2000. He was appointed as a Trustee by his grandfather and 
the founder of Jamia Hamdard Late Hakeem Abdul Hameed in 1995.
He took over as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Hamdard 
Laboratories India (HLI) in 2016, holding reins of the organisation 
he joined in 2000. With his dynamic spirit and leadership abilities, as 
CEO of HLI, he is a professional with valuable experience to steer the 
company ahead in its growth plans. With a career spanning over 24 
years’, he has travelled widely across India and abroad and handled 
diverse portfolios that have helped him understand the dynamics of 
the Unani and Food industries. He is well-versed in the intricacies of 
India’s regional diversities and consumer needs. 
Mr. Hamid Ahmed has also served as a Chancellor of Jamia 
Hamdard, a Deemed to be University. Mr. Ahmed is an eminent 
business personality based in New Delhi. He currently serves as the 
Chief Executive Officer and Trustee of Hamdard Laboratories India – 
Foods Division. In addition, he is serving as Founder and President 
of Unani Drug Manufacturers Association (UDMA). 
As a member of Hamdard National Foundation (India) – HECA, 
Hamid Ahmed has been a distinguished philanthropist who has 
worked diligently on education, charitable activities and upliftment 
of the poor sections of society.
As a member of Business and Employment Bureau, Hamid 
Ahmed has worked extensively in the area of skill development 
and employment opportunities for the backward classes and 
economically weaker sections. 
In 2022, he was felicitated by the Rotary Club of Delhi South, with 
the prestigious Paul Harris Fellow, for his services to the community, 
including a tree plantation drive, facilitating 42,000 vaccinations in 
two centres in Delhi and for Holistic Health Camps for COVID care 
for the society.
12
Annual Report 2023-2024
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi has a long and varied career of 46 years in a 
range of organizations. Starting as a Consultant with the Ministry of 
Industry, Govt. of India, he joined the Indian Police Service in 1979 
where he superannuated in 2016 as Director General of Police.
Besides Law Enforcement, he also worked as Special Secretary 
to the Governor of UP during President’s Rule assisting in the 
supervision of more than a dozen departments of the Government 
of UP. He was with the LBS National Academy of Administration 
Mussoorie for more than four years, training Civil Servants besides 
coordinating the Management Faculty with teaching interest in 
Finance and Project Management.
He spent a decade with UN organisations. Starting with WHO 
Headquarters, Geneva, in the Department of Resource Mobilization 
in 1999, he raised funds from international institutions, governments, 
private sector, and foundations globally for health initiatives across 
the world. Later he was the focal point for eHealth and Technical 
Advisor with UNAIDS in India.
Currently, he is engaged in various Boards and other positions in 
public institutions viz. Institute of Medical Sciences, National Human 
Rights Commissions, etc.
After a B.A (Hons) in Economics from St Stephen’s College, he 
completed his MBA from IIM Ahmedabad and mid-career, did 
follow-up academic work at Columbia University, New York.
He speaks Hindi, Urdu, English, and French.
He is a recipient of several awards including the President of India’s 
Police Medal for Meritorious Service.
He is keenly interested in promotion and conservation of heritage, 
cultural tourism and mountaineering.
Ms. Preeti Madan
Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Preeti Madan currently serves as a Regional Council member 
representing India Water Partnership (IWP) which is a part of 
the Global Water Partnership, an international network to foster 
integrated approach to water resource management. She served 
as independent Director on the board of WAPCOS Ltd. for three 
years upto July 2022. 
She is also an Honorary adviser to the Indus Action, a voluntary 
organisation for under-privileged children.
An alumnus of the Lady Shriram College (BA Eco Hons: 1975-78) 
and the Delhi School of Economics (Masters in Economics: 1978-80), 
she joined the Indian Economic Service in 1981 and served in 
positions of increasing responsibility in State/ UT Governments 
and the Central Government. She acquired a Post Graduate Diploma 
in Management (1997- 99) from Concordia University (Montreal, 
Canada) during the course of her career.
During her long experience in government that included heading 
delegations and multidisciplinary committees, she interacted with 
stakeholders including industry associations/ federations at top 
levels. She was involved in formulation and implementation of policy 
relating to Infrastructure (DEA), Industrial Promotion (DIPP), and in 
bilateral and multilateral negotiations in the Financial Services sector.
Ms. Madan brings onboard a gender perspective through her diverse 
experiences in related sectors. She was posted as Joint Secretary 
in the Ministry of Woman and Child Development and served 
as a Member Secretary to the National Commission for Women 
(September 2015 to December 2016) at Additional Secretary level.
She superannuated from the Government service as the 
Principal Economic Adviser, Department of Industrial Policy & 
Promotion, where she dealt with issues relating to industrial 
policy, including fiscal and investment matters. During this period 
Ms. Madan co-chaired the Task Force on Make in India and Transfer 
of Technology for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Project 
(MAHSR) in Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion.
13
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
RECOGNITIONS OF RESILIENCE
Care Health Insurance Ltd.
Religare Broking Ltd.
Smart Insurer Award
The 10th Annual Insurance Summit & Awards 2023
Amiable Insurer Award
The 10th Annual Insurance Summit & Awards 2023
Best Health Insurance Company in Rural Sector
India Insurance Summit & Awards 2024
Claims Service Leader of the Year
India Insurance Summit & Awards 2024
Leading Member - Base Metals
MCX Awards 2023
Most Preferred Workplace
BFSI Marksmen Daily, 2023-2024
Appreciation Award - 2023
Home-Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 
(PFRDA) 2023
14
Annual Report 2023-2024
CORPORATE INFORMATION 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja  
(Executive Chairperson)
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
Mr. Hamid Ahmed 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENT: 
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY: 
AUDITORS:
HDFC Bank Limited 
Axis Bank Limited
M/s. S.P. Chopra & Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
31-F, Connaught Place, New Delhi - 110001
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Hyderabad, Telangana - 500032
REGISTERED OFFICE: 
CORPORATE OFFICE: 
HEAD OFFICE: 
1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 
43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019 
Phone: +91– 11– 4472 5676
Plot No. A – 3, 4 & 5, Club – 125, 
Tower B, Sector – 125, Noida U.P. - 201301 
Phone: +91– 120-635 5040
Max House, 8th floor, Block A, 
Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase III, 
Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi – 110020 
Phone: +91– 11– 4739 2500
CIN NO: L74899DL1984PLC146935
E-mail: investorservices@religare.com
Website: www.religare.com
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
Ms. Preeti Madan 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
15
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
To,
The Members,
Religare Enterprises Limited
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting this 40th Annual Report 
on the business and operations of the Company together with 
Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024.
STATE OF AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY
The past year has demonstrated the substantial progress achieved 
by the Company, a testament to the concerted efforts of the 
Board and management over the past 5-6 years. These efforts 
have led the Company to a position of stability, emerging from the 
past irregularities and legacy issues left behind by the erstwhile 
promoters and management, who exited in 2018.
Religare Finvest Limited (RFL), REL’s wholly-owned subsidiary which 
bore the brunt of legacy issues has now settled all its obligations 
with both its secured and unsecured lenders, and has become 
debt free. Additionally, steps have been taken to request RBI to lift 
the Corrective Action Plan (CAP) imposed by RBI on RFL in 2018 
so that the company can recommence its business operations. 
Meanwhile, the Company’s other three business segments - 
health insurance, broking and housing finance have continued 
to be consistently profitable and are growing. Furthermore, the 
Company completed the acquisition of a Mumbai based insurance 
web aggregator during the year, aligning with its strategic goal 
of expanding its financial service footprint and enhancing its 
capabilities to provide comprehensive 360° financial services.
While the Board and management were charting a course towards 
new horizons for the Company, the Burman group, the largest single 
shareholder, initiated an open offer to the public shareholders in 
Directors’ Report
September 2023. The Board welcomed this open offer, viewing 
it as a positive reflection of the Company’s robust business 
foundation. They believed the offer could serve as a catalyst for 
further strengthening the Company’s position and achieving greater 
industry heights under the Acquirers’ leadership and control.
In accordance with the prescribed process for the open offer, the 
Board constituted a Committee of Independent Directors (COID). 
However, the COID discovered certain facts, complaints, FIRs 
and potential links to the former promoters raising concern about 
the Acquirers’ Fit and Proper status for this open offer. The COID 
promptly reported these issues to various sectoral regulators, 
requesting for an investigation.
For brevity, details of the subsequent developments are outlined 
in the Major Development section of this report. The Company 
and its subsidiaries submitted the necessary applications for prior 
approval for change in control, management and shareholding to 
the relevant regulators in July 2024, and these developments are 
being closely monitored.
The Board and management, mindful of the interests of the 
Company’s various stakeholders, remain committed to acting in the 
best interest of the Company and its stakeholders. They will adhere 
to all relevant regulatory guidance and procedural requirements. 
With ongoing co-operation and support from various stakeholders, 
we will continue to build trust and create long-term value and will 
strive to achieve new milestones in the future.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
The highlights of standalone and consolidated financial performance 
of the Company for the financial years 2023-24 and 2022-23 are 
as under:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the financial year 2023-2024
For the financial year 2022-2023
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Total Income* 
2,524.24
6,29,925.87
5,654.17
4,86,322.98
Total Expenditure
9,711.79
 6,08,191.83
7,164.00
4,89,400.76
Profit / (Loss) Before Tax
(7,187.55)
21,734.04
(1,509.83)
(3,077.78)
Exceptional Items
-
23,034.62
-
3,28,941.07
Profit / (Loss) Before Tax After Exceptional Items
(7,187.55)
44,768.66
(1,509.83)
3,25,863.29
Share in Profit / (Loss) of Joint Ventures
-
-
-
-
Profit / (Loss) Before Tax
(7,187.55)
44,768.66
(1,509.83)
3,25,863.29
Income Tax Expense/ (Credit)
(652.18)
10,027.49
(2.96)
9,001.56
Profit / (Loss) After Tax
(6,535.37)
34,741.17
(1,506.87)
3,16,861.73
16
Annual Report 2023-2024
Particulars
For the financial year 2023-2024
For the financial year 2022-2023
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Other Comprehensive Income
(46.93)
5,442.05
(0.49)
(7,649.86)
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year 
(6,582.30)
40,183.22
(1,507.36)
3,09,211.87
Less: Share of Non- Controlling Interest
-
13,514.54
-
6,003.74
Total Comprehensive Income (after tax and non-controlling 
interest)
(6,582.30)
26,668.68
(1,507.36)
3,03,208.13
* Consolidated Income is excluding the Exceptional Item, reported separately.
 (i) 	 Consolidated Performance
	
We recorded a Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax (after exceptional item) 
of ` 44,768.66 Lakhs for FY 24 as compared to Profit / (Loss) 
Before Tax (after exceptional item) of ` 3,25,863.29 Lakhs, for 
FY23. Profit/(Loss) After Tax was ` 34,741.17 Lakhs for FY24 
as compared to Profit/(Loss) After Tax of ` 3,16,861.73 Lakhs 
for FY23. Total Comprehensive Income / (Loss) attributable to 
the Owner of the Company for FY24 is ` 26,668.68 Lakhs as 
compared to ` 3,03,208.13 Lakhs in FY23. Basic earnings per 
share decreased to ` 7.13 in FY24 from ` 96.06 in FY23.
(ii) 	 Standalone Performance
	
We recorded a Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax of ` (7,187.55) 
Lakhs for FY24 as compared to a Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax 
of ` (1,509.83) Lakhs for FY23. Profit/ (Loss) After Tax was 
` (6,535.37) Lakhs for FY24 as compared to Profit/ (Loss) After 
Tax of ` (1,506.87) Lakhs for FY23. Total Comprehensive 
Income / (Loss) for FY24 is ` (6,582.30) Lakhs as compared 
to ` (1,507.36) Lakhs in FY23. Basic earnings per share 
decreased to ` (1.98) in FY24 from ` (0.47) in FY23.
 (iii) 	Operating Performance of Businesses
	
Our Health Insurance business, Care Health Insurance 
Limited (“CHIL”), in which REL holds a 62.98% equity stake as 
on March 31, 2024, registered a Gross Written Premium of 
` 7,02,193 Lakhs a growth of 34% over the previous financial 
year; which reported a Gross Written Premium of ` 5,23,769 
Lakhs. As of March 31, 2024, CHIL has established a Pan-India 
distribution network of 262 branches. It services over 1,465+ 
locations across the Country and providing health services 
through a network of 24,820+ hospitals and healthcare 
centres. It offers 42 products to cater to varied customer 
needs. CHIL has a differentiated service offering for corporate 
businesses, like wellness programs & preventive health 
check-up, thereby helping in negotiating better premiums and 
for improved customer stickiness. It follows a multi-channel 
distribution strategy through individual agents, corporate 
agents, brokers, bancassurance and online; and its major 
focus is on retail and SME customers.
In our Broking business, the average daily turnover (ADTO) of 
Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”) a wholly-owned subsidiary, 
has increased by 72% to `16,07,034.60 Lakhs in FY24 and 
has been showing an increasing trend year-on-year. RBL cash 
volumes, supported by market growth surged nearly 31% leading 
to an increase in core income, i.e., brokerage income (up from 
` 16,188.81 Lakhs in FY23 to ` 20,217.56 Lakhs in FY24). 
The management is undertaking several initiatives to generate 
scale-based growth and regain the lost market share in the retail 
brokerage space and other allied services. Also, RBL reported 
substantial growth in e-governance franchisees. In FY24, the total 
number of franchisees for e-governance business increased from 
26,929 in FY23 to 43,823 (up 63% YoY). RBL shifted its strategy for 
client acquisition via increased focus on quality rather than quantity. 
RBL acquired 45 thousand new customers during FY24 against 58 
thousand in FY23. The consolidated total revenue of RBL and its 
subsidiary Religare Commodities Limited went up from ` 29,168.53 
Lakhs to ` 36,974.62 Lakhs in FY24. The consolidated profitability 
reported after tax and other comprehensive income is ` 3,886.98 
Lakhs in FY24 (FY23 ` 1,479.40 Lakhs).
In the Lending business, our wholly-owned subsidiary Religare 
Finvest Limited (“RFL”) which is an NBFC in the Middle Layer, 
registered with RBI as a non-deposit taking, systemically important 
Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI). RFL’s business is 
focused on providing loans to Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to 
enable them to enhance their productive capacity and throughput. 
It is amongst the first NBFCs in India to focus on this segment, 
having started the business in 2008. During 2016, RFL had grown 
to build a peak business book of over ` 16,000 Crore to become 
one of the largest SME financing platforms in India. Currently, RFL 
has an employee base of over 178 professionals and 11 branches 
pan India. As on March 31, 2024, SME-Finance constituted over 
35% of RFL’s lending business. RFL’s SME loan book has decreased 
from ` 1,11,204 Lakhs as on March 31, 2023 to ` 52,600 Lakhs 
on March 31, 2024 due to the CAP imposed by RBI and no fresh 
business being sourced.
RFL’s 
subsidiary, 
Religare 
Housing 
Development 
Finance 
Corporation Limited (“RHDFCL”) focuses on providing affordable 
housing finance to low-income segment customers, particularly 
those engaged in informal sectors, in urban and semi-urban areas 
17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
of the Country. The total book stands at ` 21,414 Lakhs as on 
March 31, 2024 in accordance with Ind-AS while the total income 
and PAT after OCI for the financial year were respectively ` 4,333 
Lakhs and ` 20.0 Lakhs. The average ticket size for the home loans 
has been around ` 10.68 Lakhs. RHDFCL has a pan India presence 
with a network of 26 branches. RHDFCL has maintained profitability 
since becoming a part of the Religare group in 2009. To position 
itself as a future-ready company, RHDFCL aims to maximize 
digitization in its processes and is working towards enabling an 
efficient workforce.
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”), a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of REL, acquired in December 2023 
is an IRDAI approved insurance web aggregator founded in 
2009. MIC facilitates comparison of insurance products for Car, 
Two-Wheeler, Health, and Life (Term & Investment Plans) and their 
purchase online. It is considered as one of India’s Top 5 insurance 
web aggregators by monthly unique visitors, operational for the 
past 15 years. It has a database of 2 million insurance customers. 
The Company is evaluating various opportunities to grow this 
business.
CHANGE IN NATURE OF BUSINESS
During the year under review, there was no change in the nature of 
business of the Company.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
REPORT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report for the year under 
review detailing economic scenario and outlook, as stipulated 
under Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”) is 
presented in a separate section and forms an integral part of this 
Report.
DIVIDEND AND RESERVES
The Company has not declared dividend for conserving reserves 
for growth purposes.
However, the members may please note that the Reserve Bank of 
India (“RBI”) vide its letter dated April 05, 2019 has advised the 
Company to stop paying dividends till further orders from RBI and 
has continued that restriction vide its letter dated December 19, 
2019.
The Company has in place a board-approved a Dividend Distribution 
Policy (“the Policy”) pursuant to the requirement under the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. A copy of the same has been uploaded on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed through the link i.e. Religare_
Dividend_Distribution_Policy_2024.pdf
SUBSIDIARIES & JOINT VENTURES
As at March 31, 2024, your Company has 23 direct and indirect 
subsidiaries. During the year under review, the businesses of the 
Company and its subsidiaries and changes, if any, have been 
explained elsewhere in this report and Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis Report.
Following changes took place in the subsidiaries of the Company 
during the year under review:
S. 
No.
Name of the Company / 
Subsidiary
Remarks
1
Religare Comtrade Limited
Ceased to be subsidiaries 
(due to merger with the 
Company w.e.f. June 28, 2023 
pursuant to the Composite 
Scheme 
of 
Arrangement 
approved by Hon’ble NCLT, 
Delhi vide Order dated June 
15, 2023
2
Religare Insurance Limited
3
Religare Advisors Limited
4
Religare Business Solutions 
Limited
5
Religare 
Global 
Asset 
Management, Inc. (RGAM 
Inc.)
Stands 
dissolved 
w.e.f. 
October 09, 2023 as per 
the report of the search 
conducted and received by 
the Company on December 
27, 2023
6
MIC 
Insurance 
Web 
Aggregator Private Limited
Became 
wholly 
owned 
subsidiary 
pursuant 
to 
completion 
of 
acquisition 
of 100 % equity stake on 
December 8, 2023
As at March 31, 2024, your Company has a joint venture viz. 
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited in which the 
Company holds 50% share capital.
In terms of Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), your 
Company has prepared a statement containing the salient features 
of the Financial Statements of our subsidiaries & joint venture in 
the prescribed format AOC-1 which is attached to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company. The said statement contains 
a report on the performance and financial position of each of the 
subsidiaries and hence is not repeated here for the sake of brevity. 
Further, the details of major subsidiaries of the Company and their 
business operations during the year under review are covered in 
the Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report.
MAJOR EVENTS / UPDATES
1.	
Open Offer to the shareholders of the Company
	
The Company has received the Public Announcement 
dated September 25, 2023 about the Open Offer to the 
Public Shareholders of the Company on behalf of M.B. 
18
Annual Report 2023-2024
Finmart Private Limited (“Acquirer 1”), Puran Associates 
Private Limited (“Acquirer 2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 3”), and Milky Investment & Trading Company 
(“Acquirer 4”) (hereinafter the “Acquirers”), for the acquisition 
of upto 9,00,42,541 fully paid-up equity shares of face value 
of ` 10/- each from the public shareholders of the Company 
representing 26.00% of the Expanded Voting Share Capital of 
the Company. The Open Offer has been made pursuant to and 
in compliance with Regulations 3(1) and 4 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and subsequent amendments 
thereto (“SAST Regulations”), subject to necessary statutory 
and regulatory approvals. The Detailed Public Statement 
dated October 03, 2023 has been published by the Acquirers 
on October 04, 2023, and the Draft Letter of Offer has been 
submitted by the Acquirers with SEBI on October 11, 2023.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 
October 09, 2023 constituted a Committee of Independent 
Directors (“Committee” / “COID”) as required under Regulation 
26(6) of SAST Regulations. The Committee is mandated to 
provide its written reasoned recommendations on the open 
offer to the shareholders of the target company publishing the 
same as per Regulation 26(7) of the SAST Regulations at an 
appropriate time.
2.	
Regulatory / Statutory approvals for change of 
shareholding / control / management
	
The Acquirers have received the approval of the Competition 
Commission of India (“CCI”) as mentioned in the Press 
Release dated January 23, 2024 followed by detailed order 
of the same date uploaded on the CCI website on March 15, 
2024. The Order specifies that the “order is without prejudice 
to any proceeding that may be initiated against the Acquirers 
under Sections 43A (penalty for ‘gun-jumping’), 44 (penalty 
for making false statement or omitting to furnish material 
information) and/or 45 (penalty for offences in relation to 
furnishing of information) of the Act”. CCI has also stated that 
“This order may be revoked if, at any time, the information 
provided by the notifying parties is found to be incorrect.” 
The Company has filed an appeal against the Order before 
Hon’ble National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) 
and the same is pending adjudication.
	
Thereafter, in terms of the directions in the Interim Order 
cum Show Cause Notice dated June 19, 2024 (“Order cum 
SCN”) issued by SEBI to the Company and its directors and 
the Order dated July 10, 2024 issued by Securities Appellate 
Tribunal (“SAT”) in an appeal filed by the Company against 
the Interim Order, the Company and the subsidiaries have 
submitted the applications on July 22, 2024 to the concerned 
Regulatory Authorities including RBI for the proposed change 
of shareholding / control / management of the Company and 
subsidiaries, as the case may be, pursuant to the open offer.
	
IRDAI, in respect of application made by CHIL, advised that 
“the open offer does not involve any transfer of shares of CHIL. 
Accordingly, the provisions regarding register of transfer of 
shares of insurer under Section 6A(4)(b) of the Insurance Act, 
1938 are not attracted. In this case, as such, the submission 
of the application for transfer of shares is not required. 
However, we have taken note of your submission and have 
no objection for the proposed open offer pertaining to the 
shares of REL subject to the insurer, promoter(s), transferor 
and transferees obtaining all the necessary approvals from 
other statutory/regulatory/ judicial bodies as may be required.” 
	
In respect of application of MIC, IRDAI has informed that the 
open offer made to the public shareholders of REL, being 
the promoter of MIC Web Aggregator Pvt. Ltd. holding 100% 
shares of MIC, does not involve any transfer of shares of 
MIC; and accordingly, the provisions regarding register of 
transfer of shares of web aggregator under section 8(d) of 
IRDAI (Insurance Web Aggregator) Regulations, 2017 are not 
attracted.
	
The applications filed by the Company and its subsidiaries 
with RBI and SEBI are under process and pending.
3.	
Revival of Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”)
	
RFL has been under the corrective action plan (“CAP”) by 
the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) since January 18, 2018 
due to past financial irregularities committed by the erstwhile 
promoters and the previous management. The CAP, interalia, 
prohibits RFL from expansion of credit/investment portfolio, 
other than by way of investment in Government Securities, 
and advices RFL not to pay dividends. The management of 
the Company along with the management of RFL has taken 
various measures for revival of RFL since then.
	
Settlement with the secured and unsecured lenders - RFL 
proposed One Time Settlement (OTS) to the lenders for which 
the Settlement Agreement (OTS Agreement) was signed in 
December 2022 by RFL along with the Company with sixteen 
secured lenders including their unsecured exposure for full 
& final settlement w.r.t. all their outstanding dues including 
dues towards their unsecured exposure. Pursuant to the OTS 
Agreement and upon completion of the entire OTS payment 
of ` 2,17,800 Lakh in March 2023 to all Sixteen OTS lenders 
against their total outstanding dues including unsecured 
exposure, the No- Dues Certificates (NDC) were received by 
RFL from all sixteen secured OTS lenders by May 2023 and 
accordingly the OTS of RFL with sixteen secured OTS lenders 
was completed.
	
Thereafter, RFL also proposed and completed the settlement 
of outstanding unsecured rated subordinated non-convertible 
debenture (NCD) and received No Dues Certificates from said 
NCD holders. With the settlement and payment of unsecured 
19
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
loan of ICICI Bank and receipt of NDC in March 2024, RFL 
became external-debt free. With the repayment of amount 
extended by REL on February 26, 2024, RFL became 
completely debt free.
	
Improvement in ALM position and CRAR - With the 
settlement of dues and payments, RFL has come out of 
its cumulative asset liability mismatch related problems. 
Further, the CRAR as at March 31, 2024 stood at 114.86% 
(positive) [Previous Year 48.94% (positive)] which improved 
mainly due to OTS related write back of Loan liabilities by RFL.
	
Support by REL - The Company has fully supported RFL in its 
revival measures by providing timely financial assistance i.e. 
deposit of ` 22,000 Lakhs in a no lien account with the lead 
lender on behalf of RFL in June 2022 and by directly making 
the payment of ` 9,539.46 Lakhs to the NCD holders of RFL 
in June 2023, July 2023 and September 2023 which were 
treated as an intercorporate loan given to RFL. Since then RFL 
has repaid the entire intercorporate loan to REL with interest.
	
Steps for Fraud Tag removal - In order to remove the 
fraud tag, RFL filed a Writ Petition before the Hon’ble Delhi 
High Court against State Bank of India (SBI). The Hon’ble 
High Court, vide its final Order dated December 18, 2023, 
disposed-off the Writ Petition by setting aside the action of SBI 
in declaring RFL’s account as fraud. The Hon’ble Court also 
granted liberty to SBI to take necessary steps to correct the 
record and to take appropriate action in accordance with law, 
if so necessitated. Based on the Order of the Hon’ble Court, 
SBI on January 25, 2024 confirmed that the record of Fraud 
reported by SBI in Religare Finvest Ltd has been removed 
from the database of Central Fraud Registry. Subsequently, 
other banks namely Bank of Maharashtra (BOM), Union Bank 
of India (UBI) and Central Bank of India approved removal of 
fraud flagging of RFL from its record / Central Fraud Registry.
	
Seeking similar relief of removal of fraud tag, RFL filed a writ 
petition before Hon’ble Delhi High Court on May 02, 2024 
against 14 lenders banks including Axis Bank and excluding 
ICICI Bank, SBI, UBI & BOM. The matter is sub-judice.
	
Withdrawal of Wilful Defaulter proceedings by lenders- 
RFL has obtained confirmation from Canara Bank, Bank of 
Maharashtra, Federal Bank and Union Bank of India that they 
have withdrawn the Wilful Defaulter proceedings against 
it. As on date no wilful defaulter proceedings are pending 
against RFL.
	
Application for CAP removal to RBI - In the light of the 
developments, RFL applied to RBI for removal of CAP on 
July 12, 2023. Approval for CAP removal is still awaited
4.	
Completion of Acquisition of MIC Insurance Web 
Aggregator Private Limited, an IRDAI approved Insurance 
Web Aggregator
	
Towards its vision to become a 360-degree financial services 
conglomerate, your Company entered into a Share Purchase 
Agreement on April 05, 2023 with IGEAR Holdings Private 
Limited (IHPL), The Indian Express Private Limited (TIEPL) 
and MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (MIC) 
for acquisition of 100% stake in MIC, a Mumbai based IRDAI 
registered insurance web aggregator. Post receipt of the IRDAI 
approval in September 2023, the acquisition was completed 
by the Company on December 08, 2023. Pursuant to the 
acquisition, MIC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the 
Company w.e.f. December 08, 2023.
5.	
Share Purchase Agreement for acquisition of Religare 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
	
Pursuant to the approval of Board of Directors, the Company 
has entered into a Share Purchase Agreement on April 05, 
2023 with Religare Finvest Limited (RFL) (a wholly owned 
subsidiary of REL) and Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited (RHDFCL) (subsidiary company of RFL) for 
acquisition of entire equity 87.5% stake of RHDFCL held by 
RFL subject to necessary statutory and regulatory approvals 
and fulfillment of other conditions precedent. The application 
made by RHDFCL to Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) for prior 
approval was returned by RBI in December 2023 with an 
advice to submit a fresh application.
6.	
Composite Scheme of Arrangement
	
i.	
The Board of Directors of the Company, on December 18, 
2019, approved, subject to requisite approvals, the draft 
Scheme of Amalgamation (“Scheme”) to simplify the 
Group corporate structure. The Scheme was filed with 
the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) on 
October 31, 2020. The Hon’ble NCLT vide order dated 
June 15, 2023 approved the Scheme.
	
	
The Scheme was filed with the Registrar of the 
Companies, NCT of Delhi & Haryana (“ROC”) on June 28, 
2023. Consequently, four (4) wholly owned subsidiaries, 
direct and indirect, of Religare Enterprises Limited 
namely Religare Comtrade Limited, Religare Insurance 
Limited, Religare Advisors Limited and Religare Business 
Solutions Limited have been merged with/into the 
Company w.e.f. June 28, 2023. The Appointed Date of 
the Scheme was April 01, 2019.
	
ii.	
Religare Broking Limited (“RBL” or “the Transferor 
Company”) and Religare Digital Solutions Limited (“RDSL” 
or “the Transferee Company”) approved a Scheme of 
20
Annual Report 2023-2024
Arrangement (“the Scheme”) under section 230-232 
of the Companies Act, 2013, in their respective Board 
meetings held on May 18, 2022, and May 25, 2022. 
RBL is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and 
RDSL is a wholly owned subsidiary of RBL.
	
	
The Scheme inter alia provides for transfer of 
E-Governance Undertaking of the Transferor Company 
to the Transferee Company on a “slump sale” basis, as 
a going concern in accordance with provisions of the 
Scheme.
	
	
The Scheme was filed with the Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), New Delhi, on 
September 21, 2022, and is subject to obtaining 
necessary regulatory approvals. The appointed date for 
the Scheme is April 01, 2022, and the accounting effect 
will be given post-effectiveness, after NCLT approval.
	
	
The First Motion Application for the Scheme was 
admitted by the NCLT on November 30, 2023, and the 
Second Motion Application was filed in December 2023, 
admitted on January 05, 2024. The matter is now listed 
for final hearing.
7.	
Dissolution of Religare Global Asset Management, Inc. 
(RGAM Inc.)
	
During the FY 2023-24, Religare Global Asset Management, 
Inc. (RGAM Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company 
in Delaware, USA stands dissolved w.e.f October 09, 2023 
as per the report of the search conducted and received by 
the Company on December 27, 2023. Accordingly, RGAM Inc. 
ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company.
REGULATORY UPDATES
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”)
Inspection FY 2022-23
RBI conducted a select scope inspection of the Company under 
section 45N of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 during the 
month of August 2023 with respect to the financial position as 
on March 31, 2023. The Supervisory Letter along with Inspection 
report, Risk Assessment Report and Risk Mitigation Plan pursuant 
to same were issued by the RBI in October 2023 for which replies 
indicating comments / compliance were furnished within the 
specified timelines.
Inspection FY 2023-24
RBI conducted a supervisory risk assessment of the Company under 
section 45N of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 with respect to 
the financial position as on March 31, 2024. The Supervisory Letter 
from RBI indicating supervisory rating along with major supervisory 
concerns was received by the company in September 2024 for 
which replies indicating comments / compliance were furnished 
within the timeline specified.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”)
Interim Order cum Show cause notice
The Company received an Interim Order cum Show Cause 
Notice 
(REF. 
WTM/ASB/CFD/CFD-RAC-DCR-1/30516/2024-25 
dated June 19, 2024) from SEBI on June 20, 2024 (“Order cum 
SCN”). The ex-parte Order cum SCN was issued to the Noticees 
i.e. the Company and each of its Directors. Para 33 of the Order 
cum SCN inter alia contains directions, in exercise of the powers 
conferred under Sections 11(1), 11(4) and 11B(1) read with Section 
19 of the SEBI Act, 1992, to furnish within seven days of the date of 
the order, an undertaking that Noticees shall apply to the regulatory 
authorities including RBI on or before July 12, 2024 for all the 
requisite statutory approvals that are necessary for proceeding 
with the open offer by the Acquirers (i.e. Burman Group who have 
made open offer to the shareholders of the Company vide Public 
Announcement dated September 25, 2023); to take all necessary 
steps to facilitate the Acquirers to fulfil their obligations under 
SAST Regulations, 2011; and to forthwith constitute Committee of 
Independent Directors, in terms of Reg 26(6) of SAST Regulations, 
2011, if not already constituted.
In addition, under Para 34 of the Order cum SCN, a show cause 
notice was issued to the Noticees as to why further action under 
Section 11, 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992 should not be 
initiated against the Noticees restraining them from accessing the 
securities market for a specified period and from associating with 
any listed company, etc. Pertinently, under Para 35 of the SEBI 
Order, a time period of 14 days was provided to the Noticees to 
reply their objections.
The Order cum SCN alleges that:
•	
the Company has violated provisions of Regulation 26 of 
SAST Regulations, 2011 and has failed to adhere to the 
underlying principles governing the SAST Regulations, 
2011. Further, Noticee 1 is also alleged to have violated 
the provisions of Regulations 4(2)(a) and (d) of the LODR 
Regulations, 2015.
•	
Noticees 2 to 7 who are directors of the Company are 
responsible for the affairs of the Company and therefore for 
the contraventions done by the Company. Further, Noticees 2 
to 7 have also allegedly violated the provisions of Regulation 
4(2)(f) of the LODR Regulations, 2015.
The Company and its Directors (hereinafter “Appellants”) preferred 
an appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (“SAT”), Mumbai 
against the Order cum SCN. Upon hearing the matter on July 10, 
2024, the SAT has passed an Order dated July 10, 2024.
21
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The relevant excerpts of the SAT Order are as under:
•	
The Appellants have been granted time till July 22, 2024 to 
file the necessary application to the Regulatory Authorities 
including Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), without prejudice to 
the rights and contentions including in the appeal, in order to 
comply with the directions contained in the Order cum SCN;
•	
Directions contained in para 35 of the Order cum SCN 
requiring Appellants to file the reply / objection to the SCN 
cum Order have been stayed.
In compliance with the SAT Order, an application has been submitted 
by the Company to the RBI on July 22, 2024. The respective 
subsidiaries of the Company have also submitted the applications 
to their regulators on July 22, 2024.
The matter is currently sub-judice.
Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”)
In the matter of ongoing investigation of the Company initiated by 
SFIO in February 2018, as ordered by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India, the Company and its subsidiaries have been 
providing the requisite information / documents from time to time 
thus extending all possible cooperation to the authority.
LEGAL UPDATES
•	
Petition for rectification of Register of Members of 
the Company
	
Loancore Servicing Solutions Pvt. Limited had filed a petition 
before the Hon’ble NCLT, Delhi under Sections 58 and 59 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 seeking rectification of Register of 
Members of the Company, which was dismissed in default, 
vide order dated November 11, 2022 by Hon’ble NCLT. 
Further, Loancore has filed an application for restoration 
of the said petition which was dismissed vide order dated 
18.10.2024.
•	
Corporate Loan Book
	
RFL has an exposure of ` 81,468 Lakhs as at March 31, 2024 
towards the Corporate Loan Book (“CLB”). RBI raised concerns 
in the past about the credit worthiness of the borrowers, credit 
appraisal and loan sanctioning mechanism followed by RFL in 
respect of this book. The management reviewed the portfolio 
and the financial reports of such borrowers to determine 
the respective recoverability of the said loans. Based on the 
maturity dates of the loans, recovery steps instituted and the 
financial reports of the borrowers, RFL had, on a prudent basis, 
made full provision of ` 2,03,670 Lakhs during the previous 
years against this portfolio.
	
RFL had initiated insolvency proceedings before the National 
Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’), New Delhi against the 
concerned borrowers forming a part of the CLB category. 
Daiichi has sought impleadment and dismissal of petitions. 
The matter is pending at the stage of admission for completion 
of pleadings.
	
Further, RFL’s Insolvency petition against one of the Borrower 
i.e. Annies Apparal was withdrawn by RFL on account that the 
said Borrower is already undergoing liquidation in a separate 
proceeding wherein, RFL’s claim was accepted by the Court. 
The Liquidation proceedings are under process.
	
RFL also filed criminal complaint before the EOW, Delhi on 
December 19, 2018 for various criminal actions committed 
by the erstwhile promoters and other associated persons/
entities, on which F.I.R. no. 50/2019 has been registered 
under Sections 409, 420 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code, 
1860. The matter is pending before the Hon’ble Court for 
further Arguments on charge.
	
The Zonal Office of Enforcement Directorate (‘ED’) has 
lodged an enforcement case under the Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act bearing ECIR no. 5 of 2019 on the basis of 
aforesaid F.I.R. The matter is sub-judice.
	
RFL has recognized ECL / impairment in respect of its entire 
exposure in respect of CLB portfolio as at March 31, 2024 
and no further financial implications are expected on RFL in 
this regard.
	
Religare Comtrade Limited (now merged into REL) had also 
filed insolvency petitions against its borrowers & REL had filed 
insolvency petition against borrower ‘ANR Securities’, before 
the Hon’ble NCLT, New Delhi. Daiichi has sought impleadment 
and dismissal of petitions. The matter is pending at the stage 
of admission for completion of pleadings.
•	
Fixed Deposits with Lakshmi Vilas Bank
	
As disclosed in the previous year’s reports, RFL had filed a 
suit in May 2018 before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court for 
recovery of fixed deposits amounting to ` 79,145 Lakhs 
(excluding ` 2,703.39 Lakhs interest accrued & due till the 
date of original maturity i.e. July 20, 2018) misappropriated 
/ adjusted by Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) against the loans 
given to erstwhile promoter group companies in the previous 
years. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court passed interim Orders 
directing that status quo be maintained in respect of RFL’s 
current account maintained with LVB. RFL filed an application 
before the Hon’ble Court for substitution of LVB with DBS 
Bank India Limited (DBS) which was allowed. RFL moved 
another application for amendment of suit under Order 6 Rule 
17 which was allowed by the Hon’ble Court vide Order dt. 
December 15, 2023. DBS had challenged the said Order before 
the Appellate Court as well as before the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court which were dismissed. Further, LVB’s Application u/O-VII 
R-11 seeking dismissal of plaint is also dismissed vide Order 
dated 03-Dec-24. The matter is sub-judice.
22
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
Enforcement Directorate has suo-moto lodged ECIR on 
the basis of the FIR lodged by EOW and the same is under 
investigation.
•	
Writ Petition before the Delhi High Court against 
SEBI:
	
The Company has filed a writ petition before the Delhi High 
Court seeking investigation by the SEBI on the complaints/
grievances raised by the Company / Committee of Independent 
Directors against the Burman entities in connection with 
the ongoing open offer. The communications/complaints 
submitted by the Company highlighted its concerns, inter 
alia, pertaining to the fit and proper criteria of the Acquirers. 
REL has, under the Writ Petition, prayed for the Respondent 
to initiate an appropriate investigation on the complaints and 
communication issued to SEBI by REL in a time bound manner. 
The said writ has been disposed with the direction that all 
rights and contention of the parties are open and the Hon’ble 
Delhi Court has not made any observation on the merits of the 
case.
•	
Daiichi Sankyo Company Ltd. (“Daiichi”) vs. 
Malvinder Mohan Singh (MMS) & Ors pending 
before Delhi High Court, New Delhi
	
Daiichi Sankyo Company had filed execution proceedings 
against REL, RCML and RCMIML. In the said execution 
proceedings, Daiichi has obtained a status quo order on 
the brand “Religare” by suppressing the fact that the entire 
shareholding of RHC Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (“RHC”) in M/s Elive 
Infotech Pvt. Ltd. (“Elive”) had been pledged in favor of RFL 
as a security for various loans to group companies of RHC. 
RFL had filed an objection application in the said proceedings. 
Elive Infotech has also filed an application seeking sale of the 
Religare Trademarks along with the payment of approx ` 323 
Crores from REL on the basis of the unauthorized usage of 
the Religare and allied Trademarks in light of the Brand 
License Agreement executed with RHC. REL & RFL has filed 
objections/ reply to the said application.
	
Furthermore, RFL has filed objections for sale of certain land 
parcels as mentioned in E.A. 185 of 2022. Further, Daiichi has 
also filed application demanding the forensic audit of Religare 
Group Companies in terms of order dated September 22, 
2022 passed by Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of 
Oscar Investments. REL and RFL have filed their replies and 
objected to the same. The matter is sub-judice.
•	
Shivinder Mohan Singh (SMS) vs. REL & Ors, 
pending before Saket District Courts, Delhi:
	
SMS has filed a suit for declaration against the Company and 
its subsidiaries i.e. RFL, RCL, RSL, RCML, RCTL, RCMIML and 
current management before the court of ADJ, Saket Court, 
New Delhi seeking declaration that the termination of the 
Indemnity cum Release Agreement dated November 14, 
2017 vide communication dated September 10, 2018, issued 
by REL & its subsidiaries, is illegal & void-ab-initio and 
further contended that the said agreement continues to be 
enforceable as per law and is binding upon the parties as on 
date. Religare entities has already filed its written statement to 
the said suit. Furthermore, application under Order 7 Rule 11 
of the CPC, 1908 have also been preferred on behalf of the 
aforementioned Religare Group entities seeking dismissal of 
the Suit.
	
The suit has also impleaded the current Directors, in their 
capacity of Independent Directors against which applications 
under Order 1 Rule 10 of the CPC, 1908 have also been 
filed seeking their deletion from the memo of parties. 
Last opportunity granted to the SMS to file reply to the said 
application. The matter is sub-judice.
•	
M.B. Finmart & Ors. Vs. ROC of NCT of Delhi and 
Haryana & Anr. [W.P.(C). 12025/2024, Delhi High 
Court]
	
The Acquirers have challenged the order dated 22.08.2024 
passed by the ROC of Delhi and Haryana, whereby the ROC 
had allowed the application made by REL seeking extension 
of 3 months for conducting its AGM for the Financial year 
ending 31.03.2024 under Section 96 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. This Writ Petition was dismissed vide order dated 
30.08.2024.
•	
M.B. Finmart & Ors. Vs. ROC of NCT of Delhi and 
Haryana [L.P.A. 931/2024]
	
An Appeal has been filed by the acquirers against the 
dismissal order dated 30.08.2024 in W.P.(C) 12025/2024. 
The matter is sub-judice.
•	
Appeal against IRDAI order dated July 23, 2024
	
IRDAI had passed an order dated 23.07.2024 against CHIL 
wherein directions were given to CHIL to buy back Employee 
Stock Options granted to Dr. Rashmi Saluja at the exercise 
price of ` 45.32/- within 30 days, cancel and revoke the stock 
options granted to Dr. Saluja, which remain exercised and/
or unvested as on the date of the order and restrained CHIL 
from making any further allotment of ESOPS in her favour; 
Further, imposing a fine of ` 1 Crore, CHIL has been directed 
to seek prior approval of IRDAI before making/implementing 
any decision in relation to any remuneration/payment to any 
member of the Board of the Appellant.
	
This order was challenged by CHIL (as well as Dr. Saluja in her 
individual capacity) before the Hon’ble Securities Appellate 
Tribunal (SAT) primarily on the ground that the ESOPs were 
granted to Dr. Saluja in in her capacity of employee and 
Executive Chairperson of REL, the holding company from 
23
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
the ESOP pool for this purpose, in accordance with the 
ESOP Scheme and after due approval by Board and the 
shareholders.
	
Vide its Order dated 09.08.2024, the SAT directed as follows:
	
a.	
the Order is stayed for a period of 12 weeks with 
liberty to seek vacation/modification after filing of reply. 
(This stay has been further extended to 21.01.2025)
	
b.	
75,69,685 shares of CHIL shall not be dealt with by 
Dr. Saluja and status quo to be maintained in respect of 
unexercised, unvested stock options of CHIL.
	
c.	
Directions under Para 23 of the Order (penalty of ` 1 
Crore on CHIL) stayed subject to deposit of 50% amount 
thereunder within period of 4 weeks from the order, 
which has since been complied with.
	
The matter is sub-judice.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
The Authorized Share Capital of the Company as on March 31, 2024 
was ` 9,89,70,50,000 (Rupees Nine Hundred Eighty Nine Crore 
Seventy Lakh and Fifty Thousand only) divided into 82,77,05,000 
(Eighty Two Crore Seventy Seven Lakh Five Thousand only) Equity 
Shares of ` 10 (Rupees Ten only) each aggregating ` 8,27,70,50,000 
(Rupees Eight Hundred Twenty Seven Crore Seventy Lakh Fifty 
Thousand only) and 16,20,00,000 (Sixteen Crore Twenty Lakh 
only) Redeemable Preference Shares of `10 (Rupees Ten only) 
each aggregating ` 1,62,00,00,000 (Rupees One Hundred Sixty 
Two Crore only).
During the year under review, the issued, subscribed and paid 
up equity share capital of the Company was increased from 
` 3,23,55,94,630/- (Rupees Three Hundred Twenty Three Crores 
Fifty Five Lakhs Ninety Four Thousand Six Hundred and Thirty only) 
consisting of 32,35,59,463 (Thirty Two Crores Thirty Five Lakhs Fifty 
Nine Thousand Four Hundred and Sixty Three only) equity shares 
of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each to ` 3,29,72,11,630 (Rupees 
Three Hundred Twenty Nine Crores Seventy Two Lakhs Eleven 
Thousand Six Hundred and Thirty only) consisting of 32,97,21,163 
(Thirty Two Crores Ninety Seven Lakhs Twenty One Thousand One 
Hundred and Sixty Three only) equity shares of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten 
only) each.
The issued, subscribed and paid up equity share capital as on 
March 31, 2024 is ` 3,29,72,11,630 (Rupees Three Hundred 
Twenty Nine Crores Seventy Two Lakhs Eleven Thousand Six 
Hundred and Thirty only).
Post March 31, 2024 and till the date of this report, the Company 
allotted 8,84,500 Equity Shares of face value of ` 10/- each at 
exercise price ranging from ` 39.55 to ` 207.20 each pursuant to 
exercise of stock options granted under the Religare Enterprises 
Limited Employee Stock Option Plan 2019. Pursuant to the said 
allotment, the issued, subscribed and paid up equity capital of the 
Company stands increased from ` 3,29,72,11,630/- divided into 
32,97,21,163 equity shares of ` 10/- each to ` 3,30,60,56,630/- 
divided into 33,06,05,663 equity shares of ` 10/- each.
PREFERENCE SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has two types of Preference Shares outstanding as 
on date comprising 15 Lakhs 13.66% Cumulative Non-Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares of ` 10/- each issued in 2008 
(2008 Preference Shares) and 2.5 Crores 0.01% Non-Cumulative 
Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares of ` 10/- each 
issued in 2016 (2016 Preference Shares).
The Company did not redeem the 2008 Preference Shares on due 
date of October 31, 2018 with Redemption value amounting at 
` 4,190.28 Lakhs basis the interim application filed in the matter 
of Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited vs. Malvinder Mohan Singh 
& Others before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi disputing its 
liability as garnishee and praying among other reliefs for the stay of 
redemption pending the outcome of investigations into the affairs 
of the Company and its subsidiaries already initiated by SEBI and 
SFIO. The Company has been served with warrants of attachment 
as Garnishee, which is being contested / challenged. Further, the 
Company has also filed a criminal complaint before the Economic 
Offences Wing, Delhi Police for various offences under the Indian 
Penal Code, 1860 w.r.t transactions relating to issuance and 
redemption of said Preference Shares.
Further, due to non-payment of dividend by the Company 
continuously for two years on 2016 Preference Shares, voting 
rights triggered on these Preference Shares in terms of relevant 
provisions of the Act. The Company has also not paid dividend 
on 2008 Preference Shares but the Company has a letter dated 
August 20, 2012 from then holder of these shares irrevocably and 
unconditionally waiving off the voting rights on 2008 Preference 
Shares. The Company has not redeemed aforesaid 2016 
Preference Shares with redemption value amounting ` 4,212.75 
Lakhs due for redemption on August 30, 2021 and which is 
outstanding as of March 31, 2024.
The Company has filed the petition before the Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi Bench seeking rectification 
of Register of Members of the Company by cancellation of 2016 
Preference Shares and any other appropriate reliefs, including 
interim relief with respect to freezing of voting rights and dividend 
rights attached to the said 2016 Preference Shares. The Hon’ble 
NCLT on September 29, 2021 directed ordering the status quo on 
the respondents to restrain them from exercising their voting power 
with the resolution until the further order. Further, vide order dated 
December 16, 2021, it was affirmed by Hon’ble Tribunal that interim 
order will continue. The matter is sub-judice.
The Company on prudent basis had created a provision of 
` 2,941.67 Lakhs towards the potential interest liability from the 
24
Annual Report 2023-2024
1RBI Disclaimer: (a) Reserve Bank of India does not accept any responsibility or guarantee about the present position as to the financial soundness of the company or for 
the correctness of any of the statements or representations made or opinions expressed by the company and for discharge of liability by the company; (b) Neither is there 
any provision in law to keep, nor does the company keep any part of the deposits with the Reserve Bank and by issuing the Certificate of Registration to the company, the 
Reserve Bank neither accepts any responsibility nor guarantee for the payment of the public funds to any person/ body corporate.
redemption date till March 31, 2023 on aforesaid Preference 
Shares. However, based on its re-assessment of the facts of the 
matter and as advised by the legal experts as at March 31, 2023, 
the Company is of the view that there will be no contractual or legal 
obligation on the Company to pay any compensation/interest in 
lieu of the unredeemed Preference Shares or on its redemption 
value irrespective of what may be the final outcome of the matters 
regarding the payment of total redemption value of ` 8,403.03 
Lakhs which are presently sub-judice. Accordingly, the provision 
created towards contingency of ` 2,941.67 Lakhs was reversed 
during the year ended March 31, 2023. However, the provision 
towards the redemption value has been continued on prudent / 
conservative basis.
NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES
There are no outstanding non-convertible debentures as on date.
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
Your Company has neither invited nor accepted any deposits from 
public within the meaning of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 
during the period under review.
ANNUAL RETURN
As per the requirements of Section 92(3) read with Section 134(3)
(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules framed thereunder, 
copy of the Annual Return as on March 31, 2024 is available on 
website of the Company and can be accessed through the link 
https://religare.com/annual-returns/
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
Your Company is registered with the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”)1 
as a Non-Deposit Taking Systemically Important Core Investment 
Company (“CIC-ND-SI”) vide Certificate No. N-14.03222 dated 
June 03, 2014. Pursuant to introduction of the Revised Regulatory 
Framework for NBFCs through Scale Based Regulation (SBR) by RBI 
on October 22, 2021, the Company is classified as NBFC – Middle 
Layer. As a Core Investment Company, your Company is primarily 
engaged in the business of investment of shares of and lending to 
its group companies holding not less than 90% of its net assets in 
the form of investment in equity shares, preference shares, bonds, 
debentures, debt or loans in group companies.
Being a Core Investment Company, the requirement of capital 
adequacy is not in the form of Capital to Risk Weighted Assets 
(CRAR) like conventional credit and investment companies. 
The Company is required to –
a.	
maintain minimum Adjusted Net Worth of 30% of its aggregate 
risk weighted assets on balance sheet and risk adjusted value 
of off-balance sheet items as on the date of the last audited 
balance sheet as at the end of the financial year; and
b.	
restrict the outside liabilities up to 2.5 times of its Adjusted Net 
Worth as on the date of the last audited balance sheet as at 
the end of the financial year.
The Company is in compliance with the abovementioned 
requirements as at March 31, 2024.
Further, based on the RBI’s instructions on Scale Based Regulation of 
NBFCs, the Company also conducted an Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment for FY 2023-24 as per the Company’s ICAAP policy. 
It was observed that the Company was adequately capitalized to 
cover for all material risks.
RELIGARE EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION SCHEMES
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“Committee”) of the 
Board of Directors of the Company, inter alia, administers and 
monitors the Employees’ Stock Option Schemes of the Company 
in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India) (Share 
Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 & Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and 
Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999) (‘the SEBI 
ESOP Regulations’).
During the year under review, the Committee granted 68,00,000 
stock options under the “Religare Enterprises Limited Employees 
Stock Option Plan 2019”.
Details as required under the SEBI ESOP Regulations, Religare 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2019 (“ESOP Scheme 2019”) 
have been uploaded on the website of the Company and can be 
accessed through the link https://religare.com/employee-stock-
option-schemes/.
Considering that there are no outstanding options under said 
schemes, the Board of Directors on August 08, 2023 approved 
the termination of Religare Employees Stock Option Scheme 2010 
and Religare Employees Stock Option Scheme 2012 as per the 
provisions of the said schemes.
Certificate from the Secretarial Auditors confirming that ESOP 
Scheme 2019 has been implemented in accordance with the SEBI 
ESOP Regulations will be available for inspection by the members 
in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CHANGES IN DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL
Following changes occurred in the directors of the Company during 
the year under review:
•	
The members approved the appointment of Mr. Malay Kumar 
Sinha as a Director w.e.f. May 28, 2023 and his re-appointment 
as Non-Executive Independent Director for a second term of 5 
consecutive years.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its letter dated May 15, 2024 has 
informed the Company that the application dated November 17, 
2023 for prior approval of RBI for appointment of Mr. Rakesh Asthaana 
(DIN: 09311328), Group Head – Corporate Affairs & Business 
Advisor, as Additional Director (to be designated as Whole-time 
Director) to the Board of the Company does not have the approval 
of Reserve Bank of India.
In terms of Section 203 of the Act, following are the KMPs of the 
Company as on March 31, 2024:
1.	
Dr. Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson
2.	
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal, Group Chief Financial Officer
3.	
Ms. Reena Jayara, Company Secretary
*Mr. Nitin Aggarwal ceased to be Group CFO of the Company w.e.f. 
November 12, 2024
** Ms. Reena Jayara ceased to be Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of the Company w.e.f. October 07, 2024
Further, Mr. Rajat Kalra was appointed as Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer w.e.f. October 08, 2024 in place of 
Ms. Reena Jayara. However, he resigned as Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer w.e.f. November 22, 2024.
Mr. Vinay Gupta has been appointed as Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer w.e.f. December 05, 2024.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act, 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 01715298), retires at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting (AGM), and being eligible, offers herself for 
re-appointment. Brief details of Dr. Rashmi Saluja, who is seeking 
re-appointment, are given in the Notice of the AGM.
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors appointed 
are persons of integrity and fulfil requisite conditions as per 
applicable laws and are independent of the management of the 
Company.
Further in the opinion of the Board, the Directors appointed possess 
requisite qualifications, experience, expertise, proficiency and hold 
high standards of integrity.
DECLARATION BY THE INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
All Independent Directors (IDs) have given declarations that they 
meet the criteria of independence as laid down under Section 
149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16 of SEBI LODR Regulations.
All the IDs of the Company have registered their names with the 
data bank of IDs maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs (IICA).
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, the 
Independent Directors have confirmed that they are not aware of 
any circumstances or situation which exist or may be anticipated, 
that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties.
In the opinion of the Board, Independent Directors qualify the 
criteria of Independent Director as mentioned in the Act and SEBI 
LODR Regulations and are independent of the management.
Further, all the Directors of the Company (including Executive 
Chairperson) have confirmed that they satisfy the “Fit & Proper” 
criteria as prescribed in the Directors Appointment & Fit and Proper 
Policy of the Company.
Pursuant to RBI circular introducing Scale Based Regulations, an 
independent director shall not be on the Board of more than three 
NBFCs (NBFCs-ML or NBFCs-UL) at the same time and the NBFC 
shall ensure that there is no conflict arising out of their independent 
directors being on the Board of another NBFC at the same time.
In this respect, the Company has received confirmation from the 
Independent Directors on the above requirement that they are not 
on the Board of more than three NBFCs in Upper or Middle Layer.
BOARD 
EVALUATION 
AND 
INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS’ MEETING
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and SEBI LODR Regulations, 
the Board is required to carry out an annual performance evaluation 
of its own performance, the performance of the directors individually 
as well as the evaluation of the working of its Committees.
The performance evaluation of the members of the Board, the 
Board level Committees and Board as a whole was carried out in the 
Board meeting held on May 21, 2024 as per the Board Evaluation 
Policy of the Company. The Board expressed its satisfaction with 
the evaluation process. The manner in which evaluation has been 
carried out and criteria of evaluation has been explained in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
During the year, the Independent Directors met without the 
presence of other directors or members of Management.
All the Independent Directors were present at the meeting. 
In the meeting, the Independent Directors reviewed performance 
of Non–Independent Directors, the Board as a whole and 
Chairperson. They assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness of 
26
Annual Report 2023-2024
flow of information between the Company Management and the 
Board. The Independent Directors expressed satisfaction over the 
performance of the Executive Chairperson and Management of the 
Company.
APPOINTMENT & REMUNERATION POLICY
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is authorized to 
determine the criteria of appointment of Directors and to identify 
candidates for appointment to the Board of Directors. In evaluating 
the suitability of a person for appointment / re-appointment as a 
Director, the Committee takes into account the eligibility, qualification, 
skills, expertise, track record, integrity and fit and proper credential 
of the appointee. The Committee also assesses the independence 
of Directors at the time of their appointment / re-appointment as 
per the criteria prescribed under the provisions of the Act, the rules 
made thereunder and the SEBI LODR Regulations. The Board has 
adopted the Director’s Appointment & Fit and Proper Policy in line 
with the requirements of the Act and RBI Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance.
The Company has the Remuneration Policies in place for 
remuneration of Directors (Executive and Non-Executive), Key 
Managerial Personnel, Senior Managerial Personnel and other 
employees in line with the requirement of the Act, SEBI LODR 
Regulations and Guidelines on Compensation of the Key Managerial 
Personnel, Senior Managerial Personnel in NBFCs as issued by 
the RBI.
In 
compliance 
with 
the 
RBI 
Notification 
dated 
22 
October 2021 on introduction of the ‘Scale Based Regulatory 
framework for NBFCs followed by Notification dated April 29, 2022 
w.r.t. ‘Guidelines on Compensation of Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMP) and Senior Management Personnel (SMP) in NBFCs’, 
the Company had incorporated appropriate changes in the 
Policy relating to the framework for role for NRC, composition 
of compensation, effective alignment of fixed and variable 
compensation components with prudent risk taking, principles 
of variable compensation – proportion, deferral, compensation 
of control and assurance function personnel, Guaranteed Bonus 
Guidelines, Malus and Claw back etc. w.e.f. April 01, 2023.
The Remuneration Policy(ies) are stated in the Corporate 
Governance Report. The relevant Policy(ies) are being updated 
regularly and have been uploaded on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed through the link https://religare.com/policies/.
INTERNAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY ASSESSMENT 
PROCESS (“ICAAP”)
RBI, vide its circular dated October 22, 2021 issued Scale Based 
Regulation (SBR): A Revised Regulatory Framework for NBFCs. 
In terms of Clause 3.2.1 of the SBR, the NBFCs in Upper Layer and 
Middle Layer are required to make a thorough internal assessment 
of the need for capital, commensurate with the risks in their 
business, on similar lines as ICAAP prescribed for commercial 
banks under Pillar 2 (Master Circular – Basel III Capital Regulations 
dated July 01, 2015). The Company, being an NBFC in the Middle 
Layer, in compliance with the regulatory requirements, formulated 
a comprehensive ICAAP policy which was approved by the 
Board. The objectives of ICAAP, governance structure, roles and 
responsibilities, ICAAP process involving identification of risks 
(credit, market, operational and other residual risks) to which the 
Company is exposed, the adequacy of capital to deal with the impact 
of these commensurate with the scale and complexity of operations 
of the Company, and capital planning to ensure adequacy of capital 
have been detailed in the ICAAP policy.
The objective of ICAAP is to assess on an ongoing basis the 
adequacy of capital so as to ensure availability of capital considering 
all risks in business so as to enable better assessment, monitoring 
and management of risks as well as efficient capital management 
and capital planning commensurate with the business of the 
Company and risks it is exposed to. Supervisory assessment of 
ICAAP facilitates active dialogue between RBI and the Company on 
risk assessment, monitoring and mitigation.
The Company conducted an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
as per the ICAAP policy for FY 2023-24 and presented the report 
to the GRMC and Board. The ICAAP indicated that the Company 
was adequately capitalized to cover for all material risks including 
in stress scenarios.
COMPLIANCE POLICY
In compliance with the RBI Circular dated April 11, 2022 on 
‘Compliance Function and Role of Chief Compliance Officer’ issued 
in furtherance to the Scale Based Regulation (SBR): A Revised 
Regulatory Framework for NBFCs dated October 22, 2021 issued 
by RBI, the Company has put in place a Compliance Policy which 
has been duly approved by the Board. Further, the Company 
has strengthened its Compliance team and processes to ensure 
effective tracking and monitoring of regulatory compliances. 
Being a Core Investment Company, the Company is also overseeing 
regulatory and statutory compliances by all the entities in the Group. 
The Company has also put in place an on-line internal compliance 
monitoring tool as mandated by RBI.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBER 
SECURITY
RBI vide Master Direction - Information Technology Framework 
for the NBFC Sector dated June 08, 2017 has laid down an 
information technology framework for the NBFC sector to formulate 
IT framework inter-alia on IT Governance, IT Policy, Information 
and Cyber Security, IT Operations, IS Audit, Business Continuity 
Planning and IT Services Outsourcing by the NBFCs. Pursuant to the 
framework, the Company has constituted the IT Strategy Committee 
and also appointed / designated the Chief Information Officer in 
the Company.
Pursuant to the said directions / framework, the Company has put 
in place policies which, inter alia, includes Business Continuity 
Policy, Information Security Policy, Information Technology Policy, 
27
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Cyber Security Policy, IT Outsourcing Policy etc. and has taken all 
appropriate measures necessary to strengthen the IT environment 
and cyber security in the Company.
BOARD/COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS
During the financial year under review nine (9) meetings of the 
Board of Directors were held. A calendar of meetings is prepared 
and circulated in advance to the Directors.
The Company has the following Board Committees:
1. 	
Audit & Governance Committee
2. 	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
3. 	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
4. 	
Group Risk Management Committee
5. 	
Corporate Social Responsibility & ESG Committee
6. 	
Asset Liability Management Committee
7. 	
Investment Borrowing & Share Allotment Committee
8. 	
IT Strategy Committee
9.	
Committee of Independent Directors
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was renamed as 
Corporate Social Responsibility & ESG Committee (“CSR & ESG 
Committee”) on November 02, 2023 to include the matters relating 
to ESG in its Scope.
The RPT Sub-Committee which was constituted to monitor and 
regulate transactions between the Company and its Related Parties 
in terms of shareholder agreement with International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) was dissolved consequent to the sale of its entire 
shareholding in the Company by IFC on January 29, 2024.
Further, the Committee of Independent Directors (COID) was 
constituted during the year on October 09, 2023 in terms of the 
requirements of Regulation 26 (6) of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 (“SAST Regulations”), to publish reasoned 
recommendations on the open offer to the shareholders of the 
Company in terms of Regulation 26(7) of SAST Regulations at the 
appropriate time.
Details of the composition of the Board and Committees and 
changes therein, terms of reference of the Committees, attendance 
of Directors at meetings of the Board and Committees and other 
requisite details are provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
The intervening gap between the Meetings was within the period 
prescribed under the Act and the SEBI LODR Regulations.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INITIATIVES
In compliance with Section 135 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended, 
the Company has established a Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”) Committee. The CSR Committee has formulated and 
recommended to the Board, a CSR Policy which provides the 
overview of projects or programs and the guiding principles for 
selection, implementation and monitoring of the CSR activities, 
which has been approved by the Board. The strategic intent was 
to adopt a unified cause across the Religare Group and hence 
the CSR policy and program to be supported has been cascaded 
across all Group entities.
The Company has a dedicated subsidiary namely Religare Care 
Foundation (“RCF”) registered under Section 8 of the Act to look 
after the CSR expenditure of the various companies of Religare 
group leading to a more strategic and efficient approach in 
CSR spending towards a larger unified purpose at group level. 
Such in-house CSR company also leads to a more administrative 
control and economy of operations in group CSR spending and 
also helpful in achieving better brand building.
The Company was not required to spend money under CSR for 
financial year ended 2023-24 as prescribed under Section 135 of 
the Act as the Company incurred an average net loss of ` 3,659.38 
Lakhs for previous three financial years.
Annual Report on CSR in the format prescribed in Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended is 
attached as “Annexure A”.
AWARDS & RATINGS
Following awards and recognitions were received by the 
subsidiaries of the Company during the period under review –
Awards
•	
Care Health Insurance Limited
	
i.	
Smart Insurer Award - The 10th Annual Insurance Summit 
& Awards 2023
	
ii.	
Amiable Insurer Award - The 10th Annual Insurance 
Summit & Awards 2023
	
iii.	
Best Health Insurance Company In Rural Sector - the 
India Insurance Summit & Awards 2024
	
iv.	
Claims Service Leader of The Year - India Insurance 
Summit & Awards 2024
28
Annual Report 2023-2024
•	
Religare Broking Limited
	
i.	
Leading Member-Base Metals-MCX Awards 2023
	
ii.	
Most Preferred Workplace (2023-2024) – BFSI 
Marksmen Daily
	
iii.	
Appreciation Award – 2023- PFRDA
Ratings
The Company had no ratings during the year under review as there 
were no outstanding facility(ies) which requires the Company to 
have any rating.
With respect to our subsidiary Care Health Insurance Limited 
(CHIL), India Ratings and Research Pvt Limited has affirmed the 
proposed Subordinated debt rating of ‘IND A+’ / Stable of CHIL and 
has assigned Long-Term Issuer Rating of ‘IND A+’ / Stable to CHIL. 
The corporate credit “CRISIL A+/Stable” (pronounced as CRISIL A 
plus rating with stable outlook) rating assigned to CHIL by CRISIL 
Ratings was withdrawn in April 2024 in consistent with the policy 
on withdrawal of ratings of the agency.
In Religare Broking Limited (RBL), CRISIL Ratings Limited has 
assigned ratings i.e. CRISIL BBB/Stable (Assigned) long term rating 
& CRISIL A3+ (Assigned) short-term rating to the Bank Loan facilities 
of ` 350 Crore in December 2023. Care Ratings Limited has 
upgraded the ratings of its long-term / short term bank facilities up 
to ` 500 Crores to CARE BBB; Stable / CARE A3+ (Triple B ; Outlook: 
Stable / A Three Plus) in June 2024.
In Religare Finvest Limited (RFL), India Ratings and Research 
(Ind-Ra) in March 2024, consistent with its Policy on Withdrawal of 
Ratings, has withdrawn the Long term bank loans rating assigned 
to RFL on receipt of no dues certificate from the lender. The Lower 
tier 2 sub-debt (long term) rating assigned to the NCDs of RFL was 
withdrawn by Ind-Ra in October 2023, Further in October 2023, 
ICRA has withdrawn the Long Term bonds/NCD/LTD rating of [ICRA]
D assigned to the NCDs of RFL. As on March 31, 2024 RFL didn’t 
not have any credit rating from any credit rating agency.
The housing finance subsidiary Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited (RHDFCL) had rating of CARE BB+ 
(Outlook: Negative) assigned to long term bank lines by Care 
Ratings Limited during the year. Further, in April 2024, ICRA Limited 
has upgraded rating of long-term bank lines to [ICRA]BB (Stable)/ 
from [ICRA]BB- (Outlook: Stable) and reaffirmed short-term bank 
loan / short-term debt programme rating at [ICRA] A4. Further, in 
July 2024, CARE Ratings revised its rating outlook from Negative 
to Stable, CARE BB+ (Stable), on the long term bank lines rating 
of RHDFCL. In September 2024, Infomerics Ratings assigned 
the rating of IVR BBB- (Outlook: Stable) to RHDFCL’s proposed 
Non-Convertible Debentures of ` 100 Crores.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited. The annual listing fees 
for the year 2023-24 have been paid to both the Stock Exchanges.
STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
None of the Directors of your Company is disqualified as per 
provision of Section 164(2) of the Act. The Directors of the 
Company have made necessary disclosures, as required under 
various provisions of the Act and the SEBI LODR Regulations.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As required under the Regulation 34 of SEBI LODR Regulations and 
Section 129(3) of the Act, consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are attached to the Annual Report. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with Indian Accounting Standard (“Ind AS”)-103, “Business 
Combination” and Ind AS-110 “Consolidated Financial Statements” 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and notified 
by the MCA. The audited consolidated financial statements together 
with Auditor’s Report form part of the Annual Report.
Though, the Company holds 100% equity share capital in Religare 
Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”), however in the present scenario 
controlling through voting rights of RCML is not there with the 
Company. Beside this, the tripartite agreement entered into, in 
financial year 2011-12, between REL, RCML and RHC Holding 
Private Limited (“RHCHPL”), for providing financial support to RCML 
by RHCHPL (by subscribing Preference Shares of RCML), severe 
long term restrictions and significant restrictive covenants on 
major decision making at RCML were imposed by the holder of 
preference shares. Accordingly in view of the above, the financial 
statements of RCML and its subsidiaries have been excluded 
from the consolidated financial statements of the Company w.e.f. 
October 01, 2011, in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards. The Company has already provided fully for the entire 
investment made by it in RCML in previous years.
The consolidated financial statements presented by your Company, 
including financial information of all its subsidiaries, excluding RCML 
and RCML’s subsidiaries, have been duly audited by the Statutory 
Auditors and the same is published in your Company’s Annual Report.
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
are placed on the Company’s website at https://religare.com/
quarterly-annual-results/.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION
Even though operations of the Company are not energy intensive, 
the management has been highly conscious of the importance of 
conservation of energy and technology absorption at all operational 
levels and efforts are made in this direction on a continuous basis. 
In view of the nature of activities which are being carried on by the 
29
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Company, the particulars as prescribed under Section 134(3)(m) of 
the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
regarding conservation of energy and technology absorption are 
not applicable to the Company and hence have not been provided.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The Company has incurred ` 30.73 Lakhs expenditure (previous 
year: ` Nil) in foreign exchange and earned ` 10.78 Lakhs income 
(previous year: Nil) in foreign exchange during the year under 
review on a standalone basis.
MAINTAINANCE OF COST RECORDS
The Company is in the financial services industry. In view of the 
nature of activities which are being carried on by the Company, 
the maintenance of cost records as specified by the Central 
Government under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the Act is not 
applicable on the Company and hence such accounts and records 
are not maintained.
TRANSFER TO INVESTOR EDUCATION AND 
PROTECTION FUND
No amount was required to be transferred by the Company to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the financial 
year under reporting.
The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer for the IEPF authority, 
the details of which are available on the website of the Company at 
https://religare.com/investor-contacts/
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of Directors, to the 
best of their knowledge and ability, confirm that:
(a)	
in the preparation of the annual financial statements for the 
year ended March 31, 2024, the applicable accounting 
standards have been followed along with proper explanation 
relating to material departures;
(b) 	 they have selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial 
year and of the Loss of the Company for that period;
(c) 	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
(d) 	 they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern 
basis;
(e) 	 they have laid down internal financial controls to be followed 
by the Company and such internal financial controls are 
adequate and operating effectively; and
(f) 	
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems are 
adequate and operating effectively.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to uphold high standards of Corporate 
Governance and adhere to the requirements set out by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India.
A detailed report on Corporate Governance along with the 
Certificate of M/s DPV & Associates LLP, Company Secretaries 
regarding compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated in Schedule V of the SEBI LODR Regulations and a 
certificate from M/s. MAKS & Co., Company Secretaries that none 
of the Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of 
companies by Board / Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such 
statutory authority forms integral part of this Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report is annexed and 
forms integral part of this Report.
EXTENSION OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company for the F.Y. 
2023-24 was due to be held on or before September 30, 2024. 
The Company vide application dated August 21, 2024 requested 
Registrar of Company for granting extension for holding AGM for 
the F.Y. 2023-24.
ROC vide approval letter dated August 22, 2024 had granted an 
extension for holding AGM for the F.Y. 2023-24 by 3 (three) months.
AUDITORS
M/s S. P. Chopra & Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 000346N) holds office as Statutory Auditors of the Company 
until the conclusion of the 40th AGM of the Company to be held in 
the year 2024 in compliance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (Act) and ‘Guidelines for Appointment of Statutory Central 
Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks 
(excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs (including HFCs)’ issued by RBI 
vide Circular dated April 27, 2021 (RBI SA Guidelines).
In compliance with the regulatory requirement under the RBI SA 
Guidelines, the Company had evaluated the proposals received 
from various audit firms eligible to be appointed as Statutory 
Auditor of the Company. Basis the various proposals received from 
the eligible audit firms, the Board of Directors of the Company 
30
Annual Report 2023-2024
on recommendation of Audit Committee had approved the 
appointment of M/s Nangia & Co, LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm 
Registration No. 002391C-N500069), subject to approval of the 
shareholders, as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a period of 
three years from the conclusion of 40th AGM until the conclusion of 
the 43rd AGM to be held in the year 2027. However, subsequently 
vide letter dated September 10, 2024, M/s. Nangia & Co, LLP have 
withdrawn their consent for being considered for appointment as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company.
Accordingly, management invited proposals for conducting 
statutory audit of the Company afresh from eligible audit firms and 
on the basis of evaluation of such proposals the Board of Directors 
of the Company on recommendation of Audit & Governance 
Committee has approved the appointment of M/s Kirtane & Pandit 
LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 105215W/
W100057) as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a period of 
three years from the conclusion of 40th AGM until the conclusion of 
the 43rd AGM to be held in the year 2027. The first year of audit will 
be of the financial statements for the year ending March 31, 2025, 
which will include the audit / limited review of the quarterly financial 
results for the financial year 2024-25. In this regard, the Company 
has received certificate to the effect that M/s Kirtane & Pandit LLP, 
Chartered Accountants satisfy the criteria provided under Section 
141 of the Act and RBI SA Guidelines and that the appointment, if 
made, shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the 
Act and rules framed thereunder.
Therefore, members are requested to consider and approve the 
appointment of M/s. Kirtane & Pandit LLP, Chartered Accountants as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company as per the proposal forming part 
of the Notice of the forthcoming AGM.
AUDITORS’ REPORT
The Reports given by the Auditor on the financial statements of the 
Company form part of the Annual Report. There is no qualification 
in the Auditors Report on the standalone and consolidated financial 
statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and hence, 
no explanation is required thereon.
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS’ REPORT
As per provisions of Section 204 of the Act, the Board of Directors 
of the Company has appointed M/s P I & Associates as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company to conduct the Secretarial Audit. 
The Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024, is annexed to this Report. Report of the Secretarial Auditor 
is without any qualification and hence, no explanation is required 
thereon.
Further, the secretarial audit reports of material subsidiary(ies) of the 
Company in FY 2023-24 is annexed to this Annual Report.
PARTICULARS OF INVESTMENTS, LOANS AND 
GUARANTEES
The Company, being an NBFC, is exempted from the provisions of 
Section 186 [except sub-section (1)] of the Act. Accordingly, details 
of particulars of loans, guarantees or investments as required to be 
provided as per Section 134(3)(g) of the Act are not provided.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
All related party transactions that were entered into during the 
financial year were on an arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary 
course of business. There are no materially significant related party 
transactions entered by the Company with related parties which 
may have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company.
All Related Party Transactions are placed before the Audit & 
Governance Committee for approval as per the Related Party 
Transactions Policy of the Company as approved by the Board. 
As required under SEBI LODR Regulations and RBI SBR Regulations, 
the Related Party Transactions Policy is also uploaded on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed through the link 
https://religare.com/policies/.
Since all related party transactions that were entered into during 
the financial year were on an arm’s length basis and were in the 
ordinary course of business and there was no material related party 
transaction entered by the Company during the year as per Related 
Party Transactions Policy, no details are required to be provided 
in Form AOC-2 prescribed under clause (h) of sub-section (3) of 
section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014.
The details of the transactions with related parties are provided in 
the notes to accompanying standalone financial statements.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk Governance is an essential aspect of the strategy of the 
Company intended at identification, assessment and mitigation 
of the potential risks that could affect the Company’s operations, 
financial performance, sustainability and reputation. The Board of 
Directors of the Company are responsible for ensuring oversight of 
the risk management policies & procedures and has constituted a 
Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC), which is responsible 
to frame, implement, monitor and periodically review the 
effectiveness of the risk management plan and make appropriate 
modifications as and when necessary. GRMC’s role has been 
aligned to requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
RBI Master Directions for Core Investment Companies and other 
applicable regulatory requirements. Process has been laid down to 
periodically apprise the GRMC about prevalent risks and corrective 
plans adopted by the respective group entities to mitigate the 
identified risks.
31
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The Company is a Registered NBFC and Core Investment Company. 
As an investment holding company, the management function 
includes oversight of risk function prevalent to the Company and 
its key operating subsidiaries. The Company has a comprehensive 
Risk Management framework and overarching Risk Management 
Policy, which has been adopted by each of the key operating 
subsidiaries while formulating their Risk Management Policy. 
Risk Management Policy of the Company identifies the key risks 
which are applicable to the Company. Risk Management Policy 
is aimed at identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and 
reporting of identifiable risks and documenting of each identified 
risk along with the mitigation plan. Respective functional head and 
/ or risk management department of key operating subsidiaries are 
responsible for implementation of the Risk Management system 
and maintenance of record of risk and mitigation plan in Risk & 
Control Matrix (RCMs) for their respective functional areas, which 
are updated and tested periodically. Therefore, the risk governance 
and framework defines the risk management approach across 
the enterprise at various levels including risk documentation, 
testing and reporting on a periodical basis. The framework has 
different risk parameters, which help in identification of risks 
and their classification as High, Medium and Low categories 
based on likelihood, impact and velocity in various risk types 
such as operational, financial, compliance and reputation risk. 
Qualitative and quantitative assessment is done to determine the 
likelihood and impact of identified risks, which are ultimately plotted 
on a matrix based on their severity and probability.
Reviews and reporting of risk environment and performance 
is conducted on a quarterly basis. The testing and evaluation 
of control environment around Risk Management is integrated 
and aligned with the quarterly internal audit process. The GRMC 
of the Company and respective Risk Management Committee 
/ Board of Directors of its key operating subsidiaries reviews the 
risk management policy on a periodic basis. Further, adequacy of 
design and operating effectiveness of key processes and controls, 
as documented in the risk and control matrices, are tested and a 
consolidated dashboard of Risk and Control review results across 
the Company and its key operating subsidiaries are presented to 
the GRMC and Audit & Governance Committee of the Board on a 
quarterly basis. Further, to enable oversight of the Risk management 
function prevalent at each of the key operating subsidiaries, the 
management team of each key operating subsidiaries make 
presentation on key risk types, as defined in the respective Risk 
Management Policy, to the GRMC of the Company on a quarterly 
basis.
Financial reporting and fraud risks are duly considered in the risk 
management framework. Risks are mapped with controls and 
Risk management framework is revisited and revised based on 
prevailing practice and relevance.
Therefore, the Company has implemented a formal risk management 
policy and framework to ensure that a comprehensive risk 
management process is in place at all times, including appropriate 
board and senior management oversight and the process take into 
account appropriate steps to comply with applicable regulatory 
rules, regulations, principles and guidelines and to ensure the 
adequacy of relevant risk reporting to the Committees and Board.
VIGIL MECHANISM/ WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
The Company has a vigil mechanism named Whistle Blower 
Policy to deal with instance of unethical practices, fraud and 
mismanagement, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the 
Company’s code of conduct or ethics policy and any leak/
suspected leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information or gross 
misconduct by the employees of the Company, if any, that can lead 
to financial loss or reputational risk to the organization. The detail 
of the Whistle Blower Policy has been posted on the website of the 
Company & can be accessed through the link https://religare.com/
policies/
During the year under review, no complaint pertaining to the 
Company was received under the Whistle Blower mechanism.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL SYSTEM
The Company and its subsidiaries have Internal Control System, 
commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of its 
operations. The Internal Controls of the Company & its subsidiaries 
encompasses the policies, standard operating procedure manuals, 
approval/authorization matrix, circulars/ guidelines, and risk & 
control matrices for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business & support functions, adherence to these policies & 
procedures, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records and timely preparation of reliable financial 
information during the process of financial reporting. The internal 
control system is supported by an internal audit process for 
reviewing the adequacy and efficacy of the relevant internal 
controls, including its systems, processes and compliance with 
applicable regulations and procedures. Such detailed controls 
ensure productive and effective use of resources to the extent 
that the assets are safe-guarded, transactions are duly approved, 
registered and adequately reported and checks and balances 
ensure consistency and reliability of accounting data.
Company is a registered NBFC (CIC) and is exposed to various 
risks as stated in the Risk Management Policy of the Company and 
its key operating subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries 
have adequate control environment for identification, assessment, 
monitoring, mitigation and reporting of applicable risks on a 
periodical basis through an effective Risk Management Framework 
that has been developed encompassing all the key business and 
support functions. Mitigation plans and controls are documented 
for each identified risk in the form of policies & standard operating 
procedures and Risk & Control Matrices (RCM). Risks/controls 
documented in the RCMs are mapped to each of the financial 
statement line items (FSLI) and financial assertions to ensure 
availability of mitigation plans and internal financial controls for 
each of the material balances contained in the financial statements. 
32
Annual Report 2023-2024
The Company has prepared separate RCMs for Process Level 
Controls (PLC) and Entity Level Controls (ELC). Similarly, Information 
Technology controls relating to Information Security, Cyber Security 
and Other Information Technology General Controls (ITGC) have 
also been identified, assessed and documented, which are updated 
periodically.
The Company and its key operating subsidiaries have a robust 
mechanism to ensure an ongoing review of systems, policies, 
processes and procedures to contain and mitigate risk that arise 
from time to time. The Company and its key operating subsidiaries 
have satisfactory system of periodical monitoring and reporting of 
internal financial controls. Key policies and procedures including the 
RCMs designed to provide reasonable assurance are monitored 
and updated on a periodical basis. Management ensures that 
controls as designed are operating effectively and that lapses 
are identified and remedied in a timely manner. The monitoring 
activities are carried out through Control Self-Assessment (CSA) 
mechanism integrated with the internal audit function, whereby 
key risks and controls are reviewed on a quarterly basis and 
dashboard containing results of evaluation of Test of Design (TOD) 
and Test of Operating Effectiveness (TOE) relating to the Company 
and its key operating subsidiaries are presented to the Audit and 
Governance Committee of the Company. A quarterly consolidated 
report on TOD/TOE testing relating to the Company and its key 
operating subsidiaries is presented to the Group Risk Management 
Committee (GRMC) of the Company.
The Company and its key operating subsidiaries have an elaborate 
quarterly internal audit policy and framework as approved by 
the respective Audit & Governance Committees of the Board. 
The scope, authority and structure of the Internal Audit function 
has been defined in the comprehensive Internal Audit Policy. 
The Company has designated Internal Auditor appointed as per 
Section 138 of the Act. The Company also conducts Information 
System and Cyber Security Audit on a yearly basis and the report 
is presented to the Audit and Governance Committee of the Board. 
Information System Security controls enable the Company to keep 
a check on technology-related risks and also improve business 
efficiency and distribution capabilities.
The Internal Audit Team evaluates the efficacy and adequacy of 
the internal control system and internal financial controls in the 
Company, its compliance with operating systems, accounting 
procedures, policies and regulatory requirements at key locations 
of the Company. Based on the integrated report of internal audit 
function and IFC, process owners undertake corrective action in 
their respective areas and thereby strengthen the internal controls. 
Significant internal audit observations (rated high and medium 
risk) and corrective actions thereon, along with IFC dashboard, 
are presented to the Audit and Governance Committee of the 
Board on periodical basis. The Internal Auditors also assesses 
opportunities for improvement in business processes, systems and 
controls, provides recommendations, designed to add value to the 
organization and follow up the implementation of corrective actions 
and improvements in business processes after review by the Audit 
and Governance Committee. The Audit and Governance Committee 
of the Board reviews and evaluates adequacy and effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal control environment, provides their inputs, 
if any, to improve the quality of audit and assurance standards and 
monitors the implementation of audit recommendations across the 
relevant functional areas to continuously strengthen the internal 
control framework.
Therefore, the Board has laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and that such internal financial controls 
are adequate and were operating effectively during the financial 
year.
CONFIRMATION UNDER FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
MANAGEMENT (NON-DEBT INSTRUMENTS) RULES, 
2019 ON DOWNSTREAM INVESTMENT
The Company is an Indian Owned and Controlled Company 
(“IOCC”) as defined under the applicable FDI Regulations and 
therefore the terms and conditions in relation to its downstream 
investments in Indian companies were not applicable during the 
year ended March 31, 2024.
DETAILS OF FRAUD REPORTABLE BY AUDITOR
During the year under review, neither the statutory auditors nor the 
secretarial auditors of the Company has disclosed any instance of 
fraud committed against the Company by its officers or employees 
required to be disclosed in terms of Section 143(12) of the Act.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Our employees are the driving force behind our success, and we 
are committed towards creating a work environment that fosters 
growth, innovation, and collaboration. Our diverse, professional 
and talented team is our greatest asset, and we are dedicated 
to supporting their development and growth. The Group has 
solidified its position and regained the trust of its stakeholders 
through the collective efforts of its subsidiaries. Owing to the 
unwavering dedication, commitment, and loyalty of our employees, 
the Company has navigated challenging times with resilience 
emerging as a formidable player in the industry and establishing a 
strong reputation.
Developing our future leaders is crucial to driving long-term 
success. Under the guidance of our of our highly experienced 
top leadership team, future leaders are being nurtured within the 
organization through mentorship and coaching. This approach is 
integral to our succession planning process, ensuring continuity and 
maintaining a robust talent pipelines for critical roles. These efforts 
have helped us build a strong bench of future leaders and reduce 
turnover among key positions.
We believe that investing in our employees is essential to driving 
business results. We prioritize employee engagement and 
satisfaction, recognizing that a happy and fulfilled team is vital to 
our success. We are committed to building a workplace culture that 
33
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
is inclusive, equitable and reflective of the diverse communities we 
serve. Our hiring process focuses on increasing diversity across 
our leadership teams. As a company we are commiited towards 
ensuring the health, safety and well-being of our employees 
and their family members through various initiatives, employee 
assistance programs and wellness workshops. We strive to ensure 
that all our employees feel valued and empowered to succeed.
DISCLOSURE UNDER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT THE WORK PLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
The Company has in place Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at Workplace Policy in line with the requirements of The Sexual 
Harassment of Women at the Work Place (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder. An Internal 
Complaints Committee (ICC) is in place as per the requirements 
of the said Act to redress complaints received regarding sexual 
harassment. All employees (permanent, contractual, temporary, 
trainees) are covered under this policy. No case has been reported 
during the year under review.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
The details required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 
5(1) & 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, are annexed as “Annexure B” 
to this report.
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Board of Directors affirm that, the Company has complied 
with the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (SS1 and SS2) respectively relating to 
Meetings of the Board, its Committees and the General Meetings.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
THE REGULATORS OR COURTS
There are no significant or material orders passed by the 
Regulators/Courts which would impact the going concern status 
of the Company and its operations in future except to the extent 
mentioned in this Report.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS 
AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION
There are no material changes and commitments adversely 
affecting the financial position of the Company which have occurred 
between the end of the financial year of the Company to which the 
financial statements relate (i.e. March 31, 2024) and as of date of 
the report i.e. December 04, 2024.
DETAIL OF APPLICATIONS / PROCEEDINGS UNDER 
INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016
An application under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 (Code) was filed by Ligare Aviation Limited on 
March 14, 2023 to initiate Corporate Insolvency Resolution 
Proceedings against the Company in terms of an alleged corporate 
guarantee provided by Religare Enterprises Limited for a loan 
granted by Ligare Aviation Limited to Auriga Marketing Services 
Pvt. Ltd. However, the said petition was dismissed on merits by the 
Hon’ble NCLT, Delhi on July 11, 2023.
DIFFERENCE IN VALUATION
The Company has not made any one time settlement with the 
banks / financial institutions during the year under review.
OTHERS
-	
The Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans from 
banks and financial institutions. There were no delays or 
defaults in payment of interest/principal of any of its debt 
securities
-	
The equity shares of the Company were not suspended from 
trading during the year on account of corporate actions or 
otherwise
-	
The Company has not issued during the period under review 
any equity shares with differential rights as to dividend, voting 
or otherwise
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Your Directors would like to express their sincere appreciation for 
the co-operation and assistance received from the Company’s 
Bankers, Regulatory Bodies, Stakeholders including Financial 
Institutions and other business associates who have extended their 
valuable sustained support and encouragement during the year 
under review.
Your Directors also wish to place on record their deep sense of 
gratitude and appreciation for the commitment displayed by all 
executives, officers and staff at all levels of the Company during 
the year under review. The Directors would also like to thank all 
shareholders for their continued faith in the Company and look 
forward to your continued support in the future.

By order of the Board of Directors

For Religare Enterprises Limited
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Place: New Delhi
Executive Chairperson
Date: December 04, 2024
DIN: 01715298
34
Annual Report 2023-2024
Annexure A
ANNEXURE –II
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
FOR THE FINANCIAL
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
The Company has adopted its CSR Policy which aims at enhancing the welfare measures for the underprivileged communities and 
aims to contribute towards access to good quality education, healthcare, sports, environment, facilities for senior citizens and orphans, 
enhancing vocational skills and sanitation initiatives. It also aims to empower communities to lead a self-reliant and healthier life at large.
	
CSR Policy of the Company provides the overview of projects or programs and the guiding principles for selection, implementation and 
monitoring of the CSR activities.
	
The CSR Policy of the Company can be assessed at the Company’s website through the link:
	
https://religare.com/policies/ 
2.	
Composition of CSR & ESG Committee:
SI 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Executive Chairperson / Executive Director
1
1
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on the 
website of the company.-
	
Composition of CSR & ESG Committee
	
https://religare.com/committees-of-board/
	
CSR Policy
	
https://religare.com/policies/
	
CSR projects approved by the Board - Not Applicable
4.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report). 
	
Not Applicable - Due to losses during the past three years, the Company was not required to spend money under CSR for financial year 
2023-24 as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, hence project assessment is not applicable.
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any - Nil
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off
from preceding financial years (in `)
Amount required to be setoff for the 
financial year, if any (in `)
Nil
TOTAL
35
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
6.	
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) - Loss of ` 3,659.38 Lakhs
7.	
(a) 	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) – Nil
	
(b) 	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years – Nil
	
(c) 	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any – Nil
	
(d) 	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) – Nil
8.	
(a) 	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule 
VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
	
	
Due to losses during the past three years, the Company was not required to spend money under CSR for financial year 2023-24 
as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
(b) 	 Details of CSR amount spent against on-going projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in `)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
financial 
Year (in `)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for the 
project as per 
Section 135(6) 
(in `)
Mode of 
Implementa 
tion – 
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
Not Applicable
TOTAL
(c) 	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than on-going projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the list 
of activities in 
Schedule VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project
duration
Mode of 
Implementa tion 
– Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
Nil
TOTAL
(d)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads – Nil
(e)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable – Nil
(f)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e) – Nil
36
Annual Report 2023-2024
(g)	
Excess amount for set off, if any - Nil
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount (in `)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
Nil
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
Nil
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
Nil
9	
(a)	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Nil
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(7)
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial
Year
Amount
transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account 
under section 135 (6) 
(in `)
Amount spent in 
the reporting
Financial Year (in `)
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as 
per section 135(6), if any
Amount
remaining to be 
spent in succeeding
financial years 
(in `)
Name of 
the Fund
Amount  
(in `)
Date of 
Transfer
Nil
TOTAL
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for on-going projects of the preceding financial year(s): Nil
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl.
No.
Project
ID
Name of 
the Project
Financial
Year in 
which the
project was
commenced
Project
duration
Total amount 
allocated for 
the project  
(in `)
Amount spent 
on the project 
in the reporting 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Cumulative 
amount spent 
at the end of 
reporting Financial 
Year (in `)
Status of 
the project – 
Completed /
Ongoing
Nil
TOTAL
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in 
the financial year – Not Applicable
(asset-wise details).
(a)	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s)
(b)	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset
(c)	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address etc.
(d)	
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset)
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5) – Not Applicable
Place: New Delhi
Date: December 4, 2024
By order of the Board of Directors  
For Religare Enterprises Limited 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja  
Executive Chairperson
DIN: 01715298
37
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure B
DETAILS PERTAINING TO REMUNERATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 
2013 READ WITH RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
(i) 	
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the financial year:
Name & Designation
Ratio to Median REL Remuneration
Dr. Rashmi Saluja – Executive Chairperson
56:1
(ii) 	 The percentage increase in remuneration of each director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary or 
Manager, if any, in the financial year:
Name & Designation
% increase in REL remuneration in the financial year
Dr. Rashmi Saluja – Executive Chairperson
20%
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal – Group CFO
25%
Ms. Reena Jayara - Company Secretary
10%
(iii) 	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 43.8%
(iv) 	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of company: 35 (as on 31 March’24)
(v) 	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year 
and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any 
exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of 
employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year was 11.23 % whereas the average percentage increase 
in the applicable managerial remuneration for the same financial year was 20.56 % .
(vi) 	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the company: It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid 
is as per the Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees.
Note: The information on median percentages excludes the perquisite arisen on exercise of ESOPs under the Religare Enterprises Limited ESOP Plan 2019 and exercise 
of ESOPs under the 2014 ESOP Scheme of Care Health Insurance Limited, subsidiary company during the year under review.
STATEMENT OF EMPLOYEES REMUNERATION PURSUANT TO RULE 5(2) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION 
OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
A.	
Top 10 Employees in terms of Salary drawn during the financial year 2023-24
S. 
No.
Name
Age
Designation / 
Nature of Duties
Gross 
Remuneration 
(`)
Qualification
Experience
Date of 
Commencement 
of Employment
Last 
Employment
1
Rashmi Salujaa
50
Executive 
Chairperson
68,85,89,837
MBBS, MD, LLB, 
MBA (Finance) PhD
29
26-Feb-20
Self Employed
2
Nitin Aggarwalb
48
Group Chief 
Financial Officer
39,78,81,358
B.Com, CA
26
09-Sep-19
Religare Broking 
Ltd
3
Nishant Singhalc
43
President & Group 
General Counsel
10,21,80,986
B.Com, LLB
19
01-Jun-20
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
4
Rajesh Sharmad
55
President - 
Internal Audit
4,68,92,721
B.Com, CA
29
01-Jan-18
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
5
Gunjan Anand 
Raye
36
VP – Human 
Resources
2,19,88,779
PGDBM, B.A. 
(Economics)
11
01-Dec-21
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
6
Reena Jayaraf
42
SVP & Company 
Secretary
2,00,65,726
B.Com, CS
18
17-Nov-17
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
38
Annual Report 2023-2024
S. 
No.
Name
Age
Designation / 
Nature of Duties
Gross 
Remuneration 
(`)
Qualification
Experience
Date of 
Commencement 
of Employment
Last 
Employment
7
Shalabh Gargg
45
SVP - Information 
Technology
1,96,93,337
BE (Computer 
Science), PGDBA
19
01-Jan-18
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
8
Richa Mishrah
48
Director & Group 
Head - HR
1,66,76,199
PhD, MBA, B.Sc.
25
20-Nov-20
National Projects 
Construction 
Corporation Ltd 
9
Sandeep Kumar 
Diwani
47
VP-Finance & 
Accounts
1,46,03,840
CA, CMA, MBA 
(Finance)
23
01-Sep-18
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
10
Abhishek Pasarij
36
SVP - Taxation
1,28,99,657
B.Com, CA
13
01-Jun-23
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
B.	
Employees employed throughout the year who drawn salary of ` 102 Lakhs or above per annum during the financial year 
2023-24
S. 
No.
Name
Age
Designation / 
Nature of Duties
Gross 
Remuneration 
(`)
Qualification
Experience
Date of 
Commencement 
of Employment
Last 
Employment
1
Rashmi Salujaa
50
Executive 
Chairperson
68,85,89,837
MBBS, MD, LLB, 
MBA (Finance) PhD
29
26-Feb-20
Self Employed
2
Nitin Aggarwalb
48
Group Chief 
Financial Officer
39,78,81,358
B.Com, CA
26
09-Sep-19
Religare Broking 
Ltd 
3
Nishant Singhalc
43
President & Group 
General Counsel
10,21,80,986
B.Com, LLB
19
01-Jun-20
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
4
Rajesh Sharmad
55
President - 
Internal Audit
4,68,92,721
B.Com, CA
29
01-Jan-18
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
5
Reena Jayaraf
42
SVP & Company 
Secretary
2,00,65,726
B.Com, CS
18
17-Nov-17
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
6
Shalabh Gargg
45
SVP - Information 
Technology
1,96,93,337
BE (Computer 
Science), PGDBA
19
01-Jan-18
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
7
Richa Mishrah
48
Director & Group 
Head - HR
1,66,76,199
PhD, MBA, B.Sc.
25
20-Nov-20
National Projects 
Construction 
Corporation Ltd
8
Sandeep Kumar 
Diwani
47
VP-Finance & 
Accounts
1,46,03,840
CA, CMA, MBA 
(Finance)
23
01-Sep-18
Religare Finvest 
Ltd
9
Sanjeev Tandonk 46
SVP - Finance & 
Accounts
1,09,08,023
B.Com, CA
24
01-Jan-18
Religare Support 
Services Ltd
10
Pratul Gupta
47
Director & Head - 
Strategy, M&A and 
Investor Relations
1,08,61,416
B.Tech, Masters In 
Business Economics
23
01-Jul-22
Siguler Guff India 
Advisors Ltd.
39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
C.	
Employees who were employed for part of the year with an average salary of ` 8.50 Lakhs or above per month during the financial 
year 2023-24
S. 
No.
Name
Age
Designation / 
Nature of Duties
Gross 
Remuneration 
(`)
Qualification
Experience
Date of 
Commencement 
of Employment
Last Employment
1
Gunjan Anand Raye
36
VP – Human 
Resources
2,19,88,779 PGDBM, B.A. 
(Economics)
11
01-Dec-21
Religare Finvest Ltd 
2
Abhishek Pasarij
36
SVP - Taxation
1,28,99,657 
B.Com, CA
13
01-Jun-23
Religare Finvest Ltd
3
Rakesh Asthaana
62
Group Head - 
Corporate Affairs & 
Business Advisor
1,23,78,915 
B.A, M.A,
40
03-Aug-23
Delhi Police, 
Government of 
India
4
Vishal Goyal
43
SVP - Compliance
1,18,025 CS, LLB, MBA
18
01-Aug-22
PTC India Financial 
Services
Notes:
a 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 54,73,60,428/- on exercise of 25,00,000 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme of the Company and exercise of 75,69,685 
ESOP under the 2014 ESOP Scheme of Care Health Insurance Limited, subsidiary company during fiscal 2024
b 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 35,81,90,770/- on exercise of 16,36,250 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme of the Company and exercise of 10,61,614 
ESOP under the 2014 ESOP Scheme of Care Health Insurance Limited, subsidiary company during fiscal 2024
c 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 8,04,71,995/- on exercise of 3,28,750 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme of the Company and exercise of 4,20,538 ESOP 
under the 2014 ESOP Scheme of Care Health Insurance Limited, subsidiary company during fiscal 2024
d 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 3,55,15,850/- on exercise of 1,86,000 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
e 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 1,80,32,795/- on exercise of 85,500 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
f 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 1,43,14,570/- on exercise of 72,500 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
g 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 1,27,96,025/- on exercise of 59,000 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
h 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 68,39,746/- on exercise of 99,000 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
i 	 Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 1,12,24,436/- on exercise of 51,250 ESOP under the 2019 ESOP Scheme during fiscal 2024
j 	 Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 89,74,707/- on exercise of 37,500 ESOP under the 2019 Plan during fiscal 2024
k 	Remuneration includes perquisite value of ` 54,34,300/- on exercise of 25,000 ESOP under the 2019 Plan during fiscal 2024
1) 	
Persons named above are/ were permanent employees of the Company.
2) 	
Remuneration includes salary, allowances, leave encashment, bonus, Leave travel concession, Employer contribution towards NPS, 
ESOP Perquisite, other perquisite and car. In addition, the employees are entitled to gratuity,employer’s contribution to Provident Fund, 
Food Voucher and group insurance in accordance with Company’s Rules.
3) 	
The appointment of the above employees is non-contractual and are governed by the Company policy and rules
4) 	
None of the employees above has equity shareholding in the company exceeding 2% of the equity shares as on March 31, 2024
5) 	
None of the employees mentioned above are relative of any Director of the Company
6) 	
None of the employees were in receipt of remuneration which in the aggregate, is in excess of that drawn by Managing Director of the 
Company and also holds by himself or along with his spouse and dependent children, 2% of the equity shares of the Company
7) 	
Remuneration mentioned above is inclusive of retirement/ separation benefits paid during the year

By order of the Board of Directors

For Religare Enterprises Limited

 Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Place: New Delhi
Executive Chairperson
Date: December 4, 2024
DIN: 01715298
40
Annual Report 2023-2024
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Religare Enterprises Limited
L74899DL1984PLC146935
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Religare Enterprises Limited (hereinafter called “the 
Company” or “REL”). The Secretarial Audit was conducted in 
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024 
(“Audit Period”). Further, equity shares of the Company are listed 
on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. 
Further, the Company is also registered with the Reserve Bank of 
India (“RBI”) as a Core Investment Company (“CIC”).
Limitation of the Auditors
(i)	
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the Audit Period, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder; and
(ii)	
Based on the management representation, confirmation 
and explanation wherever required by us, the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i)	
Our responsibility is to express the opinion on the compliance 
with the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit (“Guidance Note”) 
and Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance Note and Auditing 
Standards require that we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and perform the audit so 
as to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records.
(ii)	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk 
that some misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii)	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of compliance mechanism 
exist in the Company to assess any material weakness and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of compliance mechanism based upon the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend upon the auditor’s 
judgement, including assessment of the risk of material 
non-compliance whether due to error or fraud.
(iv)	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
Audit Period, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment and Overseas Direct Investment;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘SAST Regulations’);
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
41
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021;
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; 
(Not applicable during the review period)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
clients; (Not Applicable)
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable 
during the review period)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable during 
the review period) and
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing Regulations’).
Based upon the Management Representation wherever required 
from the Company, we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with the following pertinent laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines as specifically applicable to the Company: -
a.	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 to the extent it is 
applicable to CIC and
b.	
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 
(“CIC Directions”).
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI wherein the Company 
is generally complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. as mentioned above.
Matter of Emphasis
i.	
As per SAST Regulations, the Company is currently under 
the mandatory open offer period since September 25, 2023, 
in relation to an open offer to the public shareholders of the 
Company made on behalf of MB Finmart Private Limited, Puran 
Associates Private Limited, VIC Enterprises Private Limited, 
and Milky Investment & Trading Company for the acquisition 
of up to 90,042,541 fully paid-up equity shares of face value 
of ` 10 each from the Public Shareholders representing 26.00 
% of the Expanded Voting Share Capital, at a price of ` 235.00 
per Equity Share aggregating to total consideration of up to 
` 21,159,997,135/- payable in cash.
	
Before the foregoing open offer, the Company was in the 
process of acquiring 100% stake in MIC Insurance Web 
Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”) and entered into a share 
purchase agreement with the latter’s promoters on April 05, 
2023. Accordingly, on December 08, 2023, the Company had 
completed 100% stake in MIC. After the said acquisition and 
while the open offer was in operation, the Company invested 
` 30 Lakhs in MIC through a rights issue in December 2023 
for which the Company sought ratification cum approval of 
shareholders vide postal ballot notice dated February 07, 
2024, in terms of Regulation 26 of the SAST Regulations 
which was not approved by the shareholders.
	
However, as informed to us, the management of the Company 
has been of the view that the aforesaid investment made 
was in the ordinary course of business of the Company and 
to maintain the net worth as required under the regulations 
prescribed by the IRDAI for Insurance Web Aggregators.
We further report that:
(i)	
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Director(s) and Non-Executive 
Independent Directors during the Audit Period. The changes 
in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place 
during the Audit Period were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
(ii)	
Further, the composition of all statutory committees was 
also in compliance with the Act and applicable Rules and 
Regulations.
(iii)	
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings and Statutory Committee Meetings. 
Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance except for meeting(s) which held at 
shorter notice and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting
(iv)	
Majority decisions were carried through and there were no 
instances where any director expressed any dissenting views.
We further report that in our opinion, the Company has, in all 
material respects, adequate systems and processes commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
42
Annual Report 2023-2024
We further report that during the audit period and thereafter, 
the following events have occurred in the Company having major 
bearing on the Company’s affairs:
i.	
The Company has received the Public Announcement 
dated September 25, 2023, in relation to the open offer to 
the Public shareholders of the Company on behalf of the 
Burman Group of Companies [i.e., M.B. Finmart Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 1”), Puran Associates Private Limited (“Acquirer 
2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited (“Acquirer 3”), and Milky 
Investment & Trading Company (“Acquirer 4”) (hereinafter 
the “Acquirers”)], for the acquisition of up to 90,042,541 fully 
paid-up equity shares of the face value of ` 10 each from 
the public shareholders of the Company representing 26 
.00% of the Expanded Voting Share Capital of the Company. 
The Detailed Public Statement dated October 03, 2023, was 
published by the Acquirers on October 04, 2023, and the Draft 
Letter of Offer was submitted by the Acquirers with SEBI on 
October 11, 2023. The Acquirers have received the approval 
of the Competition Commission of India (“CCI”) as mentioned 
in the Press Release dated January 23, 2024, followed by 
detailed order of the same date uploaded on the CCI website 
on March 15, 2024, the same has been appealed against and 
pending adjudication before Hon’ble National Company Law 
Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Further, the Company received 
an endorsement email from the RBI addressed ‘ to the 
Acquirer on their Application for prior approval for change 
in management and control stating that request cannot be 
acceded to, as application for prior permission for acquiring 
control and/or change in management has to be submitted 
by the NBFC in which, change in management and control is 
taking place.
ii.	
On June 20, 2024, an Interim Order cum Show Cause Notice 
dated June 19, 2024 (“SCN cum Order”) has been issued by 
SEBI to the Company and its Directors to assist the acquirer 
in fulfilling their obligation under SAST Regulations against 
which an appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal 
(“SAT”), Mumbai has been preferred.
	
Pursuant to said appeal, the SAT on July 10, 2024, passed the 
following orders:
	
a.	
The Appellants have been granted time till July 22, 
2024, to file the necessary application to the Regulatory 
Authorities including the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), 
without prejudice to the rights and contentions including 
in the appeal, in order to comply with the directions 
contained in the SCN cum Order;
	
b.	
Directions contained in para 35 of the SCN cum Order 
requiring Appellants to file the reply/objection to the 
SCN cum Order have been stayed.
	
As on the date of this report and as informed to us, the 
Company including its subsidiaries has filed the necessary 
application before the respective authorities such as RBI, 
IRDAI and SEBI.
iii.	
The Board of Directors of the Company on December 18, 
2019, approved, subject to requisite approvals, the draft 
Scheme of Amalgamation (“Scheme”) for merger of four (4) 
direct/indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company 
namely, Religare Comtrade Limited, Religare Insurance 
Limited, Religare Advisors Limited and Religare Business 
Solutions Limited with/into the Company subject to terms 
and conditions as provided in the Scheme, w.e.f. April 01, 
2019. The Scheme was filed with the Hon’ble NCLT, Delhi 
on October 31, 2020. The Hon’ble NCLT vide order dated 
December 21, 2021, allowed the application. Post end of the 
reporting period, the Hon’ble NCLT vide order dated June 15, 
2023, has approved the Scheme. Pursuant to the filing of 
the Scheme with the ROC, the Scheme became effective 
on June 28, 2023, and the aforesaid four wholly owned 
subsidiaries merged with/into the Company.
iv.	
REL had entered into a Share Purchase Agreement on 
April 05, 2023, with Religare Finvest Limited (RFL), a wholly 
owned subsidiary of REL and Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited (RHDFCL), a subsidiary company 
of RFL, for acquisition of entire equity stake of RHDFCL held 
by RFL. RFL currently holds 87.5% of total share capital of 
RHDFCL. Post-acquisition, RHDFCL shall become a direct 
subsidiary of REL. The application seeking approval of the 
RBI in the matter submitted by RHDFCL on April 18, 2023, 
has been returned by RBI with an advice to submit a fresh 
application with complete information.
v.	
As informed to us, Religare Global Asset Management, Inc. 
(RGAM Inc.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company in 
Delaware, USA stands dissolved w.e.f October 09, 2023, as 
per the report of the search conducted and received by the 
Company on December 27, 2023. Accordingly, RGAM Inc. 
ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company.
vi.	
REL has not redeemed 15 Lakhs preference shares which 
were due for redemption on October 31, 2018, having a 
redemption value of ` 4,190.28 Lakhs basis the interim 
application filed in the matter of Daiichi Sankyo Company 
Limited vs. Malvinder Mohan Singh & Others before the 
Hon’ble High Court of Delhi disputing its liability as garnishee 
and praying among other reliefs for the stay of redemption 
pending the outcome of investigations into the affairs of 
the Company and its subsidiaries already initiated by SEBI 
and SFIO. The Company has been served with warrants 
of attachment as Garnishee, which is being contested/
challenged. Further, Daiichi had filed an application 
demanding the forensic audit of Religare Group Companies in 
terms of order dated September 22, 2022 passed by Hon’ble 
SC in the matter of Oscar Investments. REL and RFL have 
filed their replies and objected to the same. Matter is pending 
before the Court. Company has also filed a criminal complaint 
43
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
before the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police for various 
offences under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 w.r.t transactions 
relating to issuance and redemption of said Preference 
Shares. The matter is sub-judice as on the date of this report.
vii.	
REL has not redeemed 250 Lakhs preference shares which 
had become due for redemption on August 30, 2021 having 
the redemption value of ` 4,212.75 Lakhs. As REL has also 
filed a petition with Hon’ble NCLT, Delhi seeking rectification 
of Register of Members of the Company, alleging the 
transaction to be a fraudulent one and has sought cancellation 
of preference shares along with stay on voting rights in the 
interim. On September 29, 2021, the Hon’ble NCLT directed 
ordering the status quo on the respondents to restrain them 
from exercising their voting power with the resolution, until 
the further orders. Further, vide order dated December 16, 
2021, it was affirmed by Hon’ble NCLT that interim order will 
continue. The matter is sub-judice as on the date of this report.
viii.	 RFL and REL (as confirming party) entered into One Time 
Settlement (‘OTS’) Agreement on December 30, 2022 
with RFL’s sixteen secured lenders for their secured and 
unsecured exposure. Post completion of One Time Settlement 
(‘OTS’) with sixteen secured lenders, RFL received No-Dues 
Certificates (NDCs) from them in May 2023. Thereafter, RFL 
also proposed and completed the settlement of outstanding 
unsecured non-convertible debenture (NCD) holders and 
received NDCs from said NCD holders. RFL also settled the 
unsecured loan taken from ICICI Bank Ltd., which was not 
part of the OTS with secured lenders, and accordingly, paid 
the final settlement amount of ` 18,750.00 Lakhs as per 
the terms of the settlement against the outstanding dues of 
` 41,784.62 Lakhs (including interest of ` 16,784.62 Lakhs) 
as at February 26, 2024, i.e. the date of payment of settlement 
amount. The NDC from ICICI Bank was received by RFL in 
March 2024.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.:32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: July 29, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F000843700
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as “Annexure A” and forms an integral part of this report.
44
Annual Report 2023-2024
Annexure-A
To,
The Members,
Religare Enterprises Limited
L74899DL1984PLC146935
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to express an opinion 
on these secretarial records based on our audit.
(ii)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
(iii)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
(iv)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and 
happening of events etc.
(v)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other sector specific laws, rules, regulations, standards as applicable on the Company 
is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on sampling basis.
(vi)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.:32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: July 29, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F000843700
45
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Care Health Insurance Limited
(U66000DL2007PLC161503)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Care Health Insurance Limited (hereinafter 
called “the Company”). The Secretarial Audit was conducted in 
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon for the financial year ended on March 31st, 2024 
(“Audit Period”). The Company is governed mainly under the 
provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 and the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority Act, 1999 (“Insurance Laws”) and 
under the Companies Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder 
where there is no inconsistency with the Insurance Laws.
Limitation of the Auditors
(i)	
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the Audit Period, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder; and
(ii)	
Based on the management representation, confirmation 
and explanation wherever required by us, the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i)	
Our responsibility is to express the opinion on the compliance 
with the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit (“Guidance Note”) 
and Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance Note and Auditing 
Standards require that we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and perform the audit so 
as to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records.
(ii)	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk 
that some misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii)	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of compliance mechanism 
exist in the Company to assess any material weakness, and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of compliance mechanism based upon the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend upon the auditor’s 
judgement, including assessment of the risk of material 
non-compliance whether due to error or fraud.
(iv)	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s Board processes and 
compliance-mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
Audit Period, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period)
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment and Overseas Direct Investment; (Not applicable 
to the Company during the audit period)
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(Not applicable)
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
46
Annual Report 2023-2024
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
applicable)
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; (to 
the extent applicable to the Company);
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
applicable)
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an 
Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding 
the Companies Act and dealing with client;
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable)
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy - back of 
Securities) Regulations, 2018; and (Not applicable)
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘Listing Regulations’); (Not applicable)
It is further reported that with respect to the compliance of other 
applicable laws, we have relied on the representation made by the 
Company and its officers for system and mechanism framed by the 
Company for compliances under general laws (including Labour 
Laws, Tax Laws, etc.).
Based upon the Management Representation wherever required 
from the Company and the audit reports as made available to us of 
the respective auditors appointed under Law/ Regulations/ Rules, 
we further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with the following 
pertinent laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as specifically 
applicable to the Company: -
(a)	
Insurance Act, 1938 and extant Rules & Regulation framed 
under Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 
1999 (“IRDAI”) to the extent as below:
	
(i)	
Guidelines for Corporate Governance for Insurers in 
India, 2016.
	
(ii)	
Guidelines on Remuneration of Directors and Key 
Managerial Persons, 2023.
	
(iii)	
IRDAI (Expenses of Management of Insurers transacting 
General or Health Insurance Business) Regulations, 
2023
	
(iv)	
IRDAI (Places of Business) Regulations, 2015.
	
(v)	
Declaration and undertakings from Directors along with 
Deed of Covenants at the time of Appointment.
	
(vi)	
Compliance/ 
Correspondence 
with 
IRDAI 
i.e. 
Monthly, Quarterly, Half yearly, Annually etc.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI wherein the Company 
is strictly complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations. (Not applicable)
During the period under review, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. as mentioned hereinabove.
We further report that:
(i)	
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Director(s), Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors during the Audit Period. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the Audit Period were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act. The following 
changes took place during the Audit Period:
	
a)	
The tenure of Mr. Chander Mohan Minocha, Bank 
Nominee Director representing Union Bank of India 
ended on January 27, 2024 due to which he ceased to 
be the member of the Board effective from that date and 
in his place, Mr. Biju Sushama Vasudevan was appointed 
as the Bank Nominee Director for the period of 2 Years 
w.e.f. March 29, 2024;
	
b)	
The tenure of Mr. Sham Lal Mohan and Lt. Gen. (Retd.) 
Shamsher Singh Mehta, Non-Executive Independent 
Directors of the Company, has ended on March 31, 
2024 due to which they ceased to be the members of 
the Board and various Committees effective from that 
date;
(ii)	
Further, the composition of all statutory committees was 
also in compliance with the Act and applicable Rules and 
Regulations.
(iii)	
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, Statutory Committee Meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in 
advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
47
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(iv)	
Majority decisions were carried through and there were no 
instances where any director expressed any dissenting views.
We further report that in our opinion, the Company has, in all 
material respects, adequate systems and processes commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
We further report that during the Audit Period the below event 
occurred in the Company having major bearing on the Company’s 
affairs.
•	
That the Company allotted 1,64,63,938 (One Crore, Sixty 
Four Lakhs, Sixty Three Thousand, Nine Hundred and Thirty 
Eight) equity shares amounting to ` 62,05,93,986.68 (Sixty 
Two Crore, Five Lakhs, Ninety Three Thousand, Nine Hundred 
Eighty Six and Sixty Eight paise) comprising of 9,00,733 
equity shares of face value of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each @ 
premium of ` 24.31/- per share and 1,55,63,205 equity shares 
of face value of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each @ premium of 
` 27.89/- per share to Mr. Anuj Gulati, Managing Director & 
CEO of the Company pursuant to ESOP options exercised 
by CEO under Religare Health Insurance CEO Stock Option 
Scheme 2014.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: 30.07.2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F000854645
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as “Annexure A” which forms an integral part of this report.
48
Annual Report 2023-2024
Annexure-A
To, 
The Members, 
Care Health Insurance Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to express an opinion 
on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
(ii)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
(iii)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
(iv)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and 
happening of events etc. 
(v)	
The compliance of the provisions of Insurance Act 1938 read with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (“IRDAI”), 
as applicable on the Company, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the 
regulations, guidelines, circulars, etc. issued by IRDAI in respect of the guidelines mentioned hereinabove in the main report and the 
verification thereof were made on sampling basis. 
(vi)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: 30.07.2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F000854645
49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Religare Broking Limited
(U65999DL2016PLC314319)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Religare Broking Limited (hereinafter 
called “the Company”). The Secretarial Audit was conducted in 
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon for the financial year ended on March 31st, 2024 
(“Audit Period”). The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Religare Enterprises Limited. As informed to us, The Company is 
registered as a Research Analyst under SEBI (Research Analyst) 
Regulations, 2014, as a Stock Broker under SEBI (Stock Brokers) 
Regulations, 1992, as a Depository Participant under SEBI 
(Depository Participants) Regulations, 2018, as a Corporate Agent 
under IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015, 
as a Point of Presence w.e.f. June 7, 2018 under PFRDA (Point of 
Presence) Regulations, 2018, and as a Registrars to an issue and 
share transfer agent w.e.f. April 05, 2022.
Limitation of the Auditors
(i)	
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the Audit Period, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder; and
(ii)	
Based on the management representation, confirmation 
and explanation wherever required by us, the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i)	
Our responsibility is to express the opinion on the compliance 
with the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit (“Guidance Note”) 
and Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance Note and Auditing 
Standards require that we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and perform the audit so 
as to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records.
(ii)	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk 
that some misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii)	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of compliance mechanism 
exist in the Company to assess any material weakness and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of compliance mechanism based upon the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend upon the auditor’s 
judgement, including assessment of the risk of material 
non-compliance whether due to error or fraud.
(iv)	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s Board processes and compliance 
mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
Audit Period, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings; (Not Applicable)
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(Not Applicable)
50
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not Applicable)
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021;
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; 
(Not Applicable)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client;
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy - back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable) and
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing Regulations’). 
(Not Applicable)
It is further reported that with respect to the compliance of other 
applicable laws, we have relied on the representation made by the 
Company and its officers for system and mechanism framed by the 
Company for compliances under general laws (including Labour 
Laws, Tax Laws, etc.).
Based upon the Management Representation wherever required 
from the Company and the audit reports as made available to us of 
the respective auditors appointed under Law/ Regulations/ Rules, 
we further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with the following 
pertinent laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as specifically 
applicable to the Company:
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research 
Analyst) Regulations, 2014; (‘RA Regulations’)
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock-Brokers) 
Regulations, 1992 read with Master Circular for Stock Broker; 
(‘Broking Regulations’)
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and 
Participants) Regulations, 2018; (‘DP Regulations’);
d.	
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Point of 
Presence) Regulations, 2018 (‘POP Regulations’);
e.	
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
(Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015 (IRDA 
Regulations); and
f.	
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) read with 
Prevention of Money- Laundering (Maintenance of Records) 
Rules, 2005 to the extent of filing information of clients.
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an 
Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI wherein the Company 
is generally complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations (Not Applicable)
During the period under review, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. as mentioned hereinabove.
We further report that:
(i)	
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Director(s), Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors during the Audit Period. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the Audit Period were carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act. The following 
changes took place during the Audit Period:
	
a.	
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal, CEO of the company, resigned 
from his position with effect from May 08, 2023, and 
the resulting vacancy was filled on May 08, 2023, by 
appointing Mr. Gurpreet Singh Sadana as the CEO of the 
Company.
	
b.	
Mr. Rakesh Asthana was appointed as an Additional 
Director of the Company with effect from December 11, 
2023.
	
c.	
Mr. Hamid Ahmed and Mr. Sachchida Nand Shrivastava 
who were appointed as Additional Independent 
Directors with effect from December 16, 2022 and 
January 11, 2023 respectively, were regularized by the 
51
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Shareholders in the Annual General Meeting held on 
September 26, 2023.
	
d.	
Dr. Manjushree Ghodke was re-appointed as an 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
February 05, 2024, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years.
	
e.	
Mr. Vikas Sethi, Company Secretary of the Company, 
tendered his resignation with effect from May 31, 2024.
(ii)	
Further, the composition of all statutory committee(s) was also 
in compliance with the Act, BR Act and applicable Rules and 
Regulations as on date of this report.
(iii)	
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, Statutory Committee Meetings, agenda, and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in 
advance (or with requisite compliances for holding of a Board 
Meeting at a shorter notice in case of urgency, wherever 
applicable) and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
(iv)	
Majority decisions were carried through and there were no 
instances where any director expressed any dissenting views.
We further report that in our opinion, the Company has, in all 
material respects, adequate systems and processes commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the following 
events have occurred in the Company having major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, 
regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. referred to above that:
i.	
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors in their 
meeting held on July 21, 2023, the Company issued 300 
(Three hundred) unlisted, secured, unrated, redeemable, 
Non- Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”), having Nominal 
Value of INR 10,00,000 (Indian Rupees Ten Lakhs only) 
each on a private placement basis to Hamdard Laboratories 
India, aggregating to INR 3000 Lakhs (Indian Rupees Three 
thousand Lakhs Only), with a fixed coupon rate of 11.50% per 
annum compounded annually and payable on maturity, and a 
tenor of 400 days from the date of issuance.
	
On July 24, 2023, the Company received the proceeds and 
accordingly made the allotment of NCDs on the mentioned 
date.
	
Pursuant to the approval of Board of Directors dated 
November 09, 2023, the Company on November 15, 2023 
voluntarily redeemed the aforementioned NCDs issued to 
Hamdard Laboratories India.
ii.	
The Board of Directors of Religare Enterprises Limited (“REL”) 
approved the draft Scheme of Amalgamation on December 18, 
2019, subject to requisite approvals, to merge four direct/ 
indirect wholly owned subsidiaries—Religare Comtrade 
Limited, Religare Insurance Limited, Religare Advisors Limited 
(“RAL”), and Religare Business Solutions Limited (“RBSL”)—
into REL, effective April 01, 2019. The Scheme was filed 
with the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”), 
Delhi, on October 31, 2020, and was allowed by the Hon’ble 
NCLT on December 21, 2021. The final approval was granted 
on June 15, 2023, and the Scheme became effective on 
June 28, 2023, following its filing with the ROC.
	
As RAL and RBSL were direct wholly owned subsidiaries 
of RBL, the Scheme led to the cancellation of RBL’s entire 
investment in their share capital, amounting to INR 3,789.06 
Lakhs.
iii.	
The Board of Directors in its meeting held on May 18, 2022 
approved a Scheme of Arrangement under Sections 230-232 
of the Companies Act, 2013, to transfer its E-Governance 
Undertaking to Religare Digital Solutions Limited (“RDSL”) 
via a slump sale, effective April 01, 2022. The first motion 
application was filed with the Hon’ble NCLT on September 21, 
2022, and admitted on November 30, 2023. The second 
motion application was admitted on January 05, 2024, and 
the matter is currently sub-judice.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: 11685
CP No.: 16274
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: August 10, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: F011685F000934739
Disclaimer
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as “Annexure A” which forms an integral part of this report.
52
Annual Report 2023-2024
Annexure-A
To,
The Members,
Religare Broking Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to express an opinion 
on these secretarial records based on our audit.
(ii)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
(iii)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
(iv)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and 
happening of events etc.
(v)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other sector specific laws as applicable on the Company, rules, regulations, standards 
is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on sampling basis.
(vi)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: 11685
CP No.: 16274
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: August 10, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: F011685F000934739
53
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Religare Finvest Limited
(U74999DL1995PLC064132)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Religare Finvest Limited (hereinafter 
called “the Company/ RFL”). The Secretarial Audit was conducted 
in a manner that provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon for the financial year ended on March 31st, 2024 
(“Audit Period”).
The Company is primarily engaged in the lending business and 
registered with the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) as a Systemically 
Important Non-Deposit taking Non-Banking Financial Company 
(NBFC- ND-SI) and Middle layer NBFC under Master Direction 
– Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – 
Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 dated 19th Oct 2023. 
The Company also holds the certificate/ registration as (i) distribution 
of mutual fund products from Association of Mutual Funds in India 
(AMFI) (ii) Depository Participant with CDSL. During the Audit Period, 
the Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of the Company were 
listed on BSE only and based upon the settlement made with such 
NCD holders as explained hereinafter, the Company redeemed all 
its listed NCDs. Consequently, BSE delisted and removed all scrip 
codes related to the NCDs.
Limitation of the Auditors
(i)	
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed, and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the Audit Period, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder; and
(ii)	
Based on the management representation, confirmation 
and explanation wherever required by us, the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i)	
Our responsibility is to express the opinion on the compliance 
with the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit (“Guidance Note”) 
and Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance Note and Auditing 
Standards require that we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and perform the audit so 
as to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records.
(ii)	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk 
that some misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii)	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of compliance mechanism 
exist in the Company to assess any material weakness and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of compliance mechanism based upon the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend upon the auditor’s 
judgement, including assessment of the risk of material 
non-compliance whether due to error or fraud.
(iv)	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s Board processes and compliance 
mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
Audit Period, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment and Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period)
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
54
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(Not applicable)
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; (Applicable to the 
extent of listed NCDs of the Company)
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not applicable)
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable)
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
audit period)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; (Not Applicable)
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy - back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable); and
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 to the extent of listed NCDs upto the date of 
removal of scrips from BSE (hereinafter referred to as 
‘Listing Regulations’).
(vi)	
Based upon the Management Representation wherever 
required from the Company and the audit report as made 
available to us of the respective auditors appointed under 
any specific Law/ Regulations, we further report that subject 
to the observations mentioned hereinafter, there are systems 
and processes to monitor and ensure compliance with the 
following laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as specifically 
applicable to the Company:-
	
(a)	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (RBI Act, 1934) to 
the extent it is applicable to NBFC;
	
(b)	
RBI Master Directions - NBFC-ND-SI, 2016;
	
(c)	
RBI Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based 
Regulation) Directions, 2023; (“NBFC Directions”)
	
(d)	
RBI Master Directions - KYC Directions, 2016;
	
(e)	
RBI’s 
Master 
Directions-Information 
Technology 
Framework for the NBFCs, 2016;
	
(f)	
RBI’s Master Directions - Monitoring of Frauds in NBFCs, 
2016;
	
(g)	
RBI’s Master Directions - Returns by NBFCs, 2016;
	
(h)	
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Filing of 
Supervisory Returns) Directions,2024 dated 27th Feb 
2024.
It is further reported that with respect to the compliance of other 
general laws, we have relied on the representation made by the 
Company and its officers for system and mechanism framed by the 
Company for compliances under general laws (including Labour 
Laws, Tax Laws, etc.).
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI wherein the Company 
is generally complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations.
During the period under review, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. as mentioned hereinabove except to the extent as mentioned 
below:
1.	
That the Company has exceeded the limits of concentration 
of lending to a single borrower and any single group of 
borrowers of 25% and 40% of Net Owned Fund, respectively 
as at the end of Audit Period.
We further report that:
(i)	
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted 
with the proper balance of one (1) Executive Director(s) and 
Three (3) Independent Directors during the Audit Period. 
There were no changes took place in the composition of the 
Board of Directors.
(ii)	
Further, the composition of all statutory committees was 
also in compliance with the Act and applicable Rules and 
Regulations.
(iii)	
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on the agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance except that of 
few Board Meetings which were held on shorter notice in 
compliance with the applicable statutory requirements, and 
a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
55
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(iv)	
The majority of decisions were carried through and there were 
no instances where any director expressed any dissenting 
views.
We further report that in our opinion, the Company has, in all 
material respects, adequate systems and processes commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the following 
events have occurred in the Company having major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, 
regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. referred to above that:
i.	
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors of the 
Company, Religare Enterprises Limited (“Holding Company/ 
REL”), Religare Finvest Limited and Religare Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited (“Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary of RFL/RHDFCL”) in their meeting held on April 5, 
2023, executed a share purchase agreement for the sale of 
Company’s entire investment of 87.5% of the total paid-up 
share capital of RHDFCL to REL for a consideration of INR. 
19,329 Lakhs. RHDFCL filed an application for the change 
in management with the RBI on April 18, 2023, which was 
returned by the RBI with instructions to file a fresh application.
ii.	
Under 
the 
One-time 
Settlement 
(“OTS”) 
agreement 
executed on December 30, 2022, certain Unsecured, Rated, 
Sub-ordinated NCDs issued to Canara Bank under Series 30 
and 32 were settled. Post settlement the Debenture Trustee 
received No Dues Certificate from Canara Bank, and the 
Company received the No Due Certificate from Debenture 
Trustee.
iii.	
As informed, a few of the Debenture holders of NCDs 
pertaining to series 30 and 32 and other investors of 
series 35 and 36. The Company paid ` 9,539.46 Lakhs 
to all eligible NCD holders of Series 30, 32, 35 and 36 as 
one-time settlement amount on June 30, 2023, July 27, 2023, 
August 29, 2023, and September 26 2023. Post settlement 
the Company received the No Due Certificate from the 
Debenture Trustee for series 30, 32, 35, and 36. In this regard, 
the Company made all requisite disclosures and all the ISINs 
of NCDs were extinguished by the Depository. Consequently, 
BSE removed all scrip codes connected with NCDs from its 
portal in January 2024.
iv.	
The Company proposed a settlement offer towards full & final 
repayment to ICICI Bank Ltd on December 30, 2023. Further to 
the discussion of the Company with ICICI Bank Limited, a 
revised proposal was offered by the company on January 4, 
2024 and the revised settlement offer was accepted by ICICI 
Bank vide email dated February 21, 2024 and accordingly an 
agreement dated February 26, 2024 was executed between 
ICICI Bank and the Company. As per the terms of agreement, 
the Company paid the full and final settlement amount to ICICI 
Bank on February 26, 2024 towards the total outstanding 
due of ICICI Bank (including Principal and Interest). ICICI Bank 
issued No Dues Certificate (NDC) to the Company on March 5, 
2024.
	
As per the terms of the Settlement Agreement, RFL and ICICI 
Bank have withdrawn all legal cases and criminal complaints.
v.	
As informed to us, post settlement of all loan liabilities, the 
Company became Debt Free as at period ended on March 31, 
2024 and does not have any cumulative negative mismatch 
in ALM bucket of up to 5 years. As informed, the Company is 
taking necessary corrective actions/ measures as advised by 
RBI and the Company has requested the RBI on February 12, 
2024, to lift the Corrective Action Plan (“CAP”) however the 
decision of the RBI is pending as on the date of this report.
vi.	
The Company has an exposure of ` 81,468.01 Lakhs as at 
March 31, 2024 towards the Corporate Loan Book (“CLB”) 
Category recoverable (after de-recognizing 60% CLB). RBI had 
raised concerns in the past about the creditworthiness of the 
borrowers, credit appraisal and loan sanctioning mechanism 
followed by the Company in respect of such loan book. 
The management reviewed the portfolio and the financial 
reports of such borrowers to determine the respective 
recoverability of the said loans. Based on the maturity dates 
of the loans, recovery steps instituted and the financial 
reports of the borrowers, the Company had, on a prudent 
basis, made a full provision of ` 81,468.01 Lakhs against this 
above-mentioned portfolio in previous periods. The Company 
had initiated insolvency proceedings before the National 
Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) against the concerned 
borrowers forming a part of the CLB category.
	
As informed by the management, RFL had filed a criminal 
complaint on December 19, 2018 before the EOW, Delhi for 
various criminal actions committed by the erstwhile promoters 
and other associated persons/entities which turned out into 
an FIR no. 50/2019 on March 27, 2019 under Sections 409, 
420 and 120-B. The matter is next listed before the Trial Court 
on August 31, 2024 for arguments on charge.
	
The Enforcement Directorate had also lodged an enforcement 
case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act based on the FIR lodged by RFL, which is also 
pending trial before the Ld. Sessions Court, Saket.
vii.	
In December 2016, the Company subscribed to NCDs 
amounting to INR 20,000 Lakhs of a corporate entity named 
OSPL, backed by the SREI group. Due to default in repayment of 
these NCDs, the Company filed a case against OSPL under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (“IBC”) before the Hon’ble 
NCLT Kolkata, which subsequently issued a liquidation order. 
As there were no realizable assets or properties available, the 
liquidator filed a dissolution application, which was allowed by 
56
Annual Report 2023-2024
the Tribunal in its order dated March 19, 2024. The amount 
has been written off in the Company’s books of accounts.
	
Further, RFL has preferred an application, in a Company 
petition titled “SREI Limited v. Predicate Consultants Private 
Limited” already pending at NCLT, Kolkata, against the 
Impugned Notice dated November 25, 2023, wherein the 
Liquidator of Predicate Consultants called for bidders of the 
shares of BRNL which were originally pledged with RFL by 
OSPL. Vide Order dated June 24, 2024 Interim prayer of RFL 
has been allowed and the stay has been granted on the sale 
of BRNL shares till the next date of hearing. The respondents 
have been directed to file their reply. The matter has been 
adjourned for August 7, 2024.
viii.	 RFL had filed a suit with the Delhi High Court to recover 
` 79,145 Lakhs misappropriated by LVB (now DBS) along with 
interest thereon. RFL’s Application under Order VI Rule 17 
read with Order I Rule 10 CPC for amendment of Pleadings 
and impleadment has been allowed by the Hon’ble Court 
vide Order dated. December 15, 2023 which has attained 
its finality after the dismissal of Appeal filed by DBS before 
the Divisional bench of High Court and a further dismissal of 
SLP by the Supreme Court. The matter is now pending for 
final arguments on an application filed by DBS under order 
VII rule 11 for Dismissal of Plaint before the Delhi High Court. 
Further, the State Bank of India (SBI) has filed an application 
for its impleadment which is pending adjudication, in addition 
to SBI two more entities namely SCCPL and PFHPL have also 
filed applications seeking intervention in the case which are 
yet to be adjudicated. The matter is next listed on August 22, 
2024 before the Delhi High Court for further arguments on 
the said Application u/o VII rule 11.
	
RFL had also filed a criminal complaint against LVB and others 
on May 15, 2019, leading to FIR registration and filing of 
charge sheets by the EOW, Delhi. The case is pending for 
necessary compliances under Section 207 of CrPC, with the 
next hearing on August 8, 2024. The Supreme Court has 
dismissed RFL’s SLP and allowed DBS’s SLP, quashing criminal 
proceedings against DBS.
	
The misappropriated fixed deposits were reclassified as ‘Other 
Financial Assets’ and the receivable balance of ` 25,924.09 
Lakhs were fully provisioned as of March 31, 2024.
ix.	
RFL filed a complaint for cheating, misappropriation, forgery, 
criminal breach of trust, and criminal conspiracy against 
Strategic Credit Capital Pvt. Ltd (“SCCPL”), its associated 
entities, and related individuals. This stemmed from a 2015 
assignment transaction where SCCPL issued a forged Standby 
Letter of Credit and failed to adhere to the assignment terms. 
Additionally, RFL provided an unpaid loan of ` 22,187.5 Lakhs 
to an associate company, PCSPL. In 2017, Mohnish Makkar, 
who controlled SCCPL, acknowledged a joint liability of 
` 79,367 Lakhs, which was also unpaid. An FIR was registered 
on December 22, 2020, and charge sheet was filed on 
August 30, 2022. RFL challenged the trial court’s order, and 
the Delhi High Court has issued a notice requiring a reply by 
May 20, 2024. Additionally, the Enforcement Directorate has 
initiated an investigation based on the FIR.
x.	
RFL filed insolvency petitions under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code against SCCPL and PCSPL. RFL, having 
purchased a ` 4,000 Lakhs loan from Nishu Finlease Pvt. 
Ltd., issued a recall notice to SCCPL, which failed to repay. 
The petition under Section 7 of IBC was dismissed by NCLT 
Delhi on November 25, 2022. RFL’s appeal was also dismissed 
on April 27, 2023, due to limitation, but the Supreme Court 
has issued a notice on an SLP filed by RFL and condoned the 
delay, with the matter scheduled for August 29, 2024.
xi.	
That Strategic Credit Capital Private Limited (“SCCPL”) & 
Participation Finance & Holdings (India) Private Limited (“PFH”) 
filed a commercial civil suit before the Delhi High Court against 
LVB, naming RFL and other entities as parties. They seek 
relief, including a direction regarding the Company’s fixed 
deposits with LVB. RFL also has filed for rejection of the plaint 
under Order VII Rule 11 and a CrPC Section 340 application 
against SCCPL for fabricating documents. The matter is 
currently sub-judice. Additionally, Loancore filed a substitution 
on behalf of SCCPL, by way of assignment deed and RFL has 
responded. The case is scheduled for further proceedings on 
October 3, 2024.
xii.	
The composite license obtained by the Company to function 
as a Corporate Agent under the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) to pursue insurance 
business bearing no. CA0350 which was lapsed on May 18th, 
2022. As informed to us, a new application for Corporate 
Agent Registration is under process.
xiii.	 The Company had license of Depository Participant with 
CDSL and the Company was submitted surrender request of 
DP license on July 1, 2022. The same is pending with CDSL.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: September 03, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F001113411
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as “Annexure A” which forms an integral part of this report.
57
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure-A
To,
The Members,
Religare Finvest Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to express an opinion 
on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
(ii)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
(iii)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
(iv)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and 
happening of events etc. 
(v)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other sector specific laws as applicable on the Company, rules, regulations, standards 
is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on sampling basis. 
(vi)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: September 03, 2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: A032109F001113411
58
Annual Report 2023-2024
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
(U74899DL1993PLC054259)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). The Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon for the financial year ended on 
March 31st, 2024 (“Audit Period”). It is also noted that the Company 
is a Housing Finance Company (“HFC”) registered with National 
Housing Bank (NHB) under section 29A of the National Housing 
Bank Act, 1987.
Limitation of the Auditors
(i)	
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the Audit Period, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder; and
(ii)	
Based on the management representation, confirmation 
and explanation wherever required by us, the Company has 
proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i)	
Our responsibility is to express the opinion on the compliance 
with the applicable laws and maintenance of records based 
on audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit (“Guidance Note”) 
and Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance Note and Auditing 
Standards require that we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and perform the audit so 
as to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records.
(ii)	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, 
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk 
that some misstatements or material non-compliances may 
not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii)	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of compliance mechanism 
exist in the Company to assess any material weakness, and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of compliance mechanism based upon the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend upon the auditor’s 
judgement, including assessment of the risk of material 
non-compliance whether due to error or fraud.
(iv)	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
Audit Period, according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder (Not Applicable)
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
(iv)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment and Overseas Direct Investment;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(Not Applicable)
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; (Not Applicable)
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not Applicable)
59
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021; (Not Applicable)
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; 
(Not Applicable)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; (Not Applicable)
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy - back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable) and
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing Regulations’). 
(Not Applicable)
Based upon the Management Representation wherever required 
from the Company, we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with the following pertinent laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines as specifically applicable to the Company: -
a.	
The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 and
b.	
Master Directions on Non-Banking Financial Company-Housing 
Finance Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2021 and 
other RBI/NHB Directions/Notifications/Circulars applicable 
on the Company;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of 
the following:
(i) 	
Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI wherein the Company 
is generally complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations. (Not Applicable)
During the period under review, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, 
etc. as mentioned hereinabove.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company was duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Director(s) and Non-Executive 
Directors including Independent Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the 
Audit Period were carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act and the changes that took place in the composition during 
the period under review are as herein mentioned:
a.	
Appointment of Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi as an Independent 
Director w.e.f. September 27, 2022 was regularized in the 
Annual General Meeting held on September 26, 2023.
b.	
Mr. Ashok Choturam Mehta ceased to be Non -Executive 
& Non-Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. 
September 21, 2023 due to completion of his tenure.
(i)	
Further, the composition of all statutory committees was 
also in compliance with the Act and applicable Rules and 
Regulations.
(ii)	
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, Statutory Committee Meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in 
advance except few Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
which were held at shorter notice and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
(iii)	
The majority of decisions were carried through and there were 
no instances where any director expressed any dissenting 
views.
We further report that in our opinion, the Company has, in all 
material respects, adequate systems and processes commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the following 
events have occurred in the Company having major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs:
1.	
Religare Enterprises Limited, ultimate holding company/ 
‘REL’, had entered into a share purchase agreement on 
April 05, 2023 with Religare Finvest Limited, immediate 
holding company/ ‘RFL’, and Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited for divestment of entire stake 
(i.e. 87.5%) being held by RFL in the Company subject to 
necessary statutory and regulatory approvals. Thereafter, the 
Company had filed an application to the RBI for change in 
control and management on April 18, 2023. However, said 
application was returned by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
without prejudiced to the right to file fresh application.
2.	
REL had received a Show Cause Notice cum Interim Order 
from SEBI with reference to the open offer made by the 
Burman Group of Companies however REL filed an appeal 
before Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) against the said 
60
Annual Report 2023-2024
order of SEBI. Pursuant to said appeal, SAT vide its order dated July 10, 2024 directed REL directly and indirectly to its subsidiary 
companies to file necessary application with the relevant authorities such as SEBI, RBI, etc by July 22, 2024. Consequently, and as 
informed to us, the Company, being a subsidiary, has filed the application for change in control and management with the RBI on July 22, 
2024 in compliance with the SAT Order.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: F11685
CP No.: 16274
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: 29.07.2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: F011685F000843703
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure A” which forms an integral part of this report.
61
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure-A
To, 
The Members, 
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to express an opinion 
on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
(ii)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the 
contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
(iii)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
(iv)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and 
happening of events etc. 
(v)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other sector specific laws as applicable on the Company, rules, regulations, standards 
is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on sampling basis. 
(vi)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: F11685
CP No.: 16274
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Date: 29.07.2024
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: F011685F000843703
62
Annual Report 2023-2024
Management Discussion and Analysis
GLOBAL ECONOMY
Over the past two years, contrary to many forecasts, the global 
economy has shown exceptional strength by avoiding a recession. 
The global banking system has proved resilient, and major 
emerging market economies have continued to thrive. During the 
previous year, global equity markets delivered double-digit returns. 
This outperformance was led by a slide in the dollar index, declining 
crude prices globally, and higher expectations of rate cuts by the 
US Fed and other central banks. Emerging markets and developing 
economies also showed resilience, benefiting from shifts in global 
supply chains and trade tensions.
The monetary policy tightening by Central Banks such as the Federal 
Reserve and the European Central Bank has led to higher debt 
servicing costs, particularly for countries with debts denominated 
in foreign currencies. As a result, many nations are now compelled 
to consider debt restructuring to effectively manage their growing 
debt obligations. Implementing effective policy measures is crucial 
to maintain macroeconomic stability and to bolster medium-term 
growth prospects.
The International Monetary Fund’s “World Economic Outlook 
April 2024” report highlights the resilience of the global economy, 
noting steady growth and a return to target inflation levels. 
The forecasted global economic growth is projected to be stable 
at 3.2% for CY2024 and 3.3% for CY2025. In terms of inflation, 
emerging markets are expected to experience higher and more 
persistent inflation compared to advanced economies.
While there are challenges such as China’s slower-than-expected 
recovery, elevated energy costs in Europe, and dampened global 
consumer sentiment due to the Ukraine-Russia conflict and the 
Red Sea crisis, Asian Region is expected to lead global economic 
growth for CY2024.
INDIAN ECONOMY
The Indian economy displayed confidence, positivity, and optimism, 
with strong momentum, amid global challenges and geopolitical 
tensions, buoyed by strong domestic demand, substantial 
investments, and dynamic growth in manufacturing and services. 
The economy witnessed a strong GDP growth of 8.2% in real terms, 
in FY24 against an advance estimate of 7.6%. This significant 
increase highlights the country’s robust economic framework and 
the effectiveness of its growth strategies. India is on track to become 
the third-largest economy within the next three years. The banking 
sector’s asset quality has seen considerable improvement, with 
the gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio reaching a decade 
low. Scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) experienced accelerated 
balance sheet growth due to increased credit to retail and 
services sectors.
The financial services sector, valued at ` 177 lakh Crore, is 
set for major reforms to align with global trends, including 
enhancements in digital payments and insolvency processes.
Inflation is nearing the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) target of 4%, and 
forex reserves are at record levels. Interest rates have remained 
steady, with a growth-supportive stance. The National Statistical 
Office reported a retail inflation rate of 5.09% in February 2024, 
which eased to 4.85% in March 2024. This led the RBI to pause 
rate hikes and maintain the benchmark repo rate at 6.50%. 
Managing inflation remains a key focus for policymakers, and the 
fiscal deficit is expected to stay within the 5.1% target for FY25.
The stable macroeconomic factors, a positive global perception, 
and a stable currency contribute to India’s attractiveness for 
investors. Despite the impact of global geopolitical events, India 
maintained its growth trajectory. A predicted rural recovery, 
aided by above-normal monsoons in 2024, is expected to further 
enhance growth.
FY24 saw a milestone with gross GST collections of ` 20.18 
Lakh Crore, up 11.7% from the previous year.
The 
financial 
services 
sector 
is 
experiencing 
significant 
developments. The mutual funds industry, for instance, saw AUM 
grow to ` 53.40 lakh Crore as of March 2024. Reforms such as 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) are being fine-tuned to 
expedite insolvency proceedings, freeing up funds for reinvestment. 
Additionally, new government initiatives aim to bolster digital public 
infrastructure and financial inclusion, paving the way for sustained 
growth and innovation in the sector. These strategic moves 
position India’s financial services sector for robust performance 
and new opportunities in 2024, fostering economic resilience and 
technological advancement.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
During FY24, India’s domestic financial markets exhibited stability, 
with the equity markets displaying strong confidence and positive 
sentiment. This stability can be attributed to effective regulatory 
measures and a robust macroeconomic environment. Despite facing 
challenges from volatile global financial markets, a strong US dollar, 
and geopolitical tensions, the INR depreciated by only 1.4% during 
FY24, a notable improvement from the 7.8% depreciation in the 
previous year.
63
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Health Insurance Sector
According to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI), India is on track to become the sixth-largest 
insurance market1 within the next decade. In pursuit of its ‘Insurance 
for All by 2047’2 vision, the IRDAI is implementing bold strategies to 
address industry challenges. The recent pandemic has emphasized 
the crucial role of health insurance in enhancing the healthcare 
system. From April 2023 to February 2024, health insurance 
premiums reached ` 98,716 Crore, a 20% increase compared to 
` 81,997 Crore in the same period the previous year . This figure 
includes premiums from both general insurers and standalone 
health insurance companies (SAHI). The share of health insurance 
premiums rose to 37.5% from 35.2% year-over-year. Private insurers 
recorded a notable 14% growth in premiums, amounting to nearly 
` 2.5 lakh Crore, up from ` 2.1 lakh Crore the previous year3. 
Consequently, private insurers and SAHI companies collectively 
gained an additional one percentage point in market share.
Retail Broking Services
In 2024, the retail broking services sector in India has transformed 
significantly due to technological advancements and fintech 
innovations. Integration of AI, machine learning, and big data 
analytics has enhanced customer experience, making trading 
more efficient and personalized, attracting a larger customer 
base. The number of retail investors in India has now reached 95 
million, indicating growing interest in stock market investments. 
Regulatory changes by SEBI have increased transparency and 
investor protection, ensured strict compliance standards and 
boosted investor confidence. To stay competitive with fintech 
platforms, traditional brokerage firms in India are increasingly 
adopting digital strategies, resulting in an average trading volume 
of ` 12.5 trillion in the Indian stock market.
Digital transactions in the broking sector have grown by 35%, 
showing increased adoption of online trading platforms.
In conclusion, retail broking services in India in 2024 are marked 
by technological advancements, stringent regulatory frameworks, 
and a competitive market environment, contributing to a more 
transparent, efficient, and investor-centric broking ecosystem.
MSME Lending Services
In 2024, MSME lending services in India have evolved significantly, 
reflecting the broader economic and policy shifts in the country. 
In FY24, the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal recorded 
transactions exceeding ` 4 lakh Crore ($47.96 billion), reflecting 
extensive purchasing activity across various sectors and increasing 
international interest. Recent reports indicate that the total credit 
extended to MSMEs in India grew by 14% year-on-year, reaching 
` 18.5 trillion by mid-2024, driven by various government initiatives 
and the increasing role of digital lending platforms. The western 
region of India, including Maharashtra and Gujarat, has the highest 
concentration of MSME lending, accounting for 30% of total credit 
disbursed, followed by the southern and northern regions with 25% 
and 20%, respectively.
Government schemes like the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust 
for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) have facilitated 
credit guarantees worth ` 40,000 Crore in 2024, benefiting 
over 1 million MSMEs.
Digitalization has significantly enhanced MSME lending services. 
Advances in digital banking and financial technologies have made 
lending more efficient and accessible. By 2024, an estimated 
65% of MSME loans will be processed through digital channels, 
reducing the average loan processing time from 29 days to 8 
days. This transformation improves loan disbursement speed and 
efficiency, enhancing financial inclusion for MSMEs across various 
regions. Financial inclusivity initiatives are making credit more 
accessible to MSMEs by leveraging technologies like AI to enhance 
customer service and streamline credit assessments. The Pradhan 
Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) has significantly promoted financial 
inclusion, disbursing ` 3.2 trillion in loans to over 50 million MSMEs 
in FY2023-24.
Housing Finance
The India Affordable Housing Market is valued at $3.17 billion 
and is projected to grow at a CAGR of 19.80% through 2030. 
Over the past five years, Affordable Housing Finance Companies 
(AHFCs) have shown impressive AUM CAGR of 28% to 40%, with 
RoA exceeding 3.5% and low credit costs averaging 0.2% to 0.5%. 
Key trends include digitalization, expansion of affordable housing 
finance, rising demand for sustainable and green housing solutions, 
and niche financing options for specific customer segments. 
This growth is significantly driven by several government initiatives 
aimed at promoting affordable housing.
1IBEF
2IBEF
3The Economic Times
64
Annual Report 2023-2024
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
About REL
Religare Enterprises Limited (“REL” or “the Company”) is a Core Investment Company (CIC) authorised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 
REL acts as the group’s publicly traded holding company for its subsidiaries involved in diverse financial services.
Current Organization Structure
REL
Care Health
(62.98%)
RBL
(100%)
RFL
(100%)
RHDFCL
(87.5%)
MIC Web Aggregator
(100%)
1 million  
policyholders in insurance
~3,500  
customers in affordable housing finance
1 million  
customers in broking; 1.9+ lakh active clients
~13,000  
employees
~600  
customers in SME & MSME finance
~1,200  
locations across India
KEY SUBSIDIARIES AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
1.	
Insurance (Health & Travel) - Care Health Insurance Limited (CHIL)
	
Key Highlights
2nd Rank among SAHI
1,465+  
Locations across India
24,820+  
Hospitals & healthcare centres 
empanelled for cashless claims
42  
Products
262  
Branches
	
CHIL, 62.98% owned by REL, ranks 2nd in terms of GDP among Stand Alone Health Insurance Companies (SAHI). The company 
offers a diverse product portfolio of 42 products, including group, travel, fixed benefit, and indemnity categories, catering to various 
customer needs. CHIL provides differentiated services for corporate businesses, such as wellness programmes and preventive 
health check-ups, helping to negotiate higher premiums and enhance customer retention. Employing a multi-channel distribution 
strategy through agencies, brokers, corporate agents, online platforms, and bancassurance, CHIL primarily focuses on retail and SME 
customers. The company continues to invest in digital solutions for its customers, partners, and employees.
65
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
20,000
FY06
2,221
1,16,751
20%
FY08
FY10
FY12
FY14
FY16
FY18
40,000
60,000
20,000
1,00,000
1,20,000
1,40,000
97,686
80,502
56,798
42,102
27,369
19,385
14,551
8,388
5,066
FY20
FY22
FY23
FY24
Indian Health Insurance Market Size (₹ Cr)
Source: GI Council
0
5,00
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
35,000
30,000
SAHI - Total Premium (` Cr)
26,243
FY23
33,115
FY24
Source: GI Council, IRDAI
Operational Performance
` 7,022 Crore  
Gross Written Premium
` 305 Crore  
PAT
` 2,170 Crore  
Net worth
During FY24, CHIL garnered a Gross Written Premium of ` 7,021.93 
Crore, representing a 34% growth from FY23, with a healthy 
combined ratio of 94.98%. CHIL reported a Profit Before Tax (PBT) 
of ` 410.07 Crore, a PAT of ` 304.90 Crore, and an underwriting 
profit of ` 7.21 Crore for FY24. As of March 31, 2024, CHIL had a 
net worth of ` 2,169.82 Crore. During FY24, the company raised 
capital of ` 115.75 Crore through ESOPs. This capital infusion 
enabled the company to invest in distribution, technology, servicing 
opportunities, and maintaining healthy solvency margins. As a 
SAHI, CHIL operated across three segments – personal accident 
insurance, health insurance, and travel insurance.
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24
Growing investment book with healthy yields
1,776
AUM
(INR Cr)
Gross
Yields
2,635
7.8%
7.0%
6.6%
6.7%
7.1%
3,566
5,076
6,633
Only ~6.0% of the book below AAA
66
Annual Report 2023-2024
Gross Written Premium
Health Insurance
3% 2%
95%
Personal Accident
Insurance
Travel Insurance
Opportunities
The Indian health insurance market is growing, registering a market 
size of ` 1,16,751.47 Crore in FY24, an increase of 19.5% from the 
previous year. Among health insurance service providers in India, 
public sector institutions hold a market share of 37.4%, private 
insurers have a 34.3% market share, and SAHI account for 28.4% 
of the market. However, in terms of retail GDP, SAHI had the largest 
share at 56.0% in FY24.
Share of Health Insurance Service Providers
PSU
28.4%
34.3%
37.4%
Private
SAHI
Having invested in people, processes, alliances, technology, and 
customer services, CHIL is well-positioned to serve and grow within 
the structural growth narrative of the insurance sector in India, 
particularly in the health insurance sector.
2.	
Retail Broking – Religare Broking Limited (RBL)
	
Key Highlights
~1 million  
unique customers
~1,500  
points of presence
400+  
towns and cities across India
The retail broking business is primarily conducted by RBL, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Religare Enterprises Limited (REL). 
RBL offers trading capabilities across all product segments, 
including cash equities, equity derivatives, commodities, currency 
derivatives, and mutual funds, on all major stock and commodities 
exchanges in India. RBL’s distribution strategy combines its own 
branches with a robust network of sub-brokers and franchisees, 
extending RBL’s reach and enhancing the visibility of the Religare 
brand across the country.
RBL provides multi-platform trading options, including branch, web, 
mobile app, and call & trade, to enhance customer convenience 
and accessibility. Additionally, the Retail Broking business has 
Bancinvest partnerships with various banks, such as Bank of 
Maharashtra, Dhanlaxmi Bank Limited, Karur Vysya Bank Limited, 
Saraswat Bank, South Indian Bank Limited, Tamilnad Mercantile 
Bank Limited, and Union Bank of India, and continues to expand its 
Bancinvest partnerships.
RBL operates the following segments:
•	
Retail Equity Broking and Depository Services: The retail 
equity broking business is operated by RBL. RBL is registered 
as a stock and commodity broker with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI). RBL is also a member of 
the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE), Bombay 
Stock Exchange Limited (BSE), Metropolitan Stock Exchange 
of India Limited (MSE), National Commodity & Derivatives 
Exchange Ltd. (NCDEX), and Multi Commodity Exchange of 
India Ltd. (MCX). Additionally, RBL is a depository participant 
with National Security Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL), ensuring smooth 
settlement of clients’ delivery-based transactions.
•	
Retail Commodity Broking: Commodity Broking provides a 
platform for exchange-based trading of futures and options in 
various agricultural products, bullion, metals, and oil & gas to 
producers, end-users, and intermediaries who are exposed to 
price risks in these commodities. This allows them to lock-in 
future prices and thereby hedge their exposures. RBL is a 
member of the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange 
Ltd. (NCDEX) and Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd (MCX).
•	
Retail Currency Broking: Trading in currency futures and 
options allows clients to hedge the capital and trading 
exposures they may have in currencies other than the 
INR. These products are offered by RBL as a member of the 
currency segment on NSE and BSE. Currently, the exchanges 
permit futures trading in four currency pairs: US Dollar-Indian 
Rupee, Euro-Indian Rupee, Pound Sterling-Indian Rupee, and 
Japanese Yen-Indian Rupee, and options trading in the US 
Dollar-Indian Rupee pair.
Ancillary Services and Other Business
Under the E-Governance business, RBL provides and facilitates a 
variety of government services, financial inclusion services, citizen 
e-services, and other ancillary and allied services. These services 
include Permanent Account Number (PAN) issuance, Tax Deduction 
67
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
and Collection Account Number (TAN) and e-TDS returns, acting as 
a Business Correspondent for banking services, Bharat Bill Payment 
Systems (BBPS) and recharges, ticketing for airlines, railways, 
buses, and tourism through online and offline platforms, Digital 
Signature Certificate and Token (DSC) services, and operating as 
a Central Record Keeping Agency Facilitation Centre (CRA-FC). 
RBL’s extensive franchisee network spans across India, catering to 
the needs of retail customers.
Additionally, RBL is registered with several regulatory bodies: 
the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) for mutual fund 
distribution, the Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (IRDAI) 
as a corporate agent for the sale of insurance policies, and the 
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) to 
act as a Point of Presence (PoP) for registering applicants under the 
National Pension Scheme. RBL is also registered with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to act as a Registrar to an Issue 
and Share Transfer Agent.
Operational Performance
Despite market volatility, the broking industry experienced 
significant growth in FY24, adding approximately 2.8 Crore new 
demat accounts and bringing the total to 14.2 Crore accounts, a 
24.6% increase over the previous year. This growth was driven by 
India’s digitalization, the rollout of 5G services, and increased retail 
participation in equity markets as investors sought higher returns 
compared to traditional savings instruments. The penetration of 
demat accounts in India remains low at 9.5%, indicating substantial 
growth potential compared to countries like the US and China.
RBL’s performance in FY24 demonstrated strong growth in both 
headline revenue and Profit before Tax. Cash volumes surged by 
31% due to market growth, leading to an increase in core income, 
with brokerage income rising from ` 161.89 Crores in FY23 to 
` 202.18 Crores in FY24. The management has undertaken several 
initiatives to generate scale-based growth and regain lost market 
share in the retail brokerage space and other allied services. 
The average daily turnover (ADTO) of RBL increased by 72%, from 
` 9,351 Crores to ` 16,070 Crores in FY24, showing a consistent 
upward trend year-on-year.
RBL also saw a 6% increase in its active client base, growing 
from 1.38 lakh clients in FY23 to 1.47 lakh clients in FY24.
Additionally, RBL reported substantial growth in acquiring 
e-governance franchisees, with the total franchisees for the 
e-governance business increasing from 26,929 in FY23 to 43,823 
in FY24, a 63% year-on-year growth. RBL has shifted its client 
acquisition strategy to focus more on quality rather than quantity, 
acquiring 45,045 new customers in FY24 compared to 58,240 
in FY23. The consolidated revenue of RBL and its subsidiary 
Religare Commodities Limited increased by 26.6% year-on-
year, from ` 292.01 Crores in FY23 to ` 369.75 Crores in FY24. 
Consolidated Profit after Tax showed a significant increase, rising 
from ` 14.79 Crores in FY23 to ` 38.87 Crores in FY24, marking a 
162% year-on-year growth. This substantial improvement reflects 
enhanced operational efficiencies and effective cost management.
Risks
•	
Adverse regulatory changes, such as increased compliance 
requirements or transaction taxes, can significantly impact 
profitability and operational efficiency.
•	
Technological disruptions, including cybersecurity threats and 
system failures, necessitate substantial investments in secure 
and resilient IT infrastructure.
•	
Market volatility or downturns can lead to reduced trading 
volumes and revenue, with the industry’s reliance on 
favourable market conditions posing risks during economic 
instability.
Opportunities
•	
Increased retail participation is being driven by a revival in 
primary market activity, improved secondary market returns, 
and heightened interest from younger demographics.
•	
Technological advancements, such as AI and machine 
learning, are enabling personalized services, improved 
efficiency, and reduced costs through digital platforms and 
mobile trading apps.
•	
Diversification of services into wealth management, financial 
planning, and advisory services is helping to capture a broader 
market and reduce dependency on transaction-based 
revenue.
•	
Favorable economic conditions, characterized by a positive 
economic outlook and liquidity, are supporting the growth of 
the broking industry through improved corporate earnings 
and increased investor confidence.
RBL is strategically positioned to leverage digitalization trends 
and capitalize on market opportunities. Our key focuses include 
expanding our client base, enhancing e-governance services, 
growing our affiliate network, and offering a comprehensive suite 
of financial products to cater to diverse customer needs throughout 
their financial journey.
3.	
SME Finance (NBFC) - Religare Finvest Limited 
(RFL)
	
Key Highlights
` 16,000 Crore  
peak business book
178  
professionals employed
11  
branches across India
68
Annual Report 2023-2024
RFL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of REL, is registered with the RBI as 
a Non-Deposit Taking Systemically Important Non-Banking Financial 
Company (NBFC-ND-SI). RFL’s primary business is providing debt 
capital to Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to enhance their 
productive capacity and throughput. As one of the first NBFCs in 
India to focus on this segment, RFL started its business in 2008 and, 
by 2016, had grown to build a peak business book of over ` 16,000 
Crore, becoming one of the largest SME financing platforms in India.
RFL’s product offerings include:
•	
SME-Secured: This product enables customers to obtain 
loans against their residential or commercial property. 
The loans offered under this product can be utilized for various 
purposes, including business expansion and the purchase of 
plant and machinery.
•	
SME-Unsecured: This product addresses the working capital 
and other financial needs of small and medium enterprises, 
self-employed businesspeople, and professionals. Loans are 
granted following a comprehensive financial analysis and 
credit underwriting process for each client.
Rebuilding with Purpose
RFL has completed the one-time settlement (OTS) payment of 
` 2,178 Crore to 16 lenders.
The OTS was achieved by making a full payment of ` 400 Crore 
well ahead of the three-month deadline specified in the agreement. 
The company received No-Dues Certificates (NDC) from these 
lenders as per the OTS agreement. RFL has also repaid the Inter 
Corporate Loan of REL, and as a result, RFL has been a debt-free 
company since February 2024. The company’s new Board and 
management have been implementing necessary corrective 
measures as advised by the RBI and are making concerted efforts 
towards the company’s revival.
Operational Performance
` 607.20 Crore  
Net Owned Fund (NOF)
` 740.18 Crore  
Net worth
114.86%  
CRAR
1.38%  
Net NPA
As of March 31, 2024, SME-Finance constituted over 35% of RFL’s 
lending business. RFL’s SME loan book has decreased from ` 1,112 
Crore in FY2023 to ` 526 Crore as of March 31, 2024, due to the 
CAP imposed by the RBI and the absence of new business sourcing.
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
2,340
2,754
1,637
1,112
Mar-24
526
SME Secured Book Size (in ₹ Crore)
SME-Finance Portfolio by Industry segment
Services/Traders
27.2%
1.7%
5.9%
3.8%
61.5%
Manufacturing
CRE
Primary & allied
Other
RFL Gross NPA – March 2023 to March 2024
1,645
24
22
109
292
1,245
RFL GNPA Movement - FY23-24
Opening 
GNPA
Addition to 
GNPA
Reduction-
Upgraded
to Standard
Reduction-
Recovery
From NPA
Reduction-
Write oﬀ
Closing 
GNPA
69
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Risks & Opportunities
NBFCs need to diversify risks across sectors and geographies, 
maintain capital adequacy norms, and introduce core banking 
solutions going forward. Historically, NBFCs experienced significant 
growth due to regulatory arbitrage between banks and NBFCs. 
However, with a tougher regulatory stance, the risk-taking capability 
of NBFCs is shrinking rapidly, adversely affecting the regulatory 
arbitrage between banks and non-banking entities. Credit risk is 
significant due to the sector’s focus on high-risk areas like SMEs and 
underserved individuals, increasing the likelihood of defaults and 
non-performing assets (NPAs). Interest rate risk affects NBFCs with 
significant floating-rate borrowings, as fluctuations can influence 
funding costs and lending rates. Additionally, NBFCs are exposed 
to market risk from asset price volatility, currency exchange rate 
fluctuations, and commodity price changes.
The lack of a robust supervisory and governance framework, along 
with lapses in corporate governance among a few non-bank lenders, 
has had an adverse impact on the sector, including on capital flows. 
As a result, the liquidity profile and growth of the non-banking 
finance sector have been severely impacted over the last two years 
due to a trust deficit, despite relatively unchanged business activity 
in the rest of the sector. Effective corporate governance is critical 
to the proper functioning of any organization, and strong corporate 
governance promotes trust among all stakeholders.
The “New to Credit” customer segment presents a vast opportunity 
for NBFCs. Given their nimbleness, agility, and ability to bring both 
flexibility and speed to processing, NBFCs can quickly onboard new 
customers. There lies significant opportunity in expanding financial 
inclusion in rural and semi-urban areas and meeting the rising 
demand for credit from SMEs and consumers. Customized solutions 
for each borrower, driven by new age technology, will further aid in 
expanding the customer base.
“Co-lending” is another significant opportunity where NBFCs can 
provide financing to underserved and unserved priority sectors. 
Co-lending helps in sharing risks and rewards, making funds 
available to the ultimate beneficiaries at competitive pricing due 
to the lower cost of funds from banks. This approach enables 
banks to onboard New to Credit borrowers by leveraging NBFCs’ 
underwriting strengths and helps NBFCs manage capital efficiently, 
creating a win-win-win situation for all stakeholders. Technological 
advancements offer a chance to modernise operations through 
digital transformation and automated credit assessments.
4.	
Housing Finance (Affordable) – Religare Housing 
Development 
Finance 
Corporation 
Limited 
(RHDFCL)
	
Key Highlights
` 282 Crore  
AUM
26  
Branches
~3,500  
Customers
10  
States
~134%  
Capital Adequacy Ratio
270  
Employees
RHDFCL is a non-public deposit-taking Housing Finance Company 
(HFC) registered with the National Housing Bank (NHB) under Section 
29A of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987. Presently, RFL holds 
87.5% of RHDFCL’s shareholding, with the remaining 12.5% owned 
by the Maharishi Housing Development Trust. RHDFCL provides 
housing finance to low-income segment customers, offering home 
purchase, home construction, and home improvement loans. 
These loans cater primarily to individuals in both the formal and 
informal sectors across urban and semi-urban India. The company 
is committed to making affordable housing accessible to all Indians, 
helping secure their future by providing a roof over their heads.
RHDFCL has maintained profitability, since it became a part of 
the Religare group in 2009. To position itself as a future-ready 
company, RHDFCL aims to maximize digitization in its processes 
and maintain an efficient workforce. RHDFCL’s key focus aligns 
with the government’s ‘Housing for All’ initiative. It extends credit 
facilities for affordable housing to the Economically Weaker 
Sections (EWS), Lower Income Group (LIG), and Medium Income 
Group (MIG) segments of the population. RHDFCL prioritizes 
housing finance proposals that emphasize providing affordable 
loans to low-income earners and first-time homebuyers, particularly 
those who are self-employed in small, unregistered enterprises or 
work for small companies.
The company employs robust credit assessment processes 
to make well-informed lending decisions and capitalize on 
opportunities. Customer-centricity is a key focus, and RHDFCL 
follows a “Closer to Customer” strategy to enhance its outreach. 
Its strong digital system, which spans from customer onboarding to 
collections, provides an overall advantage over traditional players. 
By prioritizing customer needs and adopting a customer-centric 
approach, RHDFCL aims to deliver better services and meet the 
requirements of its target market.
70
Annual Report 2023-2024
Operational Performance
As of March 31, 2024, RHDFCL maintained a Capital Adequacy 
Ratio of 134.29%, indicating a well-capitalized and strong regulatory 
capital base. The Asset Under Management (AUM) of RHDFCL was 
` 282 Crore. The average ticket size for home loans provided by 
RHDFCL was ` 10.68 lakh, with all loans backed by residential 
properties as collateral. Additionally, 100% of fresh business was 
directed towards retail lending.
Lending Portfolio
Home Loans: 68%
1%
31%
68%
Loan against 
Property (LAP): 31%
Other (Builder Funding): 1%
The Gross NPA and Net NPA ratios were 4.3% and 2.9% of the Net 
Advances, respectively. RHDFCL reported a Total Income of ` 43.30 
Crore and a Profit After Tax (PAT) after Other Comprehensive 
Income (OCI) of ` 0.20 Crore for the financial year.
The challenges in resource raising, combined with run-off and 
portfolio sales, have led to a reduction in the loan book size. 
This, in turn, has caused a simultaneous decline in income. 
Meanwhile, fixed operational costs have remained constant, with 
the hope of resolving the Group’s legacy issues and achieving 
future business growth. Despite the challenges in raising funds, the 
company had sufficient equity and regulatory capital.
Since FY2017-18 until March 31, 2024, RHDFCL has repaid 
liabilities amounting to ` 1,080.26 Crore (Principal of ` 805.60 
Crore and interest of ` 274.67 Crore). Presently, RHDFCL is in 
active discussions with various financial institutions to mobilize 
additional borrowings. The company’s sales and distribution, risk 
management, and operations have been robust and capable of 
scaling up lending operations in a phased manner. As the liability 
lines build up in the future, the company is business-ready to 
approach the market aggressively and expand the loan book.
Key Developments
•	
Credit Ratings: As on March 31, 2024, RHDFCL had [ICRA]
BB- (Stable)/ [ICRA] A4 for the Long Term/ Short Term bank 
lines of ` 1200 Crore and [ICRA] A4 for ` 100 Crore Short 
Term debt programme. In April 2024, ICRA upgraded Long 
Term bank lines rating to [ICRA]BB (Stable) and reaffirmed 
Short Term rating at [ICRA]A4 for the bank lines. On RHDFCL’s 
request, ICRA reduced the rated limit of the bank lines to 
` 400 Crore and withdrew rating assigned to the remaining 
` 800 Crore bank lines along with the rating assigned to ` 100 
Crore Short Term debt programme.
CARE Ratings had assigned CARE BB + (Negative) to Long 
Term bank lines of ` 500 Crore. In July 2024, CARE Ratings 
revised its rating outlook from negative to stable.
Further, in September 2024, Infomerics Ratings has assigned 
the rating of IVR BBB- (Stable) to RHDFCL’s proposed 
Non-Convertible Debentures of ` 100 Crores. 
This is an illustration of the company’s good track record 
and developments within the Religare Group, including 
the completion of the one-time settlement (OTS) at the 
parent-level, Religare Finvest Limited (RFL).
•	
Co-Lending: To augment its business, RHDFCL has 
entered into strategic co-lending arrangements with DMI 
Housing Finance Private Limited and Singularity Creditworld 
Private Limited, aimed at enhancing access to financing for 
homebuyers. Under this arrangement, RHDFCL sources 
and co-originates the loans with the co-lender, with only 
a 20% share in the total sanctioned loan. Through these 
partnerships, RHDFCL benefits from an increased top line and 
an augmented market presence.
Risks
Rising interest rates and high inflation are significant threats to 
the home loan industry. Higher interest rates increase borrowing 
costs, potentially reducing demand for home loans and affecting 
borrowers ability to repay loans. Concurrently, high inflation 
diminishes the purchasing power of money, complicating savings for 
down payments and pushing up borrowing costs, which can further 
decrease loan demand and lender profitability. The competitive 
landscape is another threat, with banks and non-banking 
financial institutions intensifying their focus on affordable housing 
finance. This competition pressures interest rates and margins, 
necessitating innovation in products and services. Additionally, 
regulatory changes and market fluctuations can create uncertainty, 
impacting profitability and operational stability. Housing market 
volatility, especially in tier 2 and tier 3 cities, and cybersecurity risks 
from technological advancements also pose challenges.
71
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Opportunities
The Indian home loan industry is poised for significant growth, driven by rapid urbanization, increased mortgage penetration, and government 
initiatives promoting affordable housing. As more people move to urban areas seeking better opportunities, the demand for housing surges, 
while the young population in India presents a large potential customer base for home loans. Government efforts, such as substantial budget 
allocations for new and stalled projects, create favourable conditions for first-time homebuyers. Additionally, the rise of women borrowers 
is a key trend, with their participation in the workforce boosting India’s economic growth. CIBIL projects that women borrowers will grow at 
a 19% CAGR over the next five years, with the convenience of instant approvals and digital loan processes making online borrowing more 
appealing. Furthermore, digital lending programs targeting unbanked locations enhance financial inclusion, providing access to credit for 
those in remote or rural areas traditionally underserved by banks.
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”)
Acquired by REL in December 2023, this IRDAI-approved insurance web aggregator was founded in 2009 and is headquartered in 
Mumbai. It specializes in the comparison and purchase of insurance products for car, two-wheeler, health, and life (term & investment plans). 
Considered as one of India’s top five insurance web aggregators by monthly unique visitors, the company has been operational for over 
15 years. It maintains a database of 2 million insurance customers and their profiles. REL is currently evaluating various opportunities to grow 
this business.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Highlights of standalone and consolidated financial performance in FY24
(` Crore)
Particulars
FY23
FY24
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Standalone 
(Audited)
Consolidated 
(Audited)
Total Income
56.54
4,863.23
25.24
6,299.26
Total Expenditure
71.64
4,894.01
97.11
6,081.91
Profit Before Tax
(15.09)
(30.78)
(71.88)
217.34
Exceptional Items
-
3,289.41
-
230.35
Profit/(Loss) before Tax after exceptional items
(15.09)
3,258.63
(71.88)
447.69
Share in Profit / (Loss) of Joint Ventures
-
-
-
-
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax
(15.09)
3,258.63
(71.88)
447.69
Income tax Expense/ (Credit)
(0.03)
90.02
(6.52)
100.27
Profit/(loss) After Tax
(15.06)
3,168.61
(65.35)
347.41
Other Comprehensive Income
0.01
(76.49)
0.47
54.42
Total Comprehensive Income for the period
(15.07)
3,092.12
(65.82)
401.83
Less: Share of Non- Controlling Interest
-
60.04
135.14
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (after tax & non-controlling 
interest)
(15.07)
3,032.08
(65.82)
266.69
72
Annual Report 2023-2024
Segment-wise Performance (Consolidated)
The company’s income from operations comprises income from lending activities, insurance premiums, broking operations, interest from 
fixed deposits with banks, income from non-current investments, income from current investments, interest from delayed payments, profit on 
assignment of loans, income from advisory services, investment management and advisory fees, and income from arbitrage and trading of 
securities and derivatives.
(` Crore)
Particulars
FY23
FY24
Amount 
(` Crore)
% of Total 
income
Amount 
(` Crore)
% of Total 
income
Income From Lending Activities
164.56
3.38%
112.62
1.79%
Interest Income on Fixed Deposits with Banks
33.98
0.70%
42.67
0.68%
Interest Income/Charges on Delayed Payments
31.90
0.66%
44.44
0.71%
Income from Investments
278.00
5.72%
397.97
6.32%
Commission Income
4.98
0.10%
3.63
0.06%
Income From Broking Operations
212.40
4.37%
274.88
4.36%
Net Income from Insurance Premium
3,929.33
80.80%
5,325.43
84.54%
Other Business Income
21.31
0.44%
33.15
0.53%
Total Revenue from Operations
4,676.46
96.16%
6,234.79
98.98%
Other Income
186.77
3.84%
64.47
1.02%
Total Income
4,863.23
100.00%
6,299.26
100.00%
Key Ratios (Consolidated)
(` Crore)
Particulars
FY23
FY24
Total Income
4,863.23
6,299.26
EBITDA
653.43
382.63
EBITDA Margin %
13%
6%
PBT
3,258.63
447.68
PBT Margin %
67%
7%
PAT
3,168.62
347.41
PAT Margin %
65%
6%
Current Ratio
0.45
0.93
Debt Equity Ratio
0.27
0.11
Return on Net Worth
118%
11%
PATH TOWARDS 360° GROWTH
REL is actively evaluating new business areas within the BFSI sector to ensure comprehensive growth and expansion.
•	
In the realm of Insurance Broking, REL aims to capture the growing demand driven by the Government’s target of “Insurance for All” by 
2047. This initiative is expected to significantly broaden the Company’s market reach and contribute to national financial inclusion goals.
•	
In the Wealth Management sector, REL is capitalising on the robust 20% growth rate in the Indian High Net Worth Individual (HNI) 
population, which notably outpaces the global growth rate of 9.5%. This strategic focus is expected to drive significant business 
expansion and client acquisition.
•	
Lastly, the Asset Management Company, concentrating on mutual funds, is projected to experience substantial growth. The AMC 
industry is anticipated to expand by $ 1,000 billion by 2025, providing REL with lucrative opportunities to increase its market share and 
investment portfolio.
73
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
RISK MANAGEMENT & INTERNAL CONTROL 
SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
Risk Governance is an essential aspect of the strategy of the 
Company intended at identification, assessment and mitigation 
of the potential risks that could affect the Company’s operations, 
financial performance, sustainability and reputation. The Board of 
Directors of the Company is responsible for ensuring oversight of 
the risk management policies & procedures and has constituted a 
Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC), which is responsible 
for framing, implement, monitor and periodically review the 
effectiveness of the risk management plan and make appropriate 
modifications as and when necessary. GRMC’s role has been 
aligned with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, RBI Master Directions on Core Investment Companies and 
other applicable regulatory requirements. A process has been 
laid down to periodically apprise the GRMC about prevalent risks 
and corrective plans adopted by the respective group entities to 
mitigate the identified risks. 
The Company is a Registered NBFC and Core Investment 
Company. As an investment holding company the management 
function includes oversight of risk function prevalent in the 
Company and its key operating subsidiaries. The Company has a 
comprehensive Risk Management framework and overarching Risk 
Management Policy, which have been adopted by each of the key 
operating subsidiaries while formulating their Risk Management 
Policy. The Risk Management Policy of the Company identifies 
the key risks, which are applicable to the Company. It is aimed at 
identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of 
identifiable risks and documentation of each identified risk along 
with their mitigation plan. The respective functional head and/
or risk management department of key operating subsidiaries is 
responsible for the implementation of the Risk Management system 
and the maintenance of records of risk and mitigation plan in Risk 
& Control Matrix (RCMs) for their respective functional areas, which 
are updated and tested periodically. Therefore, the risk governance 
and framework defines the risk management approach across 
the enterprise at various levels including risk documentation, 
testing and reporting on a periodical basis. The framework has 
different risk parameters, which help in the identification of risks 
and their classification as High, Medium and Low categories 
based on likelihood, impact and velocity in various risk types 
such as operational, financial, compliance and reputation risk. 
Qualitative and quantitative assessment is done to determine the 
likelihood and impact of identified risks, which are ultimately plotted 
on a matrix based on their severity and probability.
Reviews and reporting of the risk environment and performance 
is conducted on a quarterly basis. The testing and evaluation of 
the control environment around Risk Management are integrated 
and aligned with the quarterly internal audit process. The GRMC 
of the Company and the respective Risk Management Committee / 
Board of Directors of its key operating subsidiaries reviews the risk 
management policy at least on an annual basis. Further, the adequacy 
of the design and operating effectiveness of key processes and 
controls, as documented in the Risk and Control matrices, are 
tested and a consolidated dashboard of Risk and Control review 
results across the Company and its key operating subsidiaries are 
presented to the GRMC and Audit and Governance Committee of 
the Board on a quarterly basis. Further, to enable oversight of the 
Risk management function prevalent at each of the key operating 
subsidiaries, the management team of each key operating 
subsidiaries makes presentation on key risk types, as defined in the 
respective Risk Management Policy, to the GRMC of the Company 
on a quarterly basis. Financial reporting and fraud risks are duly 
considered in the risk management framework. Risks are mapped 
with controls and the Risk management framework is revisited and 
revised based on prevailing practice and relevance.
Therefore, the Company has implemented a formal risk management 
policy and framework to ensure that a comprehensive risk 
management process is in place at all times, including appropriate 
Board and senior management oversight and that the process takes 
into account appropriate steps to comply with applicable regulatory 
rules, regulations, principles and guidelines and to ensure the 
adequacy of relevant risk reporting to the Committees and Board. 
The Company and its subsidiaries have an Internal Control 
System, commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of its 
operations. The Internal Controls of the Company & its subsidiaries 
encompasses the policies, standard operating procedure manuals, 
approval/authorization matrix, circulars/ guidelines, and risk & 
control matrices for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business & support functions, adherence to these policies & 
procedures, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records and timely preparation of reliable financial 
information during the process of financial reporting. The internal 
control system is supported by an internal audit process for 
reviewing the adequacy and efficacy of the relevant internal 
controls, including its systems, processes and compliance with 
applicable regulations and procedures. Such detailed controls 
ensure productive and effective use of resources to the extent 
that the assets are safeguarded, transactions are duly approved, 
registered and adequately reported and checks and balances 
ensure consistency and reliability of accounting data.
The Company is a registered NBFC (CIC) and is exposed to various 
risks as stated in the Risk Management Policy of the Company and its 
key operating subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries have 
an adequate control environment for identification, assessment, 
monitoring, mitigation and reporting of applicable risks on a 
periodical basis through an effective Risk Management Framework 
that has been developed encompassing all the key business and 
support functions. Mitigation plans and controls are documented 
for each identified risk in the form of policies & standard operating 
procedures and risk & control matrices (RCM). Risks/controls 
documented in the RCMs are mapped to each of the financial 
statement line items (FSLI) and financial assertions to ensure 
availability of mitigation plans and internal financial controls for 
74
Annual Report 2023-2024
each of the material balances contained in the financial statements. 
The Company has prepared separate RCMs for Process Level 
Controls (PLC) and Entity Level Controls (ELC). Similarly, Information 
Technology controls relating to Information Security, Cyber Security 
and Other Information Technology General Controls (ITGC) have 
also been identified, assessed and documented, which are 
updated periodically.
The Company and its key operating subsidiaries have a robust 
mechanism to ensure an ongoing review of systems, policies, 
processes and procedures to contain and mitigate risk that arise 
from time to time. The Company and its key operating subsidiaries 
have a satisfactory system of periodical monitoring and reporting 
of internal financial controls. Key policies and procedures including 
the RCMs designed to provide reasonable assurance are monitored 
and updated on a periodical basis. Management ensures that 
controls as designed are operating effectively and that lapses 
are identified and remedied in a timely manner. The monitoring 
activities are carried out through a Control Self-Assessment (CSA) 
mechanism integrated with the internal audit function, whereby 
key risks and controls are reviewed on a quarterly basis and a 
dashboard containing results of evaluation of Test of Design (TOD) 
and Test of Operating Effectiveness (TOE) relating to the Company 
and its key operating subsidiaries are presented to the Audit and 
Governance Committee of the Company. A quarterly consolidated 
report on TOD/TOE testing relating to the Company and its key 
operating subsidiaries is presented to the Group Risk Management 
Committee (GRMC) of the Company. 
The Company and its key operating subsidiaries have an elaborate 
quarterly internal audit policy and framework as approved by 
the respective Audit and Governance Committees of the Board. 
The scope, authority and structure of the Internal Audit function 
have been defined in the comprehensive Internal Audit Policy. 
The Company also conducts an Information System and Cyber 
Security Audit on a yearly basis and the report is presented to the 
Audit and Governance Committee of the Board. Information System 
Security controls enable the Company to keep a check on 
technology-related risks and also improve business efficiency and 
distribution capabilities.
The Internal Audit Team evaluates the efficacy and adequacy of 
the internal control system and internal financial controls in the 
Company, its compliance with operating systems, accounting 
procedures, policies and regulatory requirements at key locations 
of the Company. Based on the integrated report of the internal audit 
function and IFC, process owners undertake corrective action in 
their respective areas and thereby strengthen the internal controls. 
Significant internal audit observations (rated high and medium risk) 
and corrective actions thereon, along with the IFC dashboard, 
are presented to the Audit and Governance Committee of the 
Board on a periodical basis. The Internal Auditors also assess 
opportunities for improvement in business processes, systems and 
controls, provides recommendations, designed to add value to the 
organization and follow up the implementation of corrective actions 
and improvements in business processes after review by the Audit 
and Governance Committee. The Audit and Governance Committee 
of the Board reviews and evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal control environment, provides their inputs, 
if any, to improve the quality of audit and assurance standards and 
monitors the implementation of audit recommendations across the 
relevant functional areas to continuously strengthen the internal 
control framework. Therefore, the Board has laid down internal 
financial controls to be followed by the Company and ensured that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and were operating 
effectively during the financial year.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Our employees are the driving force behind our success, and 
we are committed to creating a work environment that fosters 
growth, innovation, and collaboration. Our diverse, professional, 
and talented team is our greatest asset, and we are dedicated 
to supporting their development and growth. The Group has 
solidified its position and regained the trust of its stakeholders 
through the collective efforts of its subsidiaries. Owing to the 
unwavering dedication, commitment, and loyalty of our employees, 
the Company has navigated challenging times with resilience, 
emerging as a formidable player in the industry and establishing a 
strong reputation.
Developing our future leaders is crucial to driving long-term success. 
Under the guidance of our highly experienced top leadership 
team, future leaders are being nurtured within the organization 
through mentorship and coaching. This approach is integral to our 
succession planning process, ensuring continuity and maintaining 
a robust talent pipeline for critical roles. These efforts have helped 
us build a strong bench of future leaders and reduce turnover in 
key positions.
We believe that investing in our employees is essential to driving 
business results. We prioritize employee engagement and 
satisfaction, recognizing that a happy and fulfilled team is vital to 
our success. We are committed to building a workplace culture that 
is inclusive, equitable, and reflective of the diverse communities we 
serve. Our hiring process focuses on increasing diversity across 
our leadership teams. As a company we are committed towards 
ensuring the health, safety and well-being of our employees 
and their family members through various initiatives, employee 
assistance programs and wellness workshops. We strive to ensure 
that all our employees feel valued and empowered to succeed.
75
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Report on Corporate Governance
for Financial Year 2023-24
In compliance with requirement of Regulation 34(3) read with 
schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
amendments made thereunder (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the 
Company submits the Corporate Governance Report for the year 
ended March 31, 2024:
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
The Company is committed to ensure governance by 
adhering to the existing guidelines on corporate governance 
and further developing and strengthening your Company’s 
corporate governance practices. While working to enhance 
the corporate value of the group in the medium to long term, 
it is ensured that all stakeholders’ interests are protected 
by continuously striving to increase the efficiency of the 
operations as well as the systems and processes for use of 
corporate resources. The Company aims at achieving not 
only the highest possible standards of legal and regulatory 
compliances, but also of effective management by way of its 
business decisions.
	
The corporate structure, business and disclosure practices 
have been aligned to Corporate Governance philosophy, 
transparency, accountability, fairness and communication with 
stakeholders which are integral to your company’s functioning. 
We believe in performance oriented systems. We accord 
highest priority to these systems and protect the interests of 
all shareholders, particularly the minority shareholders.
	
The Board of Directors (the “Board”), guided by above 
philosophy, formulate strategies and policies having focus 
on optimizing value for various stakeholders including 
shareholders and the society at large. Your Company’s 
Corporate Governance framework ensures that we make the 
timely disclosures and share correct information regarding 
our financials and performance as well as business of the 
Company from time to time.
	
Your Company has complied with the requirements of 
Corporate Governance as laid down under Chapter IV of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations during the year under review.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A.	 BOARD COMPOSITION
	
The Board comprises of eminent persons with high credentials 
of considerable professional experience and expertise in 
diverse fields who effectively contribute to the Company’s 
growth and policy making decisions. The composition of 
Board of Directors of the Company is in conformity with the 
requirements of Regulation 17 of SEBI Listing Regulations 
as well as provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) and the Articles of Association of the Company and all 
other applicable laws. The Chairperson of the Board of the 
Company is an Executive Director.
	
The category wise composition of Board of Directors under 
Regulation 17 of SEBI Listing Regulations as on March 31, 
2024 is as under:
S. 
No.
Category 
No. of 
Directors
1
Executive Director 
1
2
Non-Executive, Independent Director 
(including an Independent Woman 
Director)
5
3
Other Non- Executive Director 
0
Total
 6
None of the Non-Executive Directors are and were responsible 
for the day to day affairs of the Company during the year 
under review.
76
Annual Report 2023-2024
The details relating to composition, category of Directors, directorships held by them in other companies and their membership and 
chairpersonship in various Committees of Board of other companies, as on March 31, 2024 are as follows: 
S. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
DIN
Category of 
Directors
No. of 
Directorships 
held in other 
Companies
(other than 
in Religare 
Enterprises 
Limited)
No. of Memberships/
Chairpersonship in various other 
Board Committees (other than 
Religare Enterprises Limited)
Directorship in other 
listed entity(ies) & 
Category thereof
Member 
including 
Chairpersonship
Chairpersonship
1
Dr. Rashmi 
Saluja
01715298
Executive 
Chairperson
(Whole Time 
Director)
7
5
Nil
Nil 
2
Mr. Malay 
Kumar Sinha1
08140223
Non-Executive 
Independent
7
5
Nil
Nil
3
Ms. Preeti 
Madan
08384644
Non-Executive 
Independent
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4
Mr. Hamid 
Ahmed
09032137
Non-Executive 
Independent
4
4
2
Nil
5
Mr. Praveen 
Kumar Tripathi
02167497
Non-Executive 
Independent
9
8
1
1.	
Indiabulls Real 
Estate Limited; 
(Independent, Non-
Executive Director)
2.	
Yaari Digital 
Integrated 
Services Limited; 
(Independent, Non-
Executive Director)
3.	
JBM Auto Limited 
(Independent, Non-
Executive Director)
6
Mr. Ranjan 
Dwivedi
09185085
Non-Executive 
Independent
Nil 
Nil
Nil 
Nil
	
1 The re-appointment of Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha as Independent Director for the second term of five consecutive years from May 28, 2023 to May 27, 2028 was 
approved by the shareholders of the Company through Postal Ballot on June 28, 2023.
Notes:
I.	
The Independence of a Director is determined by the 
criteria stipulated under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations & Section 149 (6) of the Act. 
All the Independent Directors have confirmed that they 
meet the criteria of independence as mentioned under 
the Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and are not aware of any circumstances or situation 
which exist or may be reasonably anticipated, that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge duties 
with an objective independent judgment and without 
any external influence. Further, in the opinion of the 
Board, the Independent Directors fulfill the conditions 
specified in these regulations and are independent of 
the management.
II.	
None of the Directors of the Company holds directorship 
in more than 20 companies. This includes alternate 
directorship but does not include the directorships 
held in foreign companies, dormant companies and 
companies under Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of 
the Directors hold directorship in more than 10 public 
companies (including directorship in private companies 
that are either holding or subsidiary company of a 
public company). For the purpose of reckoning the 
directorships in listed companies, only equity listed 
companies have been considered.
III.	
None of the Directors of the Company is holding position 
of Director / Independent Director in more than seven 
listed companies.
77
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
IV.	
Executive Chairperson (Whole Time Director) of the 
Company is not serving as Independent Director in more 
than 3 listed entities.
V.	
None of the Directors on the Board is a Member of 
more than 10 Committees or Chairperson of more 
than 5 Committees (as specified in Regulation 26 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations) across all the public 
limited companies in which the person is a Director. 
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in 
other Public Limited Companies as on March 31, 2024 
have been made by the Directors. For the purpose of 
considering the limit of committees in which a director 
can serve, all public limited companies, whether listed or 
not, have been included; whereas all other companies 
including private limited companies, foreign companies, 
high value debt listed entities and companies under 
section 8 of the Act/section 25 of the Companies Act, 
1956 have been excluded. The Committees considered 
for the purpose are those prescribed under Regulation 
26 of the SEBI Listing Regulations viz. Audit Committee 
and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of all Indian 
Public Limited Companies.
VI.	
All the Directors in their individual capacity have 
confirmed that they are not debarred or disqualified by 
SEBI/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other statutory 
authority to continue as Director of the Company. 
The Company has also obtained a certificate from a 
Company Secretary, in Whole Time Practice in this 
regard.
VII.	 None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material 
pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company 
& None of the Non-Executive Directors hold any equity 
shares or convertible instruments in the Company.
VIII.	 The Board of Directors periodically reviews the 
compliance report of all the laws applicable to the 
Company.
IX.	
As required under Regulation 17 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations and second proviso to Section 149(1) of 
the Act, Ms. Preeti Madan is the Woman Independent 
Director on the Board of the Company.
X.	
None of the Directors of the Company has attained the 
age of seventy five years as on March 31, 2024.
XI.	
None of the Directors on the Board of the Company has 
been debarred from accessing the capital market and/
or restrained from holding position of Director in any 
listed company by virtue of any SEBI Order or any such 
authority.
XII.	 There are no inter-se relationships between Board of 
Directors of the Company.
B.	
BOARD MEETINGS & ATTENDANCE
Minimum 
four 
Board 
meetings 
are 
held 
annually. 
Additional Board meetings are convened by giving 
appropriate notice to address the Company’s specific needs. 
Dates of Quarterly Board Meetings are fixed in advance and 
agenda papers are circulated to Directors generally one 
week before the meeting except for meetings which are 
held on shorter notice period. Each agenda item is provided 
with sufficient background and all material information is 
incorporated in the agenda papers for facilitating meaningful 
and focused discussions at the meeting. Where it is not 
practicable to attach any document to the agenda, it is tabled 
before the meeting with specific reference to this effect in the 
agenda. In special and exceptional circumstances, additional 
or supplementary item(s) on the agenda are permitted. 
Video conferencing or other audio visual facilities are used 
to facilitate Directors residing abroad or who are unable to 
attend meetings physically in India and present at other 
locations, to participate in the meetings. In case of exigencies 
or urgencies, resolutions are considered by circulation as well.
The Board is given presentations covering the Company’s 
major business segments and their operations, overview 
of business operations of major subsidiary companies, 
business environment, the Company’s business areas, 
including business and funding opportunities and strategy 
and risk management practices before taking on record the 
Company’s quarterly/annual financial results.
New directors to be inducted are identified by Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and are updated by the 
management regarding the Company’s business and 
operations, governing documents, detailed business strategy 
for various businesses, information on key personnel and 
financial information through orientation in separate meetings.
During the financial year 2023-24, Eight (08) Board meetings 
were held: April 05, 2023, May 11, 2023, August 08, 2023, 
September 25, 2023, September 27, 2023, October 09, 
2023, November 02, 2023, and February 07, 2024. Time gap 
between two consecutive board meetings was not more than 
120 days. The last Annual General Meeting of the Company 
was held on September 27, 2023.
78
Annual Report 2023-2024
Details of attendance of Directors at various Board Meetings and at the Annual General Meeting held during the financial year 2023-24 
are as under:
S. No. Name of Director
No. of Board meetings 
attended
Whether attended  
last AGM
1.
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
8/8
Yes
2.
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
8/8
Yes
3.
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
7/8
Yes
4.
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
8/8
Yes
5.
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
5/8
Yes
6.
Ms. Preeti Madan
8/8
Yes
	
Board Diversity and Succession Planning
In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has a policy on Board Diversity in place. The Board 
comprises of eminent persons with high credentials of considerable professional experience and expertise in diverse fields who effectively 
contribute to the Company’s growth and policy making decisions. The directors are persons of eminence in areas of management and 
governance, financial services, finance, law, etc. and bring with them experience/skills which add value to the performance of the Board.
Further, one of the key functions of the Board of directors is selecting, compensating, monitoring, and when necessary, replacing 
key managerial personnel and overseeing succession planning. Accordingly, the Company strives to maintain an appropriate balance 
of skills and experience within the organization and the Board in an endeavour to introduce new perspectives while maintaining 
experience and continuity. Further, pursuant to regulation 17(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the framework of succession planning 
for appointment of Board and senior management has been adopted by the Company and is reviewed as and when necessary.
	
Skills/Expertise/Competence of the Board of Directors:
The table below summarizes the skill/expertise/competencies of the Directors identified by the Board for effective functioning of the 
Company and which are available with the Board of the Company as on March 31, 2024.
SI. 
No.
Core 
Competencies
SI. 
No
Sub-Competencies
Dr. 
Rashmi 
Saluja
Mr. 
Malay 
Kumar 
Sinha
Mr. 
Hamid 
Ahmed
Mr. 
Praveen 
Kumar 
Tripathi 
Mr. 
Ranjan 
Dwivedi
Ms. 
Preeti 
Madan
1
Industry 
knowledge/
experience 
& Technical 
Expertise
i.
Should have adequate knowledge to 
make informed decisions about the 
industry and the organization
√
√
√
√
√
-
ii.
To ensure overall efficiency & profitability
√
√
√
√
√
√
iii.
To mitigate larger risks by ensuring 
compliance
√
√
√
√
√
√
iv.
Knowledge of broad public policy 
direction 
& 
understanding 
of 
government legislation
√
√
√
√
√
√
v
Understanding 
of 
macro-economic 
factors, 
trends, 
challenges 
and 
opportunities, or unique dynamics in 
financial market that are relevant to 
Religare Enterprises
√
√
√
√
√
√
79
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
SI. 
No.
Core 
Competencies
SI. 
No
Sub-Competencies
Dr. 
Rashmi 
Saluja
Mr. 
Malay 
Kumar 
Sinha
Mr. 
Hamid 
Ahmed
Mr. 
Praveen 
Kumar 
Tripathi 
Mr. 
Ranjan 
Dwivedi
Ms. 
Preeti 
Madan
2.
Governance
i.
Should have essential knowledge and 
understanding of governance related 
matter
√
√
√
√
√
-
ii.
Ability to think strategically, identify and 
critically assess strategic opportunities 
and threats. Develop effective strategies 
in the context of the strategic objectives 
of the Religare Enterprise’s relevant 
policies and priorities. The ability to 
support, promote, and ensure alignment 
with the organization's vision and values
√
√
√
√
√
√
iii.
Ability to identify key issues and 
opportunities for Religare Enterprises 
within 
Financial 
Services 
industry 
and develop appropriate policies to 
define the parameters within which the 
organisation should operate.
√
√
√
√
√
√
iv.
Ability to make prudent business 
decisions based on risk assessment 
and market conditions that reflect the 
risk appetite and corporate values of 
the organization; including the ability to 
apply practical business experience at a 
governance level
√
√
√
√
√
√
3
Leadership
i.
Ability to inspire, motivate and offer 
direction and leadership to others. They 
also demonstrate an understanding 
of the importance of teamwork to the 
success of the board. This may include 
an ability to recognize and value the 
contributions of all board members, 
staff, and stakeholders
√
√
√
√
√
√
ii.
Make use of available resources by 
delegating responsibilities and directing 
resources to desired results
√
√
√
√
√
√
4
Strategic 
thinking and 
decision 
making
i.
Ability to see the big picture and also 
being goal/future oriented
√
√
√
√
√
√
ii.
Ability to think independently & critically
√
√
√
√
√
√
iii.
Ability to make informed decisions 
efficiently & take necessary actions
√
√
√
√
√
√
iv.
Ability to analyse & understand report 
and data presentations
√
√
√
√
√
√
v
Ability to review and analyse proposed 
budgets 
& 
vacancies 
to 
provide 
organization with strategic inputs & 
priorities
√
√
√
√
√
√
80
Annual Report 2023-2024
SI. 
No.
Core 
Competencies
SI. 
No
Sub-Competencies
Dr. 
Rashmi 
Saluja
Mr. 
Malay 
Kumar 
Sinha
Mr. 
Hamid 
Ahmed
Mr. 
Praveen 
Kumar 
Tripathi 
Mr. 
Ranjan 
Dwivedi
Ms. 
Preeti 
Madan
5
Personal 
Attributes/
Behavioural 
competencies 
- The 
attributes and 
competencies 
enabling the 
individual 
director to use 
their knowledge 
and skills to 
function well as 
a team member 
and to interact 
with key 
stakeholders.
ww
i.
Leadership & Collaboration - Ability 
to inspire, motivate and offer direction 
and leadership to others. They also 
demonstrate 
an 
understanding 
of 
the importance of teamwork to the 
success of the board. This may include 
an ability to recognize and value the 
contributions of all board members, 
staff, and stakeholders
√
√
√
√
√
√
ii.
Communication Skills - Ability to both 
listen effectively and articulate ideas, 
opinions, rationales and comments in 
a clear, concise manner. This includes 
accepting accountability for engaging 
in frank, open and honest discussions, 
valuing a diversity of opinions and 
perspectives, 
making 
well-informed 
decisions and seeking to achieve in-
group consensus in the best interest of 
Religare Enterprises
√
√
√
√
√
√
iii.
Integrity - A commitment to:
√
√
√
√
√
√
a)	
putting the Company’s interests 
before any personal interests
√
√
√
√
√
√
b)	
acting in a transparent manner and 
declaring any activities or conduct 
that might be a potential conflict
√
√
√
√
√
√
c)	
maintaining Board confidentiality 
at all times.
√
√
√
√
√
√
iv.
Influencer and negotiator - The ability 
to negotiate outcomes and influence 
others to agree with those outcomes, 
including an ability to gain stakeholder 
support for the Board’s decisions;
√
√
√
√
√
√
V.
Commitment - A visible commitment 
to the purpose for which Religare 
Enterprises has been established and 
operates, and its on-going success
√
√
√
√
√
√
	
Information available to the Board
	
During the year 2023-24, minimum information as mentioned 
in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
wherever applicable, has been placed before the Board for 
its consideration.
	
The aforesaid information is generally provided as a part 
of the agenda of the board meeting and/or is placed at the 
table during the course of the meeting. Key Managerial 
Personnel and other senior management staff are also invited 
to the Board Meetings to present reports on the Company’s 
operations and internal control systems. The Company 
Secretary, in consultation with the Chairperson prepares the 
agenda. In special and exceptional circumstances, additional 
or supplementary item(s) on the agenda are permitted to be 
taken up as ‘any other item’. Further, the Board periodically 
reviews the Compliance Reports as prepared and placed 
before it by the Management in respect of laws and regulations 
applicable to the Company.
81
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Separate Meeting of Independent Directors & 
Familiarization 
Programme 
for 
Independent 
Directors
	
During financial year 2023-24, separate meeting of the 
Independent Directors of the Company was held on May 11, 
2023 without the presence of Non-Independent Directors 
and members of management. Along with other matters, 
Independent Directors discussed the matters specified in 
Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 25(4) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
	
Company has also carried out Familiarization Programme for 
its Non – Executive Independent Directors on March 28, 2024 
and March 29, 2024 in accordance with the Regulation 25(7) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations read with Independent Director 
Training Policy of the Company. Details of Familiarization 
Programmes conducted are uploaded on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed through the link https://
religare.com/familiarisation-programme-for-independent-
directors/
	
Shareholding of Executive Directors
	
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has one Executive 
Director on the Board of the Company. Dr. Rashmi Saluja 
is Executive Chairperson (Whole Time Director) and holds 
26,66,386 equity shares (0.81% of the equity share capital) 
of the Company as on March 31, 2024. During the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, Dr. Rashmi Saluja was granted 
total 30,00,000 Stock Options on May 11, 2023 under the 
Religare Enterprises Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 
2019 (“Scheme”) having vesting period of over 2 (Two) years 
and exercisable as per terms of the Scheme. Further, during 
the year under review, she exercised 25,00,000 stock options 
out of the earlier tranche of 25,00,000 stock options granted 
to her in the FY 2021-22 under the said Scheme.
	
Directors and Officers liability insurance (‘D&O 
policy’)
	
The Company has in place a D&O policy which is renewed 
every year. It covers directors (including independent 
directors) of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board 
is of the opinion that quantum and risk presently covered is 
adequate.
	
Resignation by the Independent Director
	
None of the Independent Director resigned during the FY 
2023-24.
C.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The 
Board 
has 
constituted 
10 
Committees 
viz. 
Audit 
& 
Governance 
Committee, 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility & ESG Committee, 
Investment, Borrowing & Share Allotment Committee, Group 
Risk Management Committee, Asset Liability Committee, RPT 
Sub-Committee, IT Strategy Committee and Committee of 
Independent Directors constituted under Regulation 26 (6) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 
(“SEBI SAST Regulations”). RPT Sub-Committee has been 
dissolved w.e.f February 07, 2024.
	
Details of the role and composition of Board Committees 
constituted as per requirements of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations, SEBI SAST Regulations and RBI Master Directions 
including number of meetings held during the financial year 
and attendance thereat are provided hereunder:
	
I.	
Audit & Governance Committee
	
(i)	
 Composition
	
	
The Composition of the Audit and Governance 
Committee as at March 31, 2024 is as under:
S. 
No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Chairperson
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Member
3
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
4
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
5
Ms. Preeti Madan1
Member
	
	
1 Appointed as Member of the Committee w.e.f. November 02, 2023.
The Composition of the Committee as on March 31, 
2024 and terms of reference are in compliance with 
Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Chairperson of the Committee 
is an Independent Director. The Company Secretary of 
the Company acts as the Secretary to the Committee. 
All the members of the Committee are financially literate 
and have accounting or related financial management 
expertise.
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference:
	
	
Primarily, the Audit & Governance Committee is 
responsible for:
	
	
1.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial 
information to ensure that the financial statement 
is correct, sufficient and credible.
	
	
2.	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment, 
re-appointment and, if required, the replacement 
or removal of the statutory auditor and the fixation 
of audit fees.
82
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
3.	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
	
	
4.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual 
financial statements and auditors report thereon 
before submission to the Board for approval, with 
particular reference to:
	
	
	
a. 	
Matters required being included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report in terms of 
clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 134 of 
the Companies Act, 2013
	
	
	
b.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same
	
	
	
c.	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management.
	
	
	
d.	
Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings
	
	
	
e.	
Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements
	
	
	
f.	
Disclosure of any related party transactions
	
	
	
g.	
Qualifications in the draft audit report.
	
	
5. 	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the 
Board for approval.
	
	
6. 	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses / application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/
prospectus/notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter.
	
	
7. 	
Reviewing and monitoring independence and 
performance of auditors, effectiveness of audit 
process
	
	
8. 	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit.
	
	
9. 	
Discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up there on.
	
	
10.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of 
internal control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board.
	
	
11.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit 
as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any 
area of concern.
	
	
12.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors.
	
	
13.	 Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) (i.e., the whole-time Finance Director or 
any other person heading the finance function 
or discharging that function) after assessing the 
qualifications, experience & background, etc. 
of the candidate.
	
	
14.	 Approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the company with related parties; 
including the omnibus approval for the related 
party transactions proposed to be entered by the 
Company.
	
	
15.	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments,
	
	
16.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, 
wherever it is necessary,
	
	
17.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls including 
internal controls relating to the insider trading and 
risk management systems,
	
	
18.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the 
internal control systems,
	
	
19.	 To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower 
mechanism,
	
	
20.	 Review of utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/investment by the Company in any of its 
subsidiary exceeding ` 100 Crore or 10% of the 
asset size of that subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans / advances / investments,
83
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
21.	 To 
consider 
and 
comment 
on 
rationale, 
cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc.;
	
	
22.	 Such other role/functions as may be specifically 
referred to the Committee by the Board of 
Directors and / or other committees of Directors of 
the Company and specified in Listing Regulations.
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24, five (5) meetings of 
the Audit & Governance Committee were held: April 05, 
2023, May 11, 2023, August 08, 2023, November 02, 
2023 and February 07, 2024.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:
S. No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
Attended
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
5/5
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
5/5
3
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
5/5
4
Mr. Mr. Hamid Ahmed
5/5
5
Ms. Preeti Madan1
 1/1
	
	
1Appointed as Member of the Committee w.e.f. November 02, 2023.
Apart from Chief Financial Officer and Head-Internal 
Audit, Representatives of the Statutory and Internal 
Auditors also attend the Audit Committee meetings by 
invitation.
	
II.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
(i)	
 Composition
	
	
The 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee’s 
composition and terms of reference are in compliance 
with the provisions of the Section 178 of the Act 
and Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The composition of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Chairperson
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
4
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
 Member
	
	
Chairperson of the Committee is an Independent 
Director. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
includes:
	
	
1.	
Formulation, Superintendence and administration 
of Director’s appointment & remuneration policy;
	
	
2.	
Formulation, Superintendence and administration 
of Key Managerial Personnel’s appointment and 
remuneration policy;
	
	
3.	
Formulation, Superintendence and administration 
of Employees remuneration policy; & review 
of annual performance evaluation of Senior 
Management Personnel and making suitable 
recommendations to the Board;
	
	
4.	
Formulation, Superintendence and administration 
of Annual Performance Evaluation Policy of the 
Board;
	
	
5.	
Oversee the Company’s nomination process for the 
top level management and specifically to identify, 
screen and review individuals qualified to serve as 
executive directors, non-executive directors and 
independent directors consistent with the criteria 
approved by the Board and to recommend for 
approval by the Board nominees for election at the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
	
	
6.	
Superintendence 
and 
administration 
of 
the 
Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company
	
	
7.	
Such other role/functions as may be specifically 
referred to the Committee by the Board of Directors 
and / or other committees of Directors of the 
Company or mentioned in the Listing Regulations.
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24, three (3) meetings 
of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, August 08, 
2023 and November 02, 2023.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
3/3
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
3/3
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
3/3
4
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
 3/3
84
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
III.	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee
 	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee has been 
constituted to specifically look into various aspects of 
interest of Shareholders and Investors complaints and 
other shareholders related issues.
	
	
The 
composition 
of 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Chairperson
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
3
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
 Member
Chairperson of the Committee is a Non–Executive 
Independent Director. Ms. Reena Jayara, Company 
Secretary, acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
1.	
Overseeing and reviewing all matters connected 
with securities of the Company.
	
	
2.	
Redressal of Shareholders’ / Investors’/Debenture 
holders’/other security holders complaints/queries 
related to transfer / transmission / consolidation / 
splitting of shares/ rematerialisation, non-receipt 
of Annual Report, declared dividend, issue of new/
duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.
	
	
3.	
Overseeing the performance of the Registrar and 
Transfer Agent of the Company and recommends 
measures for overall improvement in the quality of 
Investor services.
	
	
4.	
Review of adherence of the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent.
	
	
5.	
Such other role/functions as may be specifically 
referred to the Committee by the Board of Directors 
and / or other committees of Directors of the 
Company or mentioned in the Listing agreement.
	
	
6.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders on annual basis.
	
	
7.	
Review of various measures and initiative taken 
by the Company for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the Company.
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, four (4) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
August 08, 2023, November 02, 2023 and February 07, 
2024.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
4/4
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
4/4
3
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
4/4
The details of investor complaints (as reported under 
Regulation 13 of SEBI Listing Regulations) received 
and resolved during the period from April 1, 2023 to 
March 31, 2024 is as under:
No. of 
Investor 
Complaints 
pending 
at the 
beginning 
of April 1, 
2023 
No. of 
Investor 
Complaints 
received 
from April 
1, 2023 to 
March 31, 
2024
No. of 
Investor 
Complaints 
resolved 
from April 
1, 2023 to 
March 31, 
2024
No. of 
Investor 
Complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
March 31, 
2024
0
7
7
0
	
	
The Company addresses all complaints, suggestions 
and grievances expeditiously and replies have been 
sent/ issues resolved normally within 15 days from the 
date of lodgement of complaint’s/grievances.
	
	
Ms. Reena Jayara, Company Secretary is the Compliance 
Officer of the Company.
	
IV.	 Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
& 
ESG 
Committee
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
During the year under review, the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee was renamed as Corporate 
Social Responsibility & ESG Committee (“CSR & ESG 
Committee”) on November 02, 2023 to include the 
matters relating to ESG in its Scope.
85
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
CSR & ESG Committee is entrusted to oversee the 
Policies relating to CSR & ESG of the Company, to 
recommend and monitor the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on the activities mentioned in the Schedule 
VII of the Act for CSR activities, if any undertaken and 
ESG related matters of the Company.
	
	
The composition of CSR Committee as at March 31, 
2024 is as under:-
S. No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha 
Member
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
	
	
The CSR & ESG Committee does not have a permanent 
chairperson and the members of the Committee appoint 
chairperson amongst themselves during the meeting.
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
1.	
Formulation 
/ 
Review 
of 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility Policy and review implementation of 
same
	
	
2.	
Formulation / Review of Environment, Social & 
Governance Policy and review implementation of 
same
	
	
3.	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on the Corporate Social Responsibility 
activities to the Board
	
	
4.	
Review the ESG goals for the Company, and 
monitor the same
	
	
5.	
Monitoring and ensuring implementation of the 
projects / programmes / activities proposed to be 
undertaken by the Company
	
	
6.	
Discharge such other role/functions as may 
be specifically referred to the Committee by 
the Board of Directors in relation to Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy and ESG Policy of the 
Company from time to time
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, one (1) meeting 
of the Committee was held: August 08, 2023.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meeting of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
1/1
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
1/1
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
1/1
	
V.	
 Investment, Borrowing & Share Allotment 
Committee
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
The composition of Investment, Borrowing & Share 
Allotment Committee as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Member 
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
	
	
The 
Investment 
Borrowing 
& 
Share 
Allotment 
Committee does not have a permanent chairperson 
and the members of the Committee appoint chairperson 
amongst themselves during the meeting.
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
1.	
To invest the funds of the Company; borrow 
monies and make loans in the form of subscription/
acquisition/purchase 
of 
securities, 
loans, 
Guarantees, (including Corporate and Counter 
Guarantee), Inter Corporate Deposits (ICDs) in 
Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures or otherwise and 
providing security on behalf of subsidiaries as 
may decided by the Committee from time to time 
up to ` 6000 Crores and to borrow monies from 
Banks, other Bodies Corporate or Individuals in 
the form of term loan, ICD’s, Working Capital Loan 
or otherwise as may be decided by the members 
of the Committee from time to time up to ` 3000 
Crores;
	
	
2.	
To look after the matters pertaining to the issue, 
offer, allotment and cancellation of securities 
including ESOP/SAR/ Equity / Preference shares 
/ instruments convertible into Equity Shares, 
whether optionally or otherwise and GDRs, of the 
Company, to make call on securities, to invite & 
accept further subscription money on securities, 
to issue share certificates / receipts, to redeem / 
convert securities and to do all such acts, deeds 
and things as may be considered necessary and 
incidental thereto.
86
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, six (6) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
June 30, 2023, July 25, 2023, November 02, 2023, 
November 28, 2023 and January 24, 2024.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
6/6
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
6/6
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
5/6
	
VI.	 Group Risk Management Committee
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
The Group Risk Management Committee has been 
constituted to review integrated risk of the Company 
and to provide operational and policy guidance to 
the Company which paves the way for an effective 
risk management including the cyber security so as to 
safeguard the interest of the Company and the group.
	
	
The composition of Group Risk Management Committee 
as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. 
No.
Name of Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Chairperson
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed 
Member
4
Ms. Preeti Madan
Member
5
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal – Group 
CFO 
Member
	
(ii)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
Role and responsibility of the Committee are to 
review integrated risk of the Company and to provide 
operational and policy guidance to the Company 
which paves the way for an effective risk management 
including the cyber security so as to safeguard the 
interest of the Company and inter-alia include:
	
	
(1)	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
	
	
	
a)	
A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by 
the listed entity, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may 
be determined by the Committee.
	
	
	
b)	
Measures 
for 
risk 
mitigation 
including 
systems and processes for internal control of 
identified risks.
	
	
	
c)	
Business continuity plan.
	
	
(2)	
To 
ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor and 
evaluate risks associated with the business of the 
Company and its subsidiaries;
	
	
(3)	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
	
	
(4)	
To periodically review the risk management policy, 
at least once in two years, including by considering 
the changing industry dynamics and evolving 
complexity;
	
	
(5)	
To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
	
	
(6)	
To consider and approve the appointment, removal 
and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer 
(if any).
	
	
(7)	
To coordinate its activities with other committees, 
in instances where there is any overlap with 
activities of such committees, as per the framework 
laid down by the Board of Directors.
	
	
(8)	
Such other role/functions as may be specifically 
referred to the Committee by the Board of Directors 
and / or other committees of Directors of the 
Company and specified in SEBI/RBI Regulations.
	
(iii)	 Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, four (4) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
August 08, 2023, November 02, 2023 and February 07, 
2024.
87
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
The attendances of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year are as follows:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha 
4/4 
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
4/4
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
4/4
4
 Ms. Preeti Madan
4/4
5
 Mr. Nitin Aggarwal – Group 
CFO
4/4
	
VII.	 Asset Liability Committee
	
(i)	
 Composition
	
	
The Asset Liability Committee has been constituted to 
manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to put in place 
the ALM system and to decide the product pricing for 
the loans, maturity profile and mix of the incremental 
assets and liabilities. The composition of Asset Liability 
Committee as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Chairperson
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Member
3
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal – Group 
CFO
Member
	
(ii)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, four (4) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
August 08, 2023, November 02, 2023 and February 07, 
2024.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
4/4
2
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
4/4
3
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal – Group 
CFO
4/4
	
VIII.	 RPT Sub-Committee (Dissolved w.e.f February 07, 
2024)
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
RPT Sub-Committee was constituted to monitor and 
regulate transactions between the Company and its 
Related Parties in terms of shareholder agreement with 
International Finance Corporation (IFC). IFC had sold its 
entire shareholding in the Company on January 29, 2024; 
consequentially the Board approved the dissolution of 
the Committee at its meeting held on February 07, 2024.
	
	
The composition of RPT Sub-committee as at date of 
dissolution i.e. February 07, 2024 was as under:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Member
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
	
(ii)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, Four (4) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
August 08, 2023, November 02, 2023 and February 07, 
2024.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
4/4
2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
4/4
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
4/4
	
IX.	 IT Strategy Committee
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
Pursuant to the Master Direction – Information 
Technology Framework for the NBFC Sector issued by 
RBI, the IT Strategy Committee was constituted by the 
Company in May 2019.
	
	
The composition of IT Strategy Committee as at 
March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
Position
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Chairperson
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Member
3
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Member
4
Mr. Chirag Jain (Non Board 
member)
Member
5
Mr. Shalabh Garg (Non Board 
member)
Member
88
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
(ii)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, four (4) 
meetings of the Committee were held: May 11, 2023, 
August 08, 2023, November 02, 2023 and February 07, 
2024.
	
	
The attendances of Members at the meetings of the 
Committee held during the year are as follows:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
4/4
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
4/4
3
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
4/4
4
Mr. Chirag Jain (Non Board 
member)
4/4
5
Mr. Shalabh Garg (Non Board 
member)
3/4
	
X.	
Committee of Independent Directors
	
(i)	
Composition
	
	
Pursuant to provisions of Regulation 26 (6) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011 (“SAST Regulations”), Committee of Independent 
Directors was constituted by the Board of Directors of 
the Company on October 09, 2023 to provide reasoned 
recommendations on the ongoing open offer to the 
shareholders of the Company, details of which are given 
elsewhere in this annual report of the Company.
	
	
The composition of Committee of Independent Directors 
as at March 31, 2024 is as under:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Chairperson
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed 
Member
3
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Member
4
Ms. Preeti Madan
Member
5
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
Member
	
(ii)	
Meetings and attendance during the year
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, one (1) meeting 
of the Committee was held on October 17, 2023.
	
	
The attendance of Members at the meeting of the 
Committee held during the year is as follows:-
S. 
No.
Name of the Member/
Chairperson
No. of Meetings 
attended
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
1/1
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
1/1
3
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi 
1/1
4
Ms. Preeti Madan 
1/1
5
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
0/1
D.	 POLICIES ON APPOINTMENT & REMUNERATION 
OF 
DIRECTORS 
AND 
KEY 
MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL AND OTHER EMPLOYEES
	
Remuneration Policies:
	
The Company has following policies in place relating to 
the appointment and remuneration for the Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, Senior Management Personnel and 
other employees as recommended by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and approved by the Board:
	
1.	
Employee’s Remuneration Policy
	
	
Employee’s Remuneration Policy is framed as per 
requirement of Sections 178 and 203 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with applicable Regulations 
under the Act and intended to ensure fairness in the 
remuneration process of existing and new Employees’ 
of the Company.
	
	
This policy is applicable to the Company and regulates 
the remuneration of existing and new Employees’ of the 
Company based on the applicable laws and regulations.
	
	
The policy can be accessed at https://religare.com/
policies/
	
2.	
Director’s Appointment & Fit and Proper Policy
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted 
Director’s Appointment & Fit and Proper Policy 
with regard to ascertaining the Fit and Proper 
criteria of Directors at the time of their appointment 
/ re-appointment and to ensure that the Board is 
diversified and comprises of an ideal combination 
of executive and non-executive directors, including 
independent directors, with diverse backgrounds on 
continuing basis.
89
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Diversity in the composition of the Board of Directors has 
become essential in view of the increasing emphasis on 
Corporate Governance, need for addressing concerns 
of diverse stakeholders and the necessity for managing 
risks in the business effectively. A Board comprised 
of appropriately qualified and skilled people, with a 
broad range of experience relevant to the business, 
is important for effective corporate governance and 
sustained commercial success of a company.
	
	
This policy is applicable to the Company and ensures 
that the Directors of the Company who are responsible 
for steering the affairs of the Company are fit and proper, 
besides having the necessary qualifications.
	
	
The policy can be accessed at https://religare.com/
policies/.
	
3.	
Director’s Remuneration Policy
	
	
Director’s Remuneration Policy is framed as per 
requirement of Sections 134, 178 and Schedule IV of 
the Act read with applicable Regulations under the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations with an objective to 
have a Board with diverse background and experience 
in areas that are relevant for the Company, to ensure 
fairness in the remuneration process of the Directors of 
the Company and at the same time to attract and retain 
the best suitable talent on the Board of the Company.
	
	
This policy is applicable to the Company and regulates 
the remuneration of Directors (including the Independent 
Directors) based on the laws and regulations applicable 
on the Company.
	
	
When determining the remuneration for the MD / ED / 
WTD, the Company will take into account the market 
sector that it operates in, business performance and 
the practices in other comparable Companies including 
global companies when appropriate. The Company shall 
pay remuneration to its MD / ED / WTD by way of salary, 
perquisites and performance linked variable pay, within 
the overall ceiling limits approved by the Shareholders 
of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
applicable laws and regulations. NRC shall recommend 
the performance linked variable pay, payable to the MD 
/ ED/ WTD based on the profits for the financial year, 
performance criteria’s approved by Board for MD / ED / 
WTD and as per the policy of the Group, based on the 
performance of the Company / Group as well as that 
of the MD / ED / WTD within overall limits approved 
by the shareholders and subject to applicable laws 
and regulations. The Board of Directors shall approve 
the variable pay payable for the year based on the 
recommendations of the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee.
	
	
The policy can be accessed at https://religare.com/
policies/.
	
4.	
KMP and SMP Appointment and Remuneration 
Policy
	
	
This policy is framed as per requirements of Sections 
178 and 203 of the Act read with applicable rules & 
regulations under the Act, the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and Guidelines on Compensation of Key Managerial 
Personnel and Senior Management in Non-Banking 
Financial Companies (NBFCs) by Reserve Bank of India 
as provided under Scale Based Regulatory Framework 
and intended to ensure the fairness in the appointment 
and remuneration process of the KMPs and SMPs of the 
Company and at the same to attract and retain the best 
suitable talent for the Company.
	
	
This policy is applicable to the Company and regulates 
the appointment and remuneration of KMPs and SMPs 
based on the applicable laws and regulations.
	
	
The policy lays down the detailed framework, inter alia, 
encompassing the following:
	
	
•	
Principles of Compensation
	
	
•	
Compensation components:
	
	
	
o	
Components of Fixed pay
	
	
	
o	
Components of Variable pay
	
	
•	
Deferral of variable pay
	
	
•	
Compensation for control and assurance function 
personnel
	
	
•	
Provisions of Malus and Clawback
	
	
The policy can be accessed at https://religare.
com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/KMP_SMP_
Appointment_and_Remuneration_Policy040423.pdf.
	
	
Particulars of Senior Management:
	
	
The details of Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”) 
as defined under Regulation 16(d) read with Schedule 
V Para C Clause 5(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
including changes therein during the FY 2023-24 are 
given hereunder:
90
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
Details of Senior Management as on March 31, 2024:
Name
Designation
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Executive Chairperson
Mr. Rakesh Asthaana
Group Head Corporate Affairs & Business Advisor
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
Group Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Nishant Singhal
President & Group Head - Legal and Compliance
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
President - Internal Audit
Dr. Richa Mishra
Director & Group Head - HR
Mr. Pratul Gupta
Director & Head - Strategy, M&A and Investor Relations
Dr. Mallikarjun Goda
Director & Group Head - Compliance
Ms. Saloni Goel
Director - ESG & Projects
Ms. Reena Jayara
SVP & Company Secretary
Mr. Devesh Chandra Srivastava
SVP - PR & Marketing
Mr. Shalabh Garg
SVP - Information Technology
	
	
Changes in Senior Management during FY 2024:
Name
Designation
Change (appointment/cessation/resignation)
Mr. Vishal Goyal
SVP - Compliance
Exited w.e.f. April 03, 2023
Dr. Mallikarjun Goda
Director & Group Head - Compliance
Appointed w.e.f. April 10, 2023
Ms. Saloni Goel
Director – ESG & Projects
Appointed w.e.f. May 18, 2023
Mr. Rakesh Asthaana
Group Head - Corporate Affairs & Business Advisor
Appointed w.e.f. August 02, 2023
	
	
Remuneration of Executive Directors
	
	
Remuneration of Executive Directors is decided by the Board based on recommendation of NRC within the ceiling fixed by the 
Shareholders and permissible under the Act and other relevant laws and regulations. Remuneration paid to the Executive Directors 
during the year ended March 31, 2024 and the disclosures as per the requirement of Schedule V of the Act and SEBI Listing 
Regulations are as follows:
(Amount in `)
Name and 
Designation 
of the Director
Salary & 
Allowances
Guaranteed/
Retention 
Bonus
Performance 
Bonus
Commission
Accommodation, 
Car & Other 
Perquisite
Retiral 
Benefits
Total
Stock 
Options*
Dr. Rashmi 
Saluja, 
Executive 
Chairperson
 6.98 Cr
-
5.93 Cr
-
1.21 Cr
-
14.12 Cr 30,00,000
	
	
* During the financial year ended March 31, 2024, Dr. Rashmi Saluja was granted 30,00,000 Stock Options on May 11, 2023 under the Religare Enterprises 
Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019 (Scheme) at an exercise price of ` 169.70/- per share, the vesting period of which is 2 years and exercisable as 
per the terms of the Scheme.
	
	
During the year under review, Dr. Rashmi Saluja exercised 25,00,000 stock options out of the earlier tranche of 25,00,000 stock 
options granted to her in the FY 2021-22 (with vesting period of 1 year and exercisable as per the terms of the Scheme) under 
the said Scheme. Accordingly, in addition to aforementioned remuneration, perquisite component of ` 41.59 Cr. arising pursuant 
to exercise of these stock options, also forms part of her remuneration for the FY 2023-24.
	
	
Further during the year under review, Dr. Rashmi Saluja exercised 75,69,685 stock options of Care Health Insurance Limited 
(formerly Religare Health Insurance Company Limited) (“Care”) out of the 2,27,11,327 - (number) stock options granted to her 
under Religare Health Insurance Employee Stock Option Scheme 2014 (”Care ESOP Scheme”) in FY 2022-23. Accordingly, in 
addition, the perquisite component of ` 13.15 Cr. arising pursuant to exercise of these Care stock options, also forms part of her 
remuneration for the FY 2023-24.
91
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Dr. Rashmi Saluja has been re- appointed as Executive 
Chairperson of the Company for a period of 5 (five) years 
from the date of re-appointment i.e. February 26, 2023, 
who is liable to retire by rotation. The services can be 
terminated by either party by giving 90 days’ notice in 
writing. There is no separate provision for payment of 
severance fees as on March 31, 2024.
 	
	
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
	
	
Non-Executive 
Directors 
including 
Independent 
Directors do not have any pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Company. They are paid only the 
sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board of 
Directors and Committees within the limits as prescribed 
under the Act. Independent Directors are paid sitting 
fees of ` 1,00,000/- per meeting for attending Board, 
Audit & Governance Committee and Group Risk 
Management Committee meetings and the sitting 
fees payable to Non – Executive Non-Independent 
Directors is ` 25,000/- per meeting for attending the 
Board, Audit & Governance Committee and Group Risk 
Management Committee meetings. Sitting fees amount 
paid to the Independent Directors for the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, Asset Liability Committee, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
RPT–Sub 
Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility and ESG 
Committee, Investment, Borrowing & Share Allotment 
Committee, IT Strategy Committee and Committee 
of Independent Directors meetings is ` 20,000/- per 
meeting and to Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Directors is ` 10,000/- per meeting.
	
	
Details of remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors 
during FY 2023-24 and their shareholding in the 
Company as at 31st March 2024 are as follows:
S. 
No
Name of Director
Sitting Fees (`)
Salary
 (`)
Benefits or 
Bonuses
Stock 
Options
Shareholding
(Number of Share)
1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
22,40,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
20,40,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
13,80,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
5,00,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5
Ms. Preeti Madan
13,20,000
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
	
	
None of the Independent Directors holds any shares or convertible instruments i.e. which are convertible into equity shares of the 
Company as on March 31, 2024.
	
	
Apart from receiving sitting fees, no Non-Executive 
Director including Independent Directors received any 
fixed component & performance linked incentives from 
the Company during the period under review.
	
	
Further, there were no other pecuniary relationships 
or transactions of the Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis 
the Company during the year under review other than 
the payment of sitting fees for attending meetings of 
the Board and its Committees. The Company has not 
granted any stock options to any of its Non-Executive 
Independent Directors.
	
	
Employee Stock Options Schemes
	
	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board 
of Directors of the Company, inter-alia, administers 
and monitors the Employees’ Stock Option Schemes 
of the Company in accordance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI 
SBEB Regulations”).
	
	
Details for the FY 2023-24 as required under the SEBI 
SBEB Regulations, for Religare Employees Stock Option 
Scheme 2010, Religare Employees Stock Option 
Scheme 2012 and Religare Employees Stock Option 
Plan 2019 (ESOP Schemes) have been uploaded on 
the website of the Company and can be accessed 
through the following link https://www.religare.com/
Employee-Stock-Option-Schemes.aspx
	
	
During the year under review, the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee granted 68,00,000 stock 
options under the “Religare Enterprises Limited 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2019”.
	
	
During the year Company terminated the Religare 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2010 and Religare 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2012 as there were 
no outstanding options in the scheme.
E.	
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
	
In terms of provisions of the Act and Regulation 17(10) read 
with Regulation 25(4) of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board 
92
Annual Report 2023-2024
conducts an annual performance evaluation of its own 
performance, the performance of the Directors individually 
as well as the evaluation of the working of its Committees 
through questionnaire designed with qualitative parameters 
and feedback based on ratings and open comments.
	
The Board has adopted Board Evaluation Policy (“Policy”) 
for carrying out the evaluation of Board as whole, the Board 
Committees and individual Directors including Independent 
Directors. The Policy covers the performance evaluation 
criteria of all the directors including independent directors. 
The criteria covered to conduct the evaluation process 
includes contribution to and monitoring of corporate 
governance practices, knowledge & update of relevant areas, 
participation in the long term strategic planning and fulfillment 
of Directors’ obligations and fiduciary responsibilities, 
including but not limited to, active/effective participation 
at the Board and Committee meetings, representation of 
shareholders’ interest and enhancing shareholders value etc.
	
Pursuant to the Policy, Board has carried out the annual 
performance evaluation of the Board as whole, all the Board 
Committees and individual Directors for the FY 2022-23 in 
May 2023 and for the FY 2023-24 in May 2024 as per the 
parameters prescribed in the evaluation forms provided in the 
Policy for evaluation of Board as whole, the Board Committees 
and individual Directors which include various aspects of 
Board’s functioning.
	
Further, Independent Directors have also carried out the 
performance evaluation of Board as a whole, Non-Independent 
Directors and Chairperson of the Company in their meetings 
held on May 11, 2023 for the FY 2022-23 and on May 21, 
2024 for the FY 2023-24.
	
The Board of Directors expressed their satisfaction with 
the Policy and Annual Performance Evaluation process and 
evaluation results.
F.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
	
(i)	
Annual General Meetings
	
	
Details of the Annual General Meetings held in the last three years:
Year
Date
Day
Time
Venue
Special Resolutions 
Passed
2020-2021
29.09.2021 Wednesday
4.00 P.M.
Convened through Video Conferencing / 
Other Audio Visual Means (VC/OAVM)
(Deemed venue: Registered office of the 
Company at 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 
43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019)
*2 Special Resolutions 
were passed
2021-2022
23.09.2022
Friday
11.30 A.M. Convened through Video Conferencing / 
Other Audio Visual Means (VC/OAVM)
(Deemed venue: Registered office of the 
Company at 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 
43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019)
**5 Special Resolutions 
were passed
2022-2023
27.09.2023 Wednesday 11.30 A.M. Convened through Video Conferencing / 
Other Audio Visual Means (VC/OAVM)
(Deemed venue: Registered office of the 
Company at 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 
43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019)
There was no Special 
Resolution proposed at 
the AGM
	
	
* Resolutions pertaining to the following matters were passed as Special Resolutions:
	
	
•	
To approve revision of remuneration of Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 01715298), Executive Chairperson of the Company;
	
	
•	
To approve the Retention Payout of Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 01715298), Executive Chairperson of the Company
	
	
** Resolutions pertaining to the following matters were passed as Special Resolutions:
	
	
•	
To appoint Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi (DIN: 02167497), as Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company for a term 
of 5 consecutive years
93
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
•	
To appoint Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi (DIN: 09185085), as Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company for a term of 5 
consecutive years
	
	
•	
To amend the Articles of Association of the Company
	
	
•	
To approve revision of remuneration of Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN 01715298), Executive Chairperson of the Company w.e.f. 
April 01, 2022
	
	
•	
To approve payment of remuneration on re-appointment to Dr. Rashmi Saluja (DIN: 01715298) as Executive Chairperson of 
the Company
	
	
As on date of this report, there is no proposal for passing Special Resolution by Postal Ballot.
	
(ii)	
Extra-ordinary General Meeting
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24 no Extra-Ordinary General Meeting was held.
	
(iii)	 Postal Ballot
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24, the Company has conducted two Postal Ballots in compliance with Regulation 44 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations and in pursuance of Section 108 read with Section 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act read with 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 to obtain approval of Shareholders on the following matters as Special 
Resolutions:
Postal Ballot 1
Postal Ballot 2
Appointment of Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha (DIN: 08140223) 
as a Director and re-appointment as Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term 
of 5 consecutive years. (Special Resolution)
1.	
Approval of investment by way of subscription of securities of 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”), wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company. (Special Resolution)
2.	
Amendment of the Articles of Association of the Company. 
(Special Resolution)
Voting Result: Resolution was passed on June 28, 2023 
and result was declared on June 30, 2023.
Voting Result: Resolution Nos. 1 & 2 failed to receive requisite 
majority therefore could not be passed.
	
	
Persons responsible for conducting the postal 
ballot exercise:
	
	
Postal Ballot 1: Dr. Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson, 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal, Group CFO and Ms. Reena Jayara, 
Company Secretary of the Company, were appointed 
as persons responsible for conducting postal ballot 
process in a fair and transparent manner. Mr. Ankush 
Agarwal (C.P. No. 14486), Partner of M/s. MAKS & Co., 
Company Secretaries was appointed as Scrutinizer for 
conducting the Postal Ballot process and services of M/s 
KFin Technologies Limited (“KFintech”) were engaged 
as an Agency for the purpose of providing e-voting 
facility. Mr. Ankush Agarwal conducted the process and 
submitted his report to the Chairperson.
	
	
A detailed procedure followed by the Company for 
conducting the Postal Ballot process is provided 
hereunder:
	
	
Procedure followed for postal ballot 1:
	
	
•	
The Company issued the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated May 11, 2023, for the above-mentioned 
resolution. The draft resolution together with the 
explanatory statement setting out the material 
facts was sent through e-mail to all members of 
the Company whose names appeared on the 
Register of Members/list of Beneficial Owners 
on the Cut-Off Date i.e. Friday, May 19, 2023 
and who have registered their email addresses 
with the Company or Depository / Depository 
Participants. In compliance with the Regulation 
44 of SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of 
provisions of Section 108 and Section 110 read 
with Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 (“Rules”) read with the General 
Circular No.14/2020 dated 8th April 2020 
read with General Circular No.17/2020 dated 
13th 
April 
2020, 
General 
Circular 
No. 
03/2022 dated 5th May 2022 and General Circular 
No.11/2022 dated 28th December 2022 issued 
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government 
of India (the “MCA Circulars”) and as per 
provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations, e-voting 
facility was provided to the Shareholders to cast 
their votes electronically instead of physical mode. 
Further, the Postal Ballot Notice was also placed at 
94
Annual Report 2023-2024
the website of the Company on the following link 
https://religare.com/notices/ , was made available 
on the website of KFintech and was also sent to 
the Stock Exchanges;
	
	
•	
E-voting was provided from Tuesday, May 30, 
2023 (9:00 A.M. IST) and ended on Wednesday, 
June 28, 2023 (5:00 P.M. IST).
	
	
•	
The 
Company 
also 
published 
the 
Postal 
Ballot 
Notice 
in 
the 
newspaper 
i.e. 
Financial 
Express 
(English 
Newspaper) 
and 
Jansatta (Hindi Newspaper) declaring the details 
and requirements as mandated by the Act and 
Rules. Further, the newspaper publication of 
the Postal Ballot Notice was also placed at the 
Company website on the following link https://
religare.com/newspaper-advertisements/.
	
	
•	
Voting Rights were reckoned on the paid up 
value of the shares registered in the names of the 
Members/Beneficial Owner as on the Cut-Off date;
	
	
•	
Mr. Ankush Agarwal, scrutinizer, submitted his 
report on Friday, June 30, 2023;
	
	
•	
The result of the Postal Ballot was declared on Friday, 
June 30, 2023 and displayed on the notice board 
at the registered office of the Company. The date 
of receipt of approval i.e. Wednesday, June 28, 
2023 of the requisite majority of shareholders by 
means of e-voting has been taken as the date of 
passing of the resolution;
	
	
•	
The result of the postal ballot was published 
in Financial Express (English Newspaper) and 
Jansatta 
(Hindi 
Newspaper) 
and 
was 
also 
placed at the website of the Company on the 
following path https://religare.com/stock-exchange-
announcements/ besides being communicated 
to the Stock Exchanges and Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent.
	
	
Postal Ballot 2: Dr. Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson, 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal, Group CFO and Ms. Reena Jayara, 
Company Secretary of the Company, were appointed 
as persons responsible for conducting postal ballot 
process in a fair and transparent manner. Mr. Ankush 
Agarwal (C.P. No. 14486), Partner of M/s. MAKS & Co., 
Company Secretaries was appointed as Scrutinizer for 
conducting the Postal Ballot process and services of M/s 
KFin Technologies Limited (“KFintech”) were engaged 
as an Agency for the purpose of providing e-voting 
facility. Mr. Ankush Agarwal conducted the process and 
submitted his report to the Chairperson.
	
	
Procedure followed for postal ballot 2:
	
	
•	
The Company issued the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated February 07, 2024, for the above-mentioned 
resolutions. The draft resolutions together with the 
explanatory statements setting out the material 
facts was sent through e-mail to all members of 
the Company whose names appeared on the 
Register of Members/list of Beneficial Owners on 
the Cut-Off Date i.e. Friday, February 16, 2024 and 
who have registered their email addresses with the 
Company or Depository / Depository Participants. 
In compliance with the Regulation 44 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations and in terms of provisions of 
Section 108 and Section 110 read with Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
(“Rules”) read with the General Circular No.14/2020 
dated 8th April 2020 read with General Circular 
No.17/2020 dated 13th April 2020 and General 
Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25th September, 
2023 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India (the “MCA Circulars”) and as 
per provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations, e-voting 
facility was provided to the Shareholders to cast 
their votes electronically instead of physical mode. 
Further, the Postal Ballot Notice was also placed at 
the website of the Company on the following link 
https://religare.com/notices/, was made available 
on the website of KFintech and was also sent to 
the Stock Exchanges;
	
	
•	
E-voting 
was 
provided 
from 
Wednesday, 
February 21, 2024 (9:00 A.M. IST) and ended on 
Thursday, March 21, 2024 (5:00 P.M. IST).
	
	
•	
The 
Company 
also 
published 
the 
Postal 
Ballot 
Notice 
in 
the 
newspaper 
i.e. 
Financial 
Express 
(English 
Newspaper) 
and 
Jansatta (Hindi Newspaper) declaring the details 
and requirements as mandated by the Act and 
Rules. Further, the newspaper publication of 
the Postal Ballot Notice was also placed at the 
Company website on the following link https://
religare.com/newspaper-advertisements/ .
	
	
•	
Voting Rights were reckoned on the paid up 
value of the shares registered in the names of the 
Members/Beneficial Owner as on the Cut-Off date;
	
	
•	
Mr. Ankush Agarwal, scrutinizer, submitted his 
report on Saturday, March 23, 2024;
	
	
•	
The result of the Postal Ballot was declared on 
Saturday, March 23, 2024 and displayed on 
the notice board at the registered office of the 
95
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Company and proposed resolutions were declared 
as not passed as votes cast by shareholders in 
favour in respect of each resolution were below 
the prescribed limit of 75% of total votes casted for 
each of such resolution.
	
	
•	
The result of the postal ballot was published 
in Financial Express (English Newspaper) and 
Jansatta 
(Hindi 
Newspaper) 
and 
was 
also 
placed at the website of the Company on the 
following path https://religare.com/stock-exchange-
announcements/ besides being communicated 
to the Stock Exchanges and Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent.
	
	
Details of Voting Pattern of Postal Ballot 1:
	
	
After scrutinizing all votes received, the scrutinizer 
reported as under:
	
	
RESOLUTION – 1.	
Appointment of Mr. Malay Kumar 
Sinha (DIN: 08140223) as a Director and re-appointment 
as 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director 
of 
the 
Company for a second term of 5 consecutive years 
(Special Resolution) (E-voting mode only)
	
	
Details of voting through e-voting on the resolution are 
given below:
	
	
VOTING THROUGH REMOTE E-VOTING:
Particulars
Number of Valid Votes
Percentage of total net valid votes casted
Postal Ballot
E-votes
Total
Assent
NA
15,83,95,132
15,83,95,132
99.997
Dissent
NA
4,279
4,279
0.003
Total
NA
10,65,01,791
10,65,01,791
100
	
	
Note: 5 (Five) Members holding 1,024 Shares abstained from voting on the Resolution No. 1 and therefore these shares (i.e. 
1,024) were not considered for reckoning valid e-Votes.
	
	
Detailed summary of E-voting is as under: 
Particulars
No. of 
shareholders
No. of Equity 
Shares
Paid-up value of the 
Equity Shares (In `)
% of Total Paid-up 
Equity Capital*
(a)	
Total votes received
207
15,84,00,435
158,40,04,350
48.951
(b)	
Less: Abstained
5
1,024
10,240
Negligible
(c)	
Net Valid votes received
202
15,83,99,411
158,39,94,110
48.951
(d)	
Votes with Assent
194
15,83,95,132
1,58,39,51,320
48.950
(e)	
Votes with Dissent
8
4,279
42,790
0.001
	
	
* In view of restraining order on voting rights passed by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal vide orders dated September 29, 2021 and December 
16, 2021, the voting rights of 0.01% 2,50,00,000 Non-cumulative Non-convertible Redeemable Preference Shares of face value of ` 10/- each were excluded 
for calculation of ‘Total Voting Capital’ of the Company.
	
	
Details of Voting Pattern of Postal Ballot 2:
	
	
After scrutinizing all votes received, the scrutinizer reported as under:
	
	
RESOLUTION – 1.	
Approval of investment by way of subscription of securities of MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited 
(“MIC”), wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Special Resolution) (E-voting mode only)
	
	
Details of voting through e-voting on the resolution are given below:
	
	
VOTING THROUGH REMOTE E-VOTING:
Particulars
Number of Valid Votes
Percentage of total net 
valid votes casted
Postal Ballot
E-votes
Total
Assent
NA
5,11,49,558
5,11,49,558
26.116
Dissent
NA
14,47,09,199
14,47,09,199
73.884
Total
NA
19,58,58,757
19,58,58,757
100
96
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
Note: 5 (Five) Members holding 31,945 Equity Shares abstained from voting on the Resolution No. 1 and therefore these shares 
(i.e. 31,945) were not considered for reckoning valid e-Votes.
	
	
Detailed summary of E-voting is as under: 
Particulars
No. of 
shareholders
No. of Equity 
Shares
Paid-up value of the 
Equity Shares (In `)
% of Total Paid-up 
Equity Capital*
(a)	
Total votes received
369
19,58,90,702
195,89,07,020
61.889
(b)	
Less: Abstained
5
31,945
3,19,450
0.010
(c)	
Net Valid votes received
364
19,58,58,757
195,85,87,570
61.879
(d)	
Votes with Assent
268
5,11,49,558
51,14,95,580
16.160
(e)	
Votes with Dissent
96
14,47,09,199
144,70,91,990
45.719
	
	
* Total Net Voting Capital for determining the voting rights of members as on Cut-off Date was 31,65,21,163 Equity Shares.
	
	
RESOLUTION – 2. Amendment of the Articles of Association of the Company (Special Resolution) (E-voting mode only)
Particulars
Number of Valid Votes
Percentage of total 
net valid votes casted
Postal Ballot
E-votes
Total
Assent
NA
8,57,26,609
8,57,26,609
68.101
Dissent
NA
4,01,54,354
4,01,54,354
31.899
Total
NA
12,58,80,963
12,58,80,963
100
	
	
Note:
	
	
(i)	
14 (Fourteen) Members holding 6,98,02,739 Equity Shares abstained from voting on the Resolution No. 2 and therefore 
these shares (i.e. 6,98,02,739) were not considered for reckoning valid e-Votes; and
	
	
(ii)	
1 Member voted less by 2,07,000 Shares on the Resolution No. 2 than the shares it holds and therefore these shares (i.e. 
2,07,000 Shares) were not considered for reckoning valid votes.
	
	
Detailed summary of E-voting is as under:
Particulars
No of share-
Holders
No. of the 
Shares
Paid-up value of the 
Shares (In `)
% of Total Voting 
Capital* (Approx.)
(a)	
Total votes received
369
19,58,90,702
195,89,07,020
61.889
(b)	
Less: Abstained
14
6,98,02,739
69,80,27,390
22.053
(c)	
Less: Voted Less than the Shares hold
1
2,07,000
20,70,000
0.065
(d)	
Net Valid Votes
355
12,58,80,963
125,88,09,630
39.77
(e)	
Votes with Assent
280
8,57,26,609
85,72,66,090
27.084
(f)	
Votes with dissent
75
4,01,54,354
40,15,43,540
12.686
	
	
* Total Net Voting Capital for determining the voting rights of members as on Cut-off Date was 31,65,21,163 Equity Shares.
	
	
No Special Resolution requiring Postal Ballot is being proposed to be conducted as on date of this Report.
	
(iv)	 Unclaimed Shares
	
	
Pursuant to Regulation 39(4) read with Schedule VI of the SEBI Listing Regulations unclaimed shares i.e. shares issued pursuant 
to the Public Issues but remaining unclaimed despite of the best efforts of the Registrar to Issue or the Company, such shares and 
any other corporate benefit related to these shares are required to be transferred to a separate Demat Suspense Account.
97
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Therefore, the Company opened a separate Demat Suspense Account in the name and style of “Religare Enterprises Limited – 
IPO Suspense Account” and the shares lying unclaimed as on that date were transferred to the above said suspense account on 
July 27, 2009.
	
	
The details of such equity shares as on 31st March 2024 are as follows:
S. 
No.
Description
Number of Shares / 
Shareholders
1
Total number of Shareholders in the Suspense Account at the beginning of the year
14 Shareholders
2
Total number of outstanding equity shares in the Suspense Account lying at the beginning of the 
year
490 Equity Shares
3
Number of Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and to whom 
shares were transferred from Suspense Account during the year
0
4
Number of shares transferred from Suspense Account to Beneficiary Account during the year
0
5
Total number of Shareholders in the Suspense Account at the end of the year
14 Shareholders
6
Total number of outstanding equity shares in the Suspense Account lying at the end of the year
490 Equity Shares
Further, the voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
G.	 DISCLOSURES
	
(i)	
Related Party Transactions
	
	
All the contract/arrangements/transactions entered into 
with Related Parties as per the Act and Regulation 23 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations during the Financial Year 
2023-24 were in ordinary course of business and on 
an arm’s length basis and do not attract provisions of 
Section 188 of the Act. Further, there was no materially 
significant related party transaction which required 
shareholder’s approval and was required to be disclosed 
quarterly along with the compliance report on Corporate 
Governance.
	
	
The required statements / disclosures with respect to 
the related party transactions are placed before the 
Audit Committee on regular basis. Suitable disclosures 
so required in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) as notified under Section 133 of 
the Act have been made in notes to the Financial 
Statements.
	
	
Further, the Company has not entered into any transaction 
of material nature with the Directors or the management, 
their subsidiaries or relatives etc. that may have any 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company. 
The related party transactions are entered into based 
on considerations of various business exigencies, such 
as synergy in operations, and the Company’s long term 
strategy for investments, profitability, legal requirements, 
liquidity and capital resources of subsidiaries, associates 
and group companies.
	
	
The Related Party Transactions policy of the Company 
is posted on the website of the Company & can 
be accessed through the link https://religare.com/
wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Religare_Rpt_Policy_
Feb11-2022.pdf.
	
	
Further, the Company has submitted a report on all 
related party transactions entered into by the Company 
on consolidated basis on half yearly periodicity as per 
the format prescribed to NSE and BSE within prescribed 
timeline. The said reports have also been posted on 
the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
religare.com/stock-exchange-announcements/ .
	
(ii)	 Disclosure 
of 
accounting 
treatment 
in 
preparation of Financial Statements
	
	
The Company has adopted Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind-AS) notified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standard) Rules, 
2015 from April 01, 2018 with effective transition date of 
April 01, 2017. Accordingly, the financial statements for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2024 together with 
the comparative reporting period have been prepared 
in accordance with the recognition and measurement 
principals as laid down in Ind-AS.
	
	
The significant accounting policies which are consistently 
applied have been set out in the Notes to the financial 
statements.
	
(iii)	 Management Discussion and Analysis Report
	
	
The Management Discussion and Analysis report forms 
part of the Annual Report.
98
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
(iv)	 Details of non-compliance by the Company, 
penalties, 
strictures 
imposed 
by 
stock 
exchange(s) or the board or any statutory 
authority, on any matter related to capital 
markets
	
	
Neither any penalty nor any stricture has been imposed 
by SEBI or any other Statutory Authority on any matter 
relating to capital markets, during the last three years 
except as mentioned herein below:
	
	
1.	
Composition of Audit Committee as required 
under Regulation 18(1)(b) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations: The stock exchanges viz; NSE & 
BSE had levied a fine of ` 70,000/-, ` 1,82,000/-, 
` 1,28,000/- each respectively for non-compliance 
relating the composition of Audit Committee as 
required under Regulation 18(1)(b) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations which required atleast two thirds of the 
members of Audit Committee to be Independent 
for the quarters / period ended March 31, 2020, 
June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020.
	
	
	
The Company submitted the application(s) for 
waiver of fine imposed with NSE along with 
the detailed clarification / justification on Audit 
Committee constitution of the Company and 
also deposited the fine as advised to NSE. 
Similar representations were made to BSE as well.
	
	
	
BSE vide communication dated May 19, 2021 
informed that the Company’s justification / reason 
does not fall under any of the carve-outs jointly 
formulated by BSE and NSE and noted by SEBI, 
therefore the request for waiver could not be 
acceded to. The Company was advised to deposit 
the fines outstanding. Accordingly, the Company 
deposited the aforesaid fines to BSE on May 26, 
2021. NSE also vide letter dated June 28, 2021 
rejected the request for waiver of fines in the 
matter.
	
	
2.	
In the matter of investigation of the Company/REL 
initiated by SEBI in February 2018, the Company 
and its subsidiary RFL have cooperated in the 
aforesaid investigation and have provided the 
requisite information / documents from time to 
time and made necessary submissions with SEBI. 
SEBI vide its Order dated November 12, 2020 
has issued directions to initiate adjudication 
proceedings under appropriate legal provisions 
against certain entities mentioned in the said Order. 
Thereafter, the Company received the Show Cause 
Notice dated November 17, 2020 for alleged 
violation of provisions of Section 12A (a) (b) & (c) 
of the SEBI Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”) and Regulations 
3(b), 3(c) & 3(d), 4(1), 4(2)(f), and 4(2)(r) of the SEBI 
(PFUTP) Regulations, 2003 as well as clauses 32 
and 36 of the Listing Agreement, Clause 49(I)(C)
(1)(a) & 49(I)(C)(1)(d) of the Listing Agreement [post 
circular dated April 17,2014] read with Regulation 
103 of SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 21 
of the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956; 
Regulations 4(1)(a), 4(1)(b), 4(1)(c), 4(1)(d), 4(1)(g), 
4(1)(h), 4(1)(i), 4(1)(j), 30(1), and 48 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
	
	
	
REL was called upon to show cause as to why 
appropriate directions, as deemed fit, under 
Sections 11B (1) and 11(4) read with section 11(1) 
of SEBI Act and Section 12A(1) of SCRA Act, 1956 
should not be issued against it. REL was further 
called upon to show cause as to why appropriate 
directions for imposing penalty under Sections 
11(4A) and 11B (2) read with Section 15HA and 
15HB of SEBI Act and section 12A (2) read with 
Section 23E of the SCRA Act, 1956 and SEBI 
(Procedure for Holding Inquiry and Imposing 
Penalties) Rules, 1995 and Securities Contract 
(Regulation) (Procedure for holding inquiry and 
imposing penalties) Rules, 2005 should not be 
issued against REL.
	
	
	
The Company along with its subsidiary RFL 
submitted the joint settlement application with 
SEBI in accordance with provisions of SEBI 
(Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 on 
March 31, 2021. The Company has paid the 
settlement amount of ` 5,41,80,000/- (Rupees 
Five Crore Forty One Lakh and Eighty Thousand 
only) and RFL paid the settlement amount of 
` 5,08,95,000/- (Rupees Five Crore Eight Lakh and 
Ninety Five Thousand only) pursuant to Direction 
of SEBI for settlement of the matter. The Settlement 
Order is received in the matter on May 31, 2022 
disposing the adjudication proceedings initiated 
against REL & RFL vide Show Cause Notice dated 
November 17, 2020.
	
	
	
Further, SEBI has passed the final order dated 
July 28, 2022 in the aforesaid matter and directed 
REL & RFL to continue to pursue the measures, 
which have already been put into motion, to 
recover the amount due along with interest from 
the erstwhile promoters of REL. None of the entities 
penalized in this final order is part of Religare group 
at present.
99
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(v)	 Details 
of 
Compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements
	
	
The Company has complied with all mandatory 
requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
	
Compliance Certificate issued by M/s. DPV & Associates 
LLP, Practicing Company Secretaries is annexed to this 
Report.
	
(vi)	 Details 
of 
Adoption 
of 
Non-Mandatory 
requirements
	
	
The Company has adopted the non-mandatory 
requirements of Regulation 27 read with Part E of 
Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations in following 
manner.
	
	
A.	
The Board
	
	
	
The Chairperson of the Company is an Executive 
Director.
	
	
B.	
Shareholders’ Rights
	
	
	
The quarterly and year to date financial results 
of the Company are published in English 
newspaper (Financial Express, All Edition) and a 
Hindi newspaper (Jansatta, Delhi Edition), having 
wide circulation. Further, the quarterly results 
are also posted on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed on https://religare.com/
quarterly-annual-results/. In view of the forgoing, 
the half yearly results of the Company are not 
sent to the Shareholders. The complete copy of 
the Annual Report is sent to the shareholders of 
the Company. Further, the Company also publish 
the other important notices/information in English 
newspaper (Financial Express, All Edition) and a 
Hindi newspaper (Jansatta, Delhi Edition), having 
country wide circulation besides uploading the 
same on the website of the Company.
	
	
C.	
Modified/Un-Modified Opinion(s) in Audit 
Report
	
	
	
The Company believes in maintaining its accounts 
in a transparent manner and aims at receiving 
unqualified report of auditors on the financial 
statements of the Company.
	
	
	
The Auditor has issued its reports on the 
Standalone & Consolidated Financial statements / 
results for financial year ended March 31, 2024 
with un-modified opinion.
	
	
D.	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the 
Managing Director or the Chief Executive 
Officer
	
	
	
The Chairperson of the Company is an Executive 
Director.
	
	
	
Chairperson of the Company is not related to any 
other director of the Company as per definition of 
term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 
2013.
	
	
E.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
	
	
The Internal Auditor of the Company reports 
directly to the Audit Committee of the Company.
	
(vii)	 Whistle-Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
	
	
The Company is committed to adhere to the highest 
standards of ethical, moral and legal conduct of business 
operations. To maintain these standards, the Company 
has put in place a mechanism in form of Whistle 
Blower Policy (“Policy or Mechanism”) and encourages 
disclosures by its stakeholders who have concerns 
about suspected misconduct to come forward and 
express these concerns without fear of punishment or 
unfair treatment. This policy aims to provide an avenue 
for stakeholders to raise concerns about violation of 
law, unethical practices or gross misconduct by the 
employees of the Company or any leak/suspected 
leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information of the 
Company that can lead to financial loss or reputational 
risk to the organization. Policy is applicable to all the 
Directors of the Company, permanent & contractual 
employees of the Company based in India or outside, 
employees of other agencies deployed for the company, 
contractors, vendors, suppliers or agencies (or any of 
their employees), customers of the Company and any 
other person having an association with the Company. 
Mechanism also provide for adequate safeguards 
against victimization of those who avail of the mechanism 
and also provide for direct access to the Chairperson of 
the Audit Committee. The detail of establishment of such 
Policy/Mechanism is also uploaded on the website of 
the Company & can be accessed through the following 
link https://religare.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/
Religare_Whistle_Blower_Policy_Nov112022.pdf .
	
	
It is hereby confirmed that during the year under review, 
no personnel has been denied access to the Audit 
Committee.
100
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
(viii)	CEO/ CFO Certification
	
	
The certificate duly signed by the Executive Chairperson 
and Group CFO confirming compliance of Part B of 
Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations was placed 
before the Board at its meeting and the same is annexed 
and forms part of this Annual Report.
	
(ix)	 Code of Conduct
	
	
In compliance with Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Company 
has 
formulated 
and 
adopted a Code of Conduct applicable to the Board 
Members as well as the Senior Management Personnel 
and the same has been placed on the web-site of 
the 
Company 
i.e. 
https://religare.com/wp-content/
uploads/code-of-conduct/Code_of_Conduct_for_
BoardMembers150223.pdf and https://religare.com/
wp-content/uploads/code-of-conduct/Code_of%20
Conduct_for_Senior_Management_Personnel.pdf 
respectively.
	
	
The Code of Conduct inter-alia includes the duties of 
the Independent Directors as prescribed under the Act. 
All the Board Members and the Senior Management 
Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance 
with the Code of Conduct as on March 31, 2024.
	
	
A declaration to this effect, duly signed by Executive 
Chairperson, is annexed and forms part of this Annual 
Report.
	
(x)	 Procedures for fair disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information and Prevention of 
Insider Trading
	
	
The Company has adopted the Code of Practices and 
Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (“Fair Disclosure Code”) and 
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading 
(“Insider Code”) with a view to deal with Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information and trading in securities by 
Directors, Employees of the Company / Designated 
Persons and Connected Persons. The Company 
Secretary is Compliance Officer for the purpose of 
Insider Code.
	
	
Mr. Pratul Gupta, Director & Head – Strategy, M&A and 
Investor Relations, is the Chief Investor Relations Officer 
for the purpose of the Fair Disclosure Code. Both the Fair 
Practice Code and Insider Code have been posted on 
the website of the Company on the following link https://
religare.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Code_of_
Practices_and_Procedures_for_Fair_Disclosure_of_
Price_Sensitive_15092020.pdf 
and 
https://religare.
com/wp-content/uploads/code-of-conduct/Code_of_
Conduct_for_Prevention_of_Insider_Trading_Feb_22.
pdf.
	
(xi)	 Risk Management Framework
	
	
The Company has in place a mechanism to inform 
the Board members about the Risk assessment and 
mitigation plans and periodical reviews through Group 
Risk Management Committee to ensure that critical 
risks are controlled by the management. The details of 
the Group Risk Management Committee are provided 
elsewhere in this Report and details of Risk Management 
Framework are provided in the Director’s Report.
	
(xii)	 Compliance 
with 
Corporate 
Governance 
Requirements
	
	
During the financial year 2023-24, the Company has 
complied with Corporate Governance requirements 
specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) & (t) 
of Sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
	
(xiii)	Dividend Distribution Policy:
	
	
The Company had adopted a Dividend Policy on 
October 26, 2016 which defines the financial parameters 
and factors that to be considered for declaration and 
payment of dividend to its shareholders. The declaration 
and distribution of dividends, whether interim or final, 
will at all times, be in accordance with the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations, such other applicable laws and 
Article of Association of the Company as amended.
	
	
The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is 
posted on the website of the Company i.e. https://
religare.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Religare_
Dividend_Distribution_Policy_2024.pdf .
	
	
Further, RBI vide its letter dated April 5, 2019 has advised 
the Company to stop paying dividends till further orders 
from the RBI and continues to barred so as per RBI Letter 
dated December 19, 2019. No further order has been 
passed by RBI in the matter till the date of this Report.
	
(xiv)	Details of utilisation of fund raised through 
Preferential Allotment
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company 
has not made any preferential allotment or private 
placement of shares or convertible securities and hence 
no funds are pending for utilisation as on March 31, 
2024.
	
(xv)	 Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (“BRSR”)
	
	
Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations mandates 
the inclusion of the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report as part of the Annual Report for the 
top 1000 listed entities based on market capitalization 
as at the end of immediate previous financial year.
101
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Accordingly, Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report for the FY 2023-24 of the Company forms part of 
this Annual Report.
	
(xvi)	There was no instance during financial year 2023-24 
when the Board had not accepted any recommendation 
of any Committee of the Board.
H.	 SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
	
In terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
read with the Policy on Subsidiaries of the Company, following 
are the material subsidiary(ies) of the Company, for the 
financial 2023-24:
•	
Care Health Insurance Limited (formerly known as Religare 
Health Insurance Company Limited),
•	
Religare Finvest Limited,
•	
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 
and
•	
Religare Broking Limited
	
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiaries in terms of SEBI Listing Regulations and such 
policy is uploaded on the Company’s website and can be 
accessed through the following link https://religare.com/
wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Religare-Subsidaries-Policy_
Aug-12-2021.pdf.
	
Details of Material Subsidiary(ies):
Name of 
Material 
Subsidiary
Care Health Insurance 
Limited (CHIL)
Religare Finvest Limited 
(RFL)
Religare Housing 
Development Finance 
Corporation Limited 
(RHDFCL)
Religare Broking Limited 
(RBL)
Date of 
Incorporation
02-04-2007
06-01-1995
30-06-1993
20-07-2016
Place of 
Incorporation
Delhi
Delhi
Delhi
Mumbai
Registered 
Office
5th 
Floor, 
19 
Chawla 
House, Nehru Place, New 
Delhi-110019
1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv 
Tower, 43, Nehru Place, 
South 
Delhi, 
New 
Delhi-110019
1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv 
Tower, 43, Nehru Place, 
South 
Delhi, 
New 
Delhi-110019
2nd Floor, P-14, 45/90, P-Block, 
Connaught Place, New Delhi 
110001
Name of 
Statutory 
Auditor(s)
1. M/s S. P. Chopra & Co.
2. M/s Nangia & Co. LLP
M/s S.N. Dhawan & Co. 
LLP
M/s S S Kothari Mehta & 
Co. LLP (Formerly known 
as S S Kothari Mehta and 
Company)
 M/s S. P. Chopra & Co.
Date of 
appointment 
of Statutory 
Auditor(s)
1. September 19, 2022 
(re-appointed)
2. September 19, 2022
September 28, 2021
Originally appointed on 
September 28, 2017
and 
reappointed 
on 
September 21, 2022
September 21, 2022
Other details
CHIL 
is 
registered 
as 
Health 
Insurance 
Company with Insurance 
Regulatory 
and 
Development Authority of 
India
RFL 
is 
non-Banking 
Financial 
Company 
registered with Reserve 
Bank of India
RHDFCL is registered as 
housing finance Company 
with 
National 
Housing 
Bank.
RBL 
is 
member 
of 
BSE 
NSE MSE, MCX/MCX CCL, 
NCDEX/NCCL and Depository 
participant with NSDL and 
CDSL. It is also registered as 
corporate agent with IRDAI 
and AMFI registered mutual 
fund distributor. It is also 
registered with PFRDA as 
POP to register applicants 
under NPS. Also provides 
TIN facilitation, PAN related 
services. Further, RBL is also 
a SEBI registered Registrar & 
Transfer Agent (RTA).
102
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
As a holding company, the performance of subsidiaries is 
monitored by the following means:
	
•	
The Audit committee / Board of the Company quarterly 
reviews the financial statements of the unlisted subsidiary 
companies, in particular the investments made by these 
companies.
	
•	
Minutes of Board meetings of the unlisted subsidiary 
companies are placed before the Board meetings of the 
Company periodically.
	
•	
A statement containing all significant transactions and 
arrangements entered into by the unlisted subsidiary 
companies is placed at the Board meetings of the 
Company periodically.
	
•	
Secretarial audit is carried out for all material unlisted 
Indian subsidiaries of the Company by Company 
Secretary in whole time practice. Further, the Secretarial 
Audit Report of all material unlisted Indian subsidiaries 
forms part of the Annual report.
	
	
I.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
	
	
In accordance to Regulation 46 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Company 
has 
maintained 
a functional website at https://religare.com/. 
The Company’s quarterly and year to date 
(un-audited), and annual financial results (audited) 
are submitted to the Stock Exchanges immediately 
after these are approved by the Board in 
accordance with the requirements of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Annual Report of the 
Company and the quarterly/annual financial results 
of the Company are also placed on the Company’s 
website and can be accessed from the link https://
religare.com/annual-reports/ and https://religare.
com/quarterly-annual-results/ and can further be 
downloaded. These financial results are generally 
published in one of the leading newspapers 
of the country i.e. Financial Express in English 
and Jansatta in Hindi and are displayed on the 
website of the Company i.e. https://religare.com/
newspaper-advertisements/. Further, the Company 
also publishes the other important notices / 
information in Financial Express (All Edition) 
English newspaper and Jansatta (Delhi Edition) in 
Hindi newspaper, having wide circulation besides 
uploading the same on the website of the Company 
from time to time.
	
	
	
Official news releases and official press releases 
are sent to NSE and BSE before sending the same 
to media and are also displayed on the Company’s 
website i.e. https://religare.com/stock-exchange-
announcements/.
	
	
	
There is a separate dedicated section titled 
“Disclosures under Regulation 46 of the SEBI LODR 
2015” under ‘’Investor” Tab on the Company’s 
website i.e. https://religare.com/ which gives 
information on unclaimed dividends, quarterly 
compliance reports / communications with the 
Stock Exchanges and other relevant information of 
interest to the investors / public. The presentations 
made to the Investors are available on the website.
	
	
	
All the corporate communication to the Stock 
Exchanges viz. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited are filed electronically 
on BSE’s on-line portal i.e. BSE Listing Centre. 
Likewise, the said information is also filed 
electronically with NSE through NSE’s NSE 
Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) 
portal. The Stock Exchange filings are also 
made available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed at https://religare.com/
stock-exchange-announcements/.
	
	
	
Shareholder Grievances Redressal Mechanism
	
	
	
The Company has designated an e-mail ID called 
investorservices@religare.com 
exclusively 
for 
redressal of Shareholders/Investors complaints 
/ grievances. Shareholders may also contact 
Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent, KFin 
Technologies Limited (formerly known as KFin 
Technologies Private Limited) to report any 
grievance. Contact details of the RTA are available 
in the “Investor Contact” section available at https://
religare.com/investor-contacts/.
	
	
	
Further, SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/
IGRD/CIR/P/2023/156 
dated 
September 
20, 
2023 read with Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/ 
CIR/P/2023/183 dated December 1, 2023 has 
notified the revised framework for handling 
and monitoring of investor complaints received 
through SCORES platform by the Company and 
designated Stock Exchanges w.e.f April 1, 2024. 
The shareholders can access the new version of 
SCORES 2.0 at https://scores.sebi.gov.in.
	
	
	
Online Dispute Resolution Portal
	
	
	
SEBI has issued Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/
OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 dated July 31, 2023 
(updated as on December 28, 2023) for online 
resolution of disputes in the Indian securities 
market. Vide same, SEBI has established a 
common Online Dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR 
Portal”) which harnesses online conciliation and 
online arbitration for resolution of disputes arising 
in the Indian securities market.
103
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
	
Pursuant 
to 
above-mentioned 
circular, 
post 
exhausting the option to resolve their grievances 
with the RTA/ Company directly and through 
existing SCORES platform, the investors can initiate 
dispute resolution through the ODR Portal (https://
smartodr.in/login). The link of the ODR portal has 
been provided by the Company on its corporate 
website https://religare.com/# under the Investor 
section.
	
	
	
The aforesaid Circular issued by SEBI in this regard 
can be accessed on the Company’s website at 
https://religare.com/.
	
	
J.	
GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION
	
	
(i) 	
Annual General Meeting
	
	
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide its General 
Circular 
No.20/2020 
dated 
5th 
May 
2020 
read with General Circular No.14/2020 dated 
8th April 2020, General Circular No.17/2020 
dated 13th April 2020 and General Circular No. 
09/2024 dated 19th September 2024 has allowed 
companies to conduct their Annual General 
Meetings through video conference/other audio 
visual (VC/OAVM) means till September 30, 2025, 
without physical presence of shareholders at a 
common venue subject to fulfilment of certain 
pre-requisite conditions.
	
	
	
Accordingly, in terms of the above MCA Circulars, it 
has been decided by the Company to hold its 40th 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) through VC/OAVM 
as per the details mentioned hereunder:
	
	
	
Date		
:	
Tuesday, December 31, 2024
	
	
	
Time		
:	
11:30 A.M (IST)
	
	
	
Venue	
:	
Deemed venue at registered 
office of the Company at 1407, 
14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, 
Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
	
	
(ii) 	 Financial Calendar (tentative)
	
	
	
The financial year covers the period starting from 
1st April and ending on 31st March.
	
	
	
Adoption of Quarterly Results
	
	
	
For the Quarter ended on or before (actual & 
tentative for future quarters)
June 30, 2024
August 13, 2024 (Subject to 
Limited Review)
September 30, 
2024
November 12, 2024 (Subject 
to Limited Review)
December 31, 
2024
February 14, 2025 (Subject to 
Limited Review)
March 31, 2025
 May 30, 2025 (Audited)
	
	
(iii)	 Dividend Payment Date
	
	
	
The Company has not recommended/ paid any 
dividend for the period under review.
	
	
(iv) 	 Listing on Stock Exchanges
	
	
	
Equity Shares of the Company are currently listed 
on the following Stock Exchanges:
	
	
I.	
BSE Limited (BSE)
	
	
	
Address:	 Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal 
Street,Mumbai 400 001;
	
	
II.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE)
	
	
	
Address: “Exchange Plaza” C-1, Block G, Bandra 
Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
	
	
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) are 
the depositories for the equity shares of the Company.
	
	
The Annual Listing Fees for the financial year 2024-25 
have been paid by the Company to both NSE and BSE 
where the Company’s equity shares are listed. The equity 
shares of the Company have not been suspended from 
trading on the Stock Exchanges or by any Regulatory/
Statutory Authority.
	
	
Payment of Depository Fees
	
	
Annual Custody/Issuer fee for the year 2024-25 has 
been paid by the Company to CDSL and NSDL.
	
	
(v)	
Scrip Symbol / Code
	
	
	
NSE	 	
RELIGARE
	
	
	
BSE	 	
532915
	
	
	
Corporate Identification Number (CIN)	
	
	
	
	
	
L74899DL1984PLC146935
104
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
(vi)	 Market Price Data
In INR
Month
Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE)
National Stock Exchange (NSE)
High
Low
Volume
( Number of 
Shares)
High
Low
Volume
( Number of 
Shares)
April 2023
162.10
143.00
8,09,243
162.00
142.95
1,32,98,829
May 2023
176.55
158.10
18,21,498
176.50
158.40
1,86,01,875
June 2023
185.20
160.30
9,56,428
185.15
161.75
2,19,80,473
July 2023
181.50
160.20
21,07,055
181.40
162.80
1,32,24,558
August 2023
243.60
170.30
2,88,31,354
243.65
170.60
6,11,54,241
September 2023
280.30
223.45
25,02,262
280.60
223.35
4,32,63,832
October 2023
245.80
224.95
11,12,631
245.50
225.10
2,52,67,851
November 2023
235.95
210.70
16,28,519
233.95
210.60
3,75,60,854
December 2023
230.00
209.00
11,46,678
230.15
208.65
1,81,01,229
January 2024
246.15
206.65
81,17,923
246.30
206.50
8,30,52,463
February 2024
245.80
224.65
22,83,719
245.95
224.45
3,49,12,196
March 2024
239.95
208.15
8,10,618
240.95
208.40
2,06,65,374
 
20.00
70.00
120.00
170.00
220.00
270.00
320.00
30000.0
40000.0
50000.0
60000.0
70000.0
80000.0
REL SCRIP (in ₹)
BSE SENSEX
MONTH
COMPARATIVE CHART OF RELIGARE ENTERPRISES LIMITED 
SCRIP WITH BSE SENSEX
BSE SENSEX
REL SCRIP (in ₹)
105
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
(vii)	 Registrar & Transfer Agent (RTA)
	
	
	
KFin Technologies Limited (KFINTECH) (formerly 
known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
	
	
	
Address: 	 Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally 
Hyderabad Rangareddi, Telengana - 
500032
	
	
	
Telephone:Toll free number - 1800-309-4001
	
	
	
Email: 	
einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
	
Website: 	 https://www.kfintech.com
	
	
(viii)	 Share Transfer System
	
	
	
The Company has appointed KFin Technologies 
Limited (formerly known as KFin Technologies 
Private Limited) (“KFINTECH”) as the Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent. The Company’s Equity share 
being in compulsory Demat list, are transferable 
through the depository system. The Board has 
delegated its authority for approving transfer, 
transmission and so on of the Company’s securities 
to the Stakeholders Relationship Committee. 
The share transfer process is reviewed by the said 
Committee.
	
	
	
Further, SEBI vide its circulars, has mandated to 
submit the PAN and Bank Account details by all 
shareholders to the Registrar and Transfer Agent of 
the Company. In this regard, the Company, through 
its Registrar and Transfer Agent has already sent 
three notices to the shareholders for submission of 
their PAN and Bank Account details for registration 
/ updation.
	
	
	
SEBI further vide its Master Circular dated May 17, 
2023 read with circular dated November 17, 2023 
has also provided for mandatory furnishing of 
PAN, KYC details, nomination, contact details, 
Bank A/c details and specimen signature for 
their corresponding folio numbers by the holders 
of physical securities. Any payment including 
dividend, interest or redemption payment shall be 
made only electronically upon complying with the 
aforesaid requirements of submission of PAN and 
other KYC details.
	
	
	
For updating the KYC including other details, 
shareholders are requested to submit the 
aforesaid requisite information/documents at the 
earliest with the RTA of the Company. The relevant 
documents for same may be accessed from 
the Company’s website at: https://religare.com/
investor-information/.
	
	
	
The Company has disseminated the required 
information, process and forms to be submitted 
by the shareholders in that regard on the 
website of the Company at https://religare.com/
investor-information/. Further, the Company has 
already issued communication to all shareholders 
holding securities in physical form and whose 
folios are incomplete indicating the process and 
documentation required for updation of their 
 
80.00
120.00
160.00
200.00
240.00
280.00
320.00
14500.00
15500.00
16500.00
17500.00
18500.00
19500.00
20500.00
21500.00
22500.00
23500.00
NSE NIFTY
Month
COMPARATIVE CHART OF RELIGARE ENTERPRISES LIMITED SCRIP 
WITH NSE NIFTY
NIFTY
REL Scrip (in ₹)
106
Annual Report 2023-2024
KYC, details of bank account, demat account and 
nomination with the RTA.
	
	
	
Vide circular dated November 17, 2023, SEBI has 
done away with the requirements of freezing of 
folio and referral of the frozen folio to administering 
authority 
under 
the 
Benami 
Transactions 
(Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and/or Prevention of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002. SEBI has also 
released FAQs in respect of various service 
request including the payment of dividend.
	
	
	
Pursuant to Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations as amended from time to time, 
securities of listed companies can be transferred 
only in dematerialized form. Further, SEBI vide its 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/ 
CIR/2022/8 dated 25th January 2022, has 
mandated listed companies to issue securities 
in dematerialized form while processing service 
request for issue of duplicate securities certificate / 
claim from unclaimed suspense account/ renewal/ 
exchange/ endorsement/ subdivision/ splitting/ 
consolidation/ 
transmission/ 
transposition 
of 
securities etc. Therefore, to avail various benefits 
of dematerialization and to eliminate the risks 
associated with physical shares, the shareholders 
are advised to dematerialise their physical shares. 
They are requested to get in touch with any 
Depository Participant having registration with SEBI 
to open a Demat account or alternatively, contact 
the nearest branch of KFin to seek guidance on 
the demat procedure. Members may also visit the 
website of depositories viz. NDSL: https://nsdl.
co.in/ faqs/faq.php or CDSL: https://www.cdslindia. 
com/investors/open-demat.html 
for 
further 
understanding the demat procedure.
	
	
	
As per the provisions of section 72 of the Act, facility 
for making nomination is available for Members in 
respect of shares held by them. Members holding 
shares in physical form may submit the prescribed 
Form SH-13 and any change or variation in the 
nomination in prescribed form SH-14 or Form 
ISR-3. Form SH-13 and SH-14 may be downloaded 
from the website of the Company https://religare.
com/investor-documents/. 
Members 
holding 
shares in dematerialized form should contact their 
Depository Participants (DP) in this regard.
	
	
	
The Company has obtained a certificate of 
compliance related to the share transfer formalities 
from a Company Secretary in whole-time practice 
as required under Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and filed a copy of the certificate 
simultaneously with the Stock Exchanges under 
Regulation 40(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
during the FY 2023-24.
	
	
(ix)	 Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2024
Category
No. of Shares held
Percentage of 
Shareholding (%)
(A)
Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group1 (Note 1)
1
Indian
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
2
Foreign
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Total Shareholding of Promoter and Promoter Group
(B)
Public Shareholding2
1
Institutions (Domestic)
Mutual Funds
1,62,27,720
4.92
Venture Capital Funds
0
0.00
Alternate Investment Funds
78,41,963
2.38
Banks
0
0.00
Insurance Companies
28,77,803
0.87
Provident Funds/Pension Funds
0
0.00
Asset Reconstruction Companies
0
0.00
Sovereign Wealth Funds
0
0.00
NBFC Registered with RBI
84,875
0.03
Any other
0
0.00
107
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Category
No. of Shares held
Percentage of 
Shareholding (%)
2
Institutions (Foreign)
Foreign Direct Investment
0
0.00
Foreign Venture Capital
0
0.00
Sovereign Wealth Funds
0
0.00
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category I
2,19,91,030
6.67
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category II
40,81,455
1.24
Overseas Depositories (holding DRs) (balancing figure)
0
0.00
Any Other
0
0.00
3
Central Government/State Government(s)/President of India
0
0.00
Central Government / President of India
0
0.00
State Government / Governor
0
0.00
Shareholding by Companies or Bodies Corporate where Central / State 
Government is a promoter
0
0.00
4
Non-Institutions
Associate companies / Subsidiaries
0
0.00
Directors and their relatives (excluding independent directors and 
nominee directors)
26,66,386
0.81
Key Managerial Personnel
2,73,356
0.08
Relatives of promoters (other than ‘immediate relatives’ of promoters 
disclosed under ‘Promoter and Promoter Group’ category)
0
0.00
Trusts where any person belonging to ‘Promoter and Promoter Group’ 
category is ‘trustee’, ‘beneficiary’, or ‘author of the trust’
0
0.00
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
0
0.00
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital up to ` 2 Lakhs
3,19,33,953
9.69
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital in excess of ` 2 Lakhs
5,93,32,999
17.99
Non Resident Indians (NRIs)
71,32,668
2.16
Foreign Nationals
0
0.00
Foreign Companies
0
0.00
Bodies Corporate
17,10,87,124
51.89
5
Any other
Clearing Members
3,836
0.00
HUF
41,10,534
1.25
Trusts
75,461
0.02
Total Public Shareholding
32,97,21,163
100.00
(C)
Shares held by Custodians and against which Depository Receipts 
have been issued
0
0
1
Promoter and Promoter Group
0
0
2
Public
0
0
TOTAL (A) + (B) + (C)
32,97,21,163
100.00
	
	
	
1For definitions of “Promoter” and “Promoter Group” refer to Regulation 2(w) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
	
	
2For definition of “Public Shareholding”, refer to Regulation 2(y) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
108
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
	
Note 1:
	
	
	
The Company has now become a “Listed 
entity with no Promoters” pursuant to the 
Re-classification of Promoters / Promoters Group 
into Public shareholders as approved by NSE and 
BSE in June 2021.
	
	
	
Voting Rights accrued on the Preference 
Share Capital
	
	
	
The Company has two types of Preference 
shares outstanding as on date comprising 15 lakh 
13.66% Cumulative Non-Convertible Redeemable 
Preference Shares of ` 10/- each issued in 2008 
(2008 Preference Shares) and 2.5 Crore 0.01% 
Non-Cumulative 
Non-Convertible 
Redeemable 
Preference Shares of ` 10/- each issued in 2016 
(2016 Preference Shares). Due to non-payment 
of dividend by the Company continuously for two 
years on 2016 Preference Shares, voting rights 
triggered on these Preference Shares in terms of 
relevant provisions of the Act.
	
	
	
However, the Company has filed petition before 
the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, 
New Delhi Bench on June 14, 2019 seeking 
rectification of Register of Members of the 
Company by cancellation of 2016 Preference 
Shares and any other appropriate reliefs, including 
interim relief with respect to freezing of voting 
rights and dividend rights attached to the said 
2016 Preference Shares. In the matter, the Hon’ble 
NCLT on September 29, 2021 directed ordering 
the status quo on the respondents to restrain 
them from exercising their voting power with the 
resolution until the further order. Further, vide 
order dated December 16, 2021, it was affirmed 
by Hon’ble Tribunal that interim order will continue. 
The matter is currently sub-judice.
	
	
	
The said application / petition were filed by the 
Company basis certain facts discovered by the new 
Management relating to irregularity / illegality in 
issuance of said Preference Shares. The Company 
has also made a complaint with the Economic 
Offences Wing of the Delhi Police in March 2019 
against Promoters and others for various offences 
under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 including the 
offences of cheating, criminal breach of trust, 
criminal misappropriation, forgery, forgery for the 
purposes of cheating and criminal conspiracy w.r.t 
transactions relating to issuance and redemption 
of Preference Shares in the Company.
	
	
	
Voting Rights restricted on the Equity Share 
Capital
	
	
	
The Company is currently under the mandatory 
open offer period due to the public announcement 
dated September 25, 2023 in relation to an open 
offer made to the public shareholders of the 
Company on behalf of M.B. Finmart Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 1”), Puran Associates Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited 
(“Acquirer 3”), and Milky Investment & Trading 
Company (“Acquirer 4”) (hereinafter “Acquirers”) 
for acquisition of upto 90,042,541 fully paid-up 
equity shares of face value of ` 10 each (“Equity 
Shares”) from the Public Shareholders of the 
Company, representing 26.00 % of the Expanded 
Voting Share Capital, at a price of ` 235.00 per 
Equity Share aggregating to total consideration of 
up to ` 21,159,997,135/- payable in cash under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011 (“SAST Regulations”).
	
	
	
In this regard, 1,32,00,000 equity shares acquired 
by three shareholders i.e Acquirer 1, Acquirer 2 & 
Acquirer 3 (holding 44,00,000 equity shares each) 
in January 2024 are being held in the escrow 
account and they shall not exercise the voting 
rights over such shares till the currency of open 
offer period under the SAST Regulations.
	
	
	
List of Public Shareholders holding more than 1% shareholding of the Company as on March 31, 2024
S. 
NO
NAME OF SHAREHOLDER
NUMBER OF EQUITY 
SHARE HELD
% OF TOTAL EQUITY 
SHARE CAPITAL
1
Puran Associates Private Limited*
3,07,31,432
9.32
2
VIC Enterprises Private Limited*
2,46,06,021
7.46
3
Plutus Wealth Management LLP
2,00,00,000
6.07
4
M.B. Finmart Private Limited*
1,81,02,636
5.49
5
Motilal Oswal Nifty Microcap 250 Index Fund
1,62,25,597
4.92
6
Chandrakanta
1,57,19,304
4.77
109
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
S. 
NO
NAME OF SHAREHOLDER
NUMBER OF EQUITY 
SHARE HELD
% OF TOTAL EQUITY 
SHARE CAPITAL
7
Quick Trading and Investment Advisors LLP
1,13,43,320
3.44
8
Chirag Dilipkumar Lakhi
1,00,70,228
3.05
9
Milky Investment and Trading Company
95,30,705
2.89
10
Ashish Dhawan
76,05,608
2.31
11
Dilipkumar Lakhi
66,50,421
2.02
12
Ellipsis Partners LLC
65,74,331
1.99
13
Girdharilal V Lakhi
62,40,321
1.89
14
Rajasthan Global Securities Private Limited
50,11,908
1.52
15
ELM Park Fund Limited
49,00,000
1.49
16
HN International Investments LLC
37,37,742
1.13
	
	
	
* As detailed in the para above, 1,32,00,000 equity shares acquired by the three shareholders i.e M.B. Finmart Private Limited, Puran Associates 
Private Limited, and VIC Enterprises Private Limited (forming part of the Acquirers under the open offer) (holding 44,00,000 equity shares each) in 
January 2024 are being held in the escrow account and they shall not exercise the voting rights over such shares till the currency of open offer period 
under the SAST Regulations.
	
	
(x)	
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2024
S. 
No
Category
No. of Cases
% of Cases
No. of Shares
% of Shares
1
1-5000
75,591
82.3952
67,08,486
2.03
2
5001- 10000
8,271
9.0155
60,84,769
1.85
3
10001- 20000
3,447
3.7573
50,85,224
1.54
4
20001- 30000
1,294
1.4105
32,92,310
1.00
5
30001- 40000
593
0.6464
21,17,725
0.64
6
40001- 50000
572
0.6235
26,93,112
0.82
7
50001- 100000
899
0.9799
67,51,427
2.05
8
100001 & Above
1,075
1.1718
29,69,88,110
90.07
Total:
91,742
100.00 32,97,21,163
100.00
	
	
(xi) 	 Dematerialization of Shares and Liquidity
	
	
	
The Company’s Equity Shares are in compulsory 
demat segment and are available for trading 
under dematerialized form with both National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). As on 
March 31, 2024, 32,97,13,609 Equity Shares of the 
Company, forming 99.99% of the total issued and 
paid up Equity Share Capital of the Company, were 
in dematerialized form. During the FY 2024, 1,242 
shares were dematerialized by the shareholders.
	
	
	
The ISIN allotted to Equity Shares of the Company 
is INE621H01010 (with NSDL and CDSL).
	
	
(xii) 	Outstanding Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) 
/ American Depository Receipts (ADRs) / 
Warrants or any other Convertible instruments, 
conversion date and likely impact on equity
	
	
	
Details of outstanding Stock Options have been 
uploaded on the website of the Company and same 
can be accessed through following web link https://
religare.com/employee-stock-option-schemes/.
	
	
	
Other than above, the Company has no 
outstanding ADR/GDR, options or rights to convert 	
debentures, loans or other instruments into the 
Equity Shares as on March 31, 2024.
	
	
(xiii)	Plant Locations:	
Not Applicable.
	
	
(xiv)	 Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk 
and hedging activities:
	
	
	
The Company does not deal in any hedging 
activities relating to commodity or foreign 
exchange and hence is not directly exposed to any 
foreign exchange fluctuation or commodity price 
risk.
110
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
	
(xv)	 Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid amounts to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
	
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 and 
Section 125 of the Act and pursuant to the 
provisions of Investor Education and Protection 
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016, dividend, if not claimed for 
a consecutive period of 7 years from the date of 
transfer to the Unpaid Dividend Account of the 
Company, is liable to be transferred to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). There is no 
amount which is required to be transferred by the 
Company to IEPF.
	
	
(xvi)	 Address 
for 
Correspondence 
with 
the 
Company
	
	
i.	
Details of Compliance Officer
	
	
	
Ms. Reena Jayara
	
	
	
Company Secretary
	
	
	
Regd. Office: 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower,
	
	
	
43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
	
	
	
E-mail: investorservices@religare.com
	
	
ii.	
For Securities held in Physical form
	
	
	
KFin Technologies Limited (Registrar & Share 
Transfer 
Agent) 
(formerly 
known 
as 
KFin 
Technologies Private Limited )
	
	
	
Address: 	 Selenium Tower B,
 	
	
	
Plot 31-32, Financial District,
 	
	
	
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Hyderabad 
Rangareddi, Telengana - 500032
	
	
	
Telephone: Toll free number - 1800-309-4001
 	
	
	
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
	
Website: https://www.kfintech.com
	
	
iii.	
For Securities held in Demat form
	
	
	
To the Investors’ Depository Participant (s) and/or 
KFin Technologies Limited
	
	
iv.	
For retail investors
	
	
	
E-mail: investorservices@religare.com and / or 
einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
v.	
For institutional investors’ / analysts’ queries
	
	
	
E-mail: investorrelations@religare.com
	
	
(xvii) Credit Rating and Change /Revision in Credit 
Rating of the Company during the Financial 
Year 2023-24
	
	
	
The Company did not have any credit rating during 
the FY 2023-24.
	
	
(xviii) Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013
	
	
	
As per the requirement of the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Rules made 
thereunder, the details of the cases reported 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 are mentioned 
hereunder:
Particulars
Financial Year 
2023-24
Number of complaints in the 
beginning of the F.Y.
Nil
Number of complaints reported 
during the F.Y.
Nil
Number of complaints 
disposed during the F.Y.
Nil
Number of complaints 
remaining unresolved/pending 
as at the end of F.Y.
Nil
	
	
(xix)	 Disclosure by Listed Entity and its subsidiaries 
of “Loan and advances in the nature of Loans 
to Firms/Companies in which Directors are 
interested
	
	
	
There were no loans and advances by the 
Company or it’s subsidiaries in the nature of loans 
to firms / companies in which the Directors of the 
Company are interested.
	
	
(xx)	 Certificate 
from 
Company 
Secretary 
in 
Practice for Non-disqualification of Directors
	
	
	
Mr. Ankush Agarwal, (C.P. No. 14486), Partner 
of M/s. MAKS & Co, Company Secretaries, 
(FRN:  P2018UP067700) has issued a certificate 
as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
confirming that none of the Directors on the Board 
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as director 
of companies by the SEBI/Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority. The said 
Certificate forms part of this Annual Report.
	
	
(xxi)	 Total Fees for all Services paid by the 
Company and its Subsidiaries on consolidated 
basis to Statutory Auditors and all entities in 
the Network Firm/Network Entity of which the 
Statutory Auditor is a part
	
	
	
During the year under review the total fees for all 
services paid by the Company and its subsidiaries, 
on consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditors are 
as follows:
111
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Amount (`in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the Year ended 
31-Mar-24
For the Year ended 
31-Mar-23
As Auditor:
 Audit Fees
84.58
81.00
 Tax Audit Fees
6.26
5.50
In other Capacity:
-
 Fees For Other Services 
 (Primarily include certification services)
9.42
4.24
 For Reimbursement of Expenses
3.08
6.25
Total
103.34
96.99
	
	
(xxii)	Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding the Company as required to be disclosed under clause 5A of 
paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III read with regulation 30A of the Listing Regulations
	
	
	
The Company has not received any information on any agreement(s) subsisting as on 15th July 2023 or entered into after 
15th July 2023 till 31st March 2024 by the shareholders, related parties, directors, key managerial personnel, employees of 
the Company or of its subsidiary or associate company, among themselves or with the Company or with a third party, solely or 
jointly, directly or indirectly or potentially impacting the management or controlling the Company or imposing any restriction 
or creating any liability upon the Company.
112
Annual Report 2023-2024
CEO /CFO Certification
We, Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson and Nitin Aggarwal, Group CFO of Religare Enterprises Limited (the Company) hereby certify that:
A.	
We, have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2024 and that to the best of our 
knowledge and belief:
	
(1)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be 
misleading;
	
(2)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are fraudulent, 
illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We, accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems of the listed entity pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the auditors and 
the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we 
have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee that:
	
(1)	
there has not been any significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year under reference;
	
(2)	
there has not been any significant changes in accounting policies during the year under review; and
	
(3)	
there has not been any instances of significant fraud of which we had become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the 
management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
SD/-
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
(Executive Chairperson)
SD/-
Nitin Aggarwal
(Group CFO)
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
	
DECLARATION BY EXECUTIVE CHAIRPERSON
This is to certify that the Company has laid down a Code of Conduct (the Code) for all Board Members and Senior Management Personnel of 
the Company and a copy of the Code is uploaded on the website of the Company viz. www.religare.com.
It is further certified that the Directors and Senior Management have affirmed their compliance with the Code for the year ended 31st March, 
2024.
Sd/-
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
(Executive Chairperson)
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
113
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Governance Certificate
To
The Members
Religare Enterprises Limited
(CIN: L74899DL1984PLC146935)
1407, 14th Floor Chiranjiv Tower, 43,
Nehru Place, New Delhi -110019
1.	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by the Religare Enterprises Limited (“the Company”) for the 
year ended on March 31, 2024, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
and paragraph C, D and E of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”).
Management’s Responsibility
2.	
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. This responsibility includes the 
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure compliance with the conditions of the Corporate 
Governance stipulated under the provisions of the SEBI LODR Regulations.
Auditors’ Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance 
with the conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
4.	
We have examined the relevant records and documents maintained by the Company for the purposes of providing reasonable assurance 
on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company.
Opinion
5.	
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us and the 
representations provided by the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated under SEBI LODR Regulations during the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
6.	
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Date: July 31, 2024
Place: New Delhi
For DPV & Associates LLP
Company Secretaries
Firm Reg. No.: L2021DE009500
Peer Review Certificate No. 2792/2022
Sd/-
Devesh Kumar Vasisht
	
	
	
	
Managing Partner
CP No.:13700 / Mem. No. F8488
UDIN: F008488F000866611
114
Annual Report 2023-2024
Certificate Of Non-Disqualification Of Directors
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members,
Religare Enterprises Limited
Regd. Office: 1407, 14th Floor
Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place,
New Delhi – 110 019
[CIN: L74899DL1984PLC146935]
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Religare Enterprises Limited, 
having CIN: L74899DL1984PLC146935 and having registered office at 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110 
019, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate in accordance 
with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para C Clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Director Identification Number (DIN) status at 
the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we hereby certify that 
none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2024 have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority as applicable.
 S. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment
 1
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
08140223
28/05/2018
 2
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
01715298
20/12/2018
3
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
09032137
10/02/2021
4
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
02167497
22/12/2021
5
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
09185085
 29/12/2021
6
Ms. Preeti Madan
08384644
24/01/2023
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment and continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For M/s. MAKS & Co.,
Company Secretaries
[FRN P2018UP067700]
Sd/-
Ankush Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: F9719
Certificate of Practice No: 14486
Date: 02-07-2024 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 2064/2022
Place: Noida, U.P 
UDIN: F009719F000651241
.
115
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L74899DL1984PLC146935
2
Name of the Company
Religare Enterprises Limited (REL)
3
Year of Incorporation
1984 (30.01.1984)
4
Registered office address
1407,14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place,  
New Delhi-110019, India
5
Corporate office address
Plot No. A - 3,4 & 5, Club 125, Tower B, Sector 125, Noida, U.P. 
– 201301, India
6
E-mail id
investorservices@religare.com
7
Telephone
+91-11-4472-5676
8
Website
www.religare.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
Financial Year 2023-24 (1st April 2023 to 31st March 2024)
10 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE)
11 Paid-up capital
` 32,972.12 Lacs
12 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of 
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR report
Mr. Vinay Gupta 
Telephone: 011-4739 2500 
Email: corporateaffairs@religare.com
13 Reporting Boundary
Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis and relate 
only to the Company (REL)
14 Name of assurance provider
Not applicable since REL does not fall among the top 150 listed 
companies by market capitalisation as on March 31, 2024
15 Type of assurance obtained
II.	 Products/services	
16.	Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No
Description of main activity
Description of business activity
% Of turnover
1
Financial and Insurance Service
Other financial activities
47.62
2
Support Service to Organisations
Other support services to organisations
38.38
Note: Balance turnover is from unallocated segments.
17. Products/services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% Of total turnover contributed
1
Investment Activity
64200
47.62
2
Support Services
78300
38.38
Note: Balance turnover is from unallocated segments.
III.	 Operations	
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Nil
Delhi – 2 Noida – 1
3
International
Nil
Nil
Nil
19. Markets served by the entity
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of states)
NA*
International (No. of countries)
NA
*Throughout the report, NA stands for Not Applicable
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
116
Annual Report 2023-2024
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
As a Core Investment Company, REL does not engage in exports.
c.	
A brief on types of customers
REL, a Core Investment Company, provides a comprehensive range of financial services through its subsidiaries and operating entities. 
These services include loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, affordable housing finance, health insurance, retail broking and 
insurance web aggregation. 
REL’s subsidiaries serve a wide range of market segments, including mass retail, affluent individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs), and mid-sized corporations. REL, through its subsidiaries, serves a large customer base in various sectors. It has served over one 
million policyholders in the insurance business, more than one million broking customers, over 26,000 customers in MSME finance, and 
over 10,000 customers in affordable housing finance. The group has over 13,000 professionals serving a diverse customer base across 
India, with a presence in more than 1,000 locations. 
IV.	 Employees	
REL does not have any workers and differently abled employees. Hence the information pertaining to them will be appearing as Nil or 
Not Applicable in this Report.
20. Details as on March 31, 2024
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
35
25
71
10
29
2
Other than Permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Total employees (D+E)
35
25
71
10
29
WORKERS
1
Permanent (F)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
Other than Permanent (G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Total workers (F+G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
b.	
Differently abled employees and workers
The Company is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to employ talent based on meritocracy and does not discriminate on 
the grounds of race, caste, sexual orientation, disability, etc. amongst existing or potential employees. In pursuance of its commitment to 
be an equal opportunity employer, as of current fiscal year, the Company has no differently abled employees.
S. No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
Other than Permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Total differently abled employees (D+E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
1
Permanent (F)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
Other than Permanent (G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Total differently abled workers (F+G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
117
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
21.	Participation/inclusion/representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
6
2
33%
Key Management Personnel (other than Executive 
Director)
2
1
50%
22.	Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
During the fiscal year 2023-24, the overall attrition rate, which includes voluntary separation, termination and abandonment and 
retirement from services across employees stands at 20%.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
21%
20%
20%
33%
44%
36%
5%
22%
10%
Permanent Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
V.	 Holding, subsidiary and associate companies (including joint ventures) 
23.	a. Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures: 
S. 
No.
Name of Holding/Subsidiary/Associate 
Companies/Joint Venture (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% Of shares 
held by listed 
entity#
Does the entity indicated in 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Religare Finvest Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
2
Care Health Insurance Limited
Subsidiary
62.98%
No
3
Religare Broking Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
4
Religare Credit Advisor Private Limited
Subsidiary
99.99%
No
5
Religare Care Foundation
Subsidiary
96.94%
No
6
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
Subsidiary
87.50%
No
7
Religare Commodities Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
8
Religare Digital Solutions Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
9
*Religare Capital Markets Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
10
*Religare Capital Markets International (Mauritius) 
Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
11
*Religare Capital Markets (Europe) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
12
*Religare Capital Markets (UK) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
13
*Religare Capital Markets Corporate Finance 
Pte Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
14
*Religare Capital Markets (Hong Kong) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
15
*Tobler (UK) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
16
*Kyte Management Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
17
*Religare Capital Markets (Singapore) 
Pte Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
18
*Bartleet Wealth Management (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
50.00%
No
19
*Bartleet Asset Management (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
50.00%
No
20
*Strategic Research Limited
Subsidiary
50.00%
No
118
Annual Report 2023-2024
S. 
No.
Name of Holding/Subsidiary/Associate 
Companies/Joint Venture (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% Of shares 
held by listed 
entity#
Does the entity indicated in 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of listed entity? (Yes/No)
21
*Bartleet Religare Securities (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
50.00%
No
22
*Religare Capital Markets Inc.
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
23
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
24
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited
Joint Venture
50.00%
No
# Shares means equity shares 
* Though, the Company holds 100% equity share capital in Religare Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”), however in the present scenario controlling through voting rights 
of RCML is not there with the Company. Beside this, the tripartite agreement entered into, in financial year 2011-12, between REL, RCML and RHC Holding Private 
Limited (“RHCHPL”), an erstwhile promoter group company for providing financial support to RCML by RHCHPL (by subscribing preference Shares of RCML) severe 
long-term restrictions and significant restrictive covenants on major decision making at RCML were imposed by the holder of preference shares. Accordingly in view 
of the above, the financial statements of RCML and its subsidiaries have been excluded from the consolidated financial statements of the Company w.e.f. October 01, 
2011, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company has already provided fully for the entire investment made by it into RCML in previous years.
VI.	 CSR Details 
24 i.	Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Due to losses during the past three years, the 
Company was not required to spend money under CSR for financial year 2023-24 as prescribed under Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013
ii. Turnover (in `) 25,24,24,314.45
iii. Net worth (in `) 21,22,69,47,125.68
VII. 	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
25.	Complaints/grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place  
(Yes/No)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities
No
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investors (other 
than shareholders)
NA
NA
NA
-
NA
NA
-
Shareholders*
Yes 
investorservices@religare.
com
7
Nil
-
6
Nil
-
Employees and 
workers
Yes 
grievance@religare.com; 
rel.icc@religare.com
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Customers
NA
-
-
-
-
-
-
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes 
rel.ombudsperson@
religare.com
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other 
(Whistle-blower)
Yes 
rel.ombudsperson@
religare.com
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
*Institutional investors are included in Shareholders
119
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
26.	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity 
to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk, as per the following format: 
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of 
the 
risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
1
Resource 
Management 
O
By adopting responsible resource management 
practices, REL can conduct its activities in a 
manner that blends financial prosperity with 
environmental 
consciousness 
and 
social 
responsibility. Through careful management 
of resources like waste reduction, water 
conservation, and energy efficiency, the 
Company will not only cut costs significantly 
but also strengthen its business practices in a 
sustainable manner.
-
Positive:
By optimising resource usage, REL 
minimises waste disposal costs and 
conserves 
resources, 
resulting 
in 
long-term cost savings. In reducing its 
operational energy footprint, optimising 
consumption and managing resources 
responsibly, the Company not only 
induces cost savings but enhances its 
brand reputation. This in turn attracts 
environmentally conscious customers and 
investors, potentially increasing market 
share and profitability.
2
Branding and 
Reputation
O
Branding and reputation are key to REL and 
provide the Company an opportunity to enhance 
customer loyalty, build confidence in the market, 
and gain competitive edge for subsidiaries. 
As the Company focuses on improving its 
brand image, it will be able to further solidify its 
position as a sustainable organisation, drawing 
in the attention of investors, socially responsible 
customers (for Company subsidiaries) and ESG 
rating agencies.
-
Positive:
Good branding and reputation enable 
REL to enhance its market share and earn 
greater revenue. 
3
Diversity, 
Equity, and 
Inclusion (DEI)
O
It is pertinent for REL to tap into the vast 
potential of diversity and inclusion to improve 
its overall performance and boost innovation. 
A workforce that is socially, culturally and 
economically diverse not only aids with 
attracting and retaining talent but is also critical 
in enhancing brand reputation. By prioritising 
a diverse workforce, REL enhances its market 
outreach, 
connecting 
with 
more 
varied 
customer segments.
-
Positive:
DEI can help enhance REL’s performance 
through enhanced employee productivity, 
satisfaction 
and 
retention 
and 
an 
expanded market reach (due to a more 
diverse set of employees).
120
Annual Report 2023-2024
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of 
the 
risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
4
Human Capital 
Development
R/O
Risk:
Being in competitive financial services, human 
capital is the most valued asset for the Company. 
Hence, the challenge of attracting and retaining 
skilled employees is most pertinent for the 
continued growth and success of the Company. 
Opportunity:
Human Capital Development presents itself as 
an opportunity for REL since an investment of 
resources in this direction can further enhance 
employee productivity and efficiency.
Furthermore, a workforce that is consistently 
provided with the requisite trainings is bound 
to be more adaptable to changing business 
environment. This is critical with respect 
to employees being prepared to face any 
challenges in the future.
REL is committed to the 
continuous upskilling and 
re-skilling of its employees. 
Health and safety training 
is 
delivered 
through 
health 
and 
wellness 
webinars, 
featuring 
esteemed 
experts 
in 
their 
respective 
fields. 
Similarly, skill development 
training 
sessions 
are 
conducted 
regularly 
to 
ensure 
professional 
growth. 
The 
Company 
also conducts periodic 
performance 
reviews 
and feedback sessions 
to 
boost 
employee 
morale and enhance job 
satisfaction.
Negative:
Proactive talent management programs 
are 
crucial 
to 
lower 
recruitment 
and training costs. Appropriate skill 
development of the workforce is critical 
in minimising errors and associated costs. 
These measures collectively enhance 
REL’s operational efficiency.
Positive:
REL has the opportunity to enhance 
its efficiency through the retention of a 
highly skilled and experienced workforce 
leading to reduced cost. 
5
Financial 
Inclusion
O
Investment companies such as REL can 
bolster entrepreneurship, foster job growth, 
and 
stimulate 
economic 
advancement 
in 
marginalized 
communities 
through 
investments in financial inclusion endeavours. 
Such investments not only yield financial 
returns but also deliver substantial social 
benefits, meeting the rising desire for socially 
responsible investment options.
Underserved communities often exist in 
growing markets with promising prospects. 
Investing in financial inclusion prospects 
in these areas also opens new paths for 
growth and expands investment horizons 
geographically.
-
Positive:
Financial 
inclusion 
presents 
several 
opportunities 
before 
REL 
such 
as 
enhanced brand reputation and access 
to untapped markets which help diversify 
revenue streams.
121
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of 
the 
risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
6
Sustainable 
and 
Responsible 
Financing
O
By taking sustainability and ESG factors into 
account while making investment decisions, 
REL can generate extra revenue streams 
through 
innovative 
sustainable 
financial 
products offered through subsidiary entities. 
Furthermore, sustainable and responsible 
financing initiatives can improve transparency 
and accountability and strengthen relationships 
with all relevant stakeholders. This can help 
REL better assess and manage risks associated 
with ESG.
-
Positive:
REL 
can 
benefit 
immensely 
from 
sustainable and responsible financing 
since the consideration of ESG factors 
can optimise financing in companies with 
potential ESG risks. 
7
Regulatory 
Compliance 
and Risk 
Management
R/O
Risk:
Businesses must adhere to a diverse array of laws 
and regulations across local, national and global 
jurisdictions. Regulatory compliance aids REL in 
recognising, evaluating and mitigating an array 
of risks spanning legal, financial, operational, 
and reputational realms. Demonstrating a robust 
record of compliance can draw in investors and 
collaborators, fostering heightened confidence 
and allegiance.
Opportunity
Regulatory compliance and risk management 
builds trust with stakeholders. By adhering to 
regulations, REL is able to protect its reputation 
and financial stability. Moreover, proactive risk 
management enables the Company to identify 
potential threats and mitigate them before they 
escalate, ensuring operational continuity. 
REL 
has 
implemented 
adequate 
Internal 
Controls 
Systems 
to 
ensure 
adherence 
to 
applicable laws, rules and 
regulations, 
which 
are 
commensurate with the 
size, scale and complexity 
of 
its 
operations. 
Internal controls of the 
Company 
encompass 
documented 
policies, 
standard 
operating 
procedures, 
approval/
authorization 
matrix, 
circulars and risk & control 
matrices for ensuring the 
systematic and efficient 
conduct of its business 
& 
support 
functions, 
the safeguarding of its 
assets, 
the 
prevention 
and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy 
and 
completeness 
of 
the accounting records 
and 
timely 
preparation 
of 
reliable 
financial 
information 
for 
the 
stakeholders.
Negative:
By 
not 
complying 
with 
regulatory 
standards, 
REL 
may 
have 
to 
face 
expensive 
interruptions 
to 
business 
operations. Fines or penalties may also be 
levied on account of non-compliance.
Positive:
Adherence to regulations aids companies 
in avoiding penalties and maintaining a 
good standing with regulatory bodies, 
which further translates into financial 
savings. 
Additionally, 
effective 
risk 
management helps in identifying and 
mitigating potential threats, reducing 
the 
likelihood 
of 
disruptions 
and 
associated costs. 
These subsequently lead to enhanced 
reputation and access to capital.
122
Annual Report 2023-2024
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of 
the 
risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
8
Corporate 
Governance
R/O
Risk:
Compliance with ethical standards protects 
companies from legal sanctions, fines and 
penalties, as well as reputational damage, 
business interruptions, and a loss of trust. 
Opportunity:
Companies stand to benefit immensely from 
strong corporate governance since possessing 
robust governance frameworks exhibit superior 
management, transparency and resilience 
against mismanagement, thereby potentially 
increasing shareholder value and lowering 
investment risk.
A 
robust 
system 
for 
whistleblowing 
and 
addressing 
grievances 
has 
been 
established 
alongside 
creating 
awareness and imparting 
periodic 
trainings 
to 
internal stakeholders on 
ethical business practices.
Adequate 
internal 
controls are in place to 
ensure monitoring and 
adherence to applicable 
compliances. 
Negative:
Corporate governance is critical to 
efficient 
business 
functioning 
today. 
Non-compliances may lead to financial 
penalties, fines and reputational damage.
Positive:
Responsible 
corporate 
governance 
measures bolster investor confidence and 
trust, attracting a larger investor base and 
fostering long-term shareholder value. 
Additionally, robust corporate governance 
practices lead to better decision-making, 
strategic 
planning, 
and 
operational 
efficiency, ultimately driving improved 
financial performance.
9
Cybersecurity 
and Data 
Privacy
R
As a Company with multiple subsidiaries, it is 
pertinent for REL to protect employee and any 
other confidential data. Additionally, since the 
Company’s subsidiaries deal with customer/
client data, prioritising cybersecurity and data 
privacy aids REL to manage cyber risks and 
safeguard sensitive data.
REL 
has 
implemented 
robust information security 
systems and protocols to 
oversee the handling of 
sensitive customer data.
Employees 
are 
also 
educated 
on 
privacy 
policies and information 
security 
protocols 
governing 
the 
proper 
access, 
usage, 
and 
disclosure 
of 
personal 
data.
REL has also established 
an IT Strategy committee 
to 
oversee 
upgrades 
and strategic initiatives, 
besides 
periodically 
conducting 
information 
security audits.
Negative: 
Data breaches and cyber-attacks may 
result in substantial financial losses. 
These losses may include direct costs 
such as incident response, legal fees, 
regulatory fines, and compensation for 
affected parties. Indirect costs may also 
arise from reputational damage, loss of 
customer trust, and decreased market 
value.
123
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of 
the 
risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
10
Responsible 
Investment
R/O
Risk: 
Investing holds potential for growth and profit, 
yet it carries diverse risks that core investment 
firms such as REL must prudently address to 
safeguard their capital and attain investment 
goals. The outcomes of investments are 
unpredictable, 
with 
no 
assured 
returns. 
Economic downturns, disruptions in industries, 
or unforeseen occurrences can detrimentally 
affect 
investment 
values. 
Additionally, 
alterations in regulations might influence the 
profitability of specific investments or introduce 
new compliance obligations.
Opportunity:
REL can achieve substantial growth by selecting 
high-quality investments and managing risks 
effectively.
In navigating investment 
complexities, REL adopts 
a diversified approach. 
By spreading investments 
across 
various 
assets, 
REL 
mitigates 
risks 
associated 
with 
economic shifts, industry 
disruptions, or regulatory 
changes. 
This 
strategy 
ensures resilience in the 
face 
of 
uncertainties, 
safeguarding 
REL’s 
capital 
and 
investment 
objectives.
Negative:
Underperforming 
investments 
or 
losses 
can 
directly 
impact 
REL’s 
profitability, 
potentially 
eroding 
its 
reputation and undermining client trust. 
Regulatory violations can also tarnish 
REL’s 
reputation, 
eroding 
investor 
confidence and potentially leading to 
client withdrawals or reluctance to engage 
with the firm. Additionally, market volatility, 
currency fluctuations, and interest rate 
changes can compound the challenges 
of managing investments, making it more 
difficult for REL to achieve its financial 
objectives and maintain investor trust.
Positive:
By selecting high-quality investments and 
managing risks adeptly, REL can potentially 
increase profitability. Consistent positive 
returns can enhance REL’s reputation, 
attracting investors while retaining existing 
ones. Diversification across different asset 
classes and geographies can mitigate risks 
and contribute to more stable portfolio 
performance. Moreover, staying informed 
about market trends and innovative 
investment 
strategies 
can 
create 
opportunities for long-term growth.
124
Annual Report 2023-2024
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC 
Principles and Core Elements.
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
REL has instituted various policies to promote consistency and ensure compliance with laws and regulations. Although some of these policies 
are accessible on the website, REL ensures that all employees can access all policies and codes through the company’s internal portal.
Disclosure Question
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
POLICY AND MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/ 
policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
b. Has the policy been approved by 
the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
c. Web link of the policies, if available
The statutory Policies are available on Company's website i.e. https://religare.com/policies/ & 
https://religare.com/code-of-conduct/ . The policies that pertain to employees are internally 
available on the intranet HRMS portal.
2. Whether the entity has translated 
the policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to 
your value chain partners? (Yes/ No)
Yes. The Whistle-blower Policy covers the value chain which comprises the Company’s vendors 
and suppliers.
4. Name the national and international 
codes/ certifications/ labels/ standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
No codes or standards have been adopted. The formulation of all policies has been carefully 
done by considering industry best practises, following regulatory guidelines, and engaging in 
meaningful discussions with relevant stakeholders.
125
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Disclosure Question
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
5. Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any
REL has established plans to implement multiple short-term, medium-term and long-term 
objectives with a primary emphasis on sustainability.
•	
Focus on minimizing and mitigating emissions and continue reducing and managing waste 
efficiently to keep a check on environmental footprint.
•	
Conduct trainings for awareness and sensitization related to governance, social and 
environmental matters within the organization.
•	
Undertake CSR initiatives towards well-being of communities.
6. Performance of the entity against 
specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the 
same are not met.
REL remains committed to implement a sustainability strategy around governance, social & 
environment. The organisation is currently engaged in the following activities in order to fulfil its 
commitments.
•	
Reducing e-waste sent to landfill, reducing paper consumption and reducing plastic waste. 
•	
As part of our CSR programme, we focus on improving the conditions of underprivileged and 
marginalised communities
GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND OVERSIGHT
7. Statement by director responsible 
for the business responsibility report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed 
entity has flexibility regarding the 
placement of this disclosure).
Throughout the reporting period, REL has made notable progress in addressing these challenges. 
Efforts have focused on ensuring diversity and expertise, thereby strengthening governance 
practices and decision-making capabilities. The Company has also prioritized the incorporation 
of ESG factors into its business approach including subsidiaries.
REL has also strengthened governance practices and fostered sustainable growth across its 
diverse businesses, including health insurance, broking, MSME lending, affordable housing 
finance and insurance web aggregation. These initiatives underscore REL’s dedication to 
responsible business practices and ethical leadership.
Looking forward, REL is committed to advancing its journey towards long-term sustainability. 
The Company will uphold principles of transparency, accountability and innovation as it navigates 
challenges and seizes opportunities to enhance stakeholder value.
8. Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Business Responsibility practices of the Company.
Dr. Rashmi Saluja, Executive Chairperson is responsible for implementation of Business 
Responsibility Policies.
9. Does the entity have a specified 
committee of the board/ director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes/ No). 
If yes, provide details.
Yes, The Board of Directors have constituted Corporate Social Responsibility & ESG Committee 
for overseeing the development and implementation of ESG related issues.
126
Annual Report 2023-2024
10. Details of Review of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half yearly 
(H) / Quarterly (Q) / Any other – 
please specify
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7 P8
P9
Performance against above 
policies & follow up action
Director
Any other 
Committee
Director
Any other 
Committee
Any other – As and when need arises for 
the review
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to the principles, and 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
Director
Any other 
Committee
Director
Any other 
Committee
Any other – As and when need arises for 
the review
Note: The Company has implemented the necessary policies and procedures to ensure adherence to relevant laws that apply to the 
Company. These Policies are reviewed on a periodic basis and as and when need arises for the review. During the periodic Policy review, the 
efficacy of these policies is also reviewed, and necessary changes are made, as necessary.
11.	Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency. 
No, all policies and processes are subject to audits and reviews done internally in the Company from time to time as and when necessary.
12.	If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: 
All principles are covered under relevant policies. The Company has ensured that all the policies that have been formulated follow all 
applicable laws. These policies are reviewed by the Managing Directors/Whole-time Directors as and when necessary or whenever 
there is any amendment in any applicable law.
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the 
Principles material to its business 
(Yes/ No)
-
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Yes
The entity is not at a stage where 
it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The entity does not have the financial 
or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
It is planned to be done in the next 
financial year (Yes/No)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Any other reason (please specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The Company is a holding and 
investment company and is not 
involved in any manufacturing activity 
or services under the purview of BRSR
-
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The Company is a holding and 
investment company does not have 
any direct customers under the scope 
of the BRSR
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Yes
127
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes 
and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be 
disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to 
progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1- BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A 
MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:
The Company regularly conducts various training programs for all its employees at various levels. The detailed information on the 
number and type of trainings imparted is provided below in the standard format:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held*
Topics/ principles covered under the training 
audits impact
% Of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes*
Board of Directors
2
Workshops dedicated to the Company’s 
subsidiary 
businesses, 
Group 
Information 
Technology review, Regulatory compliance 
perspective, Fraud Prevention & Compliance 
and Financial Services Landscape in India were 
conducted during the FY 2023-2024.
70%
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) 3
POSH, KYC & AML and Info Sec
100%
Employees other than BoD 
and KMPs
3
POSH, KYC & AML and Info Sec
94%*
Workers
Nil
-
-
* One new joiner in the month of March completed his training after 31st March and one intercompany transfer case.
2.	 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following 
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
REL has not incurred any monetary fines or penalties during FY 2023-24.
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
-
-
-
-
Settlement
Nil
-
-
-
-
Compounding fee
Nil
-
-
-
-
Non-monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Amount 
(In `)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment 
Nil
-
-
-
Punishment
Nil
-
-
-
128
Annual Report 2023-2024
3.	 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal/revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Not applicable since REL has not incurred any monetary fines or penalties.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NA
NA
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
link to the policy.
Yes, REL upholds a Fraud Risk Management & Staff Accountability Policy to establish an internal control mechanism for reporting fraud 
cases. This policy broadly addresses issues such as misappropriation, criminal breach of trust, fraudulent encashment through forged 
instruments, manipulation of books of accounts, illegal gratification, negligence, and cash shortages, cheating and forgery, fraudulent 
submission of forged documents, and irregularities in foreign exchange transactions. The policy lays down guidelines for REL with 
respect to fraud risk control measures, reporting of any fraud events (internally, to the RBI and to the Board), periodic review of any 
fraudulent activity by the Board of Directors and disciplinary actions depending upon the nature and seriousness of a case. This policy 
is available internally to all employees.
5.	 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the 
charges of bribery/ corruption:
There have been no instances of disciplinary action taken against Directors, Key Management Personnel (KMP), or employees at REL 
regarding corruption and bribery.
 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	 Details of complaints about conflict of interest.
 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
 
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Not applicable
Nil
Not applicable
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
Not applicable
Nil
Not applicable
7.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/
law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
As there were no complaints against the Board of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, senior management, or other employees of the 
Company, no corrective actions were required in cases of corruption and conflict of interest.
8.	 Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
No. of days of accounts payables
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
101
197
129
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
9.	 Open-ness of business 
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and 
advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of 
Purchases*
a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases 
NA
NA
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
Concentration of 
sales*
a. Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
NA
NA
b. Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to dealers / 
distributors
Share of RPTs in
a. Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
4%
4%
b. Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
30%
14%
c. Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties / Total 
loans & advances)
100%
100%
d. Investments (Investments in related parties / Total Investments made)
100%
100%
*REL, as a holding Company focused on core investments, does not engage in transactions with trading houses or sales to dealers and distributors.
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year.
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the awareness programmes
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflicts of interest involving members of the Board? (Yes / No) 
If yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors emphasizes that all Directors must avoid and disclose any actual or apparent conflicts 
of personal interest with the Company’s interests. They are required to disclose all contractual interests, whether directly or indirectly 
related to the Company. Each Board Member must affirm their compliance with the Code of Conduct annually.
Additionally, Board members are required to disclose their concerns or interests in other entities as mandated by Section 184 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. They are also required to disclose any parties they are related to, both annually and whenever there are changes. 
Directors who have an interest or concern in any transactions or arrangements with the Company are excluded from participating in the 
discussion and approval of those transactions.
130
Annual Report 2023-2024
PRINCIPLE 2 - BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE 
AND SAFE
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
This question is not applicable to REL since it is a holding and investment company and is currently not engaged in any manufacturing 
or service providing activity.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in environmental and social impact
R&D
Nil
Nil
Given the nature of REL’s operations in the financial services sector, R&D and Capex 
investments are predominantly managed by the Company’s subsidiaries. The standalone 
entity does not directly interact with customers in the course of its business activities.
Capex
Nil
Nil
2.	 a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
No. REL is a holding and investment Company and is currently not engaged in any manufacturing or service providing activity. The Company’s 
resource consumption is currently limited to its offices where sustainable sourcing practices are followed to the extent possible.
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
This question is not applicable to REL.
3.	 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste
No. The Company, however, continues to engage in multiple activities, ensuring that any waste generated is disposed-off in an 
eco-friendly manner. 
4.	 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
No, REL is not subject to EPR requirements. 
PRINCIPLE 3- BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, 
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
Essential Indicators
1.	 a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity benefits
Day care facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
25
25
100%
25
100%
Nil
Nil
25
100%
NA^
NA
Female
10
10
100%
10
100%
10
100%
Nil
Nil
NA^
NA
Total
35
35
100%
35
100%
10
29%
25
71%
NA^
NA
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
^Maternity Benefit Act requires that any establishment which has 50 or more employees shall have the facility of creche. REL employee 
count is well under 50 count, hence the facility is not applicable.
131
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
To safeguard the welfare of employees and prepare them for potential emergencies, fire drills are routinely conducted every three 
months within the office environment.
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% Of workers covered by
Category
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity benefits
Day care facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
OTHER THAN PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in the 
following format:
 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
1.57
0.69
2.	 Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of employees 
covered (as a % of 
total employee)
No. of workers 
covered (as a % 
of total workers)
Deducted & 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/No/N.A)
No. of employees 
covered (as a % of 
total employees)
No. of workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/No/N.A.)
PF
91.5%
NA
Y
97%
NA
Y
Gratuity
100%
NA
Y
100%
NA
NA
ESI
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Provident Fund: It is provided to all employees as per the Employee Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. 
Gratuity: It is provided to all employees as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
ESI: It is provided to all eligible employees as per the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948. 
3.	 Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises/offices accessible to differently abled employees as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard. 
Yes. REL has implemented measures to ensure that its offices are accessible to all, featuring ramps that facilitate easy entry for 
individuals with varying physical abilities. The Company places a strong emphasis on inclusivity in the design of its offices and premises. 
Discrimination based on disability is staunchly opposed, underscoring REL’s commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce.
132
Annual Report 2023-2024
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
Yes, REL has implemented an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy to uphold its commitment to providing equal employment 
opportunities for all and prohibiting discrimination and harassment based on race, colour, religion, age, nationality, disability, genetics, 
citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other characteristic protected by law. The policy explicitly states that appropriate 
provisions are made available for employees to enable them to work effectively and that “no opportunity is denied to persons with 
disabilities merely on the grounds of disability (as per the Disabilities Act, 2016).”
The policy is a part of the HR Manual and is available internally to all employees.
5.	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave.
Permanent employees
Permanent Workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
NA
NA
Female
NA*
NA*
NA
NA
Total
100%
100%
NA
NA
*During the FY 23-24 no female employee took maternity leave
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
REL does not have permanent workers
Other than Permanent Workers
REL does not have other than permanent workers
Permanent Employees
Yes. 
REL has implemented a detailed Anti-Harassment and Grievance Redressal Policy. It covers 
full time employees and student interns and lays down in detail the mechanism for lodging a 
formal complaint.
Employees have the option to report the incident/case via email to grievance@religare.com.
They can also escalate directly by writing to the HR representative.
Furthermore, employees can escalate the case in writing to their reporting manager, one 
level up, head of the department, member(s) of the Harassment Complaints Committee, or the 
leadership team. It is their responsibility to promptly bring it to the attention of the Harassment 
Complaints Committee.
Since REL does not employ any workers, the applicability of the policy extends only to 
employees.
Other than Permanent Employees
REL does not have other than permanent employees
133
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
7.	 Membership of employees in association(s) or unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
35
Nil
Nil
34
Nil
Nil
-	
Male
25
Nil
Nil
25
Nil
Nil
-	
Female
10
Nil
Nil
9
Nil
Nil
Total Permanent Workers
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
-	
Male
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
-	
Female
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
8. Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
On health & safety/
wellness measures* 
On skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On health and safety 
measures/ wellness
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. F
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
25
24
96%
24
96%
25
24
96%
24
96%
Female
10
9
90%
9
90%
9
8
89%
8
89%
Total
35
33
94%*
33
94%
34
32
94%
32
94%
WORKERS
Male
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
*Training is provided through health and wellness webinars led by esteemed experts in their respective fields. These webinars and workshops are scheduled at 
least quarterly and are available to all employees on a voluntary basis.
9.	 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Male
25
23
92%
25
23
92%
Female
10
8
80%
9
7
78%
Total
35
31
89%
34
30
88%
WORKERS
Male
 Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Female
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Total
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Note: Employees who have left the Company at the time of performance review or had resigned and who joined post 1st October 2023 
are not eligible for performance review of FY 2024, hence the coverage is under 100%.
134
Annual Report 2023-2024
10. a.	  Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
Yes. All employees receive regular training on fire safety and the management of firefighting equipment as part of REL’s health and 
safety initiatives. Furthermore, the Company organises periodic evacuation drills across its offices.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
The applicability of this is limited in the context of business operations.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks? (Yes/
No)
No, REL does not have any workers. 
d	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/No)
Yes. 
11.	Details of safety related incidents
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours 
worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
12.	Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
REL is committed to ensuring a safe and healthy workplace to enhance employee performance. The company prioritizes employees’ 
rights and strictly adheres to health and safety regulations. The Company’s office is in a LEED-certified building that emphasizes energy 
efficiency, reduces water consumption, and supports environmental improvement. REL also encourages a healthy lifestyle among its staff 
through initiatives such as stress-reducing yoga sessions and workshops addressing mental health.
13.	Number of complaints on working conditions and health and safety made by employees and workers.
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA 
NA
Health & Safety
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA 
NA
14.	Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
135
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
15.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions. 
Since no assessments have been conducted, no corrective action was taken.
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N)?
a. Employees (Yes/No): Yes, at REL, the goal is to provide term-life insurance to all permanent employees, ensuring coverage in the 
event of an unexpected death during their employment. If an unforeseen death occurs while in service, employees are covered up to 
a maximum sum insured, which is twice their CTC, rounded to the nearest lakh in `. Depending on their grade, employees may need to 
undergo a medical examination by the insurer to activate the policy.
b. Workers (Yes/No): No, REL does not have any workers. 
2.	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
NIL.
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment.
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and placed 
in suitable employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
Nil
Nil
NA
NA
Workers
NA
NA 
NA
NA
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No).
No.
5.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health & Safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
This question does not pertain to REL as there have been no such assessments.
136
Annual Report 2023-2024
PRINCIPLE 4- BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS 
STAKEHOLDERS
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
REL firmly believes that stakeholders play a crucial role in achieving sustainable organisational growth. Stakeholders offer essential 
insights and feedback that can shape business decisions, ensuring alignment of Company strategies with the interests of those impacted 
by its operations. 
The process begins with identifying and categorizing key stakeholders based on their roles and the substantial influence they wield over 
the Company, or vice versa. Once stakeholders are identified and prioritized, channels for engagement are established and shared with 
internal teams. This facilitates meaningful interaction with stakeholders to understand their needs and concerns, and to devise strategies 
for managing and mitigating potential risks or adverse impacts.
At REL, the aim is to create enduring value for all stakeholders by contributing to a better, sustainable future and the Company takes 
proactive measures to address stakeholder needs and concerns, mitigate risks, and foster lasting relationships.
2.	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholders 
Group
Whether 
identified 
as 
Vulnerable 
& 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels 
of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency 
of 
engagement (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
others – please specify)
Purpose 
and 
scope 
of 
engagement including key topics 
and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Shareholders
No
Multiple 
channels- 
physical 
and 
digital 
including 
quarterly/half 
yearly/ annual returns / 
filings, press releases and 
various 
communications 
through stock exchanges 
etc.
Others-Frequent 
and 
need based
To inform about the performance, 
major developments and other 
relevant updates regarding the 
Company and its subsidiaries from 
time to time.
Government and 
regulators
No
Multiple 
channels- 
physical and digital
Others- Need Based
To 
provide 
timely 
information 
as asked, timely returns filing, 
recommendations/ feedback on 
draft 
policies, 
representations 
before regulators and associations 
for advancement and improvement 
of financial services industry in 
India
Employees
No
Multiple 
channels- 
physical and digital
Others- Need based and 
as per the requirement
To create a thriving, safe and 
inclusive 
workplace 
for 
its 
employees and providing ample 
opportunities 
for 
professional 
development and growth.
Suppliers and 
partners
No
Multiple 
channels- 
physical and digital
Others- Frequent and 
need based
To 
help 
increase 
reach 
and 
enhance business
Industry 
Associations
No
Multiple channels- physical 
and digital
Others- Need based
To shape the regulatory landscape 
and promote sustainability through 
the transfer of knowledge
137
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics 
or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
The management of the Company routinely engages with its primary stakeholders, providing updates to the Board as needed.
2.	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes, stakeholder consultation offers a variety of perspectives and insights, which enhances the quality and effectiveness of decision-making. 
Such consultations help identify potential challenges and opportunities that might not be apparent internally. Furthermore, engaging with 
stakeholders can lead to stronger partnerships and collaborations, facilitating joint problem-solving and fostering a sense of shared 
purpose and commitment. It is in this regard that a materiality assessment has been conducted by REL this year. 
The identification of material topics enables REL to prioritize issues critical to its long-term success and sustainability and formulate 
strategies accordingly. This ensures efficient resource allocation to areas with the greatest impact. Materiality assessments also reveal 
potential risks and opportunities associated with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, enabling organisations to remain 
responsive to stakeholder expectations. By focusing on key material topics, companies can make more informed and effective choices, 
leading to better outcomes and avoiding dilution of efforts on less critical issues. 
Keeping these factors in mind, REL has started conducting the Materiality Assessment in consultation with internal stakeholders and will 
move forward on identifying the key ESG issues with more stakeholder consultations and research.
PRINCIPLE 5 - BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
Essential Indicator
1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
 35
35 
100%
34
34
100%
Other than Permanent 
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Total employees 
 35
35 
100%
34
34
100%
WORKERS
Permanent 
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Other than Permanent 
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Total workers 
Nil
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
Note: REL has a Human Rights Policy, there is no separate training provided on such aspect to the employees.
138
Annual Report 2023-2024
2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
Equal to minimum 
wage
More than 
minimum wage
Total (D)
Equal to minimum 
wage
More than 
minimum wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. F
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
35
Nil
Nil
35
100%
34
Nil
Nil
34
100%
Male
25
Nil
Nil
25
100%
25
Nil
Nil
25
100%
Female
10
Nil
Nil
10
100%
9
Nil
Nil
9
100%
Non-permanent 
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female 
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
WORKERS
Permanent
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Non-permanent 
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
Nil
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	 a. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors (BoD) 
4
17.10
2
712.60
KMP (including one BoD)
1
396.91
2
734.90
Employees other than BOD & KMP*
24
25.05
8
12.76
Workers
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
i)	
Median Remuneration/salary/wages in ` lakh.
ii)	
Remuneration includes salary, allowances, leave encashment, bonus, Leave travel concession, Employer contribution towards NPS 
and perquisite and car. In addition, the employees are entitled to gratuity, employer’s contribution to Provident Fund, Food Voucher, 
and group insurance in accordance with Company’s Rules.
iii)	
Remuneration mentioned above is inclusive of retirement/ separation benefits paid during the year.
iv)	
Remuneration mentioned above does not include ESOP Perquisite.
v)	
Remuneration for Independent Directors means the sitting fees paid for attending the meeting of the Board and Committees.
b.	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity in the following format:
 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages.
53%
50%
4.	 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
Yes, the Company has assigned its Group Head of HR with the responsibility for addressing human rights impacts or issues attributable 
to the business.
139
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
5.	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
REL has implemented a Human Rights policy aimed at fostering socio-economic empowerment through inclusive growth. The policy 
establishes a comprehensive framework to ensure that all employees and associates are treated with respect and dignity. It encompasses 
a set of principles guiding the Company’s business practices upholding human rights, preventing violations, and abstaining from any 
involvement in human rights abuses. REL strives to promote the universal recognition of fundamental human rights and the widespread 
implementation of this policy. Addressing grievances promptly and in a culturally appropriate manner is a core commitment. The Company 
tries to ensure positive legal compliance with all applicable legal and constitutional laws and considers interaction with relevant 
stakeholders on human rights concerns as an important practice. REL is committed to ensuring that no unlawful practices are followed 
that violate the dignity and the basic human rights of its employees and associates and prohibits all forms of child/forced labour and 
human trafficking. The Company aims to create a safe and healthy workplace and respects the right of all workers to form and join a trade 
union of their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal, in accordance with national law. REL also maintains a firm stance with respect 
to prohibition of any contribution to armed conflict or human rights abuses in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. 
The Group Head of Human Resources is responsible for investigating and resolving employee concerns, responding appropriately, 
and taking corrective measures in case of violations. No reprisal or retaliatory action can be taken against any employee for raising 
concerns under this policy. REL’s guiding principle is to uphold the highest standards, particularly in cases where national laws differ 
from international human rights norms. During conflicts, the Company aims to adhere to national law, while seeking ways to respect 
international human rights to the greatest extent possible. 
6.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
Child Labour
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
Forced /Involuntary Labour
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
Wages
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
Other human rights related 
issues
Nil
NA
-
Nil
NA
-
7.	 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, 
in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH upheld
Nil
Nil
8.	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
REL’s Whistle-blower, Anti-Harassment, Grievance, and POSH policies ensure the protection of the complainant’s identity and oversee all 
matters with utmost confidentiality. Retaliation against individuals reporting genuine concerns is prohibited, and those found engaging 
in such behaviour are subject to severe disciplinary action according to company policy and legal procedures. REL has established a 
whistleblowing mechanism and formulated a comprehensive Whistle-blower Policy to comply with regulatory standards, providing a 
secure and responsible framework for reporting misconduct. Additionally, the Company has implemented a policy to prevent sexual 
harassment in alignment with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2013, including 
the formation of an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) mandated to address complaints related to sexual harassment. These policies 
apply uniformly to all company employees.
140
Annual Report 2023-2024
9.	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
While REL upholds the highest standards of human rights in the workplace, these requirements are not included in the company’s 
business agreements and contracts.
10.	Assessments for the year:
% of plants and offices that were assessed (by entity 
or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Nil
Forced/ involuntary labour
Nil
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
Nil
11.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above. 
No significant risks or concerns were observed.
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints. 
Since there was no human rights grievance or complaint, hence there was no need for any change in any business process. 
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
No human rights due diligence was conducted.
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
Yes, the entity’s premises/offices are accessible to visitors with disabilities in accordance with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Forces Labour/ Involuntary Labour
Nil
Wages
Nil
Others – please specify
Nil
No such complaint came to the knowledge of the Company. 
141
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
5.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessment at Question 4 above. 
No corrective actions were taken as value chain partners were not assessed.
PRINCIPLE 6- BUSINESS SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
Registered office (Delhi) which has no notable environmental footprint and is therefore not reported under Principle 6.
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or Multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)-GJ
Nil
Nil
Total fuel consumption (B)-GJ
Nil
Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (C)-GJ
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
Nil
Nil
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) (GJ)
231.77
222.11
Total fuel consumption (E) (GJ)
189.93
1.88
Energy consumption through other sources (F) (GJ)
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
421.70
223.99
Total energy consumption (A+B+C+D+E+F) *
421.70
223.99
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover-GJ/Million `
1.67
0.39
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)-GJ/million 
` adjusted for PPP
33.78
7.79
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
*The increase in energy consumption can be attributed to the inclusion of fuel consumption for Company-owned cars during FY 2023-24. The total fuel consumption 
for FY 22-23 is 113.65 GJ, which makes the total energy consumption to be 333.88 GJ.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
2.	 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
No site or facility has been designated as consumers eligible under the Government of India’s Performance, Achieve, and Trade (PAT) 
Scheme of Government of India.
142
Annual Report 2023-2024
3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
Nil
Nil
(ii) Ground Water
Nil
Nil
(iii) Third Party Water
362.25*
897.67
(iv) Seawater/Desalinated Water
Nil
Nil
(v) Others
Nil
Nil
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i+ii+iii+iv+v)
362.25
897.67
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
212.16
299.22
Water intensity per rupee of turnover - KL /Million INR
0.84
0.51
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) -KL/
million INR adjusted for PPP
16.99
10.41
Water intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
*Calculation for FY 23-24 has been done on the basis of water requirement as stipulated by NBC Code, 2016 for offices
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
4.	 Provide the following details related to water discharged.
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water
-	
No treatment
Nil
Nil
-	
With treatment, please specify level of treatment
Nil
Nil
(ii)	
To Groundwater
-	
No treatment
Nil
Nil
-	
With treatment, please specify level of treatment
Nil
Nil
(iii)	
To Seawater
-	
No treatment
Nil
Nil
-	
With treatment, please specify level of treatment
Nil
Nil
(vi)	
Sent to third parties
-	
No treatment
150.09
598.45
-	
With treatment, please specify level of treatment
Nil
Nil
(v)	
Others
-	
No treatment
Nil
Nil
-	
With treatment, please specify level of treatment
Nil
Nil
Total water discharged in kilolitres
150.09
598.45
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency.
143
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
5.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
 No, the Company has not implemented a Zero Liquid Discharge mechanism.
6.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
-
-
-
SOx
-
-
-
Particulate matter (PM)
-
-
-
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency.
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
7.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
12.55
0.14
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
46.10
44.11
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover - 
tCO2e/`
tCO2e/million `
0.068
0.08
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) - tCO2e/rupee 
adjusted for PPP
tCO2e/million ` adjusted for PPP
4.70
1.53
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
-
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
8.	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
The Company is not involved in any manufacturing or marketing activities, resulting in a minimal environmental footprint. Our primary 
sources of emissions are limited to electricity and diesel (Scope 1 & Scope 2). Moreover, REL’s corporate headquarters have obtained 
LEED certification and as an organisation, promotes energy-saving practices among employees to raise awareness. At REL, emissions 
and energy consumption patterns are monitored on a regular basis to identify opportunities for energy savings. 
144
Annual Report 2023-2024
9.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0.35
0.34
E-Waste (B)
Nil
5.34
Bio-Medical Waste (C)
Nil
Nil
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Nil
Nil
Battery For (E)
Nil
Nil
Radioactive waste (F)
Nil
Nil
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G)
Nil
Nil
Other non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
Nil
Nil
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
0.35
5.68
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover – metric tonnes/million `
0.001
0.009
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) – million 
tonnes/million ` adjusted for PPP
0.03
0.19
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
(in metric tonnes)
(i)	
Recycled
Nil
Nil
(i)	
Re-used
Nil
Nil
(i)	
Other recovery operations
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Incineration
Nil
Nil
(i)	
Landfilling
Nil
Nil
(i)	
Other disposal operations
0.35
5.68
Total
0.35
5.68
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
10.	Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
The implementation of effective waste management practices is crucial for REL. Resource management and waste and effluent 
management have been identified as key focus areas for the Company. By adopting responsible resource management practices, REL 
can establish a business model that integrates financial prosperity with environmental awareness and social responsibility. 
Through initiatives such as waste reduction, REL minimizes waste disposal costs and conserves resources, resulting in long-term cost 
savings. Furthermore, office waste is collected centrally and then transferred to a waste management agency.
145
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details.
REL does not have operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas where environmental approvals / clearances are required.
S. No.
Location of operations/ 
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance are 
being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
NA
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in FY 2023-24. 
During the reporting period, none of the projects required Environment Impact Assessment to be undertaken in compliance with EIA 
notification 2006.
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification 
Number
Date
Whether conducted by independent 
external agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in 
public 
domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web 
Links
NA
13.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
Yes, the organization adheres to relevant environmental laws, regulations, and guidelines in India. All waste generated by the firm is 
managed in accordance with current regulations.
S No. Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution control 
boards or by courts
Corrective 
action 
taken if any
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): For each facility / plant located in areas 
of water stress, provide the following information: 
(i)	
Name of the area 
(ii)	
Nature of operations
(iii)	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	
Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii)	
Third party water
362.25
NA
(iv)	
Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(i)	
Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
362.25
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
212.16
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)-KL/million `
0.84
NA
146
Annual Report 2023-2024
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
i.	
To Surface water
NA
NA
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
ii.	
To Groundwater
NA
NA
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
iii.	
To Seawater
NA
NA
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
iv.	
Sent to third parties
150.09
NA
-	
No treatment
150.09
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
v.	
Others
NA
NA
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
150.09
NA
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
2.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e/`
-
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of 
the external agency. 
No independent assessment has been carried out by any external agency for FY 23-24 since the Company does not fall among the top 
150 listed companies by market capitalisation as of March 2024.
3.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
The Company does not operate in environmentally delicate areas.
147
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
4.	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as 
well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
No such initiative has been undertaken by REL.
Sr. No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any,  
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
-
-
-
-
5.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Yes, the company utilizes a Risk Category Manual (RCM) to manage and regulate risks at the organizational level. The Risk Control 
Matrices (RCMs) categorize controls as either preventive or detective in relation to risk. Assessing and documenting risks are integral 
parts of the business planning and evaluation process. Identifying specific control activities at the process level is crucial for implementing 
effective detective or preventive controls that address associated risks. These controls undergo further scrutiny as part of ongoing 
monitoring activities. The Business Continuity Plan emphasizes operational readiness from alternative locations and supports REL’s 
mandate on Business Continuity Management (BCM), aimed at enhancing the company’s resilience. As a Core Investment Company, REL 
does not engage in direct business operations, so its Business Continuity Plan primarily focuses on managing its information technology 
framework, including information and communication systems, in case of a catastrophe. REL takes a comprehensive approach to IT 
service continuity, incorporating multiple layers of protection.
Specific conditions such as network outages, blackouts, external factors like terrorist attacks, civil unrest, natural disasters (such as 
earthquakes, fires, floods), or other catastrophic events serve as triggers for activating the Business Continuity Plan (BCP). The purpose 
of this BCP is to outline the necessary steps to maintain IT services at REL in the event of a major incident.
6.	 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
 Nil
7.	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
Nil
PRINCIPLE 7- BUSINEESS, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD 
DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
Essential Indicator
1 a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
REL is affiliated with three national trade and industry chambers / associations.
 1 b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
National
2
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
Global Trade & Technology Council India (GTTCI)
National
148
Annual Report 2023-2024
2.	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
No corrective actions have been taken or are currently in progress regarding any issues of anti-competitive conduct by the entity, as 
there have been no adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of the Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action Taken
NA
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
REL does not engage in direct public advocacy but leverages its expertise to provide recommendations on standards and regulatory 
advancements in the financial services sector. This contribution is facilitated through its active participation in trade bodies and 
associations. The Company collaborates with government entities, regulators, and industry associations to contribute to the advancement 
and development of the financial services industry.
Participation in industry associations such as FICCI, ASSOCHAM, and CII allows the Company to engage in meaningful discussions 
and initiatives. Additionally, employees and senior management participate in committees established by regulators and industry 
organizations to further contribute to industry dialogue and progress.
S. No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
-
-
-
-
-
-
PRINCIPLE 8-BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year. 
The Company has not taken up any CSR activity for the current financial year. 
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by independent 
external agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
NA
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity.
There are currently no ongoing projects that involve the implementation of Rehabilitation and Resettlement measures.
S. No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In `)
NA
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
The Company is currently not engaged in community-based projects.
149
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
The sourcing of goods is not included in the main activities of the Company, as it does not engage in manufacturing. Sourcing is restricted 
to the procurement of materials necessary for the efficient functioning of the Company’s offices.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
NA
NA
Directly from within India
NA
NA
5.	 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on 
a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost.
Location
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural 
Nil
Nil
Semi-urban 
Nil
Nil
Urban 
Nil
Nil
Metropolitan 
100%
100%
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential indicators above).
The Company is not required to conduct any Social Impact Assessment (SIA) as mandated by relevant laws.
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies.	
This question is not applicable to the Company. Due to losses during the past three years, the Company has not been required to spend 
money under CSR for financial year 2023-2024 as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
S. No.
State
Aspirational district
Amount spent (in `)
NA
NA
NA
3.	 a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
No. The sourcing of goods is not part of the main activities of the Company, as it does not engage in any manufacturing activity. 
Sourcing is limited to procuring materials necessary for the efficient functioning of the Company’s offices.
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? 
REL does not particularly procure from marginalised/vulnerable groups since its sourcing is limited to procurement of materials 
necessary for the efficient functioning of the Company.
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
This question is not applicable to REL.
4.	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared  
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
NA
150
Annual Report 2023-2024
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
6.	 Details of beneficiaries of CSR projects
S. No.
CSR Projects (in FY 2023-24)
No. of persons benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% Of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
NA
PRINCIPLE 9- BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A 
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
As a holding and investment company, REL does not have direct customers within the scope of BRSR and therefore this question is not 
applicable.
2.	 Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
-
Safe and responsible usage
-
Recycling and/or safe disposal
-
REL is primarily engaged in investment activities.
3.	 Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
REL does not have any direct consumers.
FY 2023-24
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending re 
solution at end 
of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Advertising
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Cybersecurity
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Delivery of essential services
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on accounts of safety issues.
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Nil
Nil
Forced recalls
Nil
Nil
151
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
5.	 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
Yes, the Company maintains a Board-approved Data Privacy & Data Security policy, accessible to all employees via the company’s intranet 
portal. With the rapid evolution of technology and digital advancements, risks are unavoidable. The company has implemented a robust 
risk management framework where the Risk Management Committee of the Company oversees risks and their mitigation strategies.
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken 
by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
No corrective actions were necessary as there were no issues related to advertising, delivery of essential services, cybersecurity and data 
privacy of customers, recurrence of product recalls, or penalties/actions taken by regulatory authorities concerning product/service safety.
7.	 The following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches:
Nil
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customer
Nil
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches 
Not applicable.
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the Company can be accessed.
As a holding and investment company, the Company does not have direct customers within the scope of BRSR.
2.	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers, especially vulnerable and marginalised consumers, about safe and 
responsible usage of products and services.
REL does not have direct customers within the scope of BRSR.
3.	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services.
The Company does not have direct customers within the scope of BRSR.
4.	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? 
(Yes/No)
Not applicable. 
152
Annual Report 2023-2024
Independent Auditor’s Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF ‘RELIGARE ENTERPRISES LIMITED ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Religare Enterprises Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Holding Company” / “Parent Company”) and its 
Subsidiaries, Step Down Subsidiaries and Joint Venture (the 
Holding Company and its Subsidiaries, Step Down Subsidiaries 
and Joint Venture, together referred to as ‘the Group’), which 
comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, 
and the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements including a summary of the material accounting policies 
and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the 
consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (the ‘Act’) and the directions and guidelines issued by Reserve 
Bank of India as applicable to Non Deposit Taking Systemically 
Important Core Investment Company (‘RBI Regulations’), in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024 and its Profit (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), its changes in equity and its cash 
flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and other 
auditors in terms of their reports referred to in “Other Matters” 
paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
We draw attention to the following note to the consolidated financial 
statements:
Note 2.2.C; regarding non-consolidation of financial statements 
of Religare Capital Markets Limited (RCML), a subsidiary company, 
considering the management’s assessment of non-existence of 
control through voting rights and existence of significant restrictive 
covenants on major decision making at RCML imposed by the 
holder of the preference shares.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is not modified 
in respect of above matter.
Key Audit Matters
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the preparation of the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s 
Annual Report particularly with respect to Management Discussions 
and Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s 
Report, Business responsibility report and Corporate Governance 
report but does not include the consolidated financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The other information is expected 
to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the course 
of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement therein, we are required to report that fact to 
those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these consolidated financial statements that give a 
true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
153
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
financial performance including other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of 
the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind 
AS”) notified under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from time 
to time.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a 
true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consoldiated financial statements, the respective 
Board of Directors of the Companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the ability of their respective Company 
/ Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either 
intends to liquidate their respective Company / Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the Companies included in 
the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of their respective Company / Group.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the consoldiated financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolildated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
-	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
-	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Holding Company 
and its Subsidariy companies and Step Down subsidiary 
companies, incorporated in India, have adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
-	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
-	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consoldiated financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
-	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
conosolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent 
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
-	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities within the Group to express 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audit of the financial statements of such entities included 
in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have been audited 
by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them.
154
Annual Report 2023-2024
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the consolidated 
financial statements that, individually or in aggregate, makes 
it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial statements may 
be influenced. We consider quantitative materiality and qualitative 
factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 
the results of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified 
misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the 
Holding Company among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our 
audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships 
and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Other Matters
i.	
The estimate of Claims Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) and 
Claims Incurred But Not Enough Reported (IBNER) in respect 
of Care Health Insurance Limited (CHIL) a Subsidiary company 
engaged in the business of health insurance, have been 
certified by the CHIL’s Appointed Actuary. The Appointed 
Actuary has certified to CHIL that the assumptions used for 
such estimation are appropriate and are in accordance with 
the requirements of relevant regulations issued by IRDAI and 
Actuarial Society of India in concurrence with IRDAI. We have 
relied upon on the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this 
regard for forming our opinion on the financial statements of 
CHIL.
ii.	
We did not audit the financial statements of three Wholly 
Owned Subsidiaries and one Step Down Subsidiary, whose 
financial statements reflect total revenues of ` 17,093.83 
Lakhs, net profit after tax of ` 6,552.11 Lakhs and total 
comprehensive income of ` 6,523.44 Lakhs, for the year 
ended March 31, 2024, and total assets of ` 102,084.86 Lakhs 
as at March 31, 2024, as considered in these consolidated 
financial statements. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished 
to us by the Holding Company’s Management and our Opinion, 
Emphasis of Matter and Other Matters, on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these Subsidiaries / Step 
Down Subsidiary is based on the reports of the other auditors, 
and after consideration of the further facts and information 
provided to us by the Holding Company’s management, 
at the time of consolidation of these consolidated financial 
statements and the procedures performed by us as stated in 
Basis for Opinion paragraph above.
iii.	
These consolidated financial statements, are not including 
the financial information / statements of ‘IBOF Investment 
Management Private Limited’, the Joint Venture, for which 
neither audited nor management accounts for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2024 were available with the Parent 
Company for the consolidation purposes. However, since 
the Parent Company has fully impaired its investment in the 
said Joint Venture and does not have any further obligation 
over and above the cost of the investment, in view of the 
management there is no impact thereof on these consolidated 
financial statements.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not 
modified in respect of the above matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) 
and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the 
“Order” / “CARO”) issued by the Central Government in terms 
of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included in the Auditor’s 
report, according to the information and explanations given to 
us, and based on the CARO reports issued by us for the Holding 
Company, its Subsidiaries and its Step-down Subsidiaries, and 
the CARO reports issued by other auditors for Subsidaires 
and Step Down Subsidiary as stated in ‘Other Matters’ above 
which are included in the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group, to which reporting under CARO is applicable, 
we report that there are no qualifications or adverse 
remarks in these CARO reports, except to the extent stated 
herein below:
155
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Company
CIN
Holding Company/ 
Subsidiary/Step-down 
Subsidiary
Clause number of the CARO 
having qualification or 
adverse remarks
1.
Religare Enterprises Limited
L74899DL1984PLC146935
Holding Company
3(xvii)
2.
Religare Finvest Limited
U74999DL1995PLC064132
Subsidiary
3(xi)(a), 3(xvii) and 3(xix)
3.
Religare Housing Development 
Corporation Limited
U74899DL1993PLC054259
Step-down Subsidiary
3(xvii)
4.
Religare Credit Advisor Private Limited
U65929DL2018PTC327982
Subsidiary
3(xvii) 
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of 
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by 
law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as appears 
from our examination of those books;
	
c.	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement 
of 
Profit 
and 
Loss 
(including 
Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the relevant books of account maintained by the 
Holding Company for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(“Ind AS”) notified under Section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended from time to time;
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from 
the directors of the Holding Company, Subsidiaries and 
Step Down Subsidiaries incorporated in India and taken 
on record by its respective Board of Directors, none 
of the directors of the Holding Company, Subsidiaries 
and Step Down Subsidiaries incorporated in India is 
disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being appointed 
as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements and operating effectiveness of such controls 
refer to our separate report in Annexure-‘A’ which is 
based on the audit reports of the Holding Company, 
its Subsidiaries and its Step-down Subsidiairies issued 
by us, and audit reports of the other auditors in respect 
of the Subsidiaries and Step Down Subsidiaries 
incorporated in India, not audited by us. As the Audit 
Report and financial statements / information of the Joint 
Venture are not available, as detailed in ‘Other Matters’ 
above. we are unable to comment on the adequacy of 
internal financial controls with reference to the financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness in respect 
of the Joint Venture.
	
g.	
In our opinion, the remuneration paid by the Holding 
Company / Subsidiaries / Step Down Subsidiaries to its 
Directors, wherever applicable, is in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the 
Act;
	
h.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given to 
us:
	
i.	
The Consolidated financial statements disclose the 
impact of pending litigations on the Consolidated 
financial position of the Group – Refer Note 45 to the 
consolidated financial statements;
	
ii.	
The Holding Company and its Subsidiaries and Step 
Down Subsidiaries has not entered into any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts.
	
iii.	
There has been no amount, required to be transferred, 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company and its Subsidiaries and Step Down 
Subsidiaries incorporated in India.
	
iv.	
(a)	
The Managements of the companies considered 
in the consolidated financial statements have 
represented that, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
156
Annual Report 2023-2024
borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Group to or 
in any other person or entity, including foreign 
entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(b)	
The Managements of the companies considered 
in the consolidated financial statements have 
represented, that, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been 
received by the Group from any person or entity, 
including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Group shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures that have been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any 
material misstatement.
	
v.	
No dividend was declared or paid during the year; 
hence, the said clause is not applicable.
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test checks, 
the Holding Company and its Subsidiaries and Step 
Down Subsidiaries has used accounting software/s for 
maintaining its books of account for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software, except certain sub systems 
in a subsidiary audited by us for some part of the year 
and in case of Holding Company audited by us and one 
Step Down Subsidiary audited by other auditor where 
certain components of audit trail were not operating 
due to system limitation, which were duly addressed as 
described in note 43A(VIII) to the consolidated financial 
statements. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of the audit trail 
feature being tampered with.
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 1, 2023, reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 on preservation of the audit trail as per 
the statutory requirements for record retention is not 
applicable for the financial year ended 31 March, 2024.
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn. No. 000346N
(Pawan K. Gupta)
	
Partner
Place: New Delhi	
M. No. 092529
Dated: May 21, 2024 
UDIN - 24092529BKCYPC1194
157
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE-‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2.f under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of the independent auditor’s report 
of even date on the consolidated financial statements of ‘Religare Enterprises Limited’ for the year ended March 31, 2024)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of Religare Enterprises Limited (“the Holding Company”) 
and its Subsidiaries and Step Down Subsidiaries incorporated in 
India (the Holding Company and its Subsidiaries and Step Down 
Subsidiaries, together referred to as ‘the Group’) for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, in conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group for the year ended as on that 
date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and 
its Subsidiaries and Step Down Subsidiaries incorporated in India, 
are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the respective Companies considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the “Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting” (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group’s internal 
financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note 
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and deemed to 
be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable 
to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and 
the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial 
reporting was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Group’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting
A Company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is 
a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A Company’s internal financial 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the Company are being made only in accordance with 
authorizations of management and Directors of the Company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
158
Annual Report 2023-2024
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us, the Holding Company and its Subsidiaries 
and Step Down Subsidiaries incorporated in India have, in all 
material respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to the financial statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to the financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters
i.	
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls with reference to the financial statements in so far 
as it relates to Subsidiaries and Step Down Subsidiaries, not 
audited by us, is based on the corresponding reports of the 
auditors of these Companies.
ii.	
The estimate of claims Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) and 
Claims Incurred But Not Enough Reported (IBNER) in respect 
of Care Health Insurance Limited (CHIL) a Subsidiary company 
engaged in the business of health insurance, have been 
certified by the Company’s Appointed Actuary and have been 
relied upon by us as mentioned in ‘Other Matters’ section of 
independent auditor’s report of even date on the consolidated 
financial statements. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements does not include reporting on the adequacy 
and operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the 
quantum and accuracy of the aforesaid liabilities.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matters.
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn. No. 000346N
(Pawan K. Gupta)
Place: New Delhi 
Partner
Dated: May 21, 2024 
M. No. 092529

159
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Financial Assets
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
4
 20,095.00 
 20,515.22 
	
Bank Balance other than above
5
 87,122.08 
 60,643.88 
	
Trade Receivables
6
 24,519.11 
 17,544.82 
	
Loans
7
 60,666.11 
 88,118.62 
	
Investments
8
 671,802.47 
 509,378.58 
	
Other Financial Assets
9
 35,100.00 
 42,547.45 
Non-Financial Assets
	
Inventories
10
 261.82 
 33.18 
	
Current Tax Assets (Net)
11(I)
 12,225.12 
 21,949.43 
	
Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
12(I)
 5,105.12 
 5,829.54 
	
Property, Plant and Equipment
13(a)
 3,404.25 
 4,236.63 
	
Right -of- use Assets
13(b)
 8,682.02 
 10,885.48 
	
Goodwill
14
 1,171.53 
 972.04 
	
Intangible Assets
15
 2,845.62 
 3,515.04 
	
Intangible Assets Under Development
16
 556.15 
 534.00 
	
Other Non-Financial Assets 
17
 24,157.22 
 22,685.48 
Total Assets
 957,713.62 
 809,389.39 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Financial Liabilities
Payables
-	
Trade Payables
18
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 106.72 
 56.53 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 78,858.86 
 31,812.98 
-	
Other Payables
19
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 135.00 
 91.68 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 23,396.53 
 30,852.04 
	
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
20
 34,389.01 
 39,947.22 
	
Subordinated Liabilities
21
 - 
 33,000.00 
	
Lease Liabilities
22
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
	
Other Financial Liabilities
23
 130,306.68 
 115,738.69 
Non-Financial Liabilities
	
Provisions
24
 291,880.02 
 219,711.49 
	
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
11(II)
 0.63 
 1,884.03 
	
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
12(II)
 207.30 
 203.91 
	
Other Non-Financial Liabilities
25
 71,099.70 
 57,197.57 
Total Liabilities
 640,251.46 
 541,644.23 
160
Annual Report 2023-2024
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
EQUITY
	
Equity Share Capital
26
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
	
Other Equity
27
 201,342.00 
 173,412.56 
	
Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company
 234,314.12 
 205,768.51 
	
Non Controlling Interest
28
 83,148.04 
 61,976.65 
Total Equity
 317,462.16 
 267,745.16 
Total Liabilities And Equity
 957,713.62 
 809,389.39 
Overview, Principles of Consolidation, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes
1-3,43-56
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
161
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No.
Year Ended
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
March 31, 2023 
Income
Revenue From Operations
Interest Income
29
 59,770.92 
 50,843.71 
Dividend Income
 416.72 
 139.80 
Fee and Commission Income
30
 363.86 
 498.27 
Net Gain on Fair Value Changes
31
 78.37 
 - 
Rendering of Services
32
 27,488.70 
 21,239.53 
Other Revenue From Operations
33
 535,360.04 
 394,924.37 
Total Revenue From Operations
 623,478.61 
 467,645.68 
Other Income
34
 6,447.26 
 18,677.30 
Total Income
 629,925.87 
 486,322.98 
Expenses
Finance Costs
35
 9,353.69 
 62,806.67 
Fee and Commission Expenses
36
 116,105.78 
 50,945.69 
Net Loss on Fair Value Changes
36A
 - 
 33.24 
Impairment and Loss Allowances on Financial Instruments (Net)
37
 12,985.11 
 (6,892.88)
Employee Benefits Expense
38
 104,731.40 
 92,894.14 
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
39
 7,170.40 
 5,614.55 
Other Expenses
40
 357,845.45 
 283,999.35 
Total Expenses
 608,191.83 
 489,400.76 
Profit / (Loss) Before Exceptional Items, Share in Joint Venture and Tax
 21,734.04 
 (3,077.78)
Exceptional Item - Liabilities written back (Net) owing to OTS
21.6
 23,034.62 
 328,941.07 
Share in Profit / (Loss) of Joint Venture
 - 
 - 
Profit Before Tax
 44,768.66 
 325,863.29 
Tax Expense / (Credit):
41
Current Tax
 11,071.27 
 9,069.83 
Taxes for earlier Years (written back) / provided
 (1,056.62)
 12.86 
Deferred Tax (Net)
 12.84 
 (81.13)
Total Tax Expense
 10,027.49 
 9,001.56 
Profit For The Year
 34,741.17 
 316,861.73 
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
(A)	
Items that will not be Reclassified to Profit or Loss
	
→	
Remeasurement (Loss) on Defined Benefit Plans
 (209.72)
 (167.35)
	
→	
Fair Value Gain / (Loss) on Equity Instruments Designated as FVTOCI 
 3,344.47 
 (255.28)
	
Tax Impact [(Expense) / Credit] on above items
41
 (807.98)
 112.66 
Subtotal (A)
 2,326.77 
 (309.97)
162
Annual Report 2023-2024
Particulars
Note 
No.
Year Ended
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
March 31, 2023 
(B)	
Items that will be Reclassified to Profit or Loss
	
→	
Net Gain / (Loss) on Other Approved Securities as FVTOCI
 3,115.80 
 (7,341.07)
	
→	
Exchange differences on translation of financial statements of foreign 
operations
 (0.52)
 1.18 
Subtotal (B)
 3,115.28 
 (7,339.89)
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (A + B)
 5,442.05 
 (7,649.86)
Total Comprehensive Income For The Year
 40,183.22 
 309,211.87 
Profit for the year attributable to:
a)	
Owners of the Holding Company
 23,291.03 
 308,168.62 
b)	
Non Controlling Interest
28
 11,450.14 
 8,693.11 
 34,741.17 
 316,861.73 
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) attributable to:
a)	
Owners of the Holding Company
 3,377.65 
 (4,960.49)
b)	
Non Controlling Interest
28
 2,064.40 
 (2,689.37)
 5,442.05 
 (7,649.86)
Total Comprehensive Income attributable to:
a)	
Owners of the Holding Company
 26,668.68 
 303,208.13 
b)	
Non Controlling Interest
28
 13,514.54 
 6,003.74 
 40,183.22 
 309,211.87 
Earnings Per Equity Share (In `)
42
Basic (Face value of `10 each, fully paid up)
 7.13 
 96.06 
Diluted (Face value of `10 each, fully paid up)
 7.07 
 94.67 
Overview, Principles of Consolidation, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes
1-3,43-56
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements	
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
163
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes In Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(a)	 Equity Share Capital
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Equity shares of `10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
Note No.
Nos.
Amounts
At April 01, 2022
318,809,312
31,880.93
Increase during the year
26
4,750,151
475.02
At March 31, 2023
323,559,463
32,355.95
Increase during the year
26
6,161,700
616.17
At March 31, 2024
329,721,163
32,972.12
(b)	 Other Equity
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
Share Application Money 
Received
Attributable to Owners of the 
Company
Non Controlling Interest
Total 
Securities Premium
Capital Redemption 
Reserve
Capital Reserve arising out 
of Composite Scheme of 
Arrangement
Capital Reserve on 
Consolidation
General reserve
Statutory Reserve
Short / (Excess) Payment 
for Shares in Subsidiaries 
Post Getting Control
Share Option Outstanding 
Account
Impairment Reserve
Reserve on Forfeiture of 
Share Warrant
Retained Earnings
Remeasurement Gain or 
(Loss) on Defined Benefit 
Plans (Net of Tax)
Fair Value Gain / (Loss) 
on Equity Instruments 
Designated as FVTOCI 
(Net of Tax)
Net Gain / (Loss) on Debt 
Securities FVTOCI
As at April 01, 2022
463,057.12 1,123.14 13,169.09 8,882.34 24,988.95 37,168.15 (4,227.26)
411.31
411.50 4,161.12 (682,543.09)
(259.36)
102.23
789.82
2,629.48
27.69 (130,107.77) 45,016.33 (85,091.44)
# Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
308,168.62
-
-
-
-
-
308,168.62
8,693.11 316,861.73
# On account of change in NCI 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
34.30
3.22
(0.95)
(5.82)
-
-
30.75
(30.75)
-
# Transfer from Retained Earnings (Net of NCI)
-
-
-
-
-
58,541.48
-
- (187.85)
-
(58,353.63)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
# On issue of Equity Shares by REL*
947.38
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
947.38
-
947.38
# On ESOP Adjustments
-
-
-
-
-
-
- (178.46)
-
-
16.35
-
-
-
-
-
(162.11)
(81.58)
(243.69)
# Share in Securities Premium received on 
issuance of shares to NCI in a subsidiary
(476.13)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(476.13)
-
(476.13)
# Proceed from issuance of shares to NCI 
share holders
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,068.91
11,068.91
# Share application money (adjusted) / received
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(27.69)
(27.69)
-
(27.69)
# Other Comprehensive (Loss)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(118.94)
(191.03)
(7,341.07)
1.18
-
(7,649.86)
-
(7,649.86)
# NCI in Other Comprehensive (Loss)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
51.33
66.91
2,571.13
-
-
2,689.37
(2,689.37)
-
As at March 31, 2023
463,528.37 1,123.14 13,169.09 8,882.34 24,988.95 95,709.63 (4,227.26)
232.85
223.65 4,161.12 (432,677.45)
(323.75)
(22.84) (3,985.94)
2,630.66
-
173,412.56 61,976.65 235,389.21
# Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
23,291.03
-
-
-
-
-
23,291.03
11,450.14
34,741.17
# On account of change in NCI 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(351.48)
16.17
(0.13)
122.25
-
-
(213.19)
213.19
-
# Transfer from Retained Earnings (Net of NCI)
-
-
-
-
-
1,348.35
-
- (223.65)
-
(1,124.70)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
# On issue of Equity Shares by REL*
3,214.03
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,214.03
-
3,214.03
# On ESOP Adjustments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(38.43)
-
-
0.08
-
-
-
-
-
(38.35)
(34.63)
(72.98)
# Share in Securities Premium received on 
issuance of shares to NCI in a subsidiary
4,197.29
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4,197.29
-
4,197.29
# Proceed from issuance of shares to NCI 
share holders
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7,478.29
7,478.29
# Transfer from Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
23.38
(23.38)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
164
Annual Report 2023-2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
Share Application Money 
Received
Attributable to Owners of the 
Company
Non Controlling Interest
Total 
Securities Premium
Capital Redemption 
Reserve
Capital Reserve arising out 
of Composite Scheme of 
Arrangement
Capital Reserve on 
Consolidation
General reserve
Statutory Reserve
Short / (Excess) Payment 
for Shares in Subsidiaries 
Post Getting Control
Share Option Outstanding 
Account
Impairment Reserve
Reserve on Forfeiture of 
Share Warrant
Retained Earnings
Remeasurement Gain or 
(Loss) on Defined Benefit 
Plans (Net of Tax)
Fair Value Gain / (Loss) 
on Equity Instruments 
Designated as FVTOCI 
(Net of Tax)
Net Gain / (Loss) on Debt 
Securities FVTOCI
# Share application money (adjusted) / received
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 350.98
350.98
-
350.98
# Adjustment due to dissolution of a subsidiary 
and Othes
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(3,619.86)
-
-
-
(2,630.14)
-
(6,250.00)
-
(6,250.00)
# Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(175.96)
2,502.73
3,115.80
(0.52)
-
5,442.05
-
5,442.05
# NCI in Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
15.40
(926.43)
(1,153.37)
-
-
(2,064.40)
2,064.40
-
As at March 31, 2024
470,939.69 1,123.14 13,169.09 8,882.34 24,988.95 97,057.98 (4,227.26)
194.42
- 4,161.12 (414,459.00)
(491.52)
1,553.33 (1,901.26)
- 350.98
201,342.00 83,148.04 284,490.04
* Including on conversion of Employee Stock Options issued by the Company.
Note: Refer Note 27.4 for nature and purpose of the different reserves.
Overview, Principles of Consolidation, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes 	 	
	
1 - 3, 43 - 56
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements
This is the Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Consolidated Statement of Changes In Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
165
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2023 
A.
Cash Flow From Operating Activities:
Profit Before Tax 
44,768.66
325,863.29
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
7,170.40
5,614.55
Finance Cost
9,118.01
62,658.52
Interest Income*
(48,548.78)
(34,479.43)
Dividend Income
(416.72)
(139.80)
(Profit) on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
(26.02)
(8.36)
(Profit) on Sale / Redemption of Investments
(1,160.01)
(419.38)
Share Based Payments (Reversed)
(73.07)
(503.18)
Credit Balances Written Back
(1,597.58)
(15,672.61)
Bad Debts, Balances and Loans Written Off 
31,653.14
23,786.38
ECL / Impairment Loss Made / (Reversed) 
(12,834.91)
(30,426.62)
Gain on One Time Settlement (OTS)
(23,034.62)
(328,941.07)
(Gain) / Loss on Fair Value Changes in Investments (Net)
(78.37)
33.24
Translation Reserve
(0.52)
(0.11)
Liability Toward Contingency Expense Written Back
-
(2,073.42)
Amortisation of Excess Interest Spread
21.81
8.20
Operating Profit before Working Capital changes
4,961.42
5,300.20
Adjustments for Changes in Working Capital:
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Trade Receivables
(7,089.53)
642.43
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Loans
30,025.90
53,403.30
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Financial Assets
(17,360.34)
(5,317.07)
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Inventories
(228.64)
21.27
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Non-Financial Assets
(4,045.24)
2,063.05
-	
Increase/(Decrease) in Trade and Other Payables
39,679.80
4,547.52
-	
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Financial Liabilities
20,321.72
22,007.00
-	
Increase/(Decrease) in Other Non-Financial Liabilities
13,902.29
8,779.51
-	
Increase/(Decrease) in Provisions
71,946.33
65,830.25
Cash generated from operations before taxes
152,113.71
157,277.46
-	
Taxes Refunded / (Paid) (Net)
(2,151.27)
(6,681.36)
Net Cash Generated From Operating Activities
149,962.44
150,596.10
B.
Cash Flow From Investing Activities:
Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
(2,140.82)
(4,039.92)
Proceeds from sale of Property, Plant and Equipments
36.56
73.78
Proceeds from Sale of Investments 
73,153.49
97,788.30
Purchase of Investments 
(228,039.57)
(231,512.40)
Amount Paid on Acquisition of a subsidiary
(300.00)
-
Change in Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(26,522.59)
9,317.31
Interest Income Received
48,593.17
34,354.14
Dividend Received
416.72
139.80
Net Cash (Used in) Investing Activities
(134,803.04)
(93,878.99)
166
Annual Report 2023-2024
Particulars 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2023 
C.
Cash Flow From Financing Activities:
Proceeds from issue of Share Capital (including securities premium)
3,830.20
1,394.72
Share Application Money Received (Net of Share Capital issued)
350.98
-
Proceeds/ (Repayment) for Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
2,834.82
(188,871.13)
Proceeds/ (Repayment) for Subordinated Liabilities (Net)
(26,750.00)
(23,913.81)
Principal Payment of Lease Liabilities
(2,630.65)
(1,904.56)
Proceeds from the Shares Issued to and Application Money from Non-Controlling Interest
11,675.53
10,852.23
Interest Expense on Lease Liabilities
(1,113.42)
(761.86)
Interest Paid other than on Lease Liabilities
(3,782.68)
(4,678.85)
Net Cash (Used in)  Financing Activities
(15,585.22)
(207,883.26)
Net (Decrease) in Cash & Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
(425.82)
(151,166.15)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the Year
20,515.22
171,666.90
Add: Effect of Exchange difference on Translation of Foreign Currency Cash & Cash 
Equivalents
-
14.47
Add: Cash and Cash Equivalents on Acquisition of a Subsidiary
5.60
-
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year
20,095.00
20,515.22
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year Comprises of (Refer Note 4)
Cash in Hand
0.94
3.97
Cheques on Hand
438.40
625.65
Stamp Papers On Hand 
4.29
6.67
Balances with Banks in Current Accounts
19,150.14
19,205.18
Balances with Banks in Fixed Deposits (including interest accrued)
501.23
673.75
Total
20,095.00
20,515.22
* Interest income does not include interest income from lending operations of `11,262.40 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `16,455.92 Lakhs).
Notes:
a)	
The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘indirect method’ as set out in Ind AS - 7 on ‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
b)	
Figures in bracket indicate cash outgo / income.
c)	
Previous year’s figures have been regrouped and rearranged wherever necessary to conform to the current year classification.
d)	
For reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities refer Note 44A.
Overview, Principles of Consolidation, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes	
	
1 - 3, 43 - 56
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
167
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1	
OVERVIEW
	
Religare Enterprises Limited (the ‘Company’ or ‘Holding 
Company’ or ‘REL’) is a leading emerging markets financial 
services company in India. REL was originally incorporated as 
a private limited company under the Companies Act, 1956 
on January 30, 1984. The Company was registered with the 
Reserve Bank of India as a Non- Banking Financial Company 
under section 45 IA of RBI Act, 1934 governed by erstwhile 
Non-Banking Financial (Non Deposit Accepting or Holding) 
Companies Prudential Norms (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2007 (“”NBFC Directions””).
	
The Company now holds the Certificate of Registration as a 
Non-Deposit Taking Systemically Important Core Investment 
Company (“CIC-ND-SI”) vide Certificate No. N-14.03222 dated 
June 3, 2014 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) and 
accordingly at present is governed by the directions contained 
in Master Direction – Core Investment Companies (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 2016 (“CIC Directions”). More than 90% of 
its total assets are invested in Non Current Investments in 
group companies. The Company has changed its registered 
office from First Floor, P-14, 45/90, P-Block, Connaught Place, 
New Delhi – 110001 to 1407, 14th Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, 
Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019  w.e.f. August 16, 2022.
	
REL is listed on the BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange) 
and National Stock Exchange (“”NSE””) in India.
	
The Religare Enterprises Limited is a diversified financial 
services group present across three verticals. REL offers an 
integrated suite of financial services through its underlying 
subsidiaries and operating entities, including loans to SMEs, 
Affordable Housing Finance, Health Insurance and Retail 
Broking.
	
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements relate 
to Religare Enterprise Limited and its Subsidiaries, Step 
Down Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture (referred to 
collectively as “the Group”).
	
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the Board of directors on May 21, 2024.
	
RBI Disclaimer:
	
(a)	
Reserve Bank of India does not accept any 
responsibility or guarantee about the present position 
as to the financial soundness of the Company or for the 
correctness of any of the statements or representations 
made or opinions expressed by the Company and for 
discharge of liability by the Company.
	
(b)	
Neither is there any provision in law to keep, nor does 
the Company keep any part of the deposits with the 
Reserve Bank of India and by issuing the Certificate 
of Registration to the Company, the Reserve Bank 
neither accepts any responsibility nor guarantee for 
the payment of the public funds to any person / body 
corporate.
2	
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND PRINCIPLES OF 
CONSOLIDATION
2.1	 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND PRESENTATION
	
(i)	
Statement of Compliance
	
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared and presented in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under Section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
and related amendments as notified from time to time, 
other relevant provisions of the Act, NBFC Directions 
and CIC Directions.
	
(ii)	 Basis of Measurement
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis and on an accrual basis, except 
for fair value through other comprehensive income 
(“FVOCI”) instruments, other financial assets held for 
trading and financial assets and liabilities designated 
at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), all of which 
have been measured at fair value. Further, the carrying 
values of recognised assets and liabilities that are 
hedged items in fair value hedges, and otherwise carried 
at amortised cost, are adjusted to record changes in fair 
value attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
	
(iii)	 Functional and Presentation Currency
	
	
Items included in the consolidated financial statements 
are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates 
(“the functional currency”). The financial statements are 
presented in Indian National Rupee (“INR” or “`”), which 
is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. 
All amounts have been rounded to Lakhs up to two 
decimals, unless otherwise indicated.
	
	
Due to rounding off, the numbers presented may not 
add up precisely to the totals and percentages may not 
precisely reflect the absolute figures. “
168
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iv)	 Use of Judgements and Estimates
	
	
In preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with Ind AS requires management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of accounting policies and the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, the disclosures 
of contingent liabilities and contingent assets as at the 
date of financial statements, income and expenses 
during the period. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimates are 
revised and in any future periods affected.
	
	
The management believes that the estimates used in 
preparation of financial statements are prudent and 
reasonable. Information about estimates and critical 
judgments made in applying accounting policies 
that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognized in the consolidated financial statements are 
as follows:
	
	
→	
Impairment Testing of Non-Financial Assets:
	
	
	
Impairment exists when the recoverable  amount 
of the asset or the cash generating unit to which 
these pertain is less than the carrying value. 
The recoverable amount of the asset or the cash 
generating units is higher of value-in-use and 
fair value less cost of disposal. The calculation of 
value-in-use of a cash generating unit involves use 
of significant estimates and assumptions which 
includes turnover, growth rates and net margins 
used to calculate projected future cash flows, 
risk-adjusted discount rate, future economic and 
market conditions.
	
	
→	
Provisions and Other Contingent Liabilities:
	
	
	
The Group operates in a regulatory and legal 
environment that, by nature, has a heightened 
element of litigation risk inherent to its operations. 
As a result, it is involved in various litigation, 
arbitration and regulatory investigations and 
proceedings in the ordinary course of the Group’s 
businesses. When the Group can reliably measure 
the outflow of economic benefits in relation to a 
specific case and considers such outflows to be 
probable, the Group records a provision against 
the case. Where the probability of outflow is 
considered to be remote, or probable, but a 
reliable estimate cannot be made, a contingent 
liability is disclosed.
	
	
	
Given 
the 
subjectivity 
and 
uncertainty 
of 
determining the probability and amount of losses, 
the Group takes into account a number of factors 
including legal advice, the stage of the matter 
and historical evidence from similar incidents. 
Significant judgement is required to conclude on 
these estimates.
	
	
→	
Defined Benefit Plans and Compensated 
Absences:
	
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit plans, compensated 
absences and the present value of the defined 
benefit obligations are based on actuarial valuation 
using the projected unit credit method. An actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. 
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these 
assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date.
	
	
→	
Income Taxes and Deferred Taxes:
	
	
	
Income Tax: The major tax jurisdictions for the 
Group is India. Significant judgments are involved 
in determining the provision for income taxes 
including judgment on whether tax positions are 
probable of being sustained in tax assessments. 
A tax assessment can involve complex issues, 
which can only be resolved over extended 
time periods.
	
	
	
Deferred Tax: Deferred tax is recorded on 
temporary differences between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at 
the rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date. The ultimate 
realization of deferred tax assets is dependent 
upon the generation of future taxable profits during 
the periods in which those temporary differences 
and tax loss carry-forwards become deductible. 
The Company considers the expected reversal of 
deferred tax liabilities and projected future taxable 
income in making this assessment. The amount 
of the deferred tax assets considered realizable, 
however, could be reduced in the near term if 
estimates of future taxable income during the 
carry-forward period are reduced.
169
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
The extent to which the Holding Company can 
control the timing of reversal of deferred tax liability 
on undistributed profits of its subsidiaries requires 
judgement. Further details of the deferred taxes is 
disclosed at Note 12.
	
	
→	
Impairment of Financial Asset / Expected 
Credit Losses (“ECL”) on Financial Assets:
	
	
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all 
categories of financial assets requires judgement, 
in particular, the estimation of the amount and 
timing of future cash flows and collateral values 
when determining impairment losses and the 
assessment of a significant increase in credit risk 
including Group’s internal credit. These estimates 
are driven by a number of factors, changes in 
which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
	
	
The Group’s ECL calculations are outputs of 
complex models with a number of underlying 
assumptions regarding the choice of variable 
inputs and their interdependencies. Also refer 
Notes 3(k) and 7.13.
	
	
→	
Fair 
Value 
Measurement 
of 
Financial 
Instruments:
	
	
	
The fair value of financial instruments is the price 
that would be received to sell an asset or paid 
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in 
the principal (or most advantageous) market at 
the measurement date under current market 
conditions (i.e., an exit price) regardless of whether 
that price is directly observable or estimated using 
another valuation technique. When the fair values 
of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded 
in the balance sheet cannot be derived from active 
markets, they are determined using a variety 
of valuation techniques that include the use of 
valuation models. The inputs to these models are 
taken from observable markets where possible, but 
where this is not feasible, estimation is required in 
establishing fair values. Judgments and estimates 
include considerations of liquidity and model 
inputs related to items such as credit risk (both 
own and counterparty), funding value adjustments, 
correlation and volatility. For further details about 
determination of fair value please see Notes 3(l) 
and 46.
	
	
→	
Business Model Assessment:
	
	
	
Classification and measurement of financial assets 
depends on the results of the solely payments of 
principal and interest  (“SPPI”) and the business 
model test. The Group determines the business 
model at a level that reflects how group of 
financial assets are managed together to achieve 
a particular business objective. This assessment 
includes judgment reflecting all relevant evidence 
including how the performance of the assets is 
evaluated and their performance measured, the 
risks that affect the performance of the assets and 
how these are managed and how the managers 
of the assets are compensated. The Group 
monitors financial assets measured at amortised 
cost or fair value through other comprehensive 
income that are derecognised prior to their 
maturity to understand the reason for their 
disposal and whether the reasons are consistent 
with the objective of the business for which the 
asset was held. Monitoring is part of the Group’s 
continuous assessment of whether the business 
model for which the remaining financial assets are 
held continues to be appropriate and if it is not 
appropriate whether there has been a change in 
business model and so a prospective change to 
the classification of those assets.
	
	
→	
Business combination:
	
	
	
In accounting for business combinations, judgment 
is required in identifying whether an identifiable 
intangible asset is to be recorded separately from 
goodwill. Additionally, estimating the acquisition 
date fair value of the identifiable assets (including 
useful life estimates) and liabilities acquired, 
and contingent consideration assumed involves 
management judgment.
	
	
	
These measurements are based on information 
available at the acquisition date and are based 
on expectations and assumptions that have been 
deemed reasonable by management. Changes in 
these judgments, estimates, and assumptions can 
materially affect the results of operations.
	
	
→	
Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) method
	
	
	
The Group’s EIR methodology, recognises interest 
income / expense using a rate of return that 
represents the best estimate of a constant rate 
170
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
of return over the expected behavioral life of 
loans given / taken and recognises the effect of 
potentially different interest rates at various stages 
and other characteristics of the product life cycle 
(including prepayments and penalty interest and 
charges). This estimation, by nature, requires an 
element of judgement regarding the expected 
behavior and life-cycle of the instruments, as well 
expected changes to India’s base rate and other 
fee income/expense that are integral parts of 
the instrument.
	
(v)	
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of 
liquidity. An analysis regarding recovery or settlement 
within 12 months after the reporting date and more 
than 12 months after the reporting date is presented in 
Note 43.
	
(vi)	 Impairment Reserve
	
	
Impairment reserve, created by the non banking 
financials companies of the Group, as stipulated by the 
Reserve Bank of India (“”RBI””) (Refer Note 27.4(xi)), is 
rolled up to the consolidated financials after elimination 
of the inter-companies transactions.
	
(vii)	 Recent Pronouncements
	
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standard or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 
as issued from time to time. There is no such notification 
which would have been applicable from April 1, 2024.
2.2	 PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
A.	
The consolidated financial statements relate to the Company 
and its Subsidiaries, Step Down Subsidiaries, Associates and 
Joint venture. The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on the following basis:
	
(i)	
The Company determines the basis of control in line with 
the requirements of Ind AS-110, ‘Consolidated Financial 
Statements’. The entities considered in consolidation are 
controlled by the Group.
	
	
The Group controls an entity when the Parent / Holding 
Company has the power over the entity, it is exposed 
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity.
	
(ii)	
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidated financial statements from the date 
on which control commences until the date on which 
control ceases. The Group re-assesses whether or not it 
controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that 
there are changes in control.
	
(iii)	
The financial statements of the Holding Company and its 
controlled entities are combined on a line by line basis 
by adding together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
incomes and expenses, after eliminating intra-group 
balances and intra-group transactions in full.
	
(iv)	
The consolidated financial statements are prepared 
by adopting uniform accounting policies for like 
transactions and other events in similar circumstances 
and are presented, to the extent possible, in the same 
manner as the Holding Company’s separate financial 
statements.
	
(v)	
Financial statement of subsidiaries used for the purpose 
of Consolidation are drawn up to the same reporting 
date as that of the Company.
	
(vi)	
The difference between the proceeds from disposal 
of investment in subsidiaries and the carrying amount 
of its assets less liabilities as on the date of disposal is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss being the profit or loss on disposal of investment in 
subsidiary.
	
(vii)	 Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding 
goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified 
separately from the Company’s equity. The interest of 
non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement 
basis is made on an acquisition to acquisition basis. 
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non 
controlling interest is the amount of those interests at 
initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share 
of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive 
income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if 
it results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit 
balance.
	
(viii)	 Equity accounted investees are entities in respect 
of which, the Company has significant influence, but 
not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
Generally, associates and joint venture companies 
171
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
B.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Religare Enterprises Limited / Holding Company include the 
financial statements of following entities:
Name of the Entity
% of equity shareholdings
Country of 
Incorporation / 
Place of Business
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Subsidiaries 
Religare Finvest Limited
100.00%
100.00%
India
Care Health Insurance Limited (formerly known as Religare Health 
Insurance Company Limited)
62.98%
64.98%
India
Religare Global Asset Management  Inc., USA (Refer Note 54(r))
-
100.00%
USA
Religare Broking Limited
100.00%
100.00%
India
Religare Credit Advisor Private Limited (formerly known as Religare 
Credit Advisors LLP) (Refer Note 54(k))
99.99%
99.99%
India
Religare Care Foundation (Holding Company holds 51% and Religare 
Broking Limited and Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited hold 24.50%, each of equity) (Refer Note B.1)
96.94%
96.94%
India
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (Refer Note B.2)
100.00%
-
India
Step Down Subsidiaries
Religare Commodities Limited (subsidiary of Religare Broking Limited)
100.00%
100.00%
India
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (subsidiary 
of Religare Finvest Limited)
87.50%
87.50%
India
Religare Digital Solutions Limited (subsidiary of Religare Broking Limited) 
100.00%
100.00%
India
Joint Venture
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited (formerly known Quadria 
Investment Management Private Limited)
50.00%
50.00%
India
	
Note - Also Refer Note C below
come under this category. Investments in such entities 
are accounted for using the equity method (equity 
accounted investees) and are initially recognized at 
cost. The carrying amount of investment is increased/ 
decreased to recognize investors’ share of profit or loss 
of the investee after the acquisition date post eliminating 
unrealized profits and losses resulting from transactions 
between the Company and its equity accounted entities 
to the extent of its share, through its Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss, to the extent such 
change is attributable to the equity accounted entities’ 
Statement of Profit and Loss and through its reserves for 
the balance based on available information.
	
(ix)	
As per Ind AS - 111, ‘Joint Arrangements’, when all the 
parties, or a group of the parties, considered collectively, 
are able to direct the activities that significantly affect the 
returns of the arrangement (i.e. the relevant activities), 
the parties control the arrangement collectively. 
After concluding that all the parties, or a group of 
the parties, control the arrangement collectively, an 
entity shall assess whether it has joint control of the 
arrangement. Joint control exists only when decisions 
about the relevant activities require the unanimous 
consent of the parties that collectively control the 
arrangement.
	
(x)	
In case, foreign subsidiaries have a functional 
currency other than Indian Rupees, revenue items are 
consolidated at the average rate prevailing during 
the month. All assets and liabilities are converted at 
rates prevailing at the reporting date. Any exchange 
difference arising on consolidation is recognised in the 
‘Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (“FCTR”)’. When a 
foreign subsidiary is disposed of, the relevant amount 
recognized in FCTR is transferred to the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit or Loss as part of the profit or loss on 
disposal.
172
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
B.1	 Religare Care Foundation (“RCF”) is a not-for-profit 
company (licensed under Section 8(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013) incorporated on February 04, 2022 to promote 
and implement the Corporate Social Responsibility 
agenda in the field of community development initiatives. 
The effective holding attributable to owners / equity 
shareholders of the Company comes to 96.94%.
	
B.2	 In terms of the Share Purchase Agreement dated April 05, 
2023 with IGEAR Holdings Private Limited (“IHPL”), The 
Indian Express Private Limited (“TIEPL”) and MIC Insurance 
Web Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”) for acquisition of 
100% stake in MIC, an IRDAI registered insurance web 
aggregator, the acquisition of MIC has been completed 
by the Company on December 08, 2023. Accordingly, it 
has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company 
on December 08, 2023 and its financial statements 
from the said date onwards have been incorporated / 
considered in the consolidated financial statements of 
the Company. Also refer Note 54(s).
	
B.3	 REL had entered into a Share Purchase Agreement on 
April 05, 2023 with Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a 
wholly owned subsidiary of REL and Religare Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited (“RHDFCL”), 
subsidiary company of RFL, for acquisition of entire 
equity stake of RHDFCL held by RFL. RFL currently holds 
87.5% of total share capital of RHDFCL. Post-acquisition, 
RHDFCL shall become a direct subsidiary of REL. 
The application seeking approval of RBI in the matter 
submitted by RHDFCL on April 18, 2023 has been 
returned by RBI with an advice to submit a fresh 
application with complete information, for which RHDFCL 
is taking the necessary steps.
C.	
Though the Company has investment in the equity shares 
of ‘Religare Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”)’, however, the 
right to exercise control through voting rights is not available 
with the Company. Besides this, in terms of the tripartite 
agreement between the Company, RCML and ‘RHC Holding 
Private Limited’, severe long term restrictions and significant 
restrictive covenants have been imposed on major decision 
making at RCML, by the holders of preference shares in RCML. 
Considering the same, the financial statements of RCML and 
its subsidiaries have not been considered in the consolidated 
financial statements of the Company, in accordance with the 
applicable Indian Accounting Standards. The Company has 
fully impaired the value of its investment in RCML. The net 
worth of the RCML as per the last audited financial statements 
as at March 31, 2017 was negative by ` 61,971.95 Lakhs, 
and thereafter, the financial statements/results of RCML are 
not available with the Company. There is a contingent liability 
of ` 4,078 Lakhs towards uncalled equity shares capital of 
RCML.  Also refer note 54(m).
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION
(a)	 Property, Plant and Equipment (“PPE”)
	
Freehold lands are carried at historical cost. Other items of 
property, plant and equipment are measured at historical cost, 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and any 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its location and 
working condition for its intended use, including relevant 
borrowing costs and any expected costs of decommissioning. 
If significant parts of an item of PPE have different useful 
lives, then they are accounted for as separate items (major 
components) of PPE.
	
Subsequent costs are included in the PPE’s carrying value  or 
recognised as separate asset only when, it is probable that 
the economic benefits associated with the item will flow to 
the Group in future periods and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. Expenditure, incurred after the PPE have 
been put into operations, such as repairs and maintenance 
expenses are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss 
during the period in which they are incurred.
	
An item of PPE is de-recognised upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
continued use of the assets. Any gain or loss, arising on the 
disposal or retirement of an item of PPE, is determined as 
the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
Capital work-in-progress includes cost of property, plant and 
equipment under installation / under development as at the 
balance sheet date. Advances paid towards the  acquisition 
of property, plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date is classified as capital advances under ‘Other 
Non-Financial Assets’.
(b)	 Depreciation
	
Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable 
amount of an asset over its useful life. Depreciable amount for 
assets is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for 
cost, less its estimated residual value. Land is not depreciated.
173
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets has been provided on the straight-line method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013 or the rates based on the useful life of the asset as estimated by the Management taking into account the 
nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, anticipated 
technological changes, manufacturers warranties and maintenance support, etc. which has a significant impact on the useful life of an 
asset. The estimated useful lives are, as follows:
Asset Description
Useful life and rates specified in 
Schedule II of Companies Act, 2013 
Useful life and rates considered  
by the Group
Useful Life of 
Asset (In year)
Depreciation 
Rate (%) 
Useful Life of 
Asset (In year)
Depreciation 
Rate (%) 
Office Equipments
5
20%
2 to 5
20% to 50%
Server and Networks
6
16.67%
5 to 6
16.67% to 20%
Laptop, Desktop etc.
3
33.33%
3
33.33%
Electrical Installation & Equipments
10
10%
5 to 10
10% to 20%
Furniture and Fixtures
10
10%
5 to 10
10% to 20%
Car
8
12.50%
5 to 8
12.5% to 20%
Right-of-Use Assets*
Lease Period
Lease Period
Leasehold Improvement**
Lease Period
Lease Period
	
* Company’s Right-of-Use Assets mainly consist of office premises, motor vehicles and office equipment and are amortized over the lease period. Also refer Note 3(j)(i).
	
** Leasehold Improvements are amortized over the primary lease period, which corresponds with the useful lives of the assets.
	
Individual assets costing up to ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in 
the year in which they are acquired.
	
Depreciation is provided for on a pro-rata basis on the assets 
acquired, sold or disposed off during the year.
	
Useful life of the part of PPE which is significant to the total 
cost of PPE, has been separately assessed and depreciation 
has been provided accordingly.
	
The estimated useful lives, residual values and the depreciation 
method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, 
with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a 
prospective basis.
(c)	 Intangible Assets
	
Intangible 
assets 
acquired 
by 
the 
Group 
are 
measured at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the assets are measured at cost, less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when they 
increase the future economic benefits embodied in the 
specific asset to which they relate.
	
An item of intangible asset is derecognised when no future 
economic benefit are expected to arise from the continued 
use of the asset or upon disposal. Any gain or loss on disposal 
of an item of intangible assets is recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
Computer software which is not an Integral part of the related 
hardware is classified as an intangible asset and is being 
amortised over the estimated useful life. The estimated useful 
lives of Intangible assets are 3 to 6 years.
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition/development of 
software outstanding at each balance sheet date is classified 
as capital advances under ‘Other Non-Financial Assets’ 
and the cost of assets not put to use before such date are 
disclosed under ‘Intangible Assets Under Development’.
(d)	 Amortisation
	
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised 
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. 
The amortisation period are reviewed at least at each financial 
year end. If the expected useful life of the asset is significantly 
different from previous estimates, the amortization period is 
changed accordingly.
(e)	 Goodwill
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous 
174
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed.
	
Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that it might be impaired and is arrived 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
	
Impairment
	
Cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated are 
tested for impairment annually at each balance sheet date, or 
more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may 
be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment 
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to that unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro rata on the basis of carrying amount of each 
asset in the unit. Goodwill impairment loss recognized is not 
reversed in subsequent period.
	
Disposed of
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit 
and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included 
in the carrying amount of the operation when determining 
the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these 
circumstances is measured based on the relative values of 
the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating 
unit retained.
(f)	 Earnings per Share (“EPS”)
	
The basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net 
profit / loss attributable to the equity shareholders for the year 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the reporting year. Diluted earnings per share reflect the 
potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts 
to issue equity shares were exercised or converted during the 
year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the 
net profit after tax by the weighted average number of equity 
shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during 
the year. In considering whether potential equity shares are 
dilutive or anti-dilutive, each issue or series of potential equity 
shares is considered separately rather than in aggregate. 
In computing dilutive earnings per share, only potential equity 
shares that are dilutive are considered.
(g)	 Taxes on Income
	
Current Tax
	
(i)	
The income tax expense or credit for the year is the 
tax payable on the current year’s taxable income in 
accordance with the applicable income tax rates for 
each jurisdiction adjusted to unused tax losses.
	
(ii)	
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute amount are 
those that are enacted, or substantively enacted, by the 
reporting date in the countries where the Group operates 
and generates taxable income. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
	
(iii)	
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside 
profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax 
items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
(iv)	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are 
offset where the entity has a legally enforceable 
right to set off the recognised amounts; and 
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Current tax for current and prior periods shall, to the 
extent unpaid, be recognised as a liability. If the amount 
already paid in respect of current and prior periods 
exceeds the amount due for those periods, the excess 
shall be recognised as an asset.
	
Deferred Tax
	
(v)	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at 
the reporting date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes.
	
(vi)	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except deferred tax liability 
arising from:
	
	
>>	
The initial recognition of goodwill; or
	
	
>>	
The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction which is not a business combination 
and at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss); or
	
	
>>	
The 
temporary 
differences 
between 
the 
carrying amount and tax bases on investments 
in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and 
interests in joint arrangements where the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of 
the temporary difference; and it is probable that 
175
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
	
(vii)	 A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary difference can be utilised, except 
deferred tax assets arising from:
	
	
>>	
The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination; 
and at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss); or
	
	
>>	
The 
temporary 
differences 
between 
the 
carrying amount and tax bases on investments 
in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and 
interests in joint arrangements where it is not 
probable that the temporary difference will reverse 
in the foreseeable future; and taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary difference 
can be utilised.
	
	
A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for the 
carryforward of unused tax losses and unused tax 
credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profit will be available against which the unused tax 
losses and unused tax credits can be utilised.
	
(viii)	 Deferred tax assets and liabilities shall be measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period 
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
	
(ix)	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit 
or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax 
items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
(x)	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset 
if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred 
taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
	
(xi)	
The group company dealing in housing finance 
continues to create the deferred tax liability on ‘Special 
Reserve’ created and maintained under section 36(1)
(viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 .
	
(xii)	 Minimum Alternate Tax (“MAT”) credit is recognised as 
an asset only when and to the extent there is convincing 
evidence that the entity will pay normal income tax 
during the specified period. Such asset is reviewed at 
each Balance Sheet date and the carrying amount of the 
MAT credit asset is written down to the extent there is no 
longer a convincing evidence to the effect that the entity 
will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
(h)	 Repossed Assets held for sale
	
Assets acquired in satisfaction of debts are disclosed in the 
balance sheet at outstanding principal loan amount or market 
value (as per valuation reports) whichever is lower. In case the 
market value of assets acquired is lower than the outstanding 
principal loan amount, difference is charged to the Statement 
of Profit and Loss. In case the market value of assets acquired 
cannot be determined, assets are recognised at a nominal 
value.
	
The outstanding overdue interest, other charges and interest 
from the date of settlement till the disposal of such assets are 
accounted on realization basis. Any money realized over and 
above the principal outstanding in either of these categories 
such as interest or other charges etc. are booked under the 
respective heads of the Statement of Profit and Loss. Further, if 
on disposal of these assets, the sale proceeds are higher than 
the loan amount (including outstanding overdue interest, 
other charges and interest from the date of settlement till the 
disposal of such assets), then the Group refunds the excess 
amount to the customers, unless agreed otherwise at the time 
of acquiring assets in satisfaction of debts with the customers.
(i)	
Inventories
	
The inventories are valued at cost or net realizable value 
whichever is lower. Cost of inventories include all other costs 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Cost of purchase of inventory is determined 
after deducting rebates and discounts. Net realizable value is 
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated 
costs necessary to make the sale.
(j)	 Leases
	
At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether 
a contract is, or contains a lease. A contract is, or contains 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset, the Group uses the 
definition of a lease in Ind AS 116.
176
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(i)	
Group as a lessee:
	
	
At commencement or on modification of a contract 
that contains a lease component, the Group allocates 
the consideration in the contract to each lease 
component on the basis of its relative standalone prices. 
However, for leases of property, the Group has elected 
not to separate non – lease components and account 
for the lease and non – lease components as a single 
lease component.
	
	
The Group recognizes a right – of – use asset and a lease 
liability at the lease commencement date. The right- of – 
use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises 
the initial amount of the lease  liability adjusted for any 
lease payments made at or before the commencement 
date plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate 
of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or 
to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is 
located, less any lease incentives received.
	
	
The right- of – use asset is subsequently depreciated 
using the straight – line method from the commencement 
date to the end of the lease term, unless the lease 
transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the Group 
by the end of the lease term or the cost of the right – 
of – use asset reflects that the Group will exercise a 
purchase option. In that case the right – of – use asset 
will be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying 
asset, which is determined on the same basis as those 
of property and equipment. In addition, the right – of – 
use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, 
if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the 
lease liability.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the 
present value of the lease payments that are not 
paid 
at 
the 
commencement 
date, 
discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that 
rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. 
The Group determines its incremental borrowing rate by 
obtaining interest rates from various external financing 
sources and makes certain adjustments to reflect the 
terms of the lease and type of the asset leased.
	
	
Lease payment included in the measurement of lease 
liability comprise the following:
	
	
# Fixed payments, including in – substance fixed 
payments;
	
	
# Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a 
rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date;
	
	
# Amounts expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee; and
	
	
# The exercise price under a purchase option that the 
Group is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments 
in an optional renewal period if the Group is reasonably 
certain to exercise an extension option, and penalties 
for early termination of a lease unless the Group is 
reasonably certain not to terminate early.
	
	
The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using 
the effective interest method. It is remeasured when 
there is a change in future lease payments arising from 
a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the 
Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable 
under a residual value guarantee, if the Group changes 
its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, 
extension or termination option or if there is a revised 
in – substance fixed lease payment.
	
	
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a 
corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying 
amount of the right – of – use asset, or is recorded in 
profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right – of – use 
asset has been reduced to zero.
	
	
The Group reports right – of – use assets that do not 
meet the definition of investment property separately 
and lease liabilities under the head ‘Other Financial 
Liabilities’.
	
	
Short – term leases and leases of low value assets
	
	
The Group has elected not to recognize right – of 
– use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low – 
value assets and short – term leases. The Company 
recognizes the lease payments associated with these 
leases as an expense on a straight – line basis over the 
lease term.
	
(ii)	 Group as a lessor:
	
	
A lessor is an entity that provides the right to use an 
underlying asset for a period of time in exchange for a 
consideration. The Group, in cases, where it is a lessor, 
classify each of its leases as either a finance lease or 
an operating lease. A lease is classified as a finance 
lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to the ownership of an underlying asset. 
177
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental 
to the ownership of an underlying asset.
	
	
Finance Lease
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group 
recognizes assets held under a finance lease in its balance 
sheet and present them as a receivable at an amount 
equal to the net investment in the lease. Thereafter, the 
Group recognizes finance income over the lease term, 
based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of 
return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease.
	
	
Operating Lease
	
	
The Group recognizes lease payments from operating 
leases as income either on a straight-line basis or 
another systematic basis if that systematic basis is more 
representative of the pattern in which benefit from the 
use of the underlying asset is diminished.
(k)	 Financial Instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a 
financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
	
(i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in 
its balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value, except for trade receivables. 
Transaction costs, that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss), are added to 
or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or 
financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs, directly attributable to the acquisition 
of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss, are recognised immediately in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
Regular way purchase and sale of financial assets are 
recognise at trade date (i.e. the date when an entity 
commits to purchase or sell an asset). Regular way 
purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial 
asset under a contract whose terms require delivery of 
the asset within the time frame established generally by 
regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned.
	
	
Trade receivables, do not contain a significant financing 
component in accordance with Ind AS 115, are initially 
measured at their transaction price.
	
	
When the transaction price of the financial instrument 
differs from the fair value at origination and the fair value 
is evidenced by a quoted price in an active market or for 
an identical asset or liability or is based on a valuation 
technique using only inputs observable in market 
transactions, the Group recognises the difference 
between the transaction price and fair value as a gain 
or loss, in net gain/loss on fair value changes. In those 
cases where fair value is based on models for which 
some of the inputs are not observable, the difference 
between the transaction price and the fair value is 
deferred and is only recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss when the inputs become observable, or 
when the instrument is derecognised.
	
(ii)	 Classification and Subsequent Measurement
	
(A) 	 Financial Assets
	
	
(A)(1) Debt Instruments
	
	
The Group classifies debt instruments based their 
subsequent measurements that depends on the group’s 
business model for managing the financial assets and 
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial 
asset. There are three measurement categories into 
which the Group classifies its debt instruments:
	•
Amortised Cost: Asset is measured at amortised cost if 
both of the following conditions are met:
	
	
(i)	
the financial asset is held within a business model 
whose, objective is to hold financial assets in order 
to collect contractual cash flows, and
	
	
(ii)	
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise 
on specified dates to cash flows, that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (“SPPI”) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
	•
Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 
(“FVTOCI”): Asset is measured at FVTOCI if both of the 
following conditions are met:
	
	
(i)	
the financial asset is held within a business model, 
whose objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling financial 
assets, and
178
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(ii)	
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise 
on specified dates to cash flows, that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
	•
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (“FVTPL”): Asset is 
measured at FVTPL unless it is measured at amortised 
cost or at FVTOCI.
	
	
(A)(2) Equity Instruments
	
	
All equity investments are measured at fair value. 
Equity instruments, which are held for trading, are 
classified as at FVTPL. For equity instruments other than 
held for trading, the Group has not exercised irrevocable 
option to recognise in other comprehensive income 
subsequent changes in the fair value. Such classification 
is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
The Company has accounted for its investment in 
Subsidiaries at cost. The investments in associates and 
joint ventures are accounted using equity method as per 
Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
	
	
(A)(3) Derivatives
	
	
Derivatives recorded at fair value through profit or loss.
	
	
Impairment of Financial Assets / Expected Credit 
Losses (“ECL”)
	
	
The Group applies the expected credit loss model 
for recognizing impairment loss on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost, debt instruments, trade 
receivables and other financial assets. Expected Credit 
Loss (“ECL”) is the difference between the contractual 
cash flows and the cash flows that the entity expects to 
receive, discounted using the effective interest rate.
	
	
# Simplified Approach
	
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition 
of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. 
The application of simplified approach does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based 
on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. The Group uses a provision matrix 
to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio 
of its trade receivables. The provision matrix is based 
on its historically observed default rates over the 
expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted 
for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, 
the historical observed default rates are updated for 
changes in the forward-looking estimates.”
	
	
# Stages Approach
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not 
increased significantly, 12-Months ECL (“12mECL”) is 
used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit 
risk is increased significantly, Life Time ECL (“LTECL”) 
is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the 
instrument improves such that there is no longer a 
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, 
the Group revert to recognising impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-months ECL.
	
	
To mitigate its credit risks on financial assets, the Group 
seeks to use collateral, where possible. The collateral 
comes in various forms, such as cash, securities, letters of 
credit/guarantees, real estate, receivables, inventories, 
other non-financial assets and credit enhancements 
such 
as 
netting 
agreements. 
Collateral, 
unless 
repossessed, is not recorded on the Group’s balance 
sheet. However, the fair value of collateral affects the 
calculation of ECLs.
	
	
It is generally assessed, at a minimum, at inception and 
re-assessed on a quarterly basis. To the extent possible, 
the Company uses active market data for valuing 
financial assets held as collateral. Other financial assets 
which do not have readily determinable market values 
are valued using models. Non-financial collateral, such 
as real estate, is valued by the Company’s appointed 
valuers.
	
	
The Group has established a policy to perform an 
assessment, at the end of each reporting period, of 
whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has increased 
significantly since initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the 
remaining life of the financial instrument. The Group 
does the assessment of significant increase in credit risk 
at a borrower level. If a borrower has various facilities 
having different past due status, then the highest days 
past due (“DPD”) is considered to be applicable for all 
the facilities of that borrower.
	
	
The Group calculates ECL based on total loans 
receivable (including accrued interest) which are divided 
into segments based upon the industry in which the 
customer is operating.
179
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined 
below and the key elements are, as follows:
	
	
PD - The Probability of Default (“PD”) is an estimate of the 
likelihood of default over a given time horizon.
	
	
EAD - The Exposure at Default (“EAD”) is an estimate 
of the exposure at a reporting date, taking into account 
repayments of principal and interest, whether scheduled 
by contract or otherwise and accrued interest from 
missed repayments. The EAD is sum total of outstanding 
principal and accrued interest, if any, on the reporting 
date.
	
	
LGD - The Loss Given Default (“LGD”) is an estimate 
of the loss arising in case where a default occurs at a 
given time. It is based on the difference between the 
contractual cash flows due and those that the lender 
would expect to receive, including from the realisation 
of any collateral. It is usually expressed as a percentage 
of the EAD.
	
	
The maximum period for which the credit losses are 
determined is the contractual life of a financial instrument 
unless the Company has the legal right to call it earlier.
	
	
Based on the above process, the Group categorises 
its loans into Stage 1, Stage 2, Stage 3, as described 
below:
	
	
Stage 1: The 12m ECL represents expected credit 
loss from default events on a financial instrument that 
are possible within the 12 months from the reporting 
date. These expected 12 months default probabilities 
are applied to the Exposure at Defaults (“EAD”) and 
multiplied by the expected Loss Given Defaults (“LGD”) 
and discounted by an approximation to the Rate of 
Interest (“ROI”) as at reporting date.
	
	
Stage 2: When a loan has shown a significant increase 
in credit risk since origination, the Group records an 
allowance for the LTECL. The mechanism is similar 
to that explained above, but the Probability of Default 
(“PD”) and LGD are estimated over the lifetime of the 
instrument. The expected cash shortfalls are discounted 
by an approximation to the ROI as at reporting date.
	
	
Stage 3: For loans considered credit impaired, the 
Group recognises the lifetime expected credit losses for 
these loans. The method is similar to that for Stage 2.
	
	
Purchased or Originated Credit Impaired (“POCI”): The 
newly recognised loans are classified as Stage 1 for ECL 
measurement purposes, unless the new loan is deemed 
to be POCI. For POCI financial assets, the Group only 
recognises the cumulative changes in LTECL since initial 
recognition in the loss allowance.
	
	
POCI assets are financial assets that are credit impaired 
on initial recognition. POCI assets are recorded at fair 
value at original recognition and interest income is 
subsequently recognised based on a credit-adjusted 
EIR. ECLs are only recognised or released to the extent 
that there is a subsequent change in the expected credit 
losses.
	
	
However, as per circular NHB / DRS / Policy Circular 
No-88 / 89 / 2017-18, Housing Finance Companies 
(“HFC”) are required to follow the extant direction on 
Prudential Norms, including on assets classification, 
provisioning etc. issued by the National Housing Bank 
(“NHB”).
	
	
In its ECL models, the Group relies on a broad range of 
forward looking information as economic inputs, such as: 
GDP growth. The inputs and models used for calculating 
ECLs may not always capture all characteristics of the 
market at the date of the financial statements. To reflect 
this, qualitative adjustments or overlays are occasionally 
made as temporary adjustments when such differences 
are significantly material.
	
	
Write-offs
	
	
The Group directly reduces the gross carrying amount of 
a financial asset when it has no reasonable expectations 
of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion 
thereof. A write-off constitutes a derecognition event.
	
	
Any subsequent recoveries are credited in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
(B)	 Financial Liabilities and Equity
	
	
Debt and equity instruments, issued by the Group, 
are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity 
in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability 
and an equity instrument.
180
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(B)(1) Equity
	
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of the Company after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, 
net of direct issue costs.
	
	
(B)(2) Financial Liabilities
	
	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and 
other payables, loans and borrowings including bank 
overdrafts and financial guarantee contracts.
	
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their 
classification, as described below:
	
	
(B)(2)(i) Financial Liabilities at FVTPL
	
	
Financial liabilities at FVTPL include financial liabilities 
held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon 
initial recognition as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities are 
classified as held for trading, if they are incurred for the 
purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category 
also includes derivative financial instruments entered 
into by the Group that are not designated as hedging 
instruments in hedge relationships as defined by 
Ind 
AS 
109. 
Separated 
embedded 
derivatives 
are also classified as held for trading, unless they 
are designated as effective hedging instruments. 
Financial liabilities, designated upon initial recognition 
at FVTPL, are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are 
satisfied.
	
	
(B)(2)(ii) Loans and Borrowings
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) method. 
Gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss when the liabilities are derecognised 
as well as through the EIR amortisation process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation 
is included as finance costs in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
	
Preference shares that are compulsorily redeemable on 
a specific date, are classified as liabilities. The dividend 
on that preference shares are recoganised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss as finance cost.
	
	
(B)(2)(iii) Financial guarantees and undrawn 
loan commitments
	
	
Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the 
financial statements at fair value, being the premium/
deemed premium received. The premium/deemed 
premium is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
on a straight line basis over the life of the guarantee.
	
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’s liability 
under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the 
ECL on guarantee and amount initially recognised less 
cumulative amortisation recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
The nominal contractual value of undrawn loan 
commitments, where the loan agreed to be provided is 
on market terms, are reported as contingent liabilities in 
the financial statements.
	
	
(B)(2)(iv) Borrowing costs attributable to the 
qualifying assets
	
	
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying 
asset form part of the cost of that asset.
	
(iii)	 Derecognition
	
(A) 	 Financial Assets
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
derecognised when:
	
	
# The rights to receive cash flows from the financial 
asset have expired, or
	
	
# It retains the rights to the cash flows, but has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows 
in full without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass–through’ arrangement; and either (a) Group has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Group has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards and has 
retained control of the asset, the asset continues to be 
recognised only to the extent of the Group’s continuing 
involvement, in which case, the Group also recognises 
an associated liability. The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects 
181
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. 
Continuing 
involvement 
that 
takes 
the 
form 
of a guarantee over the transferred asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying 
amount of the asset and the maximum amount of 
consideration the Group could be required to pay. 
If continuing involvement takes the form of a written or 
purchased option (or both) on the transferred asset, the 
continuing involvement is measured at the value the 
Group would be required to pay upon repurchase. In the 
case of a written put option on an asset that is measured 
at fair value, the extent of the entity’s continuing 
involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the 
transferred asset and the option exercise price.
	
(B)	 Financial Liabilities
	
	
liabilities are derecognized when these are extinguished, 
that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or has 
expired. Where an existing financial liability is replaced 
by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification 
is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and 
the recognition of a new liability. The difference between 
the carrying value of the original financial liability and the 
consideration paid is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
(iv)	 Reclassification of Financial Instruments
	
	
The Group does not reclassify its financial assets 
subsequent to their initial recognition, apart from 
the exceptional circumstances in which the Group 
acquires, disposes of, or terminates a business line. 
Financial liabilities are never reclassified.
	
(v)	 Offsetting Financial Instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally 
reported gross in the balance sheet. Financial assets 
and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount 
presented in the balance sheet where there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and there is 
intention to settle them on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
	
(vi)	 Effective Interest Rate Method
	
	
Under Ind AS 109 interest income and expenses 
are recorded using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) 
method for all financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost, debt instrument measured at FVOCI 
and debt instruments designated at FVTPL. The EIR is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial 
instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, 
to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
The EIR (and therefore, the amortised cost of the 
asset or liabilities) is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition, fees and 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The Group 
recognises interest income and expenses using a 
rate of return that represents the best estimate of a 
constant rate of return over the expected life of the 
loan. Hence, it recognises the effect of potentially 
different interest rates charged at various stages, 
and other characteristics of the product life cycle 
(including prepayments, penalty interest and charges). 
If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial 
asset or liabilities are revised for reasons other than credit 
risk, the adjustment is booked as a positive or negative 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset in the 
balance sheet with an increase or reduction in interest 
income / expense. The adjustment is subsequently 
amortised through Interest income / expense in the 
statement of profit and loss.”
	
	
For more information on financial instruments please 
refer Note 46.
(l)	
Determination of fair value
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset 
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. The fair value 
measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	•
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	•
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the 
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing 
the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in 
their economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant 
that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 
182
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in 
the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities (for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements) are categorised 
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets 
for identical assets or liabilities.
	
Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
	
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines 
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the 
hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as 
a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
The Group estimates the value of its own credit from market 
observable data, such as secondary prices for its traded debt 
and the credit spread on credit default swaps and traded 
debts on itself.
	
The Group evaluates the levelling at each reporting period on 
an instrument-by-instrument basis and reclassifies instruments 
when necessary based on the facts at the end of the reporting 
period. Refer Note 46.
(m)	 Revenue recognition
	
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic benefit will flow to the Group and the revenue can 
be reliably measured.
	
(i)	
Insurance Premium Income: Premium (Net of Goods and 
Service Tax) is recognized as income over the contract 
period or period of risk, on the commencement of risk. 
In case of government scheme / policy, the premium is 
recognized to the extent of certainty of its realization. 
Any subsequent revisions to premium and adjustments 
on cancellation of policies are recognized in the year 
/ period in which they occur. The Net Premium Written 
(Net of Reinsurance ceded) is adjusted / netted of by 
the amount of movement of Unearned Premium Reserve 
to arrive at the net premium earned. The premium 
on insurance policies issued on installment basis is 
recognized as and when the installment premium is 
received subject to above principles.
	
	
Reinsurance Premium Ceded: Insurance premium on 
ceding of the risk is recognized in the period in which 
the risk commences in accordance with reinsurance 
arrangements with the reinsurers. Any subsequent 
revision to premium ceded is recognized in the period 
of such revision. Adjustment to reinsurance premium 
arising on cancellation of policies is recognized in the 
period in which they are cancelled. Premium on excess 
of loss reinsurance cover is accounted as premium 
ceded as per the reinsurance arrangements.
	
	
Reinsurance Acceptance: The results of a reinsurance 
accepted are accounted as per the last available 
statement of accounts/confirmation from reinsurers.
	
(ii)	
Income From Reinsurance Ceded: 
Commission 
on reinsurance ceded is adjusted / netted off from 
commission expense in the period of ceding the risk. 
Profit Commission under reinsurance treaties, wherever 
applicable, is recognized as income in the year of final 
determination of profits and combined with commission 
on reinsurance ceded.
	
(iii)	 Dividend Income: It is recognised when the Group’s 
right to receive the payment has been established.
	
(iv)	 Interest 
Income: 
Interest 
income 
on 
financial 
instruments are recorded using the effective interest 
rate (“EIR”) to the gross carrying amount of financial 
assets other than credit-impaired assets. EIR is the 
rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash 
payments or receipts through the expected life of the 
financial instrument to the gross carrying amount of the 
financial asset.
	
	
When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired 
interest income is calculated by applying the EIR to 
the net amortised cost of the financial asset subject 
to availability of security and management estimate 
regarding recoverability. If the financial assets cures 
and is no longer credit-impaired, the Group reverts to 
calculating interest income on a gross basis.
183
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Interest income is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss for FVTOCI debt instruments. 
Other changes in fair value of FVTOCI financial assets 
are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain 
or loss previously accumulated in reserves is transferred 
to the consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
Interest income is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss for FVTPL debt instruments.
	
(v)	
Net Gain / Loss on Fair value Changes: Any differences 
between the fair values of financial assets classified as 
fair value through the profit or loss, held by the Group on 
the balance sheet date is recognised as an unrealised 
gain / loss. In cases there is a net gain in the aggregate, 
the same is recognised as income and if there is a net 
loss the same is disclosed as expenses.
	
(vi)	 Broking Income: Revenue from broking activities are 
accounted on the trade date of transaction.
	
(vii)	 Delayed Payment Charges / Interest Income From 
Delayed Payments: Delayed Payment Charge is 
recognised on a time proportion basis taking into 
account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable, 
where there is no uncertainty regarding the realisation.
	
(viii)	 Interest income on Margin Trade Financing (“MTF”): 
Interest income on MTF is recognised on a time 
proportion basis taking into account the amount 
outstanding and the rate applicable, where there is no 
uncertainty regarding the realisation.
	
(ix)	 Income from depository operation except for Annual 
Maintenance Charges (“AMC”) is accounted for on 
accrual basis. AMC are recognised on time basis over 
the period of contract.
	
(x)	
Income from direct assignment: Gains arising out of 
direct assignment transactions comprise the difference 
between the interest on the loan portfolio and the 
applicable rate at which the direct assignment is 
entered into with the assignee, also known as the right 
of excess interest spread (“EIS”). The future EIS basis the 
scheduled cash flows on execution of the transaction, 
discounted at the applicable rate entered into with 
the assignee is recorded upfront in the statement of 
profit and loss. EIS evaluated and adjusted for ECL and 
expected prepayment.
	
(xi)	 Other Income
	
-	
Charges recoverable from customers are recognised 
upon receipt of the same.
	
-	
Interest income on fixed deposit and bonds are 
recognised on time proportion basis.
	
-	
Income from mutual fund investment is recognised upon 
receipt of the same.
	
-	
Income from brokerage is recognized on accrual basis 
when the company satisfies the performance obligation.
	
-	
Profit/Loss earned on sale of Investment is recognised 
on trade date basis, net of expenses. The cost of 
investment is computed based on weighted average 
basis.
	
-	
Commission earned from distribution of financial 
products is recognised, when the amount and right to 
receive is ascertained.
	
-	
Income from Trading of Bullion/Agri Commodities is 
recognized on accrual basis.
	
-	
Income from Trading in Derivative Transactions is 
recognized on accrual basis.
	
-	
Revenue  from E-Governance Services [Except Digital 
Signature Certificate (“DSC”) with and without USB token] 
is recognized at  point in time when acknowledgement 
is issued by the Branch. Sales of DSC Token with or 
without USB are recognised on transfer of significant 
risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer as per the 
terms of contract, and no uncertainty exists regarding 
the amount of consideration that will be derived from 
sales of DSC.
	
 -	
Revenue from other e-governance services (like 
Ticketing Services, Business Correspondent for banking 
services, Domestic Money Transfer (“DMT”), Micro ATM 
(“MATM”), Aadhaar Enabled Payment Services (“AEPS”), 
Bharat Bill Payment Systems (“BBPS”) and Recharges 
etc.) are recognised on the date of transaction.
	
-	
Revenue from National Pension System (“NPS”) towards 
initial subscriber registration, contribution upload 
charges and other transaction charges are booked on 
receipt basis.
	
-	
Insurance agency income on first year premium of 
insurance policies is recognised, when an insurance 
policy sold by the Company is accepted by the principal 
insurance company. Renewal commission on policy is 
accounted for on receipt on renewal premium by the 
principal insurance company.
184
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(xii)	 Revenue excludes Goods and Service Tax (“GST”), 
Service Tax, Value Added Tax (“VAT”) and Securities 
Transaction Tax (“STT”), as applicable.
(n)	 Unearned Premium Reserve (“UPR”) / Unexpired 
Risk Reserve (“URR”)
	
Unearned Premium Reserve represents that part of the net 
written insurance premium (i.e.  premium, net of reinsurance 
ceded) which is attributable to, and set aside for subsequent 
risks to be borne by CHIL (the health insurance company of 
the Group) under contractual obligations on contract period 
basis or risk period basis, whichever is appropriate, and 
is created at 50% of the net written premium  of preceding 
twelve months as at the Balance Sheet date.
(o)	 Claims (under health insurance business - CHIL)
	
Claims are recognized as and when reported. Claims are 
recorded in the Revenue Account, net of claims recoverable 
from reinsurers / co-insurers to the extent there is a 
reasonable 
certainty 
of 
realization. 
These 
estimates 
are progressively revalued on the availability of further 
information. Estimated liability in respect of claims is provided 
for, based on the intimations received up to the year end, 
information / estimates provided by the insured / surveyors / 
Third Party Administrators (“TPA”) and judgment based on the 
past experience and other applicable laws and practices.
	
Claims incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) represent that 
amount of claims that may have been incurred prior to the end 
of the current accounting year but have not been reported 
or claimed. The IBNR provision also includes provision, if 
any, required for claims incurred but not enough reported 
(“IBNER”). IBNR and IBNER liabilities are provided based on 
actuarial principles and certified annually by the Appointed 
Actuary of the Company. The methodology and assumptions 
on the basis of which the liability has been determined has also 
been certified by the Appointed Actuary to be appropriate, in 
accordance with guidelines and norms issued by the Institute 
of Actuaries of India and in concurrence with the IRDA.
	
Claims incurred represents claims paid, estimated liability for 
outstanding claims made following a loss occurrence reported 
and estimated liability for Claims Incurred but not reported 
and Claims Incurred but not enough reported. It also includes 
specific claims settlement costs such as survey / legal / TPA 
fees and other directly attributable costs.
(p)	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, using external 
and internal sources, whether there is an indication that a 
non-financial asset may be impaired and also whether there 
is an indication of reversal of impairment loss recognised 
in the previous period(s). If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group 
determines the recoverable amount and impairment loss is 
recognised when the carrying value of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount.
	
The recoverable amount is determined:
	
-	
in the case of an individual asset, at the higher of the 
asset’s fair value less cost of sell and value in use; and
	
-	
in the case of cash generating unit (a group of assets 
that generates identified, independent cash flows) at the 
higher of the cash generating unit’s fair value less cost to 
sell and value in use.
	
	
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that effects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to that asset. In determining fair value less costs of 
disposal, recent market transactions are taken into 
account. If no such transactions can be identified, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations 
are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share 
prices for publicly traded companies or other available 
fair value indicators.
	
	
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed, if and only 
if, the reversal can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognized, the 
carrying amount of an asset is increased to its revised 
recoverable amount, provided that this amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined (net of any accumulated amortization or 
depreciation) had no impairment loss being recognized 
for the asset in prior year(s).
(q)	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise 
cash at banks, cash on hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to 
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, where bank 
overdrafts which are repayable on demand form an integral 
part of the Group companies’ cash management, bank 
overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents. In the consolidated balance sheet, bank 
overdrafts are presented under borrowings.
185
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(r)	 Business combination
	
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
accounting method as at the date of the acquisition, which 
is the date at which control is transferred to the Group/
Company. The consideration transferred in the acquisition and 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are 
recognised at fair values on their acquisition date. Goodwill is 
initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of 
the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over 
the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the 
acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either 
at  fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 
share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. 
Consideration transferred does not include amounts related 
to settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, other than those 
incurred in relation to the issue of debt or equity securities. 
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair 
value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the 
fair value of contingent consideration are recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
(s)	 Foreign currency transactions and translation
	
(i)	
Transactions and balances
	
	
Initial recognition: Foreign currency transactions are 
translated into the functional currency using the exchange 
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
	
	
Conversion: Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currency, which are outstanding as at the 
reporting date, are translated at the reporting date at 
the closing exchange rate and the resultant exchange 
differences are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency and measured at historical cost are 
translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of 
recognition.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates 
at the date when the fair value was determined.
	
(ii)	 Foreign operations
	
	
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial 
statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s 
foreign operations that have a functional currency other 
than Indian rupees are translated into Indian rupees 
using exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the month.
	
	
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and held in foreign 
currency translation reserve (“FCTR”), a component of 
equity, except to the extent that the translation difference 
is allocated to non-controlling interest. When a foreign 
operation is disposed of, the relevant amount recognised 
in FCTR is transferred to the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at 
the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date.
(t)	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Short Term Employee Benefits
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months 
of rendering the service are classified as short-term 
employee benefits. These benefits include salaries and 
wages, performance incentives and short term compensated 
absences such as paid annual leave. The undiscounted 
amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be 
paid in exchange for the services rendered by employees is 
recognised as an expense during the year. Benefits such as 
salaries and wages, etc. and the expected cost of the bonus 
/ ex-gratia are recognised in the year in which the employees 
render the related service.
	
Post Employment Employee Benefits
	
(i)	
Defined Contribution Schemes
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is 
a defined contribution scheme. The Group has no 
obligation, other than the contribution payable to the 
provident fund. The Group recognises contribution 
payable to the provident fund scheme as an expense, 
when an employee renders the related service. If the 
contribution payable to the scheme for service received 
before the balance sheet date exceeds the contribution 
already paid, the deficit payable to the scheme is 
186
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
recognised as a liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds 
the contribution due for services received before the 
balance sheet date, then excess is recognised as an 
asset.
	
	
Few Group companies make contributions towards 
National Pension Scheme (“NPS”) which is a defined 
contribution retirement benefit plans for employees who 
have opted for the contribution towards NPS. The Group 
companies also makes contribution towards Employee 
State Insurance Scheme (“ESIC”) which is a contributory 
scheme providing medical, sickness, maternity, and 
disability benefits to the insured employees under 
the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 in respect 
of qualifying employees. The Group’s contributions 
to defined contribution plans are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss in the financial year to which 
it relates.
	
(ii)	 Defined Benefit Schemes
	
	
The Group companies operate defined benefit gratuity 
plan in India, which requires contributions to be made to 
a separately administered fund.
	
	
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit 
plan is determined using the projected unit credit 
method.
	
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and 
losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit 
liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit 
liability), are recognised immediately in the balance 
sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) 
in the year in which they occur. Remeasurements are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the 
earlier of:
	•
 The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and
	•
 The date that the Group recognises related 
restructuring costs
	
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate 
to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The Group 
recognises the following changes in the net defined 
benefit obligation as an expense in the statement of 
profit and loss:
	•
Service costs comprising current service costs, 
past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailments 
and non-routine settlements; and
	•
Net interest expense or income
	
	
Other Long-Term Employee Benefits
	
	
Compensated Absences
	
	
The employees of the Group are entitled to the leave 
benefits as per the policies of the Group entities. 
The liability for compensated absences is accrued 
based on the actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet 
date conducted by an independent actuary. The net 
present value of the Group obligations are determined 
based on the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of 
each year.
	
	
Share Based Payments
	
	
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form of share-based payments in consideration of the 
services rendered. Under the equity settled share based 
payment, the fair value on the grant date of the awards 
given to employees is recognised as ‘employee benefit 
expenses’ with a corresponding increase in equity 
over the vesting period. At the end of each reporting 
period, apart from the non market vesting condition, the 
expense is reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes to 
the level of options expected to vest. When the options 
are exercised, the Group issues fresh equity shares.
	
	
For cash-settled share based payments, the fair value 
of the amount payable to employees is recognised as 
‘employee benefit expenses’ with a corresponding 
increase in liabilities, over the period of non market 
vesting conditions getting fulfilled. The liability is 
remeasured at each reporting period up to, and 
including the settlement date, with changes in fair value 
recognised in employee benefits expenses.
(u)	 Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent 
assets
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the 
obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation.
187
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows 
to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to 
the liability.
	
A present obligation that arises from past events, where it is 
either not probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle or a reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made, 
is disclosed as a contingent liability. Contingent liabilities are 
also disclosed when there is a possible obligation arising from 
past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
	
Claims against the Group, where the possibility of any outflow 
of resources in settlement is remote, are not disclosed as 
contingent liabilities.
	
Contingent liabilities are recognised only when there is 
a possible obligation arising from past events, due to 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events, not wholly within the control of the company, 
or where any present obligation cannot be measured in terms 
of future outflow of resources, or where a reliable estimate of 
the obligation cannot be made. Obligation are assessed on 
an ongoing basis and only those having a largely probable 
outflow of resources are provided for.
	
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial 
statements since this may result in the recognition of income 
that may never be realised. However, when the realisation 
of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a 
contingent asset and is recognised.
(v)	 Dividends on ordinary shares
	
The Group recognises a liability to make cash or non-cash 
distributions to equity shares holders when the distribution is 
authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion 
of the Group. As per the corporate laws in India, a distribution 
is authorised when it is approved by the shareholders. 
A corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity.
	
Non-cash distributions are measured at the fair value of 
the assets to be distributed with fair value re-measurement 
recognised directly in equity.
	
Upon distribution of non-cash assets, any difference between 
the carrying amount of the liability and the carrying amount of 
the assets distributed is recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
(w)	 UNALLOCATED PREMIUM
	
Unallocated Premium, in health insurance business, includes 
insurance premium deposits and insurance premium 
which has been received but for which risk has not been 
commenced.
(x)	 PREMIUMS RECEIVED IN ADVANCE
	
Premiums Received in Advance, in health insurance business, 
is the insurance premium, where the period of inception of the 
cover sought is clearly outside the accounting period.
188
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
4	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Cash On Hand 
 0.94 
 3.97 
Balances With Banks 
	
# In Current Accounts * ^ 
 19,150.14 
 19,205.18 
	
# In Fixed Deposits With Maturity Of Less Than 3 Months 
 499.00 
 673.65 
	
# Interest accrued on above Fixed Deposits 
 2.23 
 0.10 
Cheques On Hand 
 438.40 
 625.65 
Stamp Papers On Hand  
 4.29 
 6.67 
Total 
 20,095.00 
 20,515.22 
	
* Includes `1,319.24 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1,917.09 Lakhs) in Client Accounts in Broking Companies.
 	
^ Include `1.12 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `3.14 Lakhs), pertaining to Religare Care Foundation, held for specified purposes.
5 	
 Bank Balances other than above 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Earmarked Balances With Banks  
 226.01 
 47.17 
Fixed Deposits (Refer Note 5.1) 
 85,566.42 
 59,222.67 
Interest Accrued on above Fixed Deposits 
 1,329.65 
 1,374.04 
Total 
 87,122.08 
 60,643.88 
5.1 	 Includes Fixed Deposits kept as security  
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	
Margin money or security with banks against: 
	
-	
Guarantees Issued 
 9,033.00 
 11,135.92 
	
-	
Credit Facilities 
 19,473.03 
 18,542.19 
(b)	
Margin money or security against/with: 
	
-	
Tax Authorities / for License 
 - 
 0.90 
	
-	
Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporation  
 52,083.00 
 29,349.90 
	
-	
Stock Exchange for arbitration cases #
 6.55 
 6.55 
	
-	
Others 
 31.62 
 52.10 
 Total 
 80,627.20 
 59,087.56 
	
# These Fixed Deposit Receipts (“FDRs”) are lien marked and held as Security Deposit placed with the exchanges in relation to lost arbitration cases earlier filed by 
the clients against a subsidiary company vis. Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”) and will be released by the exchanges either to the RBL (trading member) or to the 
client depending upon the final outcome of the legal case.
189
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6 	
Trade Receivables 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Secured, considered good*^ 
 18,456.21 
 12,670.68 
Unsecured, considered good 
 6,183.08 
 4,933.95 
Credit impaired 
 1,180.17 
 1,648.79 
 25,819.46 
 19,253.42 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 1,300.35 
 1,708.60 
Total 
 24,519.11 
 17,544.82 
	
*Includes `2,734.24 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `2,029.97 Lakhs) receivable from stock exchanges on account of trades executed by clients of Religare Broking 
Limited on last trading day of the financial year (viz, balance sheet date) and settled in subsequent year as per the settlement cycles.
	
^ Secured against securities given as collateral by the customers.
6.1 	Trade receivables (gross - before loss allowances) net of inter-company elimination include `0.98 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `0.98 Lakhs) 
due from related parties. For detail refer Note 51.
6.2	 The movement in the Impairment Loss Allowance is given below: 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 1,708.60 
 3,286.82 
Deduction during the year (net) 
 (408.25)
 (1,578.22)
Balance at the end of the year 
 1,300.35 
 1,708.60 
6.3	 Trade Receivables ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
S. 
No
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of 
payment  (in case no due date of payment is specified, from 
the date of the transaction)
Total
Less Than 
6 Months
6 Months 
to 1 Year
1 - 2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More Than 
3 Years
(i)
Undisputed Trade Receivables –	
considered good
 681.54 
 21,339.66 
 744.11 
 130.97 
 64.08 
 1,208.77 
 24,169.13 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables –	
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables –	
credit impaired
 - 
 11.37 
 23.78 
 31.83 
 93.30 
 733.64 
 893.92 
(iv)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
 - 
 0.49 
 1.08 
 12.36 
 8.60 
 447.63 
 470.16 
(v)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 0.02 
 0.03 
 13.23 
 - 
 272.97 
 286.25 
190
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
S. 
No
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of 
payment  (in case no due date of payment is specified, from 
the date of the transaction)
Total
Less Than 
6 Months
6 Months 
to 1 Year
1 - 2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More Than 
3 Years
(vii)
Unbilled dues
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
681.54 
21,351.54 
 769.00 
 188.39 
 165.98 
 2,663.01 
 25,819.46 
(viii)
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 1,300.35 
Total (Net)
24,519.11 
As at March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
S. 
No
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of 
payment  (in case no due date of payment is specified, from 
the date of the transaction)
Total
Less Than 
6 Months
6 Months 
to 1 Year
1 - 2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More 
Than 3 
Years
(i)
Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– considered good
 2,103.80 
 13,619.94 
 128.40 
 77.39 
 85.60 
 1,141.48 
 17,156.61 
(ii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 12.04 
 17.97 
 96.81 
 90.75 
 1,150.01 
 1,367.58 
(iv)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
 - 
 0.03 
 1.26 
 6.08 
 - 
 440.65 
 448.02 
(v)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 0.18 
 0.91 
 2.57 
 183.00 
 94.55 
 281.21 
(vii)
Unbilled dues
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,103.80 
13,632.19 
 148.54 
 182.85 
 359.35 
2,826.69 
 19,253.42 
(viii)
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 1,708.60 
Total (Net)
 17,544.82 
191
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 7 	 Loans 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Valued at Amortised Cost 
(A) Nature of Loans 
- Margin Trading Facilities [Net of Cash Collateral]* 
 13,688.19 
 11,370.22 
- Term Loans 
 174,661.30 
 238,016.12 
Total (A) - Gross 
 188,349.49 
 249,386.34 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance  
 127,683.38 
 161,267.72 
Total (A) - Net 
 60,666.11 
 88,118.62 
(B) Security of Loans 
- Secured by Tangible Assets / Securities 
 104,913.54 
 165,256.93 
- Unsecured 
 83,435.95 
 84,129.41 
Total (B) - Gross 
 188,349.49 
 249,386.34 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance  
 127,683.38 
 161,267.72 
Total (B) - Net 
 60,666.11 
 88,118.62 
(C) (I) Loans in India 
- Public Sector 
 - 
 - 
- Others 
(i)	
Public Limited 
 11,327.52 
 17,767.85 
 (ii)	
Private Limited 
 112,758.78 
 130,569.02 
 (iii)	 Proprietorship 
 9,213.86 
 16,210.63 
 (iv)	 Trust/Society 
 4,756.47 
 21,590.16 
 (v)	
Partnership 
 9,948.75 
 17,887.43 
 (vi)	 Individual 
 4,338.32 
 7,117.95 
 (vii)	 Others 
 22,317.60 
 26,873.08 
 (viii)	 Margin Trading Facilities 
- Body Corporates 
 8.00 
 241.15 
- Others (Include Firms, Trusts and HUFs) 
 13,680.19 
 11,129.07 
Total (C) (I) - Gross 
 188,349.49 
 249,386.34 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance  
 127,683.38 
 161,267.72 
Total (C) (I) - Net 
 60,666.11 
 88,118.62 
(C) (II) Loans outside India 
- Public Sector 
 - 
 - 
- Others 
 - 
 - 
Total (C) (II) - Gross 
 - 
 - 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance  
 - 
 - 
Total (C) (II) - Net 
 - 
 - 
Total (C) (I) and (C) (II) - Net 
 60,666.11 
 88,118.62 
192
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
* Margin Trading Facilities 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Margin Trading Facilities [Gross]  
 16,567.08 
 17,117.28 
Less: Cash Collateral from Clients 
 (2,878.89)
 (5,747.06)
Margin Trading Facilities [Net of Cash Collateral]  
 13,688.19 
 11,370.22 
7.1 	Secured Loans given by the Group’s non-banking finance and housing finance companies are secured by property, plant & equipment, 
vehicles, receivables, tradable listed / unlisted securities held by the Group companies in their depositories accounts, fixed deposits and 
balances maintained in debt service reserve accounts by respective borrowers or by way of pledge of shares held in the depository 
account of the clients for which Power of Attorneys are held by the Group Companies; or by direct pledge of shares by the client 
in favour of the Group companies. Housing and Non-Housing (Loan against property) loans are secured by equitable mortgage of 
properties.
	
Secured Loans given by the Group’s broking company (i.e. Margin Trading Facilities (“MTF”)) is a funding facility extended to its customers 
in capital market. MTF is secured by collaterals by pledge of securities.
7.2	 Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary has an exposure of ` 81,468.01 Lakhs as at March 31, 2024 towards the Corporate Loan 
Book (“CLB”) category recoverables (after de-recognising 60% CLB as disclosed in Note 21.6). RBI had raised concerns in the past about 
the credit worthiness of the borrowers, credit appraisal and loan sanctioning mechanism followed by the RFL in respect of such loan 
book. The management reviewed the portfolio and the financial reports of such borrowers to determine the respective recoverability of 
the said loans. Based on the maturity dates of the loans, recovery steps instituted and the financial reports of the borrowers, the RFL had, 
on a prudent basis, made a full provision of ` 81,468.01 Lakhs against these above mentioned portfolio in previous periods. No further 
financial implications are expected on the RFL in this regard.
	
RFL had initiated insolvency proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) against the concerned borrowers forming 
a part of the CLB category.
	
Also, the application for bringing on record the One Time Settlement (“OTS”) and Upside Sharing Agreement executed with lenders 
was taken on record. Further, Daiichi Sankyo had filed an intervention application which was in defects and was listed subject to cure of 
defects by Daiichi. The Insolvency petitions are now listed before the Hon’ble NCLT for hearing on May 21, 2024.
7.3 	During the year, Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“RHDFCL”), a step down subsidiary has received nil 
towards Interest Subsidy and nil processing fees under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (“PMAY”)– Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (“CLSS”) 
through National Housing Bank (“NHB”).
	
However during the last financial year 2022-23, RHDFCL has received `121.47 Lakh against 58 loan accounts towards Interest subsidy 
and `1.36 Lakh  towards processing fee (`1.22 Lakhs credited in RHDFCL’s Bank Account and `0.14 Lakhs credited in 26AS under 
PMAY through NHB.
	
Out of above, subsidy refunded back, during the last financial 2022-23 `14.12 Lakhs  towards Interest subsidy and `0.15 Lakh towards 
processing fee to NHB due to following reasons:
	
I.	
Loan closed when subsidy was credited from NHB,
	
ii.	
Non-performing asset when subsidy was credited from NHB
	
iii.	
Loan principal less than Subsidy amount.
	
Further for during the last financial year 2022-23, 6 PMAY - CLSS beneficiaries’ Non-Performing loan accounts were sold to Asset 
Reconstruction Company (“ARC”), thus proportionate PMAY-CLSS subsidy amount of `10.44 Lakhs were refunded back to NHB. 
For these NPA cases PMAY-CLSS subsidy was received during FY 2018-19—2 cases, FY2019-20—2 cases, FY2020-21—2 cases.
193
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
7.4 	The Company had filed a petition under Section 7 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against ANR Securities Private Limited on 
October 09, 2018 for recovery of outstanding gross loan amount (including interest) of `8,139.66 Lakhs. The matter is sub-judice. As the 
Loan is unsecured and in view of the management there are very low probability of its recovery, the loan had been written off during the 
previous year, however, the litigation process will be continued for recovery of the claim filed.
7.5 	The Company had filed a petition under Section 7 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against Ligare Aviation Limited on 
January 18, 2021 for recovery of outstanding loan amount `587.27 Lakhs. The matter is sub-judice. As the Loan was unsecured and in 
view of the management there are very low probability of its recovery, the loan had been written off during the previous year, however, 
the litigation process will be continued for recovery of the claim filed.
7.6	 During the year 2023-24 `60.50 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `15.45 Lakhs) disbursed by RHDFCL as processing fee and other charges 
along with loan disbursement, have been regrouped from housing loan to non-housing loan.
7.7 	For the current year 2023-24, RHDFCL has detected Nil (March 31, 2023: Nil) loan account/cases as fraudulent. As on date, RHDFCL 
has identified 8 fraudulent loan accounts, 6 were reported on May 4, 2018 and 2 were reported on December 31, 2019 to NHB. 
`55.91 Lakhs was recovered during current year 2023-24 from the 2 fraudulent loan accounts.
7.8	 (1)	
During Financial year 2023-24, RHDFCL has transferred financial assets aggregating to ` 2,047.12 Lakhs (total pool size: ` 2,274.58 
Lakhs) comprising Home Loan and Loan Against Property to DMI Housing Finance Private Limited (“DMI”) under assignment 
transaction where DMI will be entitled to receive: (i) 90% of the principal collections from the Identified Pool; (ii) interest calculated 
on the principal entitlement of the DMI based on the agreed floating yield of 3 (Three) Month SBI MCLR plus agreed spread subject 
to the minimum of floor rate, payable out of the interest collections from the Identified Pool and (iii) 90% of the miscellaneous 
charges from the Identified Pool. RHDFC will be entitled to receive: (i) 10% of the principal collections from the Identified Pool; (ii) 
balance interest collections over and above DMI’s agreed floating yield (known as excess interest spread) from the Identified Pool; 
and (iii) 10% of the miscellaneous charges from the Identified Pool.
	
(2)	
During Financial year 2023-24, RHDFCL has transferred financial assets amounting to `1,143.17 Lakhs (total pool size: `1,270.19 
Lakhs) comprising Home Loan and Loan Against Property to Ambit Finvest Private Limited (“Ambit”) under assignment transaction 
where Ambit will be entitled to receive: (i) 90% of the principal collections from the Identified Pool; (ii) interest calculated on the 
principal entitlement of Ambit based on the agreed fixed yield, payable out of the interest collections from the Identified Pool and 
(iii) 90% of the miscellaneous charges from the Identified Pool. RHDFC will be entitled to receive: (i) 10% of the principal collections 
from the Identified Pool; (ii) balance interest collections over and above Ambit’s agreed fixed yield (known as excess interest 
spread) from the Identified Pool; and (iii) 10% of the miscellaneous charges from the Identified Pool.
	
(3)	
During Financial year 2022-23, RHDFCL had transferred financial assets of `1,650.12 Lakhs (total pool size: `1,833.46 Lakhs) 
comprising Home Loan and Loan Against Property to DMI Housing Finance Private Limited (“DMI”) under assignment transaction 
where DMI will be entitled to receive: (i) 90% of the principal collections from the Identified Pool; (ii) interest calculated on the 
principal entitlement of the DMI based on the agreed floating yield of 3 Month SBI MCLR plus 305 basis points (viz, 11.15% p.a. 
as on March 31, 2023) subject to the minimum of 10.90%, payable out of the interest collections from the Identified Pool and (iii) 
90% of the miscellaneous charges from the Identified Pool. RHDFC will be entitled to receive: (i) 10% of the principal collections 
from the Identified Pool; (ii) balance interest collections over and above DMI’s agreed floating yield (known as excess interest 
spread) from the Identified Pool; and (iii) 10% of the miscellaneous charges from the Identified Pool.
194
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
7.9 	Credit Quality of Assets
	
The tables below show the credit quality and the maximum exposure to credit risk based on the Group’s internal credit rating system 
and year-end stage classification. The amounts presented are gross of impairment allowances. (Refer Note 3(k))
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Internal Rating Grade 
As at March 31, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Standard
51,993.99
9,988.41
-
61,982.40
Sub-Standard
-
-
2,615.43
2,615.43
Doubtful
-
-
123,676.58
123,676.58
Loss
-
-
75.08
75.08
Total 
51,993.99
9,988.41
126,367.09
188,349.49
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Internal Rating Grade 
As at March 31, 2023
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Standard
 65,883.65 
 16,360.44 
 - 
 82,244.09 
Sub-Standard
 - 
 - 
 3,805.11 
 3,805.11 
Doubtful
 - 
 - 
 163,259.82 
 163,259.82 
Loss
 - 
 - 
 77.32 
 77.32 
Total 
 65,883.65 
 16,360.44 
 167,142.25 
 249,386.34 
7.10 Analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount as follows:
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars 
Year Ended March 31, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Gross Carrying Amount Opening Balance
65,883.65
16,360.44
167,142.25
249,386.34
New Assets Originated or Purchased*
6,262.06
206.31
932.80
7,401.17
Assets Derecognised or Repaid (excluding write offs)
(21,007.43)
(4,527.53)
(13,944.88)
(39,479.84)
Transfers to / (from) Stage 1
3,401.50
(2,617.67)
(783.83)
-
Transfers to / (from) Stage 2
(2,074.67)
2,693.38
(618.71)
-
Transfers to / (from) Stage 3
(471.12)
(2,126.52)
2,597.64
-
Amounts written off
-
-
(28,958.18)
(28,958.18)
Gross Carrying Amount Closing Balance 
51,993.99
9,988.41
126,367.09
188,349.49
195
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars 
Year Ended March 31, 2023
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Gross Carrying Amount Opening Balance
 80,354.17 
 24,688.40 
 341,428.58 
 446,471.15 
New Assets Originated or Purchased*
 7,367.09 
 13.46 
 536.22 
 7,916.77 
Assets Derecognised or Repaid (excluding write offs)
 (21,431.93)
 (6,425.80)
 (155,536.16)
 (183,393.89)
Transfers to / (from) Stage 1
 6,660.34 
 (5,657.56)
 (1,002.78)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 2
 (5,348.96)
 6,305.34 
 (956.38)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 3
 (1,214.47)
 (2,530.59)
 3,745.06 
 - 
Amounts written off
 (502.59)
 (32.81)
 (21,072.29)
 (21,607.69)
Gross Carrying Amount Closing Balance 
 65,883.65 
 16,360.44 
 167,142.25 
 249,386.34 
	
* It includes amount pertaining to interest capitalised, interest accrued and restructured cases.
7.11 Reconciliation of Impairment Loss Allowance ("ILA") balance :
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
 Particulars 
Year Ended March 31, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
ILA - Opening Balance
 827.06 
 1,751.82 
 158,688.84 
 161,267.72 
New Assets Originated or Purchased*
 327.54 
 167.67 
 2,257.04 
 2,752.25 
Assets Derecognised or Repaid (excluding write offs)
 (566.55)
 (592.53)
 (6,297.58)
 (7,456.66)
Transfers to / (from) Stage 1
 516.01 
 (36.53)
 (479.48)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 2
 (27.61)
 502.17 
 (474.56)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 3
 (44.91)
 (505.97)
 550.88 
 - 
Amounts Written off
 - 
 - 
 (28,879.93)
 (28,879.93)
ILA - Closing Balance 
 1,031.54 
 1,286.63 
 125,365.21 
 127,683.38 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
 Particulars 
Year Ended March 31, 2023
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
ILA - Opening Balance
 3,504.17 
 774.62 
 308,929.91 
 313,208.70 
New Assets Originated or Purchased*
 76.25 
 59.10 
 11,445.04 
 11,580.39 
Assets Derecognised or Repaid (excluding write offs)
 (1,089.51)
 (166.38)
 (141,812.92)
 (143,068.81)
Transfers to / (from) Stage 1
 195.99 
 (141.46)
 (54.53)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 2
 (922.93)
 1,333.66 
 (410.73)
 - 
Transfers to / (from) Stage 3
 (853.50)
 (107.72)
 961.22 
 - 
Amounts Written off
 (83.41)
 - 
 (20,369.15)
 (20,452.56)
 ILA - Closing Balance 
 827.06 
 1,751.82 
 158,688.84 
 161,267.72 
	
* Includes Restructured Cases
196
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
8	
Investments
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)	 Investments Measured at Amortised Cost
	
-	
Government Securities
 257,183.85 
 186,142.10 
	
-	
Debt Securities
 501.71 
 20,504.03 
	
-	
Equity Instruments (Partly Paid-up)
	
	
	
Religare Capital Markets Limited (Refer Note 2.2.C)
 - 
 - 
	
-	
Joint Ventures - Using Equity Method
	
	
Equity Instruments (Fully Paid-up)
	
	
	
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited (Refer Note 2.2.A.viii)
 4.31 
 4.31 
	
-	
Preference Shares (Fully Paid-up)
	
	
	
Religare Capital Markets Limited(Cumulative Non-Convertible) (Refer Note 2.2.C)
 - 
 - 
	
-	
Preference Shares (Fully Paid-up)*
 40.95 
 40.95 
	
-	
Others
 0.36 
 0.36 
(B)	
Investments Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss
	
-	
Mutual Funds
 23,722.27 
 21,670.84 
	
-	
 Alternative Investment Funds ("AIF") / Venture Capital Funds
 467.26 
 2,467.26 
	
-	
Others (RARC 059 / 080 (RHDFC HL) Trust) (Refer Note 8.3)
 1,039.26 
 1,752.81 
(C)	 Investments Measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income
	
-	
Equity Instruments (Fully Paid-up)
 22,433.24 
 9,847.64 
	
-	
Other Approved (by IRDA) Securities 
 367,323.56 
 289,683.00 
Total - Gross (A + B + C)
 672,716.77 
 532,113.30 
(i)	
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Investments in India
 672,716.77 
 532,113.30 
Total (D)
 672,716.77 
 532,113.30 
Less: Allowance for Impairment Loss  (Refer Note 8.1) - E
 914.30 
 22,734.72 
Total - Net [ (A + B + C) - (E) ]
 671,802.47 
 509,378.58 
	
* Netambit Infosource & E-Services Private Limited - Compulsory Convertible Cumulative Preferred Participatory Series E Preference Shares -Tranche -1 & 2 - 
Coupon Rate 0.01%.
8.1 	Breakup of the provision for diminution in value of long term investments:
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments Measured at Amortised Cost 
Debt Securities (Refer Note 8.2) 
 - 
 20,000.00 
Preference Shares 
 40.95 
 40.95 
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited 
 4.31 
 4.31 
Others 
 0.36 
 0.36 
197
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 
Alternative Investment Funds ("AIF") / Venture Capital Funds 
 467.26 
 2,000.00 
Others (RARC 059 / 080 (RHDFC HL) Trust) (Refer Note 8.3) 
 401.42 
 689.10 
Total
 914.30 
 22,734.72 
8.2 	Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary has subscribed to Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCD”) of OSPL Infradeal Private Limited 
(“OSPL”), an entity backed by SREI group, of ` 20,000 Lakhs in December, 2016. Due to default in making repayment of such NCD, RFL 
filed a case against it under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (“IBC”) before the Hon’ble NCLT Kolkata, who issued liquidation order. 
However, as per the liquidator there are no realizable assets or properties available with such party and therefore the liquidator filed 
dissolution application, which has been allowed by the Tribunal wide order dated March 19, 2024. RFL has taken written off the same 
in the books of accounts.
8.3	 Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited, a step-down subsidiary company (“RHDFCL”), has entered into transactions 
with RARC Trusts (Special Purpose Vehicle) wherein it has sold its certain NPAs to Trusts. These transactions have been carried out 
in compliance with the applicable RBI norms for securitization and the Trusts have issued Security Receipts (“SRs”) to RHDFCL in 
settlement of these NPAs. Under Ind AS, the SRs issued by the Trust full-fill the criteria for a financial asset, and accordingly, RHDFCL had 
derecognized the NPA loan receivables and had recognized SRs as investments in its books of accounts.
	
As per RBI Master Directions – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions (“MD-TLE”), 2021 dated 
September 24, 2021 (updated on December 05, 2022), RBI has advised for provisioning in respect of investment in Security Receipt 
(“SRs”). Accordingly, RHDFCL is carrying a investment value ` 637.86 Lakhs (Net of provisions of ` 401.40 Lakhs on `1,039.26 Lakhs) 
as on March 31, 2024 [`1,063.71 Lakhs (Net of provisions of ` 689.10 Lakhs on `1,752.81 Lakhs) as on March 31, 2023] in respect of 
two separate transactions with RARC Trust (Special Purpose Vehicle) in terms of clause 77A of the aforesaid MD-TLE. Further, balance 
provision of ` 369.81 Lakhs shall be provided in the books of accounts over the remaining period, as per applicable guidelines.
9 	
Other Financial Assets 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security Deposits 
-	
With Stock Exchanges 
 331.35 
 331.35 
-	
With Others* 
 2,397.50 
 2,404.55 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (140.32)
 (182.50)
Interest Accrued 
 18,036.60 
 13,283.92 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (295.86)
 - 
Other Bank Balances 
	
Fixed Deposits
 136.14 
 147.65 
Excess Interest Spread 
 627.86 
 511.32 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (21.84)
 (40.03)
Recoverable for Support Services**
 372.18 
 372.13 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (372.13)
 (372.13)
Staff Advances 
 54.51 
 32.65 
Earnest Money Deposit 
 20.00 
 - 
198
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Margin with Exchanges / Clearing Corporation / Clearing Member 
 13,944.29 
 32.74 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (30.67)
 (30.67)
Recoverable from Bank (Refer Note 9.1) 
 25,924.09 
 25,924.09 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (25,924.09)
 - 
Others (Refer Note 9.2) 
 556.41 
 2,014.07 
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
 (516.02)
 (1,881.69)
Total 
 35,100.00 
 42,547.45 
	
* Considering the status of security deposit receivables and pending NCLT proceedings against few property owners the chances of recovery of these amounts 
were remote, hence the receivable amount of `136.06 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 351.56 Lakhs) had been written off in current financial year.
	
** ` 372.13 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `372.13 Lakhs) which has been fully impaired has been pending for more than three years.
9.1 	Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, had filed a suit before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi 
for recovery of its fixed deposits (“FDRs”) of ` 79,145 Lakhs (excluding interest accrued and due of ` 2,703.39 Lakhs till the date of 
original maturity i.e. July 20, 2018) misappropriated by the Laxmi Vilas Bank (“LVB”). The Hon’ble Court had passed interim Orders that 
status of FDR lying with LVB be maintained as unencumbered and be not encashed, however, still LVB encashed the FDRs without 
any authorisation from RFL in this regard. RFL had also filed an application in the Hon’ble Court for substitution of LVB with DBS Bank 
India Limited (“DBS”) consequent upon LVB’s merger with DBS, which has been accepted by the Hon’ble Court on March 29, 2022. 
Further, State Bank of India and SCCPL along with its associates had filed application for intervention in the said suit which is pending 
before the Court. RFL had filed an Application for Impleadment of RHC Holdings Private Limited and other defendants in the suit. 
The Hon’ble Court vide Order dated December 15, 2023 allowed the said  Impleadment Application. DBS had filed the Appeal against 
the said Order, which has since been dismissed as withdrawn vide the Order dated January 01, 2024 passed by the Division Bench 
of Hon’ble High Court of Delhi. RFL had also filed a complaint against LVB and others on May 15, 2019 with EOW. The EOW, Delhi has 
registered FIR against LVB and Ors. for committing offence of criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The EOW has filed its 
charge sheet and supplementary charge sheet upon which cognizance was taken by the Hon’ble Court of CMM. The matter is pending 
before the Trial Court. Also, the ED has lodged an ECIR on the basis of the said FIR. The matter is pending trial. These FDRs amounting 
to ` 55,924 Lakhs had been shared / adjusted under OTS during the previous year as detailed in Note - 21.6, and balance FDRs of 
` 25,924.09 Lakhs, considering that the same are under litigation, and are no longer highly liquid i.e. readily convertible in cash, were 
classified as Other Financial Assets, in accordance with the applicable accounting standards.	
	
	
As RFL has the legal contractual rights on these fixed deposits, and considering the developments in the case particularly filing of FIR, its 
cognizance by the Hon’ble Court, acceptance of the substitution of Defendant i.e. DBS in place of LVB, and based on the legal opinion, 
the misappropriation of these fixed deposits by LVB is unlawful and untenable, and the same are considered to be good for recovery by 
the management of REL and RFL, and  the said view of the management was also substantiated with the acceptance and consideration 
of the same as part of the upfront consideration under OTS as detailed in Note - 21.6. To be prudent, on conservative basis and as 
advised by RBI in the process of removal of CAP as detailed in Note - 21.7, the management has considered the provision against 
these balance FDRs of ` 25,924.09 Lakhs (net of ` 55,924 Lakhs shared / adjusted under OTS) during the year ended March 31, 2024 
however, there is no change in the stand of the management of REL and RFL as compared to the earlier period/s and management is 
strongly hopeful of its full recovery. Further, as the matter is sub-judice there is uncertainty relating to its outcome, and it will be constantly 
reviewed considering the future development / progress and appropriate action will be taken accordingly.	
	
9.2 	It includes the amounts of `145.73 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `145.25 Lakhs) which were debited by the exchange directly from Exchange 
Dues Account or Settlement Bank Account  in relation to lost Investor Grievances (“IG”) /arbitration cases filed by the clients of Religare 
Broking Limited (“RBL”), a subsidiary company. RBL has already filed cases / appeals challenging the impugned order / award. The said 
amount debited /withheld as security or deposit in relation to lost IG/arbitration cases. The amount shall be released by the exchange to 
the client or to RBL depending upon the final outcome of the legal case / appeals. As a matter of prudence, RBL recognized provisions 
of `145.73 Lakhs (March 31, 2023:  `145.25 Lakhs) against these withheld / debited amounts by the exchange.
199
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
10 	  Inventories 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Closing Stock of 
-	
Digital Signature Certificates ("DSC") and USB Tokens 
 261.82 
 33.18 
Total 
 261.82 
 33.18 
	
(Refer Note 3(i)) 
11 	 (I)	
Current Tax Assets (Net) 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance Income Tax and Tax Deducted at Source (Net of Provision)*
 12,225.12 
 21,949.43 
Total 
 12,225.12 
 21,949.43 
	
* Includes amount of ` 6,013.49 Lakhs (March 31, 2023 - `13,745.95 Lakhs) paid under protest to income tax authorities of Religare Finvest Limited. 
	
(II)	 Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Income Tax (Net)
 0.63 
 1,884.03 
Total 
 0.63 
 1,884.03 
11.1 During the current year, RFL has received an income tax refund amounting to `11,148.13 Lakhs (including interest of ` 2,594.19 Lakhs) 
pertaining to AY 2012-13 to AY 2015-16. Such interest income of ` 2,594.19 Lakhs on income tax refund has been disclosed under 
“Other Income” in current year financial statement.
12 	 (I)	
Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: 
(A)	 Deferred Tax Assets 
	
Impairment Loss Allowance 
 445.35 
 535.64 
	
Provision for Employee Benefits 
 1,028.42 
 693.71 
	
Carry Forward Losses  
 107.62 
 210.84 
	
Property, Plant and Equipment 
 325.35 
 180.09 
	
Other Provisions (including Unexpired Risk Reserve) 
 3,065.05 
 4,126.51 
	
Others 
 133.33 
 82.75 
Total (A) 
 5,105.12 
 5,829.54 
(B)	
Deferred Tax Liabilities 
Total (B) 
 - 
 - 
Total Net (A-B) 
 5,105.12 
 5,829.54 
	
(Refer Note 41) 
200
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(II)	 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: 
(A)	 Deferred Tax Liabilities 
	
Deduction Under Section 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961 
 670.29 
 670.29 
	
Others 
 99.85 
 52.72 
Total (A) 
 770.14 
 723.01 
(B)	
Deferred Tax Assets 
	
Impairment Loss Allowance 
 195.90 
 331.15 
	
Provision for Employee Benefits 
 16.58 
 15.62 
	
Carry Forward Losses  
 341.87 
 162.73 
	
Property, Plant and Equipment 
 8.49 
 9.60 
Total (B) 
 562.84 
 519.10 
Total Net (A-B) 
 207.30 
 203.91 
	
(Refer Note 41)
	
(III)	 The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
March 31, 2023 
At the beginning of the year 
 5,625.63 
 5,431.84 
Credit / (charge) in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Net)  
 (12.84)
 81.13 
Credit / (charge) in the Other Comprehensive Income (Net) 
 (827.28)
 112.66 
Add: On account of Business Combination 
 112.31 
 - 
At the end of the year 
 4,897.82 
 5,625.63 
201
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
13	 Property, Plant and Equipment and Right -of- use Assets
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Depreciation / Amortisation 
 Net 
Carrying 
Value 
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Additions 
during the 
Year 
Acquired 
during the year
(Refer Note 
54(t)) 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Depreciation 
for the Year 
Preacquistion
(Refer Note 
54(t)) 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
(a)	 Owned Assets
	
Land (Refer Note 13.1)
 26.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.96 
	
Leasehold Improvements
 857.01 
 229.30 
 - 
 19.85 
 1,066.46 
 241.95 
 162.75 
 - 
 19.84 
 384.86 
 681.60 
	
Office Equipments
 1,506.91 
 190.32 
 2.56 
 90.25 
 1,609.54 
 947.93 
 252.40 
 2.51 
 85.72 
 1,117.12 
 492.42 
	
Computer Systems and Peripherals
 7,703.27 
 518.80 
 11.27 
 331.60 
 7,901.74 
 4,909.24 
 1,287.07 
 10.69 
 326.92 
 5,880.08 
 2,021.66 
	
Furnitures and Fixtures
 499.59 
 20.15 
 19.83 
 24.43 
 515.14 
 274.86 
 73.80 
 19.33 
 23.11 
 344.88 
 170.26 
	
Vehicles
 150.44 
 - 
 - 
 1.80 
 148.64 
 133.57 
 5.52 
 - 
 1.80 
 137.29 
 11.35 
Sub Total (a)
10,744.18 
 958.57 
 33.66 
 467.93 11,268.48 
6,507.55 
 1,781.54 
 32.53 
 457.39  7,864.23  3,404.25 
(b)	 Leased Assets
	
Right -of- use Assets:
	
•	
Buildings / Office Premises
13,460.46 
1,472.69 
 - 
 2,135.78 12,797.37 
3,083.55 
 3,375.34 
 - 
 1,959.60 
4,499.29 
 8,298.08 
	
•	
Data Processing Machines
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
•	
Vehicles
 594.83 
 59.42 
 - 
 35.13 
 619.12 
 86.26 
 181.69 
 - 
 32.77 
 235.18 
 383.94 
Sub Total (b)
14,055.29 
1,532.11 
 - 
 2,170.91 13,416.49 
3,169.81 
 3,557.03 
 - 
 1,992.37  4,734.47  8,682.02 
Total (a+b)
24,799.47 
2,490.68 
 33.66 
 2,638.84 24,684.97 
9,677.36 
 5,338.57 
 32.53 
 2,449.76 12,598.70 12,086.27 
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023	
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Depreciation / Amortisation 
 Net 
Carrying 
Value 
As at 
April 1, 
2022 
 Additions 
during the 
Year 
 Acquired 
during the year 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 1, 
2022 
 Depreciation 
for the Year 
 Preacquistion  Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
(a)	 Owned Assets
	
Land (Refer Note 13.1)
 26.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.96 
	
Leasehold Improvements
 617.45 
 477.93 
 - 
 238.37 
 857.01 
 346.16 
 129.21 
 - 
 233.42 
 241.95 
 615.06 
	
Office Equipments
 1,223.75 
 359.48 
 - 
 76.32 
 1,506.91 
 776.34 
 243.00 
 - 
 71.41 
 947.93 
 558.98 
	
Computer Systems and Peripherals
 6,517.26  1,298.08 
 - 
 112.07 
 7,703.27 
 3,776.29 
 1,236.44 
 - 
 103.49 
 4,909.24 
 2,794.03 
	
Furnitures and Fixtures
 342.11 
 195.03 
 - 
 37.55 
 499.59 
 138.96 
 172.02 
 - 
 36.12 
 274.86 
 224.73 
	
Vehicles
 287.38 
 - 
 - 
 136.94 
 150.44 
 165.30 
 22.20 
 - 
 53.93 
 133.57 
 16.87 
Sub Total (a)
 9,014.91 
2,330.52 
 - 
 601.25  10,744.18  5,203.05 
 1,802.87 
 - 
 498.37  6,507.55  4,236.63 
(b)	 Leased Assets
	
Right -of- use Assets:
	
•	
Buildings / Office Premises
 8,736.47 
 9,756.50 
 - 
 5,032.51  13,460.46 
 5,058.35 
 1,709.63 
 - 
 3,684.43 
 3,083.55  10,376.91 
	
•	
Data Processing Machines
 1,237.32 
 - 
 - 
 1,237.32 
 - 
 1,171.53 
 65.79 
 - 
 1,237.32 
 - 
 - 
	
•	
Vehicles
 146.64 
 460.09 
 - 
 11.90 
 594.83 
 48.50 
 49.67 
 - 
 11.91 
 86.26 
 508.57 
Sub Total (b)
 10,120.43  10,216.59 
 - 
 6,281.73  14,055.29  6,278.38 
 1,825.09 
 - 
 4,933.66  3,169.81  10,885.48 
Total (a+b)
 19,135.34  12,547.11 
 - 
 6,882.98  24,799.47  11,481.43 
 3,627.96 
 - 
 5,432.03  9,677.36  15,122.11 
202
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
13.1	Part of land is mortgaged as security for debenture holders.
13.2	There are no adjustments to Property, Plant and Equipment on account of borrowing costs and exchange differences. There is no revaluation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment (including Right-of-Use Assets) during the year.
13.3	Losses arising from the retirement of, and gains or losses arising from disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment  which are carried at cost or revalued amount are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
13.4	The title deeds in respect of land are in the names of the Group companies / entities.
14	 Goodwill
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Impairment 
Net Carrying 
Value 
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Additions 
during the 
Year 
Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Impairment 
during the 
Period 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
Goodwill (on Consolidation)
 1,899.00 
 199.49 
 - 
 2,098.49 
 926.96 
 - 
 - 
 926.96 
 1,171.53 
Total
 1,899.00 
 199.49 
 - 
 2,098.49 
 926.96 
 - 
 - 
 926.96 
 1,171.53 
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Impairment 
Net Carrying 
Value 
As at 
April 1, 
2022 
 Additions 
during the 
Year 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 1, 
2022 
Impairment 
during the 
Year 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
Goodwill (on Consolidation)
 1,899.00 
 - 
 - 
 1,899.00 
 926.96 
 - 
 - 
 926.96 
 972.04 
Total
 1,899.00 
 - 
 - 
 1,899.00 
 926.96 
 - 
 - 
 926.96 
 972.04 
14.1 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a Cash Generating Units (“CGU”) representing the lowest level within the 
Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and which is not higher than the Company’s operating segment. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the Company’s procedure for determining the recoverable value of each CGU. 
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of ‘Fair Value’ Less ‘Cost of Disposal’ (“FVLCD”). The FVLCD of the 
CGU is determined based on the market capitalisation approach, using the turnover and earnings multiples derived from observable 
market data. The fair value measurement is categorised as a level 2 fair value based on the inputs in the valuation techniques used. 
Based on the above testing, no impairment was identified as at March 31, 2024 and 2023, as the recoverable value of the CGUs exceeded the carrying 
value. Further, none of the CGU’s tested for impairment as at March 31, 2024 and 2023 were at risk of impairment. An analysis of the calculation’s 
sensitivity to a change in the key parameters (turnover and earnings multiples), did not identify any probable scenarios where the CGU’s recoverable 
amount would fall below its carrying amount.
203
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
15	 Intangible Assets
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Amortisation 
 Net 
Carrying 
Value 
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Additions 
during the 
Year 
Acquired 
during the 
year (Refer 
Note 54(t)) 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Amortisation 
for the 
Period 
Preacquistion 
(Refer Note 
54(t)) 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
Computer Softwares
12,770.88 
 1,160.08 
 19.34 
 - 
13,950.30 
9,255.84 
 1,831.83 
 17.01 
 - 11,104.68 
2,845.62 
 Total
12,770.88  1,160.08 
 19.34 
 - 13,950.30 9,255.84 
 1,831.83 
 17.01 
 - 11,104.68 
2,845.62 
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
 Amortisation 
 Net 
Carrying 
Value 
 As at 
April 1, 
2022 
Additions 
during the 
Year 
 Acquired 
during the 
year 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
April 1, 
2022 
 Amortisation 
for the Year 
 Preacquistion 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
 As at 
March 31, 
2023 
Computer Softwares  11,504.38 
 1,397.68 
 - 
 131.18  12,770.88  7,437.89 
 1,986.59 
 - 
 168.64 
 9,255.84 
 3,515.04 
 Total
11,504.38  1,397.68 
 - 
 131.18 12,770.88  7,437.89 
 1,986.59 
 - 
 168.64 
 9,255.84 
 3,515.04 
15.1 There are no adjustments to Intangible Assets on account of borrowing costs and exchange differences. There is no revaluation of Intangible Assets 
during the year.
15.2	 The Group does not have any internally generated intangible assets.
15.3 Losses arising from the retirement of, and gains or losses arising from disposal of intangible assets which are carried at cost or revalued amount are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
204
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
16	 Intangible Assets Under Development
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
As at 
April 1, 2023
 Additions 
during the Year 
 Deletions / Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Computer Softwares
 534.00 
 456.78 
 434.63 
 556.15 
Total
 534.00 
 456.78 
 434.63 
 556.15 
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 Gross Carrying Value 
As at 
April 1, 2022
 Additions 
during the Year 
 Deletions / Adjustments 
for the Year 
As at 
March 31, 2023
Computer Softwares
 222.28 
 503.67 
 191.95 
 534.00 
Total
 222.28 
 503.67 
 191.95 
 534.00 
16.1 Intangible assets under development (as on March 31, 2024) aging schedule
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Intangible assets under development
Amount of Intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
Less Than 
1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More Than 
3 Years
(i)	
Projects in progress
 442.43 
 113.72 
 - 
 - 
 556.15 
(ii)	
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 442.43 
 113.72 
 - 
 - 
 556.15 
	
Intangible assets under development (as on March 31, 2023) aging schedule
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Intangible assets under development
Amount of Intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
Less Than 
1 Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More Than 
3 Years
(i)	
Projects in progress
 518.50 
 15.50 
 - 
 - 
 534.00 
(ii)	
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 518.50 
 15.50 
 - 
 - 
 534.00 
16.2 Intangible assets under development (as on March 31, 2024) completion schedule (Cases where completion 
is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan):
	
Project execution plans are modulated basis business requirement assessment and projects undertaken during the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 have been executed as per its original plan. There is no such project which is overdue and exceeds its cost as 
compared to its plan as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. The project which could not be succeeded due to any reason, has 
been impaired/written off and impact taken accordingly in the books of accounts, wherever required.
205
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
17 	  Other Non Financial Assets 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
 Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Balance With Government Authorities 
13,185.16
9,465.67
Prepaid Expenses 
3,049.82
2,555.37
Deposits Paid Under Protest 
1,646.05
1,555.40
Advances to Related Parties (for services) 
1,326.50
1,326.50
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
(1,326.50)
(1,326.50)
Art Works 
1.78
1.78
Capital Advances 
12.73
22.10
Repossesed Assets Held For Sale (Refer Notes 17.1 and 43A(I))
10,489.84
11,540.90
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
(6,958.02)
(4,301.08)
Stamp papers on hand 
3.79
3.79
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
(2.22)
(2.22)
Adjustable Surplus in Defined Benefit Plans (Gratuity) 
100.78
166.57
Others 
2,687.48
1,822.82
	
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance 
(59.97)
(145.62)
Total 
24,157.22
22,685.48
17.1(i)	
Pursuant to the approved Scheme of Arrangement, the assets (Land and Building) were transferred from erstwhile “Religare 
Securities Limited” (“RSL”). The title of the acquired assets is in the name of erstwhile Religare Securities Limited. These assets 
were acquired in satisfaction of the receivables / loans and the management is in the process to sell the same. The same have 
been measured at lower of its carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. As per current valuation, the net realizable value is 
` 380.21 Lakhs.
	
(ii)	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary of the Company has sold the assets acquired in 
satisfaction of debts at total consideration of ` 250.01 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1,609.00 Lakhs). The principal amount outstanding 
in respect of debt sold was ` 325.00 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1,411.19 Lakhs), the shortfall of ` 74.99 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: 
`16.90 Lakhs) was booked as loss on sale of assets acquired in satisfaction of debts. During the year, RFL did not acquire any 
immovable property in satisfaction of debts. Also refer to Note 43A(I).
	
(iii)	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“RHDFCL”), a step down 
subsidiary of the Company has sold the assets acquired in satisfaction of debts at total consideration of ` 205.68 Lakhs (March 31, 
2023: `16.42 Lakhs). The principal amount outstanding in respect of debt sold was `168.72 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 37.41 
Lakhs), the excess of ` 36.96 Lakhs is booked towards outstanding overdue interest, other charges and interest from the date of 
settlement till the disposal of asset on sale of assets acquired in satisfaction of debts (March 31, 2023: Shortfall of ` 20.99 Lakhs 
was booked as loss on sale of assets acquired in satisfaction of debts). During the year, RHDFCL did not acquire any immovable 
property in satisfaction of debts.
206
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
18	 Trade Payables
Amount (` in Lakhs)
 Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(i)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises *
 106.72 
 56.53 
(ii)	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises@
 78,858.86 
 31,812.98 
Total ** 
 78,965.58 
 31,869.51 
	
* Refer Note 54(a) for MSME Disclosures.
	
@ It includes as on March 31, 2024 `126.42 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: Nil) payable to stock exchanges on account of trades executed by clients on last day of the 
balance sheet date and settled in subsequent year as per the settlement cycles.
	
** Refer Note 18.1 for Trade Payables aging schedule.
18.1 Trade Payables aging schedule
As at March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of 
payments or date of  transaction
Total
Less Than 1 
Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More Than 3 
Years
(i)	
MSME
 4.42 
 95.80 
 4.77 
 0.97 
 0.76 
 106.72 
(ii)	
Others
 3,998.58 
 54,713.48 
 18,726.21 
 539.47 
 468.94 
 78,446.68 
(iii)	
Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 0.62 
 - 
 - 
 411.56 
 412.18 
(v)	
Unbilled dues
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,003.00 
 54,809.90 
 18,730.98 
 540.44 
 881.26 
 78,965.58 
As at March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of 
payments or date of  transaction
Total
Less Than 1 
Year
1 - 2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More Than 3 
Years
(i)	
MSME
 2.76 
 52.00 
 1.23 
 0.54 
 - 
 56.53 
(ii)	
Others
 1,833.20 
 28,215.23 
 812.90 
 285.56 
 252.06 
 31,398.95 
(iii)	
Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 2.46 
 0.02 
 - 
 411.55 
 414.03 
(v)	
Unbilled dues
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,835.96 
 28,269.69 
 814.15 
 286.10 
 663.61 
 31,869.51 
207
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
19	 Other Payables
Amount (` in Lakhs)
 Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises*
 135.00 
 91.68 
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 23,396.53 
 30,852.04 
Total 
 23,531.53 
 30,943.72 
	
* Refer note 54(a) for MSME Disclosure.
20	 Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Borrowings Measured at Amortised Cost
(a)	
Secured
	
-	
Term Loans
	
	
(i)	
From Banks (Refer Note 20.1)
 100.76 
 4,207.04 
	
	
(ii)	
From Other Parties (Refer Note 20.2)
 13,922.41 
 12,256.33 
	
-	
Loans Repayable on Demand
	
	
(i)	
From Banks (Refer Note 20.3)
 20,365.84 
 15,080.82 
Sub-Total (a)
 34,389.01 
 31,544.19 
(b)	
Unsecured
	
-	
Liability Portion of Redeemable Preference Shares (Refer Note 54(p))
 - 
 8,403.03 
Sub-Total (b)
 - 
 8,403.03 
Total (a+b)
 34,389.01 
 39,947.22 
Borrowings in India
 34,389.01 
 39,947.22 
Borrowings outside India
 - 
 - 
Total
 34,389.01 
 39,947.22 
20.1 Secured Term Loans From Banks
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Repayment Term
Sanctioned 
Tenure
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Annually
Over 60 Months
 - 
 3,960.47 
0 to 12 Months
 100.76 
 - 
Semi Annually
Over 60 Months
 - 
 246.57 
Total
 100.76 
 4,207.04 
Above Secured Term loans from Banks as on March 31, 2024 are secured against the pledge of Fixed Deposit of `112.00 Lakhs. There is no default as on the 
Balance Sheet date in repayment of loans and interest. The rate of interest on the facility is Deposit Rate + 1.00% p.a. i.e. 7.80% p.a.		
	
Above Secured Term loans from Banks as on March 31, 2023 are secured against floating First Pari Passu charge with all current and future lenders on all present 
and future business receivables of the RHDFCL and current assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents of RHDFCL. There is no default as on the Balance Sheet 
date in repayment of loans and interest. The pricing of the loans so availed from banks are at the base rate of respective bank’s MCLR plus a margin up to 2.95%.
208
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
20.2 Secured Term Loans From Others Parties
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Repayment Term
Sanctioned 
Tenure
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Bullet
13 to 36 Months
 12,422.41 
 12,256.33 
0 to 12 Months
 1,500.00 
 - 
Total
 13,922.41 
 12,256.33 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Nature of Security
Interest Rate
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(a)	
First and exclusive pledge of 100% 
shareholding of a Subsidiary Company i.e. 
Religare Broking Limited ("RBL") held by the 
Company.
The pricing of the above loans availed by 
the Company are at the rate of 13.40% p.a. 
/ 18% p.a. (March 31, 2023: at the rate of 
13.40% / 18% p.a.).
 12,422.41 
 12,256.33 
(b)	
First 
Pari-Passu 
charge 
by 
way 
of 
Hypothecation over the Margin Trade 
Finance 
("MTF") 
receivables 
of 
the 
borrower both present and future, with a 
minimum cover of 2x times of the amount 
outstanding.
12.25% p.a.
 1,500.00 
 - 
Total
 13,922.41 
 12,256.33 
20.3 Secured Loans Repayable on Demand From Banks
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Nature of Security
Interest Rate (p.a.)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(a)	
Book Debts (Trade Receivables)
8.85% to 10.50% (March 31, 2023: 8.65% 
to 10.05%)
 5,300.00 
 3,738.88 
(b)	
Fixed Deposits with Banks
Respective fixed deposit interest rate plus a 
margin 0.50% to 2% 
 15,065.84 
 11,341.94 
Total
 20,365.84 
 15,080.82 
The Company has given  the Corporate Guarantees on behalf of a subsidiary company aggregating to ` 34,500 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: 
` 30,500 Lakhs) for availing credit facilities from the banks and financial institutions.
20.4 None of the above term loans have been guaranteed by any director of the Group companies.
20.5 Borrowings from banks and others for specific purpose, if any, have been used for that purpose only.
209
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
20.6  As at March 31, 2024, ‘Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary company has settled all dues with respective lenders and no default 
(Principal and Interest) remains outstanding as at March 31, 2024 (Refer Notes 21.5 and 21.6). The details of defaults during the year 
upto the date of settlement with resepective lenders are as follows:
 Amount (` in Lakhs)
Nature of borrowing 
including debt 
securities
Name of Lenders
Series
Amount not paid 
on due date 
(Principal)
Amount not paid 
on due date 
(Interest)
Period of Default
Bank Borrowings
ICICI Bank
 25,000.00 
 16,784.62 April 01, 2019 to
February 26, 2024
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
Gratuity Trust
Series 30 
 400.00 
 83.70 October 12, 2022 to
June 30, 2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
Superannuation Fund
Series 30 
 2,150.00 
 449.86 October 12, 2022
to June 30, 2023 
NCD
The Provident Fund Of Acc Limited Series 30 
 450.00 
 94.16 October 12, 2022 to
June 30, 2023 
NCD
Madras Fertilizers Limited 
Employees Contributory Provident 
Fund
Series 32 
 50.00 
 9.23 January 21, 2023
to July 27, 2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
Gratuity Trust
Series 32 
 700.00 
 129.15 January 21, 2023
to July 27, 2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
Superannuation Fund
Series 32 
 1,300.00 
 239.86 January 21, 2023
to July 27, 2023 
NCD
The Provident Fund Of Acc Limited Series 32 
 150.00 
 27.68 January 21, 2023
to July 27, 2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
General Provident Fund 
Series 35 
 400.00 
 72.33 February 24, 2023*
to August 29, 2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
General Provident Fund 
Series 35 
 400.00 
 72.33 February 24, 2023*
to August 29, 2023 
NCD
Trust Capital Services (India) 
Private Limited
Series 36 
 860.00 
 155.30 March 28, 2023
to September 26, 
2023 
NCD
Abhishek Kedia
Series 36 
 140.00 
 25.28 March 28, 2023
to September 26, 
2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
Gratuity Trust
Series 36 
 600.00 
 108.35 March 28, 2023
to September 26, 
2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
General Provident Fund
Series 36 
 100.00 
 18.06 March 28, 2023
to September 26, 
2023 
NCD
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Karamchari 
General Provident Fund
Series 36 
 300.00 
 54.18 March 28, 2023
to September 26, 
2023 
Total
 33,000.00 
 18,324.09 
	
* Maturiy date is considered as February 24, 2023 as February 25, 2023 is a bank holiday.
210
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
21	 Subordinated Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Subordinated Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost *
Unsecured
-	
Term Loan From Banks (Refer Note 21.1)
 - 
 25,000.00 
-	
Debentures (Refer Note 21.2)
 - 
 8,000.00 
Total
 - 
 33,000.00 
Subordinated Liabilities in India
 - 
 33,000.00 
Subordinated Liabilities outside India
 - 
 - 
Total 
 - 
 33,000.00 
	
* Refer note No. 21.6 for one time settlement of Subordinated Liabilities.	
Above Unsecured Term Loan(s) from banks and debentures are subordinated in nature and qualify for inclusion in Tier II capital fund for 
the computation of Capital to Risk Assets Ratio (“CRAR”) of the NBFC Subsidiary Company.
21.1 Subordinated Liabilities - Unsecured Term Loans From Banks
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Repayment Term
Sanctioned Tenure
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Bullet
Over 60 Months 
 - 
 25,000.00 
Total
 - 
 25,000.00 
	
The pricing of the above loans availed are at the rate of respective Bank’s Base Rate plus a margin up to 1.65% to 2.75%.
21.2	 Subordinated Liabilities - Privately Placed Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Redemption Due On
Series / Coupon Rate (p.a.)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
12-Oct-22
Series 30 / 12.2% (Refer Note 21.5)
 - 
 3,000.00 
21-Jan-23
Series 32 / 12.2% (Refer Note 21.5)
 - 
 2,200.00 
25-Feb-23
Series 35 / 12% (Refer Note 21.5)
 - 
 800.00 
28-Mar-23
Series 36 / 12.05% (Refer Note 21.5)
 - 
 2,000.00 
Total
 - 
 8,000.00 
21.3  (a)	 None of the above term loans have been guaranteed by any director of the Group companies.
 	
  (b)	 The Company had utilised the issue proceeds of outstanding NCD, as per the objects of issue(s) and during the current period, 
Company has not issued any fresh NCDs.
21.4  (a)	 There is no default as on the balance sheet date in repayment of above term loans and interest thereon except in the case of 
Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary company (Refer Note 20.6).
211
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(b)	
On April 12, 2022, REL proposed One Time Settlement (“OTS”) of ` 2,000 Lakhs against Series LIII (53) NCD outstanding `11,937.46 
Lakhs (comprising of principal of `10,000 Lakhs and accrued interest of `1,937.46 Lakhs) with Axis Bank. Axis Bank via letter dated 
April 22, 2022 shared their sanction / approval for OTS and thereafter a settlement agreement was executed amongst Axis Bank, 
REL and RFL (as confirming party) on April 22, 2022 for OTS, and amount of ` 2,000 Lakhs was paid by REL to Axis Bank on same 
date. Axis Trustee Services Limited – Debenture Trustee issued a NOC dated April 25, 2022. waived off amount of ` 9,937.46 
Lakhs was classified under “Other Income” as Liability written back in financial statements for the corresponding year end.
21.5 (a)	 As part of OTS agreement executed on December 30, 2022, certain NCDs issued to Canara Bank (under Series 30 and Series 
32 for ` 4,488 Lakhs including Principal ` 4,000 Lakhs and accrued interest ` 488 Lakhs till date of default) also got settled for 
agreed payment of ` 800 Lakhs. Same was paid with OTS payment on March 8, 2023 and the ‘No Due Certificate’ was received 
from Canara Bank.
	
 (b)	 REL and Promoter of RFL has paid the proposed settlement amount of NCD series 30, 32, 35 and 36 to all eligible NCD 
holders on June 30, 2023, July 27, 2023, August 29, 2023 and September 26, 2023, towards redemption, in full, of the 
said NCDs issued by RFL. RFL has received the ‘No Dues Certificate’ from all NCD holders and debentures trustee. RFL has 
made all the requisite disclosures in this regards. All the ISINs of redeemed NCDs have been extinguished by the Depository. 
Status of the settled NCDs with respective details of defaulted amounts, settlement date and Scrip status are mentioned below:
Unsecured 
Rated Listed 
Redeemable 
Non-Convertible 
Subordinated 
Debentures
Principal 
amount 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 
Amount 
outstanding 
(Principal and 
Interest) as at 
March 31, 2023
Date of 
redemption/ 
default
Interest for 
the period 
April 1 till 
date of 
settlement
settlement 
amounts 
during the 
period 
Date of 
actual 
settlement
Date of 
delisting
Series III (30)
 3,000.00 
 3,565.58 
October 12, 
2022
 62.14 
 3,627.72 
 June 30, 
2023 
 July 31, 
2023 
Series XXXII (32)
 2,200.00 
 2,528.31 
January 21, 
2023
 77.60 
 2,605.91 
 July 27, 
2023 
 September 
11, 2023 
Series XXXV (35)
 800.00 
 906.74  February 24, 
2023*
 37.92 
 944.66 
 August 29, 
2023 
 October 4, 
2023 
Series XXXVI (36)
 2,000.00 
 2,244.08 
March 28, 
2023
 117.09 
 2,361.17 
 September 
26, 2023 
 October 25, 
2023 
Total
 8,000.00 
 9,244.71 
 294.75 
 9,539.46 
	
	
* Maturity date is considered as February 24, 2023 as February 25, 2023 is a bank holiday.
As at March 31, 2024, no Unsecured listed NCD repayment is outstanding.
(c)	
Debenture Trustee via email communication dated October 12, 2023 informed Mr. Dalip Kumar Kaul, (proposed Nominee Director) 
that RFL has paid all the outstanding principal and interest amount to all the debenture holders and accordingly they have given 
NOC for the redemption of the said NCD’s. Therefore, they have withdrawn their notice for appointment of nominee director on 
the board of RFL.
21.6 One Time Settlement (“OTS”) of Religare Finvest Limited
	
(i)	
Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”) a wholly owned subsidiary, had faced significant asset liability mismatches and suffered losses 
as a result of siphoning and misappropriation of its funds under the control of the erstwhile promoters. RFL had made defaults 
in repayment of its obligation towards the borrowings and interest thereon. During the year ended March 31, 2021, RFL had 
proposed its Debt Restructuring Plan (“DRP”) to the lenders, and as the same could not be approved, RFL proposed One Time 
Settlement (“OTS”) with its lenders, which was finally agreed by all the lenders (except few unsecured lenders) and executed on 
December 30, 2022. OTS interalia stipulated the payment of total upfront consideration of ` 217,800 Lakhs i.e. ` 215,000 Lakhs 
212
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
to the secured lenders and ` 2,800 Lakhs to the unsecured lenders. The said OTS had been implemented by RFL by payment of 
entire upfront consideration of ` 217,800 Lakhs (`177,800 Lakhs on December 31, 2022, and ` 40,000 Lakhs on March 8, 2023). 
RFL has also received No Due Certificates from all the lenders under OTS. As part of the OTS, RFL has also entered into an Upside 
Sharing Agreement on December 30, 2022 with the OTS lenders in terms of which RFL shall share with the lenders, 70% of the 
principal and 50% of the interest of the FDR with LVB (net of expenses), subject to a minimum of ` 50,000 Lakhs and 60% of the 
Corporate Loan Book (“CLB”) (net of expenses), both currently being pursued as part of litigations instituted by RFL, as and when 
recovered by RFL. Considering the execution / implementation of OTS and Upside Sharing Agreement, RFL had de-recognised 
/ written off the advances / loans / corporate loan book of `122,202.00 Lakhs and FDR (including interest) of LVB (now DBS) of 
`55,924.09 Lakhs to be shared with the lenders, and also written back the liability towards the principal and interest of the lenders 
(net of upfront consideration) of ` 384,865.15 Lakhs and the provision of `122,202.00 Lakhs held against the advances / loans / 
corporate loan book, resulting in net gain of ` 328,941.07 Lakhs on extinguishment of borrowings under One Time Settlement, 
which had been shown as exceptional item in the financial results / statements of the year ended March 31, 2023.
	
(ii)	
Apart from OTS as detailed in para - 21.6 (i) above, 1,000 Unsecured Rated Listed Redeemable Non-Convertible Subordinated 
Debentures of `1,000,000 each amounting `11,860 Lakhs (including accrued interest) issued by RFL had also been settled for 
an amount of ` 2,000 Lakhs by REL with one of its Lenders in the earlier year on April 22, 2022 as per the Settlement Agreement 
entered with the said lender, and the impact thereof had been taken in the accounts of the previous year accordingly.
	
(iii)	
During the current year, RFL has settled the unsecured loan taken from ICICI Bank Ltd., which was not part of OTS, and has paid 
the final settlement amount of `18,750.00 Lakhs as per the terms of the settlement against the outstanding dues of ` 41,784.62 
Lakhs.
	
(iv)	
Debenture holders of NCD series 30, 32, 35 and 36 (having the overdue outstanding of ` 9,539.46 Lakhs) who were not part of 
OTS, have accepted the settlement offer of RFL during the current year. As per the terms of the settlement, the settlement amounts 
aggregating to ` 9,533.60 Lakhs (net of TDS of ` 5.86 Lakhs) have been paid in full.
	
(v)	
As detailed above, RFL in its revival journey has repaid / settled the debts of all its lenders, and now it is a debt free company with 
no subsisting default.
	
(vi)	
After settlement with lenders, there is significant improvement in RFL’s  financial performance, ratios and position, which has a 
positive impact on the value of the investment of the Company in RFL,  however, considering that RFL is still Under CAP, the 
Company considering the principle of prudency has not reversed  the impairment on its investment in RFL.
21.7 RFL has been put under Corrective Action Plan (“CAP”) by RBI, which inter-alia prohibits it from expansion of credit / investment 
portfolios other than investment in Government Securities. Considering the settlement with all lenders, improvements in its  financial 
ratios and liquidity position and strengthening of the corporate governance standards and its readiness to resume lending business 
based on its core competencies, RFL has submitted request to RBI for the removal of CAP and restrictions thereto, and is taking 
the necessary corrective measures and has submitted the information / details as required and advised by RBI in this regard which 
included no dues from ICICI Bank Limited, audited certified financials of February 29, 2024, auditor certified provisioning on fixed 
deposits with LVB (under litigation as detailed in Note - 9.1) and compliance of RMP 2023. Further response from RBI is awaited in 
this regard. Considering the implementation of OTS with all lenders, the corrective measures as advised by RBI being taken to seek 
removal of CAP in the process, and the improvements in its financial position and performance, and positive net worth during the 
current year the financial statements of RFL have been prepared on Going Concern Basis.
21.8 RFL had filed a Writ Petition dated December 07, 2023 before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi against the decision of State Bank of 
India (“SBI”), the lead bank of the consortium of lenders, classifying RFL’s account as “Fraud” exposure.  The Hon’ble High Court of Delhi 
vide its order dated December 18, 2023 has disposed-off the petition in favour of RFL by setting aside the action of SBI in declaring 
RFL’s accounts as fraud. SBI, vide communication dated January 25, 2024, has informed that the record of RFL reported as fraud has 
been removed from the Central Fraud Registry database. Thereafter, RFL has received communications from Bank of Maharashtra and 
Union Bank of India informing that the record of RFL, reported as fraud by the bank, has been removed from the Central Fraud Registry 
database.
213
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
22	 Lease Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Lease Liabilities ( Refer Note No 49)
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
Total 
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
23	 Other Financial Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Interest Accrued
 2,981.54 
 15,544.25 
Unclaimed Debenture Refund and Interest Thereon*
 36.65 
 59.12 
Book Overdraft
 139.24 
 102.90 
Security Deposits (Including Margin for Vehicles)
 3,007.95 
 3,083.58 
Debt Service Reserve ("DSR") and Other Accounts
 45.24 
 282.63 
Margin Deposits From Clients (Broking Business)
 30,307.22 
 21,016.75 
Accrued Expenses
 12,859.75 
 10,334.49 
Payable For Assignment and Securitisation Transactions
 36.48 
 123.80 
Claims Outstanding (Insurance Business)
 71,186.20 
 62,951.82 
Liability Portion of Redeemable Preference Shares (Refer Note 54(p))
 8,403.03 
 - 
Other Liabilities**
 1,303.38 
 2,239.35 
Total 
 130,306.68 
 115,738.69 
	
* There are no amount outstanding as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 which are required to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
	
** During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary company has written- back certain old liabilities amounting to `1,142 
Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 3,000 Lakhs), which have been lying in books more than three years being excess amounts received from customers and remained 
unclaimed on account of non-furnishing of necessary certificates and non-filing of claims. Same has been disclosed as ‘credit balance written back’ under “other 
income” of Statement of Profit & Loss.
24	 Provisions
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Provision for Employee Benefits 
-	
Gratuity 
 863.26 
 753.92 
- 	
Leave Encashment 
 1,636.99 
 1,387.74 
Other Provisions
-	
Provision for Litigation and Dispute
 10.09 
 - 
-	
Unexpired Risk Reserve (“URR”)* 
 289,369.68 
 217,569.83 
Total 
 291,880.02 
 219,711.49 
	
* Unexpired Risk Reserve represents that part of the net written premium (i.e.  premium, net of reinsurance ceded) which is attributable to, and set aside for 
subsequent risks to be borne by the Health Insurance subsidiary company (“CHIL”) under contractual obligations on contract period basis.
214
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance  
 217,569.83 
 151,685.81 
Less:-Amount utilized during the year  
 217,569.83 
 151,685.81 
Add:-Provision made during the year  
 289,369.68 
 217,569.83 
Closing Balance 
 289,369.68 
 217,569.83 
25	 Other Non Financial Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Statutory Dues Payable
 25,549.82 
 18,969.46 
Advances From Customers / Clients
 372.31 
 152.21 
Unallocated Premium (Refer Note 3(w))
 12,700.47 
 6,438.35 
Premiums Received in Advance (Refer Note 3(x))
 31,012.52 
 30,062.50 
Other Liabilities
 1,464.58 
 1,575.05 
Total 
 71,099.70 
 57,197.57 
26	 Equity Share Capital
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Authorized Capital
827,705,000 (March 31, 2023: 654,450,000) Equity Shares of `10 each 
 82,770.50 
 65,445.00 
Total
 82,770.50 
 65,445.00 
Issued, subscribed and paid up 
329,721,163 (March 31, 2023: 323,559,463) Equity Shares of `10 each fully paid up
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
Total
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
26.1 Reconciliation of the Equity Shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of reporting year
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024 
As at March 31, 2023 
 Number 
 Amount 
 Number 
 Amount 
Equity Shares of 10 each Fully Paid Up
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 323,559,463 
 32,355.95 
 318,809,312 
 31,880.93 
Add: Shares issued during the year@
 6,161,700 
 616.17 
 4,750,151 
 475.02 
Balance as at the end of the year
 329,721,163 
 32,972.12 
 323,559,463 
 32,355.95 
@ During the previous year, the Company has allotted 6,161,700 equity shares of face value of `10 each, at exercise prices ranging 
from ` 29.43 per share to `159.25 per share, pursuant to exercise of stock options granted under the “Religare Enterprises Limited 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2019”. These equity shares have been allotted at an exercise price ranging from ` 29.43 per share to 
`159.25 per share.
215
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Further, post end of the current year, the Company further allotted 291,250 equity shares of face value of `10 per share under the 
“Religare Enterprises Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019”.
During the year, the Company granted 6,800,000 stock options at a grant price of `169.20 - ` 207.20 per share under “Religare 
Enterprises Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019” (REL ESOP Scheme 2019). For detail please refer Note 50(A).
26.2	 The rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to equity shares including restrictions on the distribution of 
dividends and the repayment of capital is as under:
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of `10 per share. Each shareholder is entitled to one vote per share 
held. Dividend, if any, declared is payable in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed, if any, by the Board of the Directors is subject to the 
approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The Company continues to be barred from declaring dividends as 
per RBI letter issued in December, 2019.
26.3 Details of the shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Name of the Shareholders
As at March 31, 2024 
As at March 31, 2023 
No. of Shares 
held
% of Holding^
No. of Shares 
held
% of Holding 
Equity Shares
(i)	
Puran Associates Private Limited
 30,731,432 
9.32
 18,164,432 
5.61
(ii)	
Investment Opportunities V Pte. Limited
 - 
-
 24,764,469 
7.66
(iii)	
Plutus Wealth Management LLP
 20,000,000 
6.07
 23,000,000 
7.11
(iv)	
M B Finmart Private Limited
 18,102,636 
5.49
 5,536,136 
1.71
(v)	
VIC Enterprises Private Limited
 24,606,021 
7.46
 12,039,521 
3.72
	
^ Also refer to Note 26.7
26.4 Details of the shareholding of promoters* of the Company:	 	
	
	
	
	
Name of the Promoters*
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of 
Shares held
% of Total 
Shares
% Change 
during the year
No. of 
Shares held
% of Total 
Shares
% Change 
during the year
Equity Shares
N.A. 
[W.e.f. June, 2021 the Company / REL has become a listed company with no promoters.] 
	
* Promoter here means promoter as defined in the Companies Act, 2013.
26.5 There are no shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract without payment 
being received in cash, or bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date.
26.6 Preference Share Capital	
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Authorized Capital
162,000,000 (March 31, 2023: 162,000,000) Redeemable Preference Shares of `10 each 
 16,200.00 
 16,200.00 
Total
 16,200.00 
 16,200.00 
	
(Also refer Note 54(p))
216
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
26.7	 The Company has received the Public Announcement dated September 25, 2023 in relation to an Open Offer to the Public Shareholders 
of the Company on behalf of the Burman Group of Companies [i.e. M.B. Finmart Private Limited (“Acquirer 1”), Puran Associates Private 
Limited (“Acquirer 2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited (“Acquirer 3”), and Milky Investment & Trading Company (“Acquirer 4”) (hereinafter 
the “Acquirers”)], for acquisition of upto 90,042,541 fully paid-up equity shares of face value of `10 each from the public shareholders 
of the Company representing 26.00% of the Expanded Voting Share Capital of the Company. The Open Offer has been made pursuant 
to and in compliance with Regulations 3(1) and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and subsequent amendments thereto. The Detailed Public Statement dated October 03, 2023 has 
been published by the Acquirers on October 04, 2023, and the Draft Letter of Offer has been submitted by the Acquirers with SEBI 
on October 11, 2023. The Acquirers have received the approval of the Competition Commission of India (“CCI”) as mentioned in the 
Press Release dated January 23, 2024 followed by detailed order of the same date uploaded on the CCI website on March 15, 2024, 
the same has been appealed against and pending adjudication before Hon’ble National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (“NCLAT”). 
Further, the Company received an endorsement email from the RBI addressed to the Acquirers on their Application for prior approval 
for change in management and control stating that request cannot be acceded to, as application for prior permission for acquiring 
control and / or change in management has to be submitted by the NBFC in which change in management and control is taking place. 
Presently there is no impact of the same on the Company / Group,  however, the Company is monitoring and evaluating the above 
development closely. 
27	 Other equity
27.1 Reserves & Surplus
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(A)
Securities Premium
Opening Balance
 463,528.37 
 463,057.12 
Add : Securities premium on shares allotted
 3,214.03 
 947.38 
Add / (Less): Adjustment due to change in NCI
 4,197.29 
 (476.13)
Closing Balance
 470,939.69 
 463,528.37 
(B)
Capital Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
 1,123.14 
 1,123.14 
Closing Balance
 1,123.14 
 1,123.14 
(C)
Capital Reserve arising out of Composite Scheme of Arrangement
Opening Balance
 13,169.09 
 13,169.09 
Closing Balance
 13,169.09 
 13,169.09 
(D)
Capital Reserve on Consolidation
Opening Balance
 8,882.34 
 8,882.34 
Closing Balance
 8,882.34 
 8,882.34 
(E)
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 24,988.95 
 24,988.95 
Closing Balance
 24,988.95 
 24,988.95 
(F)
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 95,709.63 
 37,168.15 
Add: Transfer from retained earnings (Net of NCI)
 1,348.35 
 58,541.48 
Closing Balance
 97,057.98 
 95,709.63 
217
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(G)
Short / (Excess) Payment for Shares in Subsidiaries Post Getting Control
Opening Balance
 (4,227.26)
 (4,227.26)
Closing Balance
 (4,227.26)
 (4,227.26)
(H)
Share Options Outstanding Account
Opening Balance
 232.85 
 411.31 
Add: Changes during the Year
 (38.43)
 (178.46)
Closing Balance
 194.42 
 232.85 
(I)
Reserve on Forfeiture of Share Warrant
Opening Balance
 4,161.12 
 4,161.12 
Closing Balance
 4,161.12 
 4,161.12 
(J)
Impairment Reserve
Opening Balance
 223.65 
 411.50 
Add: Changes during the Year
 (223.65)
 (187.85)
Closing Balance
 - 
 223.65 
(K)
Retained Earnings
Opening Balance
 (432,677.45)
 (682,543.09)
Add: Net Profit For The Year
 23,291.03 
 308,168.62 
Add / (Less): Adjustment due to Change in NCI
 (351.48)
 34.30 
Add: Transfer from Impairment Reserve
 223.65 
 187.85 
Add: Impairment Loss Provision Adjustment
 (6,250.00)
 - 
Add: Adjustment due to Dissolution of a Subsidiary
 2,630.14 
 - 
Add: Transfer from Other Comprehensive Income
 23.38 
 - 
Add: Adjustment for ESOP expense 
 0.08 
 16.35 
 (413,110.65)
 (374,135.97)
 Less: Appropriations 
Transfer to Statutory Reserve (Net of NCI)
 (1,348.35)
 (58,541.48)
(I)	
Closing Balance
 (414,459.00)
 (432,677.45)
Other Comprehensive Income ("OCI")
Opening Balance
 (4,332.53)
 632.69 
Add / (Less): Movement in OCI during the Year (Net of Tax)
	
•	
Remeasurement Gain or (Loss) on Defined Benefit Plans
 (175.96)
 (118.94)
	
•	
Fair Value Gain / (Loss) on Equity Instruments Designated as FVTOCI
 2,502.73 
 (191.03)
	
•	
Net Gain / (Loss) on Other Approved Securities FVTOCI
 3,115.80 
 (7,341.07)
	
•	
Transferred to Retained Reanings
 (23.38)
 - 
Add / (Less): Share of NCI and Adjustment due to change in NCI 
 (1,926.11)
 2,685.82 
(II)	
Closing Balance
 (839.45)
 (4,332.53)
Total Retained Earnings (I + II)
 (415,298.45)
 (437,009.98)
218
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
27.2 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening Balance
 2,630.66 
 2,629.48 
Add / (Less): Changes during the Year
 (0.52)
 1.18 
Less: Adjustment due to dissolution of a subsidiary
 (2,630.14)
 - 
Closing Balance
 - 
 2,630.66 
27.3 Share Application Money Pending Allotment
Opening Balance
 - 
 27.69 
Add: Share Application Money received 
 4,181.18 
 1,394.72 
Less: Share Application Money utilised on allotment of share
 (3,830.20)
 (1,422.41)
Closing Balance
 350.98 
 - 
Total Other Equity
 201,342.00 
 173,412.56 
27.4 The Description of the nature and purpose of each reserve within other equity are as follows:
	
(i)	
Securities Premium
	
	
This Reserve represents the premium on issue of shares and can be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
	
(ii)	 Capital Redemption Reserve (“CRR”)
	
	
The Company has recognised Capital Redemption Reserve on redemption of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares 
from its retained earnings. The amount in Capital Redemption Reserve is equal to nominal amount of the Non-Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares redeemed. The Company may issue fully paid up bonus shares to its members out of the capital 
redemption reserve account.
	
(iii)	 Capital Reserve arising out of Composite Scheme of Arrangement
	
	
Pursuant to the terms of approved scheme of arrangement, the investment held by the Company in transferor entities and related 
provision for diminution stand cancelled; the difference between book value of investments and face value of shares has been 
credited to Capital Reserve.
	
(iv)	 Capital Reserve on Consolidation
	
	
This reserves created during business combination for the gain on bargain purchase.
	
(v)	 General Reserve
	
	
This Reserve is created by an appropriation from one component of other equity (generally Retained Earnings) to another, not 
being an item of Other Comprehensive Income. The same can be utilised by the Company in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(vi)	 Statutory Reserve
	
	
NBFC companies of the Group need to transfer a part of profit to this reserve as per Prudential Norms of RBI / NHB. No appropriation 
of any sum from the reserve fund shall be made by the NBFC except for the purpose as may be specified by the RBI / NHB from 
time to time.
219
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(vii)	 Short / (Excess) Payment for Shares in Subsidiaries Post Getting Control
	
	
It reports the excess amount paid, over face value of the shares, by the Company to acquire the equity shares of its subsidiary from 
the non-controlling interest share holders.
	
(viii)	Reserve on Forfeiture of Share Warrant
	
	
The Company obtained an In–Principle approval under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 from National Stock Exchange of India and BSE Limited (“the Exchanges”) for issue and allotment of 175,224,258 convertible 
warrants of ` 52.30 each exercisable into equal number of Equity Shares of `10 each of the Company on preferential basis. 
Pursuant to shareholder approval dated March 19, 2018, the Company issued and allotted 111,497,714 convertible warrant each 
on preferential basis under the provision of chapter VII of Securities Exchanges Board of India (Issue of Capital and disclosure 
requirement) Regulation 2009, as amended (“ICDR Regulations”) and section 62 and 42 of the Companies Act 2013. As these 
warrant holders could not exercise their preferential right for conversion of convertible warrant into equity share, hence the 
unutilised advance share warrant money received has been forfeited. The unutilised amount of ` 4,161.12 Lakhs has been 
credited to this Capital Reserve.
	
(ix)	 Share Options Outstanding Account
	
	
The Share Option Outstanding account has been created in accordance with the approved Employee Stock Option Scheme.
	
(x)	 Retained Earnings
	
	
This Reserve represents the cumulative profits / losses of the Company, which can be utilised in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(xi)	 Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
	
	
The other comprehensive income/(loss) till date, which is available for set off or adjustable only against such income/loss in future.
	
(xii)	 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
	
	
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve represents the exchange rate variation on the reporting date in respect of Subsidiary (ies) of 
the Company, being non-integral foreign operation.
	
(xiii)	Impairment Reserve
	
	
Impairment Reserves is created in accordance with RBI circular RBI/2019-20/170 DOR (NBFC).CC.PD.No.109/22.10.106/2019-20 
dated March 13, 2020 in terms of which NBFCs are required to appropriate from their accumulated profit or loss after tax an 
amount representing the difference between Impairment Loss Allowances under Ind AS 109 (ILA) and provisioning required under 
IRACP (including standard asset provisioning) wherever ILA is lower than provisioning required under IRACP (including standard 
asset provisioning). The balance in the ‘Impairment Reserve’ is not reckoned for regulatory capital.
220
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
28	 Non Controlling Interest
	
The following table summarises the financial information relating to subsidiaries that have non controlling interests:
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Total
Care Health Insurance Limited
Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Country of Incorporation / Place of Business
India
India
India
Proportion of Non Controlling Interest (%)
37.02%
35.02%
12.50%
12.50%
(A)	
Balance Sheet
Financial Assets
 717,984.97 
 558,601.32 
 694,821.24 
 531,096.41 
 23,163.73 
 27,504.91 
Non-financial Assets
 25,276.41 
 24,287.73 
 24,034.08 
 23,036.48 
 1,242.33 
 1,251.25 
Financial Liabilities
 (144,639.65)
 (116,155.43)
 (142,354.91)
 (109,639.18)
 (2,284.74)
 (6,516.25)
Non-Financial Liabilities
 (359,624.68)
 (275,833.52)
 (359,206.80)
 (275,277.58)
 (417.88)
 (555.94)
Net Assets
 238,997.05 
 190,900.10 
 217,293.61 
 169,216.13 
 21,703.44 
 21,683.97 
Carrying Amount of Non Controlling Interest
 83,148.04 
 61,976.65 
 80,435.11 
 59,266.15 
 2,712.93 
 2,710.50 
(B)	
Statement of Profit and Loss
Total Income
 580,007.17 
 427,947.47 
 575,674.66 
 422,744.23 
 4,332.51 
 5,203.24 
Profit / (Loss) For The Year
 30,942.49 
 24,955.85 
 30,927.04 
 24,745.31 
 15.45 
 210.54 
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (Net of 
Tax)
 5,579.61 
 (7,683.38)
 5,575.56 
 (7,676.05)
 4.05 
 (7.33)
Total Comprehensive Income For The Year
 36,522.10 
 17,272.47 
 36,502.60 
 17,069.26 
 19.50 
 203.21 
Attributable to Non Controlling Interests:
Profit / (Loss) For The Year
 11,450.14 
 8,693.11 
 11,448.21 
 8,666.79 
 1.93 
 26.32 
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (Net of 
Tax)
 2,064.40 
 (2,689.37)
 2,063.89 
 (2,688.45)
 0.51 
 (0.92)
Total Comprehensive Income For The Year
 13,514.54 
 6,003.74 
 13,512.10 
 5,978.34 
 2.44 
 25.40 
(C)	
Cash Flow Statement (Standalone 
Companies)
Net Cash Generated / (Used) from / in Operating 
Activities
 106,291.63 
 111,595.17 
 102,069.66 
 103,334.86 
 4,221.97 
 8,260.31 
Net Cash Generated / (Used) from / in  Investing 
Activities
 (112,193.81)
 (129,696.80)
 (112,433.34)
 (130,357.38)
 239.53 
 660.58 
Net Cash Generated / (Used) from / in  
Financing Activities
 5,613.58 
 20,295.93 
 9,974.89 
 29,114.88 
 (4,361.31)
 (8,818.95)
Net Increase / (Decrease) in Cash and Cash 
Equivalents
 (288.60)
 2,194.30 
 (388.79)
 2,092.36 
 100.19 
 101.94 
221
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
29	 Interest Income *
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Interest Income on Loans
 11,262.40 
 16,455.92 
Interest Income on Fixed Deposits with Banks
 4,267.01 
 3,397.97 
Interest Income on Margin Trading Facilities and Delayed Payments by Customers
 4,443.96 
 3,189.94 
Interest Income on Investments
 39,797.55 
 27,799.88 
Total 
 59,770.92 
 50,843.71 
	
*Breakup of Interest Income:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
(A)	 On Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 
Interest Income on Loans
 11,262.40 
 16,455.92 
Interest Income on Fixed Deposits with Banks
 4,267.01 
 3,397.97 
Interest Income on Margin Trading Facilities and Delayed Payments by Customers
 4,443.96 
 3,189.94 
Interest Income on Investments
 15,938.55 
 10,213.30 
Subtotal (A) 
 35,911.92 
 33,257.13 
(B)	
 On Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss ("FVTPL") 
Interest Income on Investments
 - 
 69.23 
 Subtotal (B) 
 - 
 69.23 
(C)	 On Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through OCI ("FVTOCI") 
Interest Income on Investments
 23,859.00 
 17,517.35 
Subtotal (C) 
 23,859.00 
 17,517.35 
Total (A+B+C) 
 59,770.92 
 50,843.71 
30	 Fee and Commission Income
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Other Commission Income
 363.86 
 498.27 
Total 
 363.86 
 498.27 
31	 Net Gain on Fair Value Changes
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Net Gain on Fair Value of Investments (Refer Notes 31.1)
 78.37 
 - 
Total 
 78.37 
 - 
222
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
31.1 Net Gain / (Loss) on Fair Value Changes#
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
(A)	 Net Gain / (Loss) on Financial Instruments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss
	
On Trading Portfolio
	
- Investments*
 78.37 
 (33.24)
Total Net Gain / (Loss) on Fair Value Changes
 78.37 
 (33.24)
(B)	
Fair Value Changes
	
-	
Realised
 15.94 
 28.88 
	
-	
Unrealised
 62.43 
 (62.12)
Total
 78.37 
 (33.24)
	
# Fair value changes in this schedule are other than those arising on account of accrued interest income / expense.	
	
	
	
* Refer Note 36A
32	 Rendering of Services
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Income From Broking Operations
 23,038.69 
 17,982.01 
Income from E-Governance Services and NPS-POP Services 
 4,450.01 
 3,257.52 
Total 
 27,488.70 
 21,239.53 
33	 Other Revenue From Operations
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Income From Insurance Premium (Net of Premium on Re-insurance ceded)
 532,543.39 
 392,933.42 
Profit on Assignment of Loans
 330.92 
 196.82 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments (Net)
 2,321.79 
 1,593.75 
Others
 163.94 
 200.38 
Total 
 535,360.04 
 394,924.37 
34	 Other Income
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Credit Balances Written Back
 1,597.58 
 15,672.61 
Support Service Income
 3.24 
 9.29 
Interest Income From Fixed Deposits With Banks*
 40.26 
 91.64 
Profit on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment (Net)
 26.02 
 8.36 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments (Net)
 0.13 
 20.03 
223
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Interest Income on Others#
 3,083.15 
 175.96 
Income From Product Promotional Services- Third Party
 245.41 
 187.38 
Liability toward contingency expense written back (Refer Note 54(p)(iii)))
 - 
 2,073.42 
Miscellaneous Income
 1,451.47 
 438.61 
Total 
 6,447.26 
 18,677.30 
	
* On Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost. 
	
# Including ` 2,594.19 Lakhs interest on income tax refund received during the current year in Religare Finvest Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 
Refer Note 11.1.
35	 Finance Costs
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Interest on:
	
Borrowings
 3,873.72 
 54,112.94 
	
Debt Securities:
	
	
Debentures
 109.09 
 250.91 
	
Subordinated Liabilities
 3,793.96 
 7,345.90 
	
Client Margins and Security Deposits from Business Partners
 204.56 
 125.78 
	
Lease Liabilities
 1,113.42 
 761.86 
	
Others
 15.77 
 47.93 
Loan Review Charges
 7.49 
 13.20 
Bank Guarantee Commission and Other Charges
 235.68 
 148.15 
Total 
 9,353.69 
 62,806.67 
	
Note: The entire finance costs are on the financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
36	 Fee and Commission Expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Commission Expense in Insurance Business (Net)
 106,846.28 
 43,900.68 
Commission and Brokerage Expenses
 9,259.50 
 7,045.01 
Total 
 116,105.78 
 50,945.69 
36A Net Loss on Fair Value Changes
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Net Loss on Fair Value of Investments (Refer Notes 31.1)
 - 
 33.24 
Total 
 - 
 33.24 
224
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
37	 Impairment and Loss Allowances on Financial Instruments (Net)
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Impairment and Loss Allowances on Financial Instruments Measured at Amortised Cost 
(Net)*
	
-	
Loans 
 (39,818.76)
 (29,704.43)
	
-	
Investments
 (21,820.40)
 693.42 
	
-	
Trade Receivables
 (408.25)
 (1,578.22)
	
-	
Others Financial Assets
 24,657.75 
 126.38 
Loss on sale of NPA sale to ARC
 - 
 252.66 
Bad Debts and Loans and Balances Written Off*
 31,653.14 
 23,786.38 
Investment Written Off
 21,981.26 
 - 
Recovery of Financial Assets Written Off
 (3,259.63)
 (469.07)
Total 
 12,985.11 
 (6,892.88)
	
* Bad Debts and Loans and Balances Written Off net of reversal of provision:
March, 2024
March, 2023
Bad Debts and Loans and Balances Written Off
 31,653.14 
 23,786.38 
Reversal of Provision
 (30,606.53)
 (23,215.84)
 1,046.61 
 570.54 
38	 Employee Benefits Expense
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Salaries and wages
 95,626.34 
 84,727.75 
Contribution to Provident and Other Funds
 4,505.41 
 4,218.24 
Share Based Payments to Employees
 27.73 
 17.03 
Gratuity and Compensated Absences Expenses
 1,125.98 
 988.22 
Staff Welfare Expenses
 2,918.37 
 2,457.44 
Recruitment and Training Expenses
 527.57 
 485.46 
Total 
 104,731.40 
 92,894.14 
39	 Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment (Refer Note 13)
 1,781.54 
 1,802.87 
Amortization of Right-to-use Assets (Refer Note 13)
 3,557.03 
 1,825.09 
Amortization of Intangible Assets (Refer Note 15)
 1,831.83 
 1,986.59 
Total 
 7,170.40 
 5,614.55 
225
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
40	 Other Expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Rent, Rates and Taxes
 1,932.17 
 2,548.15 
Repairs and Maintenance
 1,051.72 
 1,080.52 
Communication Costs
 1,787.44 
 1,810.36 
Printing and Stationery
 386.98 
 854.45 
Advertisement and Business Promotion
 17,910.03 
 41,119.99 
Directors' Fees, Allowances and Expenses
 168.20 
 157.30 
Auditor's fees and expenses (Refer Note 40.1)
 227.34 
 199.03 
Legal and Professional Expenses
 5,599.98 
 9,427.14 
Insurance
 116.85 
 77.61 
Support Services Fees
 5.34 
 1.91 
Loss on Account of Error Trades (Net)
 - 
 27.62 
Digitization Expenses
 75.21 
 70.46 
Postage and Courier
 82.45 
 90.17 
Office Expenses
 1,575.90 
 1,198.71 
Membership and Subscription Fees
 1,703.30 
 861.00 
Custodial and Stamp Charges
 873.14 
 944.41 
Transaction Charges
 1,084.44 
 405.36 
Travel and Conveyance
 2,167.78 
 1,731.15 
Electricity and Water Expenses
 773.30 
 694.04 
Filing and Registration Fees
 23.47 
 26.78 
Bank Charges
 1,832.14 
 1,305.30 
Fines and Penalties
 11.36 
 6.01 
Storage and Warehouse Charges
 130.02 
 132.23 
Provision Against Non-Financial Assets
 2,573.50 
 36.24 
Software Expenses
 3,960.81 
 3,174.38 
Goods and Services Tax Expense
 831.71 
 853.74 
Rating Expenses
 33.89 
 41.37 
Loss on Sale of Assets Acquired in Satisfaction of Debts (Net)
 74.99 
 38.46 
Amortisation of Excess Interest Spread ("EIS")
 21.81 
 8.20 
Claims and Other Benefits
 307,426.83 
 211,617.50 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 40.2)
 332.15 
 150.92 
Loss on foreign currency transaction (Net)
 23.79 
 - 
Premium/(Amortisation) of Investment (Net)
 1,161.91 
 1,194.40 
Training Expenses
 696.69 
 1,191.27 
Miscellaneous Expenses
 1,188.81 
 923.17 
Total 
 357,845.45 
 283,999.35 
226
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
40.1Auditor’s fees and expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
As Auditor: 
	
Statutory Audit Fees
 179.31 
 169.88 
	
Tax Audit Fees
 10.51 
 9.55 
In Other Capacity:
	
Fees For Other Services
 31.92 
 10.88 
For Reimbursement of Expenses
 5.60 
 8.72 
Total 
 227.34 
 199.03 
40.2 Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Expenses	 	
	
	
(a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by the group during the year is ` 332.15 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `150.92 Lakhs).
	
(b)	
Amount spent during the year:
	
Year Ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
In cash 
 Expenses Incurred / 
Yet to be paid in cash 
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Renovation / Construction of School Building
 67.81 
 - 
(iii)	
Others
 213.15 
 - 
	
Note: It does not include the amount spent during the year from shortfall of earlier year(s).
	
Year Ended March 31, 2023
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
In cash 
 Expenses Incurred / 
Yet to be paid in cash 
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Renovation / Construction of School Building
 102.09 
 - 
(iii)	
Others
 22.67 
 - 
	
Note: It does not include the amount spent during the year from shortfall of earlier year(s).
	
(c)	
Shortfall at the end of the year:
227
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
 58.90 
 82.53 
Unspent amount of the year^
 51.19 
 26.16 
Amount spent during the year from shortfall
 58.90 
 49.79 
Closing Balance
 51.19 
 58.90 
	
	
^ The unspent amount has been transferred to ‘unspent CSR account’ within 30 days from the end of the financial year, in accordance with the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the CSR Amendment Rules. 
	
(d)	
Spent ` 41.51 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 36.78 Lakhs) through the Conpany’s subsidiary, Religare Care Foundation.
41	 Tax Expense / (Credit)
	
a)	
Tax Recognised in Profit and Loss
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
# Tax Expense
Current Tax 
 11,071.27 
 9,069.83 
Tax for earlier years (Net)
 (1,056.62)
 12.86 
 10,014.65 
 9,082.69 
# Deferred Tax Expense
Origination and Reversal of Temporary Differences
(Incremental) / Decremental Deferred Tax Assets on Account of: 
	
Impairment Loss Allowance (Refer Note 54(h)(ii)
 228.73 
 597.52 
	
Provision for Employee Benefits
 (335.67)
 (298.85)
	
Carry Forward Losses 
 31.70 
 2,106.24 
	
Property, Plant and Equipment
 (144.15)
 (103.07)
	
Other Provisions (including Unexpired Risk Reserve)
 1,061.46 
 (2,508.08)
	
Others
 (49.08)
 (15.73)
Incremental / (Decremental) Deferred Tax Liability on Account of:
	
Other Disallowances / Deduction Under Income Tax 
 (780.15)
 140.84 
 12.84 
 (81.13)
Total Tax Expenses Recognised in Profit and Loss
 10,027.49 
 9,001.56 
	
	
(Refer Note 12)
228
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
b)	
Tax Related to Items Recognised in OCI During the Year
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Remeasurement on Defined Benefit Plans and Fair Value Gain / (Loss) on Equity 
Instruments Designated as FVTOCI 
	
Current Tax
 19.31 
 - 
	
Deferred Tax 
 (827.29)
 112.66 
Tax Related to Items Recognised in OCI During the Year
 (807.98)
 112.66 
c)	
The tax expenses for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Profit / (Loss) Before Tax (A)
 44,768.66 
 325,863.29 
Computed Tax Expense Based on Applicable Tax Rates to Group (B)
 11,569.98 
 8,912.58 
Tax Effect of :
	
Expenses Disallowed for Tax Purpose
 (53.29)
 859.96 
	
Deduction Claimed / Expenses Allowed for Tax Purpose
 (477.00)
 (699.14)
	
Carry Forward Losses Set off
 12.27 
 (3.57)
	
Income taxes related to prior years
 (1,056.62)
 12.86 
Current Tax Provision (C)
 9,995.34 
 9,082.69 
Deferred Tax (Refer Note 41(a) above) (D) 
 12.84 
 (81.13)
Tax Expenses recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (C + D) (E)
 10,008.18 
 9,001.56 
42	 Earnings Per Share (“EPS”)
Particulars
Year Ended
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit attributable to equity holders (` in Lakhs)
23,291.03
308,168.62
Diluted effect of the Subsidary Companies (` in Lakhs)
(37.97)
(62.19)
Diluted Profit attributable to equity holders (` in Lakhs)
23,253.06
308,106.43
Weighted average number of Equity Shares used for calculating Basic EPS (Nos)
326,706,819
320,812,649
Effect of dilutive equivalent share options (Nos)
2,180,189
4,633,713
Total weighted average number of Equity Shares used for calculating Diluted EPS (Nos)
328,887,008
325,446,362
Basic Earnings Per Share (`)
7.13
96.06
Diluted Earnings Per Share (`)
7.07
94.67
Face Value Per Equity Share (`)
10.00
10.00
229
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
43	 Maturity Analysis of Assets and Liabilities
	
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered 
or settled.
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months 
 Total 
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months 
 Total 
ASSETS
Financial Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 20,095.00 
 - 
 20,095.00 
 20,515.22 
 - 
 20,515.22 
Bank Balance Other Than Above
 85,188.27 
 1,933.81 
 87,122.08 
 59,231.60 
 1,412.28 
 60,643.88 
Trade Receivables
 24,519.11 
 - 
 24,519.11 
 17,523.47 
 21.35 
 17,544.82 
Loans
 22,275.63 
 38,390.48 
 60,666.11 
 30,562.94 
 57,555.68 
 88,118.62 
Investments
 385,082.73 
 286,719.74 
 671,802.47 
 46,712.26 
 462,666.32 
 509,378.58 
Other Financial Assets
 25,519.09 
 9,580.91 
 35,100.00 
 30,068.47 
 12,478.98 
 42,547.45 
Non-financial Assets
Inventories
 261.82 
 - 
 261.82 
 33.18 
 - 
 33.18 
Current Tax Assets (Net)
 810.49 
 11,414.63 
 12,225.12 
 1,893.40 
 20,056.03 
 21,949.43 
Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
 - 
 5,105.12 
 5,105.12 
 - 
 5,829.54 
 5,829.54 
Property, Plant and Equipments
 - 
 3,404.25 
 3,404.25 
 - 
 4,236.63 
 4,236.63 
Right -of- use Assets
 - 
 8,682.02 
 8,682.02 
 - 
 10,885.48 
 10,885.48 
Goodwill
 - 
 1,171.53 
 1,171.53 
 - 
 972.04 
 972.04 
Intangible Assets
 - 
 2,845.62 
 2,845.62 
 - 
 3,515.04 
 3,515.04 
Intangible Assets Under Development
 - 
 556.15 
 556.15 
 - 
 534.00 
 534.00 
Other Non-Financial Assets 
 20,227.85 
 3,929.37 
 24,157.22 
 18,700.39 
 3,985.09 
 22,685.48 
Total Assets
 583,979.99 
 373,733.63 
 957,713.62 
 225,240.93 
 584,148.46 
 809,389.39 
230
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months 
 Total 
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months 
 Total 
LIABILITIES
Financial Liabilities
Payables
	
-	 Trade Payables
	
	
(i)	 total outstanding dues of micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 106.72 
 - 
 106.72 
 56.53 
 - 
 56.53 
	
	
(ii)	 total outstanding dues of creditors 
other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 78,722.60 
 136.26 
 78,858.86 
 31,521.26 
 291.72 
 31,812.98 
	
-	 Other Payables
	
	
(i)	 total outstanding dues of micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 135.00 
 - 
 135.00 
 91.68 
 - 
 91.68 
	
	
(ii)	 total outstanding dues of creditors 
other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 23,396.53 
 - 
 23,396.53 
 30,852.04 
 - 
 30,852.04 
	
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
 34,389.01 
 - 
 34,389.01 
 19,287.86 
 20,659.36 
 39,947.22 
	
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33,000.00 
 - 
 33,000.00 
	
Lease Liabilities
 1,930.48 
 7,940.53 
 9,871.01 
 2,330.93 
 8,817.16 
 11,148.09 
	
Other Financial Liabilities
 124,261.68 
 6,045.00 
 130,306.68 
 110,472.33 
 5,266.36 
 115,738.69 
Non-Financial Liabilities
	
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
 0.63 
 - 
 0.63 
 1,884.03 
 - 
 1,884.03 
	
Provisions
 290,893.79 
 986.23 
 291,880.02 
 218,934.11 
 777.38 
 219,711.49 
	
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
 - 
 207.30 
 207.30 
 - 
 203.91 
 203.91 
	
Other Non-Financial Liabilities
 71,099.70 
 - 
 71,099.70 
 57,197.57 
 - 
 57,197.57 
Total Liabilities
 624,936.14 
 15,315.32 
 640,251.46 
 505,628.34 
 36,015.89 
 541,644.23 
Net
 (40,956.15)
 358,418.31 
 317,462.16  (280,387.41)
 548,132.57 
 267,745.16 
With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Group uses the same basis of expected repayment behaviour as used for estimating the EIR. 
Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon amortisations.
Where there is  breach of a material provision of a long term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting period with the effect that liability 
becomes payable on demand on the reporting date, the Group does not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after the reporting period 
and before the approval of the Financial Statements for issue, not to demand payment as a consequence of breach.
231
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
43A	 Additional Information:
	
(I)	
Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Group
	
The Title deed of all Immovable properties are held in name of the Group, except in the cases where the properties are under 
possession of the Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”) in accordance with the provisions of Securitisation and Reconstruction of 
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (“SARFAESI”) Act, 2002 and / or in accordance with the terms agreed upon 
with the respective borrowers for realization of the dues of RFL. Details of such cases are as below:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet
Description of 
item of property
Gross carrying 
value March 31, 
2024 (` in Lakhs)
Gross carrying 
value March 31, 
2023  (` in Lakhs)
Title deeds held in 
the name of
Property held 
since which date
Repossessed 
assets held for 
sale (Other Non 
Financial Assets)
Land and / or 
Building at Banjara 
Hills Hyderabad  
 282.92 
 
 282.92 
 
M. Anjaneyulu
February, 2015
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Rangareddy, 
Telangana
Manikonda 
Anjaneyulu
February, 2015
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Bhilai, 
Distt. Durg (C.G)
 164.66
 164.66
Sudhir K Jha & 
Neelu Mishra Jha 
February, 2015
------do------
Narendra Mishra 
February, 2015
------do------
Neelu M Jha 
February, 2015
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Pune, 
Maharashtra
 50.94 
 50.94 Mr. Ashish 
Madhukar Kodre
December, 2015
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu
 751.94 
 751.94 Rajeswari 
Infrastructure 
Limited
March, 2016
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Kolkata, 
West Bengal
 951.95 
 951.95 Hygieia Biogenics 
Private Limited
December, 2016
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Pune, 
Maharashtra
 83.44 
 83.44 Agogue 
Technologies 
Private Limited
December, 2016
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Undri, 
Pune, Maharashtra
 19.40 
 19.40 Mr. Sanjiv Gupta 
and Mrs Seema 
Sanjiv Gupta
December, 2016
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Thane 
(West), Maharashtra
 1,038.27 
 1,038.27 M/s Balaji Auto
January, 2017
------do------
Land and / 
or Building 
at Uthukottai, 
Thiruvallur, Tamil 
Nadu *
 - 
 325.00 Edge Qube Trading 
Private Limited
January, 2017
232
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Relevant line 
item in the 
Balance Sheet
Description of 
item of property
Gross carrying 
value March 31, 
2024 (` in Lakhs)
Gross carrying 
value March 31, 
2023  (` in Lakhs)
Title deeds held in 
the name of
Property held 
since which date
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Malappuram, Kerala
 250.00 
 250.00 Hamza P and 
Noordheen M
January, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Tirupur, 
Tamil Nadu
 291.29 
 291.29 Balasubramaniam
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Northampoondi 
Village, 
Thiruvannamalai, 
Tamil Nadu
 104.46 
 104.46 Parameswari
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Connaught Place, 
Delhi
 2,583.85 
 2,583.85 
M/s Karamyogi 
Finlease Private 
Limited
March, 2017
------do------
M/s Brite India 
Private Limited
March, 2017
------do------
Vikram Bakshi
March, 2017
------do------
Madhurima Bakshi
March, 2017
------do------
M/s Jupiter Estates 
& Builders Private 
Limited
March, 2017
------do------
Properties located 
at Krishnagiri, Tamil 
Nadu
 157.90 
 157.90 Saravanan
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at Ranga 
Reddy District, 
Telangana
 200.94 
 200.94 M/s. Sanjay Strips 
Private Limited 
represented by 
Sanjay Gupta
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Vasundhara, 
Ghaziabad, UP
 940.23 
 940.23 Pyramid Propmart 
& Pyramid Finmart 
Private Limited
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Jamnagar, Gujarat
 58.00 
 58.00 Jayeshbhai 
Karshanbhai Ranipa
March, 2017
------do------
Land and / or 
Building at 
Bhadurpura, 
Hyderabad, T.S
 120.82 
 120.82 M/s. Sheetal 
represented by 
its proprietor Vijay 
Kumar Agarwal
March, 2018
Total
 8,051.01 
 8,376.01 
	
	
In respect of the above-mentioned immovable properties none of the title deed holder is a promoter, director or relative of promoter/director or employee of 
promoter/director of the Company. Also refer Note 17.1(i)
233
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
* Properties disposed off during the financial year 2023-24. During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company has sold the assets acquired in satisfaction 
of debts at total consideration of ` 250.01 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1,609.00 Lakhs). The principal amount outstanding in respect of debt sold was ` 325.00 
Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 1,411.19 Lakhs), the shortfall of ` 74.99 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 16.90 Lakhs) was booked as Loss on sale of Assets acquired in 
satisfaction of debts.
	
	
 During the year, the Company did not acquire any immovable property in satisfaction of debts.
	
(II)	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
	
During the year, the Group has not been advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) to any other person or entity including foreign entities (intermediaries) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in other person or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of company (ultimate beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or 
the like to or behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies) including foreign entities (funding party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the funding party (ultimate beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the to or behalf of the (ultimate 
beneficiaries) or (iii) provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.	
	
(III)	 Details of loans or advances in the nature of loans are granted to promoters, directors, KMPs and the 
related parties (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013):
Type of Borrower
Amount of Loan or Advance in 
the nature of loan outstanding 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
% to the total Loans and Advances 
in the nature of loans
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Promoter
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Directors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
KMPs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Related parties - Religare Capital Markets 
Limited*
 2,523.59 
 2,523.59 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,523.59 
 2,523.59 
 - 
 - 
	
	
* As ILA provision for the entire amount has been made, net balance is Nil in both years. So its % to the total Loans and Advances in the nature of loans is Nil. 
(Refer Note 2.2.C)
	
(IV)	 Details of Benami Property held:
	
There are no proceedings which have been initiated or pending against the Group for holding any benami property under the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
	
(V)	 Willful Defaulter:
	
No Group company/entity is declared as a willful defaulter by any bank or financial Institution or other lender.
234
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(VI)	 Relationship with Struck off Companies:
Name of the Struck of 
Company
Nature of the 
transactions with 
Struck of Company
Balance Outstanding Amount (` in Lakhs)
Relationship with the 
Struck off Company
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
339 parties with small balances 
of Broking Business
Receivables
 12.10 
 8.30 Clients / Franchisees
Allychem Securities Private 
Limited
Payables
 - 
 0.16 Authorised Person
Fortis Hospital Management 
Limited
Payables
 - 
 0.00 Client
HM E-Seva Private Limited
Payables
 0.05 
 0.05 Franchisee
Polymers Multi Trade Private 
Limited
Payables
 0.00 
 0.04 Client
True Tax Services Limited
Payables
 0.68 
 0.68 Franchisee
GBS E Commerce 
Technologies Private Limited
Payables
 0.08 
 0.08 Franchisee
Regel India Services Private 
Limited
Payables
 0.46 
 0.46 Franchisee
Pole Star Infotech Private 
Limited
Payables
 - 
 0.16 Authorised Person
Jesin Business Solutions India 
Private Limited
Payables
 0.02 
 0.02 Franchisee
S S Industries India Private 
Limited
Payables
 0.01 
 - Franchisee
Sristee Entrade Private Limited
Payables
 0.01 
 - Franchisee
Bizz Tradex Private Limited
Payables
 0.01 
 0.01 Client
Macaw Egold Trading Limited
Payables
 0.02 
 0.02 Client
Moneytree Financial Advisors 
Private Limited
Payables
 0.02 
 0.02 Client
Yash Value Scrips Private 
Limited
Payables
 0.00 
 0.00 Client
Concord Sat Communication 
Private Limited
Payables
 0.14 
 0.14 Vendor / Trade 
Payables
Shiv Shankar Rice Mills Private 
Limited
Receivable – Loans
 11.63 
 15.20 Client
	
(VII)	Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
	
The Group has neither traded nor invested in Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency during the years ended March 31, 2024 and 
March 31, 2023.
	
(VIII) Audit Trail
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has issued a notification (Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules, 2021) which is 
effective from April 1, 2023, states that every company which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account shall 
use only the accounting software where there is a feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, and further creating 
an edit log of each change made to books of account along with the date when such changes were made and ensuring that the 
235
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
audit trail cannot be disabled. The Group has used different accounting softwares for maintaining its books of accounts which 
has feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the softwares, except certain sub systems in a subsidiary i.e. Religare Broking Limited for some part of the year and 
in case of Holding Company and one step down company i.e. Religare Housing Development Company Limited where certain 
components of audit trail were not operating due to system limitation. Further, it was not tempered at any time during the year.
(IX)	 The Company has no such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant 
provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
(X)	 The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
236
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
44	 Additional Information, as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises consolidated as 
Subsidiary / Associates / Joint Venture.
As at March 31, 2024
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e.(Total Assets 
minus Total Liabilities)
Share in Profit or (Loss)
Share in Other Comprehensive 
Income
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or 
(Loss)
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
Income
Amount  
(` in Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Parent
Religare Enterprises Limited
66.88%
 212,316.44 
-18.81%
 (6,535.37)
-0.14%
 (46.93)
-16.38%
 (6,582.30)
Subsidiaries and Step Down 
Subsidiaries - Indian
Religare Finvest Limited
23.36%
 74,151.09 
19.36%
 6,724.67 
-0.08%
 (28.47)
16.66%
 6,696.20 
Religare Commodities Limited
2.46%
 7,800.02 
1.76%
 610.05 
0.00%
 - 
1.52%
 610.05 
Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited
6.84%
 21,703.46 
0.04%
 15.45 
0.01%
 4.05 
0.05%
 19.50 
Care Health Insurance Limited
68.45%
 217,293.59 
89.02%
 30,927.06 
16.05%
 5,575.57 
90.84%
 36,502.63 
Religare Broking Limited
7.89%
 25,054.46 
9.60%
 3,334.33 
-0.17%
 (57.40)
8.15%
 3,276.93 
Religare Credit Advisor Private 
Limited
0.02%
 74.23 
0.00%
 (0.14)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.14)
Religare Digital Solutions 
Limited
0.00%
 2.48 
-0.01%
 (1.91)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (1.91)
Religare Business Solution 
Limited
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Religare Care Foundation
0.00%
 0.07 
0.00%
 (1.53)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (1.53)
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator 
Private Limited
0.02%
 50.49 
-0.54%
 (187.87)
-0.01%
 (4.25)
-0.48%
 (192.12)
Subsidiary - Foreign
Religare Global Asset 
Management Inc. 
0.00%
 - 
0.01%
 4.25 
0.00%
 (0.52)
0.01%
 3.73 
Joint Ventures (Investment as 
per equity method) - Indian
 - 
 - 
IBOF Investment Management 
Private Limited
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Net Goodwill on 
Consolidation (All on 
standalone companies 
reported above)
0.37%
 1,171.53 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Intercompany elimination 
and other consolidated 
adjustments
-76.28%
 (242,155.70)
-0.43%
 (147.82)
0.00%
 - 
-0.37%
 (147.82)
Total
100.00%
 317,462.16 
100.00%
 34,741.17 
15.66%
 5,442.05 
100.00%
 40,183.22 
237
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Name of the Entity
Net Assets i.e.(Total Assets 
minus Total Liabilities)
Share in Profit or (Loss)
Share in Other Comprehensive 
Income
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or 
(Loss)
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
As a % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
Comprehensive 
Income
Amount  
(` in Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Parent
Religare Enterprises Limited
79.99%
 214,160.85 
-0.33%
 (1,034.99)
0.01%
 (0.49)
-0.33%
 (1,035.48)
Subsidiaries and Step Down 
Subsidiaries - Indian
Religare Finvest Limited
25.19%
 67,452.57 
92.32%
 292,529.61 
-0.11%
 8.11 
94.61%
 292,537.72 
Religare Commodities Limited
2.69%
 7,189.98 
0.16%
 493.90 
0.00%
 - 
0.16%
 493.90 
Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited
8.10%
 21,683.97 
0.07%
 210.54 
0.10%
 (7.33)
0.07%
 203.21 
Care Health Insurance Limited
63.20%
 169,216.14 
7.81%
 24,745.34 
100.34%
 (7,676.04)
5.52%
 17,069.30 
Religare Comtrade Limited
0.00%
 0.10 
3.50%
 11,104.48 
0.00%
 - 
3.59%
 11,104.48 
Religare Broking Limited
8.13%
 21,770.95 
0.30%
 960.76 
-0.32%
 24.71 
0.32%
 985.47 
Religare Insurance Limited
0.00%
 0.05 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Religare Advisors Limited
-0.55%
 (1,462.17)
-0.07%
 (221.97)
0.00%
 - 
-0.07%
 (221.97)
Religare Credit Advisor Private 
Limited
0.03%
 74.37 
0.00%
 1.46 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 1.46 
Religare Digital Solutions 
Limited
0.00%
 4.39 
0.00%
 (5.61)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (5.61)
Religare Business Solution 
Limited
0.00%
 (0.12)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Religare Care Foundation
0.00%
 1.60 
0.00%
 (3.40)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (3.40)
Subsidiary - Foreign
Religare Global Asset 
Management Inc. 
0.00%
 7.09 
0.00%
 (1.10)
-0.02%
 1.18 
0.00%
 0.08 
Joint Ventures (Investment as 
per equity method) - Indian
 - 
 - 
IBOF Investment Management 
Private Limited
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Net Goodwill on 
Consolidation (All on 
standalone companies 
reported above)
0.36%
 972.04 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Intercompany elimination 
and other consolidated 
adjustments
-87.15%
 (233,326.65)
-3.76%
 (11,917.29)
0.00%
 - 
-3.85%
 (11,917.29)
Total
100.00%
 267,745.16 
100.00%
 316,861.73 
100.00%
 (7,649.86)
100.00%
 309,211.87 
238
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
44A Disclosure persuant to Ind AS - 7 , Statement of Cash Flows	
	
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities	
	
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)	
	
The changes in the Company’s liabilities arising from financing activities can be classified as follows:
 Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
1)
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
 34,389.01 
 39,947.22 
2)
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 33,000.00 
3)
Lease Liabilities
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
4)
Interest Payables
 2,981.54 
 15,544.25 
Total
 47,241.56 
 99,639.56 
Particulars
Borrowings 
(Other than 
Debt Securities)
Subordinated 
Liabilities
Lease Liabilities
Interest payable 
thereon
Total
As at March 31, 2022
 426,669.13 
 56,913.81 
 4,184.13 
 145,340.81 
 633,107.88 
Cash Flows
Proceed / (Repayment) (Net)
 (188,871.13)
 (23,913.81)
 (1,904.56)
 - 
 (214,689.50)
Interest Paid
 - 
 - 
 (761.86)
 (4,678.85)
 (5,440.71)
Non-Cash Flows
Additional Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 8,868.52 
 - 
 8,868.52 
Liability Written Back (Net) 
Owing to OTS
 (197,850.78)
 - 
 - 
 (187,014.37)
 (384,865.15)
Interest Accrued
 - 
 - 
 761.86 
 61,896.66 
 62,658.52 
As at March 31, 2023
 39,947.22 
 33,000.00 
 11,148.09 
 15,544.25 
 99,639.56 
Cash Flows
Proceed / (Repayment) (Net)
 2,834.82 
 (26,750.00)
 (2,630.65)
 - 
 (26,545.83)
Interest Paid
 - 
 - 
 (1,113.42)
 (3,782.68)
 (4,896.10)
Non-Cash Flows
Additional Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1,353.57 
 - 
 1,353.57 
Liability Portion of Redeemable 
Preference Shares* 
 (8,403.03)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8,403.03)
Liability Written Back (Net) 
Owing to OTS
 - 
 (6,250.00)
 - 
 (16,784.62)
 (23,034.62)
Interest Accrued
 - 
 - 
 1,113.42 
 8,004.59 
 9,118.01 
Adjustment on Acquisition of a 
Subsidiary
 10.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
As at March 31, 2024
 34,389.01 
 - 
 9,871.01 
 2,981.54 
 47,241.56 
	
* Reclassed from ‘Borrowing’ to ‘Other Financial Liabilities’
239
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
45	 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments	
(a)	 Contingent Liabilities 	
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
 719.82 
 2,990.36 
(b)	
GuaranteesA
	
-	
Bank Guarantees given by the bankers on behalf of the Group
 17,958.00 
 22,038.60 
	
-	
Other Bank Guarantees
 104.53 
 104.53 
(c)	
Other money for which the Group is contingently liable
	
-	
Disputed Income Tax Demands not provided forB
 54,266.87 
 80,527.59 
	
-	
Disputed Value Added Tax (“VAT”),  Goods and Service Tax (“GST”) and Service Tax 
demand not provided forC, D 
 8,684.09 
 1,405.55 
	
-	
Disputed Provident Fund (“PF”) demand not provided forE
 122.75 
 123.72 
Total
 81,856.06 
 107,190.35 
	
Future cash outflows in respect of (a) and (c) above, are determinable only on receipt of judgments / decisions pending with various 
forums / authorities. The Group is of the opinion that above demands or claims are not sustainable and expects to succeed in its 
appeals. The management believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s financial position and results of operations.
	
A (i)	
It includes financial and other guarantees issued by the banks for and on behalf of the Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”), a subsidiary 
company to stock exchanges, clearing corporations and others. These are issued against 50% to 100%  cash collateral in the form 
of Fixed Deposits.
	
 (ii)	
The Company has given a corporate guarantee to banks on behalf of its wholly owned subsidiary Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”) 
amounting to ` 34,500 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 30,500 Lakhs) against various credit facilities. As on March 31, 2024, a sum of 
` 24,700 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 25,739 Lakhs) was outstanding towards the said credit facility.
	
B	 Out of this ` 6,013.49 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 13,745.95 Lakhs), in Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary company, has been 
adjusted with tax refunds due to RFL and the same is considered as taxes paid in protest (Refer Note no. 11(I)).
	
C	 Excludes penalty of ` 102.32 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 102.32 Lakhs) levied by the Commissioner of Central Excise in Religare 
Broking Limited. The said penalty is contingent upon  base tax demand adjudicated by the Tax Authority. Currently the matter is 
pending with CESAT.
	
D	 In RFL out of this, `16.70 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 31.71 Lakhs) has been paid under protest. Subsequently, RFL has received a 
refund order for `15.00 Lakhs out of ` 16.70 Lakhs paid under protest.
	
E	 Amount paid under protest ` 21.46 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 21.46 Lakhs) by Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company.
Notes:
(I)	
In accordance with the approval for payment of Brand License Fees granted by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors in their 
respective meetings held on December 8, 2016 and December 10, 2016 respectively, the Company during the year ended March 31, 
2017, had entered into an agreement for payment of Brand License Fees to RHC Holding Private Limited (“RHC”) for a period of 6 years 
effective April 01, 2016 for usage of the “Religare” trademark/brand. During the year ended March 31, 2018, RHC has assigned the 
240
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
trade mark “Religare” and its logo to Elive Infotech Private Limited (“assignee” / “Elive”). Further, Elive has waived the right to receive the 
brand license fee from REL or its subsidiaries/affiliates till the time interest on loans availed by the group companies of Elive and RHC 
from Religare Finvest Limited is serviced. In the suit titled SCCPL & Another vs. LVB & Others having no. CS(COMM) 633/2018 pending 
before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, SCCPL had claimed ownership of “Religare Brand” by way of an Assignment Deed allegedly 
executed in its favour by RHC and Elive. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court vide its order dated February 22, 2018 passed an order to 
maintain status quo regarding the Religare Trademark. RHC and Elive have filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C against SCCPL 
for willfully knowing, deliberately making false statements and submitting forged documents. Loancore Servicing Solutions Limited has 
filed substitution on behalf of SCCPL by way of assignment deed. Further, Daiichi has also obtained a status quo order on the brand 
“Religare” by suppressing the fact that the entire shareholding of RHC Holdings Private Limited in M/s Elive Infotech Private Limited had 
been pledged in favour of RFL as a security for various loans to the group companies of RHC Holdings Private Limited and RFL had filed 
objection application in the said proceedings.
(II)	
The total exposure relating to below mentioned cases amounting to ` 79,367 Lakhs, has already been written off in earlier years.
	
(1)	
RFL had filed a complaint for the offences of cheating, misappropriation, forgery, criminal breach of trust, and criminal conspiracy 
against Strategic Credit Capital Private Limited (“SCCPL”) and against its associated entities and related individuals. The said 
complaint arose out of an assignment transaction wherein RFL had assigned 12 loans to SCCPL in the year of 2015 against which 
SCCPL issued a Standby Letter of Credit (“SBLC”) which turned out to be forged and the terms of assignment agreement were 
not adhered. Besides the assignment transaction, a loan amounting to ` 22,875 Lakhs was also given by RFL to Perpetual Capital 
& Servicing Private Limited (“PCSPL”), an associate company of SCCPL which remains unpaid. In 2017, Mohnish Makkar who 
controlled SCCPL and associate entities entered into settlement agreement with RFL acknowledging their joint liability of ` 79,367 
Lakhs towards RFL which again was never repaid. The said complaint had been registered as an FIR by the EOW on December 22, 
2020. Further, the charge-sheet dated August 30, 2022 was also filed and the trial court has taken cognizance. As the order of the 
Trail Court was not legally sound, RFL has filed a Petition before the Delhi High Court, for quashing of the said order. High Court 
has issued notice on the same and directed the respondents to file a reply by the May 20, 2024.
	
	
RFL has learnt that ED has also lodged an ECIR bearing no. 23/2021 against the accused persons/entities on the basis of the said 
FIR, and the matter is still under investigation.
	
(2)	
RFL had filed petitions under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (“IBC”)against SCCPL and PCSPL in their respective jurisdictions. 
Nishu Finlease Private Limited (“Nishu”) had given a loan to SCCPL amounting to ` 4,000 Lakhs. RFL purchased the said loan vide 
sale agreement and stepped into shoes of Nishu. RFL then issued a loan recall notice to SCCPL but, SCCPL failed to make the 
repayment of the loan. In view thereof, an application under Section 7 of IBC, 2016 was filed by RFL against SCCPL. The said 
petition was registered before the Hon’ble Principal Bench, NCLT Delhi. Arguments made by parties were heard at length and 
the Hon’ble Tribunal vide order dated November 25, 2022 dismissed the said petition. Thus, RFL had filed an insolvency petition 
against SCCPL which was dismissed vide order dated November 25, 2022.
	
	
In view thereof, RFL had filed an appeal before Hon’ble NCLAT against the said dismissal order of Hon’ble NCLT which was 
dismissed vide order dated April 27, 2023 on account of period of limitation. RFL preferred an SLP against the order dated 
April 27, 2023 before the Supreme Court and vide order dated  September 15, 2023, the Supreme Court was pleased to issue 
notice on the SLP and condoned delay. The matter will be list on July 09, 2024.
	
	
PCSPL had availed a loan of ` 22,500 Lakhs on June 8, 2015 for a tenure of three years against pledge of shares and optionally 
fully convertible debentures in Financial Year 2015. On account of the failure in repayment, RFL issued a Loan Recall Notice in 
Financial Year 2016. The said notice as unattended and in view thereof, RFL had filed an application under Section 7 of IBC and 
the same was registered before the Hon’ble NCLT, Mumbai.
	
	
The Hon’ble Tribunal was pleased to admit the said Insolvency Petition vide order dated August 12, 2022. Further, vide order 
dated November 07, 2022 Mr. Vijay P. Lulla was appointed as the Interim Resolution Professional. Furthermore, it is also relevant 
to mention that BGLG has filed an impleadment application which was dismissed by the court.
241
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(3)	
SCCPL and PFH filed a commercial civil suit before Hon’ble Delhi High Court against LVB, wherein they have arrayed RFL and 
other entities as party. SCCPL and PFH are seeking various reliefs in the petition against LVB and amongst other relief, a direction 
against RFL’s fixed deposits placed with LVB. RFL has also filed application for rejection of plaint under Order-VII Rule-11 and 
application u/s 340 Cr.PC against SCCPL for filing fabricated indemnification cum release agreement. The matter is sub-judice. 
Loancore had also filed substitution on behalf of SCCPL by way of assignment deed, reply filed by RFL. The matter is now listed 
on August 06, 2024 for further proceedings.
(III)	
Fortis has filed a suit for recovery (principal amount of ` 49,414 Lakhs) against Best Healthcare Private Limited and others (including RFL) 
basis the SEBI Order dated October 17, 2018 and confirmatory order dated March 19, 2019.  Securities Appellate Tribunal (“SAT”) vide 
order dated January 29, 2020 passed an order quashing the orders dated October 17, 2018 and March 19, 2019 basis which RFL has 
filed application for placing on record additional documents. RFL has further filed application under Order 7 Rule 11 of CPC for rejection 
of plaint, application seeking dismissal of suit being infructuous and reply to the amendment application filed by Fortis. Part arguments 
were heard by the Court on RFL’s application for dismissal of suit. The matter is next listed on August 22, 2024.
(IV)	 ICICI Bank Limited (“ICICI”) filed an original application with Debt Recovery Tribunal (“DRT”) against RFL for the recovery of ` 30,647.32 
Lakhs. Final arguments on adjudication of Original Application were heard by the court on April 17, 2023 and vide final order dated 
May 6, 2023, the DRT allowed the original application preferred by the ICICI Bank and passed a decree in favour of the ICICI Bank for 
an amount of ` 30,647.32 Lakhs along with pendente lite and future interest @ 13% per annum. Recovery officer (“RO”) proceedings 
were initiated against RFL.
	
RFL had  preferred an appeal before the DRAT against the final judgement dated May 6, 2023. Along with the said appeal, RFL moved 
an application for waiver of pre-deposit amount for filing the said appeal from 50% to 25% of the deposit amount. RFL further deposited 
an amount of ` 7,661.83 Lakhs being 25% of the claimed amount, DRAT however dismissed the waiver application by directing RFL to 
deposit 40% of the amount outstanding as at date of appeal vide order dated October 5, 2023. Aggrieved by the order of the DRAT, 
RFL had filed a writ petition before the High Court of Delhi. The High Court of Delhi has disposed-off the writ petition in favour of RFL and 
remanded the matter back to DRAT to reconsider afresh. Further, The High Court has also directed RFL to deposit 25% of total amount 
(Principal and interest) outstanding on the date of filling appeal with DRAT, in compliance of which an additional amount of `1,925 Lakhs 
was deposited on November 08, 2023 before the DRAT. Post settlement with ICICI bank (as explained below), RFL has received back 
the entire deposit amount on March 25, 2024 along with interest of ` 337.26 Lakhs.
	
Amidst the ongoing appeal before the DRAT and the RO proceedings, RFL and ICICI Bank entered into a settlement agreement 
dated February 26, 2024. Pursuant to this agreement, RFL remitted a settlement sum of `18,750 Lakhs, extinguishing all outstanding 
borrowing dues along with accrued interest.
	
The Settlement Agreement was brought on record before the Recovery Officer vide a joint application on behalf of both the parties 
wherein discharge and disposal of the Recovery Proceedings were sought in light of the payment made under the Settlement Agreement. 
After recording the submissions of the parties qua the aforementioned payment, the Recovery Certificate and Recovery Proceedings 
were duly closed as satisfied vide order dated February 27, 2024.  Further, in terms of the Settlement Agreement, RFL has also filed an 
application for withdrawal of appeal and refund of pre-deposit made with DRAT. The order of disposal of appeal along with refund of the 
pre-deposit of `	9,586.83 Lakhs along with applicable interest was passed by the DRAT Mumbai vide order dated March 06, 2024.
	
Furthermore, RFL had filed a criminal complaint before Economic Offences Wing, Delhi, against ICICI Bank, its Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer on May 05, 2023, stating, inter alia, that the erstwhile promoters, in collusion with the officials of ICICI Bank, 
advanced the ` 25,000 Lakhs subordinated unsecured term loan to RFL in contravention of the RBI guidelines. The said complaint was 
referred to SFIO by EOW. In terms of the Settlement agreement, RFL has now in turn withdrawn the criminal complaints filed before the 
SFIO and CBI.
(V)	
(a)	
→	
The REL’s / Company’s Income Tax Return (“ITR”) filed for the Assessment Year 2016-17 was picked up for assessment 
proceedings u/s 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (“IT Act”) and the Income Tax Department (“ITD”) vide its final assessment 
order on March 31, 2021 has made an aggregate disallowance amounting to `124,942 Lakhs (including the disallowance of 
capital loss of RCML pursuant to reduction of share capital aggregating to ` 84,427 Lakhs). Further, ITD has raised a demand 
242
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
aggregating to ` 20,451 Lakhs (including interest u/s 234B and 234C of the IT Act of ` 7,642 Lakhs) after setting- off advance 
tax and TDS for the subject year. Subsequently, the AO has passed a rectification order dated February 14, 2023 and 
May 15, 2023 u/s 154 r.w.s. 143(3) of the IT Act and reduced the disallowance to `124,935 Lakhs and reduced the demand 
to `16,412 Lakhs. Further, against the disallowances made by the Assessing Officer (“AO”) in the final assessment order, the 
Company has filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellant Tribunal (“ITAT”) on April 19, 2021. Consequent to the appeal 
filed by the Company, the Hon’ble ITAT vide its order dated September 21, 2023 has adjudicated the matter. The order of 
ITAT has following impacts:
	
	
	
(i)	
Out of the aggregate disallowances of `124,935 Lakhs made in the rectified assessment order, on additions aggregating 
to ` 40,508 Lakhs, the ITAT has granted relief to the Company.  Pursuant to the order of ITAT, the Company has also filed 
an appeal effect application before the AO on October 13, 2023 to give effect to the order passed by the ITAT. Basis the 
appeal effect application, the demand of `16,412 Lakhs shall reduce to `1,259 Lakhs (Approx).
	
	
	
(ii)	
The ITAT has confirmed the disallowance of short term and long term losses aggregating ` 84,427 Lakhs, claimed in 
the subject Assessment Year on write off of investment made in preference shares of a subsidiary. Against this issue 
upheld by the ITAT, the Company has filed an appeal before Delhi High Court on January 17, 2024, which has been 
duly admitted by the Delhi High Court on April 29, 2024. Now the matter is pending for adjudication before Delhi High 
Court. Further, ITD has also filed an appeal before Delhi High Court on the grounds which were allowed by the ITAT to 
the Company and the said appeal is pending at admission stage.
	
(b)	
→	
The Company’s assessment proceeding was initiated u/s 143(3) of the IT Act for Assessment Year 2017-18 and the 
Assessing Officer (“AO”) has passed a final assessment order on January 24, 2022 confirming all the disallowances / 
additions, aggregating to ` 94,746 Lakhs, proposed in the draft assessment order dated March 31, 2021 and raised a 
demand of `13,996 Lakhs (including interest u/s 234B of the IT Act of ` 4,940 Lakhs) after setting- off advance tax and TDS 
for the subject year.
	
	
	
Against the said order passed by the ITD, the Company has taken following actions:
	
	
	
(i)	
The Company has filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellant Tribunal (“ITAT”) against the disallowances made by 
the income tax department on February 17, 2022, which is pending for adjudication before ITAT.
	
	
	
(ii)	
The Company had filed stay application before ITAT for stay of demand on February 17, 2022 and the Hon’ble ITAT 
considering the facts of the present matter has granted interim stay on the operation of recovery of demand.
	
(c)	
→	
Income Tax Assessment proceedings of the Company for the assessment year 2021-22 was completed by National 
e-Assessment Centre vide assessment order dated 16.12.2022 after making adjustments on account of:
	
	
	
(i)	
Addition on account of Interest income on which TDS has been deducted by UCO bank amounting to ` 257,030 under 
the head PGBP and
	
	
	
(ii)	
denial of brought forward losses pertaining to AY 2013-14 & AY 2016-17 aggregating to ` 7,560 Lakhs set-off with the 
income of the subject AY.
	
	
	
Consequent to the adjustments made in the assessment order a demand of ` 2,148 Lakhs has been raised.
	
	
	
Against such assessment order the Company has taken following actions:
	
	
	
(i)	
filed an appeal before CIT-A on January 13, 2023;
	
	
	
(ii)	
rectification application dated January 13, 2023, once the rectification is adjudicated, the demand of ` 2,148 Lakhs will 
be reduced to Nil; and
	
	
	
(iii)	
stay of demand application is filed on January 16, 2023.
	
	
	
Aforesaid actions taken by the Company against the assessment order are pending for adjudication.
243
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
Further, the modified return is also filed u/s 170A of the Act basis the order of NCLT dated June 15, 2023 and all the points 
raised by the AO in the assessment order as stated above has been duly incorporated in the modified return of income. 
Therefore, the points raised by the AO in the assessment order have now become infructuous.  The AO is now required to 
pass the updated assessment order basis the modified return of income filed by the Company.
	
(d)	
→	
The income tax proceedings for the Assessment Year 2013-14 was completed vide assessment order dated March 28, 
2016, wherein the disallowance u/s 14A of the Act of `194 Lakhs and disallowance u/s 37(1) on account of fines and 
penalties of ` 35.18 Lakhs have been made.
	
	
	
Aggrieved by the said order, the Company has filed an appeal to the CIT(A). The CIT(A) vide its order dated July 28, 2017 has 
granted partial relief by deleting the disallowance u/s 14A of the Act and confirming disallowance of fines and penalties u/s 
37(1) of Act. Subsequently, the appeal was filed to the Hon’ble Income tax Appellate Tribunal (“ITAT”) and the Hon’ble ITAT 
vide its order dated February 25, 2021 and MA order dated April 1, 2022 has given following directions:
	
	
	
•	
to restrict the disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act only to the extent of the exempt income earned by company for the 
subject AY and
	
	
	
•	
remanded back the matter to the AO for verification of facts and documents respecting the claim of company for fines 
and penalties.
	
	
	
Pursuant to the order of ITAT the Company has filed an application before the jurisdictional AO giving effect to the appeal 
dated February 4, 2023 wherein it has restricted the disallowance u/s 14A of the Act to the extent of dividend income and 
determined a refund of ` 34.95 Lakhs.
	
	
	
However, in the subject matter the National Faceless Appeal Centre (“NFAC”), without any jurisdiction passed an assessment 
order dated 29.03.2023 under section 143(3) read with section (r.w.s) 254 r.w.s 144B of the Act. In the aforesaid order the 
NFAC has made the identical disallowance which was made by the jurisdictional AO in original assessment order passed u/s. 
143(3) of the Act dated 28.03.2016 and raised a demand of ` 8,434 Lakhs. The order passed by NFAC has several legal and 
factual errors. The NFAC has passed this order without any jurisdiction and also overruled orders of ITAT and CIT- A. The said 
order has several computation errors as well and the NFAC has also not given the Company an opportunity of being heard 
through video conferencing despite of a specific request made by the Company.
	
	
	
In view of such errors in the assessment order passed causing undue hardship on the Company, the Company has filed a writ 
petition before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court seeking relief by quashing this impugned order and determining refund as per 
the appeal effect order passed by the jurisdictional AO. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court has duly admitted the writ petition of 
the Company and has stayed the operation of the impugned order dated 29.03.2023 till the conclusion of matter. The matter 
is currently pending for adjudication.
(b)	 Commitments 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed and not provided for*
 195.65 
 322.89 
(b)	
Other commitments
	
-	
Undisbursed Sanctioned Loans
 140.25 
 162.82 
(c)	
Uncalled Liability on Shares^
 4,077.50 
 4,077.50 
Total
 4,413.40 
 4,563.21 
	
* Net of Advances, if any.
	
^ Unpaid capital call on equity shares of Religare Capital Markets Limited.
244
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
46	 Financial Instruments
	
(a)	 Financial Instruments by Category
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 FVTPL 
 FVTOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
 FVTPL 
 FVTOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
Financial Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 - 
 - 
 20,095.00 
 - 
 - 
 20,515.22 
Bank Balance Other Than Above
 - 
 - 
 87,122.08 
 - 
 - 
 60,643.88 
Trade Receivables
 - 
 - 
 24,519.11 
 - 
 - 
 17,544.82 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 60,666.11 
 - 
 - 
 88,118.62 
Investments 
-	
Mutual Funds
 23,722.27 
 - 
 - 
 21,670.84 
 - 
 - 
-	
Alternative Investment Funds 
(“AIF”) / Venture Capital Funds
-
 - 
 - 
 467.26 
 - 
 - 
-	
Government Securities
 - 
 - 
 257,183.85 
 - 
 - 
 186,142.10 
-	
Debt Securities
 - 
 - 
 501.71 
 - 
 - 
 504.03 
-	
Equity Instruments (Fully Paid-
up)
 - 
 22,433.24 
 - 
 - 
 9,847.64 
 - 
-	
Joint Ventures - Using Equity 
Method
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-	
Preference Shares
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-	
Other Approved (by IRDA) 
Securities 
 - 
 367,323.56 
 - 
 - 
 289,683.00 
 - 
-	
Others (RARC 059 / 080 
(RHDFC HL) Trust)
 637.84 
 - 
 - 
 1,063.71 
 - 
 - 
Other Financial Assets
 - 
 - 
 35,100.00 
 - 
 - 
 42,547.45 
Total Financial Assets
24,360.11 
389,756.80 
485,187.86 
23,201.81 
299,530.64 
416,016.12 
Financial Liabilities
Payables
-	
Trade Payables
 - 
 - 
 78,965.58 
 - 
 - 
 31,869.51 
-	
Other Payables
 - 
 - 
 23,531.53 
 - 
 - 
 30,943.72 
Borrowings (Other than Debt 
Securities)
 - 
 - 
 34,389.01 
 - 
 - 
 39,947.22 
Subordinated Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33,000.00 
Lease Liability 
 - 
 - 
 9,871.01 
 - 
 - 
 11,148.09 
Other Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 130,306.68 
 - 
 - 
 115,738.69 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 -  277,063.81 
 - 
 -  262,647.23 
245
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(b)	 Fair Valuation Measurement Hierarchy
	
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value. 
The different levels have been defined as follows:
	
Level 1: This level of hierarchy includes financial assets that are measured by reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. This category consists of quoted equity shares, quoted corporate debt instruments and 
the mutual fund units valued using the closing Net Asset Value(“NAV”).
	
Level 2: This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using inputs other than quoted prices included 
within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices).
	
Level 3: This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs that are not based on observable 
market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part, using a valuation model based on assumptions 
that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on 
available market data.
	
The following table presents fair value of hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Assets
Investments at FVTPL
-	
Mutual Funds
 23,722.27 
 - 
 - 
 23,722.27 
-	
Alternative Investment Funds ("AIF") / Venture Capital Funds
 - 
-
 - 
-
-	
Others ('RARC 059 / 080 (RHDFC HL) TRUST)
 - 
 637.84 
 - 
 637.84 
Investments at FVTOCI
- 	
Equity Instruments (Fully Paid-up)
 21,582.14 
 - 
 851.10 
 22,433.24 
- 	
Other Approved (by IRDA) Securities 
 -  367,323.56 
 -  367,323.56 
Total Financial Assets
 45,304.41 367,961.40 
 851.10 414,116.91 
Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
 As at March 31, 2023 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Assets
Investments at FVTPL
-	
Mutual Funds
 21,670.84 
 - 
 - 
 21,670.84 
-	
Alternative Investment Funds (“AIF”) / Venture Capital Funds
 - 
 467.26 
 - 
 467.26 
-	
Others ('RARC 059 (RHDFC HL) TRUST)
 - 
 1,063.71 
 - 
 1,063.71 
Investments at FVTOCI
-	
Equity Instruments (Fully Paid-up)
 8,996.54 
 - 
 851.10 
 9,847.64 
-	
Other Approved (by IRDA) Securities 
 - 
 289,683.00 
 - 
 289,683.00 
Total Financial Assets
 30,667.38 
291,213.97 
 851.10 
322,732.45 
Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There has been no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 for the years ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
246
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(c)	 Movements in Level-3 Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table shows the reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value. Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 occur when the market for some securities became more liquid, which eliminates the 
need for the previously required significant unobservable valuation inputs. Since the transfer, these instruments have been valued 
using valuation models incorporating observable market inputs. Transfers into Level 3 reflect changes in market conditions as a 
result of which instruments become less liquid. Therefore, the Group requires significant unobservable inputs to calculate their fair 
value.
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Total
Alternative Investment Funds
Equity Instruments
March, 2024
March, 2023
March, 2024
March, 2023
March, 2024
March, 2023
Opening Balance
 851.10 
 984.00 
 - 
 1.27 
 851.10 
 982.73 
Purchases
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sales
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Written off / Loss 
Allowances
 - 
 (1.27)
 - 
 (1.27)
 - 
 - 
Other Comprehensive 
Income
 - 
 (131.63)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (131.63)
Closing Balance
 851.10 
 851.10 
 - 
 - 
 851.10 
 851.10 
Unrealised Gains and 
(Losses) Related to 
Balances Held at the 
End of the Year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
(d)	 Valuation Techniques
	
	
Debt Securities
	
The Group uses active market prices when available, or other observable inputs to estimate the corresponding fair value. 
Municipal bonds and bonds issued by financial institutions are generally Level 1 and corporate bonds are generally Level 2.
	
	
Mutual Funds
	
The fair values of investments in mutual fund units is based on the net asset value (‘NAV’) as stated by the issuers of these mutual 
fund units in the published statements as at Balance Sheet date. NAV represents the price at which the issuer will issue further 
units of mutual fund and the price at which issuers will redeem such units from the investors. Such instruments are generally 
Level1.
	
	
Equity Instruments
	
Equity instruments actively traded on public stock exchanges with readily available active prices on a regular basis are classified as 
Level 1. Equity instruments in non-listed entities included investment in private equity funds are initially recognised at transaction 
price and re-measured (to the extent information is available) and valued on a case-by-case and classified as Level 3.
247
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(e)	 The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair 
value on recurring basis but measured at amortised cost.
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Financial Assets and Liabilities 
Measured at Amortised Cost
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 20,095.00 
 - 
 - 
 20,095.00 
 20,095.00 
Bank Balance Other Than Above
 87,122.08 
 - 
 - 
 87,122.08 
 87,122.08 
Receivables
 -	
Trade Receivables
 24,519.11 
 - 
 - 
 24,519.11 
 24,519.11 
Loans
 60,666.11 
 - 
 - 
 60,666.11 
 60,666.11 
Investments 
 257,685.56 
 - 
 - 
 257,685.56 
 257,685.56 
Other Financial Assets
 35,100.00 
 - 
 - 
 35,100.00 
 35,100.00 
Total 
 485,187.86 
 - 
 - 
 485,187.86 
 485,187.86 
Financial Liabilities
Payables
 -	
Trade Payables
 78,965.58 
 - 
 - 
 78,965.58 
 78,965.58 
 -	
Other Payables
 23,531.53 
 - 
 - 
 23,531.53 
 23,531.53 
Borrowings (Other than Debt 
Securities)
 34,389.01 
 - 
 - 
 34,389.01 
 34,389.01 
Lease Liabilities
 9,871.01 
 - 
 - 
 9,871.01 
 9,871.01 
Other Financial Liabilities
 130,306.68 
 - 
 - 
 130,306.68 
 130,306.68 
Total 
 277,063.81 
 - 
 - 
 277,063.81 
 277,063.81 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Financial assets and liabilities 
measured at amortised cost
 As at March 31, 2023
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 20,515.22 
 - 
 - 
 20,515.22 
 20,515.22 
Bank Balance Other Than Above
 60,643.88 
 - 
 - 
 60,643.88 
 60,643.88 
Receivables
-	
Trade Receivables
 17,544.82 
 - 
 - 
 17,544.82 
 17,544.82 
Loans
 88,118.62 
 - 
 - 
 88,118.62 
 88,118.62 
Investments 
 186,646.13 
 - 
 - 
 186,646.13 
 186,646.13 
Other Financial Assets
 42,547.45 
 - 
 - 
 42,547.45 
 42,547.45 
Total 
 416,016.12 
 - 
 - 
 416,016.12 
 416,016.12 
Financial Liabilities
Payables
 -	
Trade Payables
 31,869.51 
 - 
 - 
 31,869.51 
 31,869.51 
 -	
Other Payables
 30,943.72 
 - 
 - 
 30,943.72 
 30,943.72 
248
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Financial assets and liabilities 
measured at amortised cost
 As at March 31, 2023
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Borrowings (Other than Debt 
Securities)
 39,947.22 
 - 
 - 
 39,947.22 
 39,947.22 
Subordinated Liabilities
 33,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 33,000.00 
 33,000.00 
Lease Liabilities
 11,148.09 
 - 
 - 
 11,148.09 
 11,148.09 
Other Financial Liabilities
 115,738.69 
 - 
 - 
 115,738.69 
 115,738.69 
Total 
 262,647.23 
 - 
 - 
 262,647.23 
 262,647.23 
	
(f)	 Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value
	
Below are the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for the above financial instruments which are not 
recorded and measured at fair value in the Group’s financial statements. These fair values were calculated for disclosure purposes 
only. The below methodologies and assumptions relate only to the instruments in the above tables and, as such, may differ from 
the techniques explained in Point (d) above.
	
	
Short Term Financial Assets and Liabilities
	
For financial assets and financial liabilities that have a short-term maturity (less than twelve months), the carrying amounts, which 
are net of impairment, are a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Such instruments include: cash and cash equivalents, 
trade receivables, balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade payables and other liabilities. Such amounts have been 
classified as Level 3 on the basis that no adjustments have been made to the balances as at balance sheet.
47	 Information about segments:
(i)	
The Group’s operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the 
Executive Committee (the ‘Chief Operating Decision Maker’ as defined in Ind AS 108 - ‘Operating Segments’), in deciding how to 
allocate resources and in assessing performance. These have been identified taking into account nature of products and services, the 
differing risks and returns and the internal business reporting systems.
(ii)	
The Group’s primary business comprises of ‘Investment and Financing  (Interest on Loans) Activities’, ‘Broking in securities and 
commodities’, ‘E-Governance’ and ‘Health Insurance’. The business segments have been identified considering the nature of services, 
the differing risks and returns, the organization structure and the internal financial reporting system.
(iii)	
As per Indian Accounting Standard 108 - Operating Segments, the Group has reported segment information on consolidated basis 
including businesses conducted through its subsidiaries.
(iv)	
Segment revenue, results, assets and liabilities have been accounted for on the basis of their relationship to the operating activities of 
the segment and amounts allocated on a reasonable basis.
(v)	
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses incurred on behalf 
of other segments and not directly identifiable to each reportable segment have been allocated to each segment on the basis of 
associated revenues of each segment. All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as 
unallocable expenses.
(vi)	
Assets and liabilities that are directly attributable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment. Common assets have 
been allocated to each segment on the basis of associated revenues of each segment. Common liabilities have been allocated to each 
segment on the basis of total segment expense. All other assets and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable.
249
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
If the segment result of a segment includes interest or dividend income, its segment assets include the related receivables, loans, 
investments, or other interest or dividend generating assets.
	
If the segment result of a segment includes interest expense, its segment liabilities include the related interest-bearing liabilities.
(vii)	 The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in conformity with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. 
Revenue and expenses, which relate to the Group as a whole and are not allocable to segments on a reasonable basis, have been 
included under “Unallocated expenses/income”. Segment Assets and Segment Liabilities represent Assets and Liabilities in respective 
segments. Investments, tax related assets and other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis 
have been disclosed as “Unallocable”.
(viii)	 Inter-segment revenue have been accounted for based on the transaction price agreed to between segments which is primarily market 
based.
(a)	 Segment Information for the year ended March 31, 2024 is as under:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
PARTICULARS
Investment 
and Financing 
Activities
Broking 
Related 
Activities
E-Governance
Insurance
Unallocated
TOTAL
(i)	
Segment Revenue  
 	
External Revenue 
 17,285.65 
 32,162.30 
 4,518.18 
 575,350.54 
 609.20 
 629,925.87 
 34,988.41 
 25,055.13 
 3,361.60 
 422,473.26 
 444.58 
 486,322.98 
	
Inter -Segmental Revenue 
 884.40 
 193.20 
 0.34 
 324.12 
 - 
 1,402.06 
 949.97 
 394.94 
 0.53 
 270.97 
 - 
 1,616.41 
 	
Add: Interest/Dividend 
Income 
 - 
 - 
 Total Revenue 
 18,170.05 
 32,355.50 
 4,518.52 
 575,674.66 
 609.20 
 631,327.93 
 35,938.38 
 25,450.07 
 3,362.13 
 422,744.23 
 444.58 
 487,939.39 
(ii)	
Segment Results 
 (641.86)
 3,999.65 
 566.18 
 40,616.73 
 227.96 
 44,768.66 
 291,601.26 
 1,371.30 
 638.46 
 33,070.38 
 (818.11)
 325,863.29 
	
Taxes (Current and Deferred) 
 10,027.49 
 9,001.56 
	
Share in (Loss) of Joint 
Ventures 
 - 
 - 
	
Profit For The Year 
 34,741.17 
 316,861.73 
	
Other Comprehensive 
Income / (Loss)
 5,442.05 
 (7,649.86)
	
Total Comprehensive Income 
For The Year 
 40,183.22 
 309,211.87 
250
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
PARTICULARS
Investment 
and Financing 
Activities
Broking 
Related 
Activities
E-Governance
Insurance
Unallocated
TOTAL
	
Total Comprehensive (Loss) 
For The Year attributable to: 
a)	
Owners of the Holding 
Company 
 26,668.68 
 303,208.13 
 b)	
Non Controlling Interest 
 13,514.54 
 6,003.74 
 (iii)	 Segment Assets 
 90,346.23 
 137,021.70 
 1,822.41 
 718,862.22 
 9,661.06 
 957,713.62 
 148,092.19 
 96,376.25 
 1,924.98 
 554,139.79 
 8,856.18 
 809,389.39 
 (iv) Segment liabilities 
 27,449.43 
 101,319.44 
 1,812.41 
 501,481.86 
 8,188.32 
 640,251.46 
 84,227.28 
 68,599.80 
 1,914.98 
 384,806.01 
 2,096.16 
 541,644.23 
 (v) Capital Expenditure* 
 762.42 
 1,032.04 
 18.39 
 1,387.28 
 449.79 
 3,649.92 
 2,252.91 
 5,323.02 
 520.20 
 5,754.75 
 93.91 
 13,944.79 
(vi)	 Depreciation and 
Amortization 
 862.36 
 1,598.67 
 75.64 
 4,372.59 
 261.14 
 7,170.40 
 899.41 
 1,405.02 
 13.38 
 3,236.84 
 59.90 
 5,614.55 
(vii)	 Non Cash Expenditure 
other than Depreciation 
(without inter company 
elimination) 
 58,654.11 
 175.40 
 19.27 
 71,936.67 
 90.07 
 130,875.52 
 2,797.95 
 691.23 
 12.10 
 66,181.64 
 286.99 
 69,969.91 
	
Figures in italics represent Previous Year.
	
* The amount of addition to non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and right arising under insurance contracts.
(b)	 Revenue from major customers
The Group is not reliant on revenues from transactions with any single external customer and does not receive 10% or more of its 
revenues from transactions with any single external customer.
48	 Details of individually immaterial joint venture
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars z
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Aggregate carrying amount of its interests in individually immaterial joint venture (Net of 
impairment provision)
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive (loss) / income
 - 
 - 
251
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
49	 Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’ :
	
→	
Right-of-Use Assets: Refer Notes 3(b) and 13.
Particulars 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gross Value
Opening balance
 14,055.29 
 10,120.43 
Additions/Deletions
 (638.80)
 3,934.86 
Closing balance
 13,416.49 
 14,055.29 
Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance
 3,169.81 
 6,278.38 
Charge / Adjustment during the financial Year
 1,564.66 
 (3,108.57)
Closing balance
 4,734.47 
 3,169.81 
Carrying value
Closing balance
 8,682.02 
 10,885.48 
	
→	
Lease Liabilities:
Particulars 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current
 1,930.48 
 2,330.93 
Non - Current
 7,940.53 
 8,817.16 
Total
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
	
→	
Amounts recognised in the ‘Statement of Profit and Loss’:.
Particulars 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (Refer Note 13)
 3,557.03 
 1,825.09 
Add: Interest Expense (included in Finance Cost)
 1,113.42 
 761.86 
Add: Expense relating to short-term leases and relating to low value assets that are not 
shown as short-term leases (Reported under 'Other Expenses')
 1,853.97 
 2,392.37 
Total
 6,524.42 
 4,979.32 
252
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
→	
Total Cash outflow during the year:
Particulars 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
•	
Payments for the principal portion of the lease liabilities (Financing Activities)
 (2,630.65)
 (1,904.56)
•	
Payments for the interest portion of the lease liabilities (Financing Activities)
 (1,113.42)
 (761.86)
•	
Short-term lease payments, payments for leases of low-value assets and variable 
lease payments not included in the measurement of the lease liability (Operating 
Activities)
 (1,853.97)
 (2,392.37)
	
→	
The Company has commitments under non-cancellable leases which fall due as follows:
Particulars 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Maturity Analysis – contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within 1 Year
 3,267.52 
 3,168.57 
1 Year to 2 Years
 2,471.13 
 2,940.64 
2 Years to 3 Years
 1,659.65 
 2,076.73 
3 Years to 4 Years
 1,402.50 
 1,359.78 
4 Years to 5 Years
 1,190.83 
 1,350.37 
After 5 Years
 1,397.87 
 1,834.88 
Total undiscounted lease liabilities
 11,389.50 
 12,730.97 
Impact of discounting and other adjustments
 (1,518.49)
 (1,582.88)
Lease Liabilities included in the balance sheet
 9,871.01 
 11,148.09 
50	 Share Based Payments
	
(A) 	 Religare Enterprises Limited (“REL”)
	
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 12, 2019, approved the Religare Enterprises Limited Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2019 (“REL ESOP 2019 / Scheme”) to issue and allot stock options up to a maximum of  10% of expanded share capital 
of the Company (after taking into account any other equity Shares including through convertible instruments)  for the permanent 
employees and directors whether a whole-time director or not (other than Promoters of the Company, Independent Directors and 
Directors holding directly or indirectly more than 10% of the outstanding Equity Shares of the Company) of the Company and its 
present and future holding company and subsidiary company(ies) in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. The shareholders of the Company approved the Scheme vide their special resolution 
passed through postal ballot on March 29, 2019.
	
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives 
of the Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme.
253
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(i)	
The details of grants approved for employees of the Company and employees of its subsidiaries 
(including step down subsidiaries) in accordance with the Employees Stock Option Scheme:
	
	
	
To the employees of the Company
	
	
	
REL ESOP scheme 2019
Tranches
Grant date
Exercise 
price
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding
Estimated 
Fair Value 
of Share 
Granted
Tranche-1
1-Apr-19
29.43
8,950,000
25,000
-
1,350,000
7,575,000
25,000
30.90
Tranche-3
8-Aug-19
30.85
150,000
-
-
75,000
75,000
-
31.05
Tranche-4
9-Sep-19
31.35
650,000
-
-
650,000
-
-
32.03
Tranche-5
1-Jun-20
24.10
5,000,000
-
-
5,000,000
-
-
24.90
Tranche-6
27-Jul-20
39.55
3,670,000
-
-
3,268,000
402,000
-
39.03
Tranche-7
14-Apr-21
94.80
2,500,000
-
-
2,500,000
-
-
95.03
Tranche-8
12-Nov-21
159.25
300,000
99,000
102,000
99,000
-
201,000
159.63
Tranche-9
10-Aug-22
129.85
4,500,000
1,485,000
3,015,000
-
-
4,500,000
129.85
Tranche-10
11-May-23
169.70
4,200,000
-
4,200,000
-
-
4,200,000
168.08
Tranche-11
22-May-23
169.20
300,000
-
300,000
-
-
300,000
169.80
Tranche-12
8-Aug-23
207.20
2,300,000
-
2,300,000
-
-
2,300,000
209.50
Total
Total
32,520,000
1,609,000 9,917,000 12,942,000 8,052,000
11,526,000
	
	
	
To the employees of the subsidiaries (including step down subsidiaries)
	
	
	
REL ESOP scheme 2019
Tranches
Grant date
Exercise 
price
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding
Estimated 
Fair Value 
of Share 
Granted
Tranche-1
1-Apr-19
 29.43 
 6,175,000 
 156,750 
 - 
 1,685,000  4,333,250 
 156,750 
 30.90 
Tranche-2
19-Jun-19
 29.43 
 500,000 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
 200,000 
 - 
 24.15 
Tranche-3
8-Aug-19
 30.85 
 450,000 
 - 
 - 
 350,000 
 100,000 
 - 
 31.05 
Tranche-4
9-Sep-19
 31.35 
 350,000 
 - 
 - 
 150,000 
 200,000 
 - 
 32.03 
Tranche-6
27-Jul-20
 39.55 
 2,830,000 
 368,250 
 - 
 2,009,250 
 452,500 
 368,250 
 39.03 
Tranche-8
12-Nov-21
 159.25 
 50,000 
 33,000 
 17,000 
 - 
 - 
 50,000 
 159.63 
Total
 10,355,000 
 558,000 
 17,000  4,494,250  5,285,750 
 575,000 
254
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
(ii)	 Weighted average fair value of stock options granted during the year is as follows:
Particulars
Tranche
Grant date
No. of options 
granted
Weighted average 
fair value 
Maximum Tenure
FY 2019-20
Tranche 1
1-Apr-19
 15,125,000 
 ` 29.43 
 4 & 5 years 
Tranche 2
19-Jun-19
 500,000 
 ` 29.43 
 4 years 
Tranche 3
8-Aug-19
 600,000 
 ` 30.85 
 4 years 
Tranche 4
9-Sep-19
 1,000,000 
 ` 31.35 
 4 years 
FY 2020-21
Tranche 5
1-Jun-20
 5,000,000 
 ` 24.10 
 2 years 
Tranche 6
27-Jul-20
 6,500,000 
 ` 39.55 
 3 years 
FY 2021-22
Tranche 7
14-Apr-21
 2,500,000 
 ` 94.80 
 1 years 
Tranche 8
12-Nov-21
 350,000 
 ` 159.25 
 3 years 
FY 2022-23
Tranche 9
10-Aug-22
 4,500,000 
 `129.85 
 3 years 
FY 2023-24
Tranche 10
11-May-23
 4,200,000 
 `169.70 
 3 years 
Tranche 11
22-May-23
 300,000 
 `169.20 
 3 years 
Tranche 12
8-Aug-23
 2,300,000 
 `207.20 
 3 years 
	
	
	
Following table depicts range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life
Total for all grants
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
11,576,200 
 `24.10 - 
`159.25 
 ` 59.79 
 0.72  12,407,851 
 `24.10 - 
`159.25 
 `59.79 
 1.21 
Granted during the 
year
 6,800,000 
`169.70-
`207.20
` 182.36
 3.00 
 4,500,000 
`129.85
`129.85
 2.36 
Cancelled during the 
year
 113,500 
`29.43 - 
`39.55
` 33.31
-
 581,500 
`29.43 - 
`39.55
`34.19
-
Expired during the 
year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the 
year
 6,161,700 
 `24.10 - 
`39.55 
 - 
 - 
 4,750,151 
 `24.10 - 
`9.55 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the 
end of the year
 12,101,000 
`29.43 - 
` 207.20
` 155.71
 1.93  11,576,200 
`24.10 - 
`159.25
`59.79
 0.72 
Exercisable at the end 
of the year
 2,167,000 
`29.43 - 
`159.25
-
-
 4,277,200 
`29.43 - 
`159.25
-
	
	
(iii)	 Method used for accounting for share based payment plan
	
The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair 
value of options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black – Scholes Model.
255
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Note: For the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company has accounted expense of `18.83 Lakhs as employee benefit 
Expenses on the aforesaid employee stock option plan (March 31, 2023: Reversal of `5 Lakhs). The balance in employee 
stock option outstanding account is `129.85 Lakhs as of March 31, 2024 ( March 31, 2023: `110.99 Lakhs).
	
	
(iv)	 Transactions during the year -
	
	
	
During the year, the Company has:
	
	
	
•	
Credited ESOP reserve on:
	
	
i)	
Debiting to employee related cost by `18.55 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `6.09 Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its 
own employees; and
	
	
ii)	
Debiting investment in subsidiaries by `0.11 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1.19 Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its 
subsidiaries employees.”
	
•	
Credited to ESOP Reserve and debited employee related cost by `0.28 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1.09 Lakhs) being 
ESOPs granted to the employees of the Company by its subsidiary.
	
•	
The part of ESOP granted to employees of the its subsidiaries stand cancelled during the year. On Cancellation of 
ESOP’s the amount of `0.08 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1.19 Lakhs) was transferred from ESOP Reserve A/c to Retained 
Earning.
	
(B) 	 Care Health Insurance Limited (“CHIL”)
	
	
Equity Settled Share Based Payment
	
	
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2010
Series
Date of 
grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum 
term of 
options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise 
Price 
per 
option
Estimated 
fair value 
of share 
granted
Series-I
29-Dec-10
 1,856,250 
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
20% on expiry of 12 months from grant date 
20% on expiry of 24 months from grant date 
20% on expiry of 36 months from grant date 
40% on expiry of 48 months from grant date
10
10
Series-II
14-Mar-11
12,368,750 
Series-III
5-Aug-11
 1,300,000 
	
	
Employee Stock Option Scheme 2014
Series
Date of 
grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum 
term of 
options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise 
Price 
per 
option
Estimated 
fair value 
of share 
granted
Series-I
28-Jul-14
 9,575,000 
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
33% on expiry of 12 months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 months from grant date
10
10
Series-II
27-Apr-15
 7,780,000 
Series-III
4-Jul-15
 1,983,500 
Series-IV
30-Sep-15
 3,111,500 
Series-V
30-Nov-15
 2,892,550 
Series-VI
2-Feb-16
 2,224,080 
Series-VII
30-Mar-16
 1,498,150 
Series-VIII
30-Jun-16
 1,843,200 
Series-IX
3-Mar-17
 633,600 
Series-X
31-Mar-17
 861,120 
256
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Series
Date of 
grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum 
term of 
options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise 
Price 
per 
option
Estimated 
fair value 
of share 
granted
Series-XI
31-Jul-18
 4,061,707 
100% on expiry of 12 months from grant date
10
21.85
Series-I - New
6-Nov-18
28,868,288 
33% on expiry of 12 months from grant 
date33% on expiry of 24 months from grant 
date34% on expiry of 36 months from grant 
date
21.85
21.85
Series-II - New
6-Nov-18
17,361,155 
10
21.85
Series-III - New
7-Feb-19
 243,160 
10
26.1
Series-IV - New 28-Jun-19
 584,584 
34.31
34.31
Series-V - New
19-Nov-19
 2,311,376 
10
34.31
Series-VI - New 19-Nov-19
 657,979 
34.31
34.31
Series-VII - New 14-Aug-20
 7,397,825 
37.89
37.89
Series-VIII* - 
New
17-Jan-22
27,758,288 
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
1st vesting - 33.33% Upon completion of: 
(a) 1 (one) year from the date of grant; and 
(b) 1 (one) year from date on which the 
primary issue of minimum INR 250 Crores 
is 
completed 
by 
the 
CHIL 
(“Vesting 
Commencement Date”)
2nd vesting - 33.33% Upon completion of: 
(a) 2 (two) years from the date of grant; 
and (b) 2 (two) years from the Vesting 
Commencement Date
3rd Vesting - Earlier of: (a) 5 (five) years from 
the grant date of the Options to the REL 
Employee; or (b) the Listing. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in above 
vesting schedule, in the event of listing, 
vesting of all the restricted options shall be 
accelerated subject to the application terms 
of the ESOP schemes.
 45.32 
 45.32 
	
	
*Option pertains to Religare Enterprises Limited employees.
257
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
CEO Scheme 2014
Series
Date of grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum term 
of options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise Price 
per option
Estimated fair 
value of share 
granted
Category-1 
(in lieu of 
surrender 
of Options 
granted under 
2010 Scheme )
28-Jul-14
 2,000,000 
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
10
10
Category-1 
(new Grant)
28-Jul-14
 2,285,714 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
28-Jul-14
 1,331,250 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
28-Jul-14
 7,500,000 
March 31, 2016
Category-1 
(new Grant)
27-Apr-15
 1,714,286 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
27-Apr-15
 668,750 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
27-Apr-15
 4,500,000 
April 27, 2016
Category-1 
(new Grant)
4-Jul-15
 428,571 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
4-Jul-15
 - 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
4-Jul-15
 857,143 
July 4, 2016
Category-1 
(new Grant)
30-Sep-15
 428,571 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
30-Sep-15
 - 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
258
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Series
Date of grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum term 
of options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise Price 
per option
Estimated fair 
value of share 
granted
Category-3
30-Sep-15
 857,143 
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
September 30, 2016
10
10
Category-1 
(new Grant)
30-Nov-15
 428,571 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
30-Nov-15
 - 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
30-Nov-15
 857,143 
November 30, 2016
Category-1 
(new Grant)
2-Feb-16
 428,571 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
2-Feb-16
 - 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
2-Feb-16
 857,143 
February 2, 2017
Category-1 
(new Grant)
30-Mar-16
 428,571 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
30-Mar-16
 714,285 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
30-Mar-16
 857,143 
March 30, 2017
Category-1 
(new Grant)
30-Jun-16
 407,143 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
30-Jun-16
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
30-Jun-16
 814,286 
June 30, 2017
Category-1 
(new Grant)
3-Mar-17
 162,297 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
259
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Series
Date of grant
 Number 
Granted 
Maximum term 
of options 
granted
Vesting Conditions
Exercise Price 
per option
Estimated fair 
value of share 
granted
Category-2
3-Mar-17
9 years from 
the date of 
vesting
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
10
10
Category-3
3-Mar-17
 324,593 
March 30, 2018
Category-1 
(new Grant)
31-Mar-17
 245,145 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
Category-2
31-Mar-17
 271,529 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
Category-3
31-Mar-17
 490,291 
March 31, 2018
Category-1 
(new Grant)
31-Jul-18
 471,130 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
10
21.85
Category-2
31-Jul-18
 157,043 
Category-3
31-Jul-18
 942,259 
Series-I - New *
6-Nov-18
 2,700,000 
33% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date 
33% on expiry of 24 
months from grant date 
34% on expiry of 36 
months from grant date
21.85
21.85
Series-II - New
6-Nov-18
 15,561,816 
10
21.85
Series-III - New
7-Feb-19
 224,463 
10
26.1
Series-IV - New
28-Jun-19
 539,618 
34.31
34.31
Series-V - New
19-Nov-19
 2,162,040 
34.31
34.31
Series-VI - 
New *
13-Jul-20
 3,509,002 
November 6, 2021
37.89
37.89
Series-VII - 
New *
13-Jul-20
 7,015,898 
100% on expiry of 12 
months from grant date
37.89
37.89
Series-VIII - 
New
13-Jul-20
 16,633,239 
33.33% on expiry of 
12 months from grant 
date 
33.33% on expiry of 
24 months from grant 
date 
33.34% on expiry of 
36 months from grant 
date
37.89
37.89
Series-IX - New
14-Aug-20
 6,710,402 
37.89
37.89
	
	
*10,524,900 options out of Series-I which was granted on 06-Nov-2018 were cancelled and regranted to Series-VI & Series-VII on 13-Jul-2020.	
260
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Note 1:  All the grants mentioned above to be settled in equity only.
	
Summary of Status of CHIL’s ESOP Schemes
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Number of Options Outstanding at the beginning of the Financial year
 52,352,456 
 61,451,006 
Add: Issued During the financial year
 - 
 - 
Less: Cancellation of Options due to resignations / surrender 2022-23
 - 
 525,679 
Less: Options Exercised during the year ^
 29,813,094 
 8,572,871 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 22,539,362 
 52,352,456 
Exercisable at the end of the financial year
 4,032,911 
 14,690,895 
	
^ Including 9,051,837 options by employees of REL under ESOP scheme Series-VIII Employee Stock Option Scheme 2014 pertaining to employees of REL. 
Upon vesting of 1st tranche in FY 2023-24, 7,569,685 equity shares were allotted on October 04, 2023 to Dr. Rashmi Saluja against exercise of ESOP’s 
granted in FY 2022-23.
For options outstanding, the exercise price ranges between `10 to ` 45.32 and weighted average remaining contractual life of these 
grants ranges between 7 to 12 years.
The weighted average price of options exercised during the year ended on March 31, 2024 is ` 38.82.
CHIL follows the intrinsic method for computing the compensation cost, for options granted under the scheme(s). The difference 
between the fair value and the grant price, being the compensation cost is recognized as deferred stock option expense 
and is charged to Revenue Account and Profit and Loss Account on straight line basis over the vesting period of options. 
Had the CHIL followed fair value method based on Black-Scholes model valuing its options, compensation cost for the year ended 
would have been higher by `1,432.18 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `2,015.31 Lakhs) and the profit after tax would have been lower by 
`1,059.81 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1,477.41 Lakhs) and the CHIL’s basic and diluted earnings per share would have been `3.08 
(March 31, 2023: `2.49) and `3.08 (March 31, 2022: `2.49) respectively.
	
Phantom Stocks:
During the Financial Year 2023-24, total 2,445,715 Phantom Stocks have been granted to Key managerial persons (“KMP”) which will be 
settled in cash at the time of excerise of rights by KMP’s (Including MD and CEO) as per the terms and conditions of Phantom Stocks Plan.
CHIL follows intrinsic value method for computing the cost of Phantom Stocks. Accordingly, the difference between the grant price and 
fair market value of CHIL’s equity shares as on March 31, 2024 has been recognised in the books of accounts to be amortised over the 
vesting period. Amount recognised during the FY is `18.83 Lakhs. As on March 31, 2024, total 2,445,715 Lakhs phantom stocks are 
outstanding which will be vested in equal proportion annually over three years.
261
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(C) 	 Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”)
	
	
(i)	
Details of grants approved for employees of the RFL, its subsidiary & parent in accordance with the 
Stock Option Scheme:
Grant date
Exercise 
price 
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on April 
1, 2023
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations 
during the 
year
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
Exercised 
/ Expired
Options 
cancelled 
during 
the year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
To the employees of 
the RFL
13-Aug-13
 98.00 
 570,000 
 - 
 - 
 570,000 
 - 
 -  570,000 
 - 
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 200,000 
 - 
 - 
 200,000 
 - 
 -  200,000 
 - 
Total
 770,000 
 - 
 - 
 770,000 
 - 
 -  770,000 
 - 
To the employees of the 
Subsidiary of RFL
13-Aug-13
 98.00 
 315,000 
 - 
 - 
 315,000 
 - 
 -  315,000 
 - 
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 60,000 
 - 
 - 
 60,000 
 - 
 - 
 60,000 
 - 
Total
 375,000 
 - 
 - 
 375,000 
 - 
 -  375,000 
 - 
To the employees of the 
Parent of RFL
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 160,000 
 - 
 - 
 160,000 
 - 
 -  160,000 
 - 
Total
-
 160,000 
 - 
 - 
 160,000 
 - 
 -  160,000 
 - 
Grant date
Exercise 
price 
(INR) 
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on April 
1, 2022
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations/
Adjustments 
during the 
year
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised/
Expired
Options 
cancelled 
during 
the year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2023
To the employees of 
the RFL
13-Aug-13
 98.00 
 570,000 
- 
 - 
 570,000 
- 
- 
 - 
 570,000 
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 200,000 
- 
 - 
 200,000 
- 
- 
  - 
 200,000 
Total
 770,000 
- 
- 
 770,000 
- 
- 
 - 
 770,000 
To the employees of 
the Subsidiary of RFL
13-Aug-13
 98.00 
 315,000 
- 
 - 
 315,000 
- 
- 
  - 
 315,000 
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 60,000 
- 
 - 
 60,000 
- 
- 
  - 
 60,000 
Total
 375,000 
- 
 - 
 375,000 
- 
- 
  - 
 375,000 
To the employees of 
the Parent of RFL
30-Sep-14
 108.00 
 160,000 
  - 
 - 
 160,000 
- 
- 
  - 
 160,000 
Total
 160,000 
  - 
 - 
 160,000 
- 
- 
- 
 160,000 
262
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(ii)	 Details of grants approved in ESOP Scheme 2019 for employees of the RFL, its subsidiary and parent in 
accordance with the Stock Option Scheme:
Grant date
Exercise 
price 
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on  April 
1, 2023
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations 
during the 
year
Options 
Vested and 
Exercisable
Options 
Unvested
Options 
Exercised / 
Expired
Options 
cancelled 
during the 
year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
To the employees of 
the RFL
20-May-19
11.89
2,230,000
-
-
1,740,000
-
-
490,000
1,740,000
19-Jun-19
11.89
300,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
-
300,000
9-Sep-19
11.89
350,000
-
-
-
-
-
350,000
-
27-Jun-20
10.63
9,298,710
-
-
8,692,500
-
-
606,210
8,692,500
5-May-23
13.27
-
700,000
-
-
700,000
-
-
700,000
Total
12,178,710 700,000
- 10,732,500
700,000
- 1,446,210 11,432,500
To the employees of 
the Subsidiary of RFL
20-May-19
11.89
300,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
-
300,000
Total
300,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
-
300,000
To the employees of 
the Parent of RFL
20-May-19
11.89
250,000
-
-
250,000
-
-
-
250,000
7-Aug-19
11.89
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
27-Jun-20
10.63
2,617,900
-
-
2,305,100
-
-
312,800
2,305,100
5-May-23
13.27
-
600,000
-
-
600,000
-
-
600,000
Total
2,867,900 600,000
- 2,555,100 600,000
-
312,800 3,155,100
Grant date
Exercise 
price 
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on April 
1, 2022
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations 
during the 
year
Options 
Vested and 
Exercisable
Options 
Unvested
Options 
Exercised / 
Expired
Options 
cancelled 
during the 
year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2023
To the employees of the 
RFL
20-May-19
11.89
2,750,000
-
-
2,230,000
-
-
520,000
2,230,000
19-Jun-19
11.89
300,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
-
300,000
9-Sep-19
11.89
350,000
-
-
350,000
-
-
-
350,000
27-Jun-20
10.63
10,481,300
-
-
6,343,260 2,955,450
- 1,182,590
9,298,710
Total
13,881,300
-
- 9,223,260 2,955,450
- 1,702,590 12,178,710
To the employees of the 
Subsidiary of RFL
20-May-19
11.89
325,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
25,000
300,000
Total
325,000
-
-
300,000
-
-
25,000
300,000
To the employees of the 
Parent of RFL
20-May-19
11.89
250,000
-
-
250,000
-
-
-
250,000
7-Aug-19
11.89
125,000
-
-
-
-
-
125,000
-
27-Jun-20
10.63
2,668,400
-
-
1,727,814
890,086
-
50,500
2,617,900
Total
3,043,400
-
- 1,977,814
890,086
-
175,500
2,867,900
263
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iii)	 Weighted average fair value of stock options granted during the year is as follows:
Particulars
For the Year ended  March 31, 2024
For the Year ended  March 31, 2023
Number of Options 
Granted during the year
Weighted average 
fair value 
Number of Options 
Granted during the year
Weighted average 
fair value 
Grant date
5-May-23
 1,300,000 
 0.23 
 - 
 - 
	
	
Following table depicts range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life
Total for all grants
FY 2023 - 2024
FY 2022 - 2023
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
16,651,610 
10.63 to 
108
11.08
0.2
18,554,700 
10.63 to 
108
17.99
0.17
Granted during the 
year
1,300,000 
 13.27 
 - 
 - 
Cancelled during the 
year
3,064,010 
10.63 to 
98
 1,903,090 
 10.63 to 
98 
Adjusted during the 
year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Expired during the 
year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the 
year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the 
end of the year
14,887,600 
10.63 to 
13.27
16,651,610 
 10.63 to 
108 
Exercisable at the 
end of the year
13,587,600 
10.63 to 
13.27
12,806,074 
10.63 to 
108
	
	
Method used for accounting for share based payment plan
	
	
RFL has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of options 
used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black – Scholes Model and Bionominal Model.
	
	
The fair value of options and the inputs used in the measurement of the grant date fair value of options 
granted during the current year:
Grant Date 
No. of Shares
Expiry Date
Historical 
Volatility
Exercise 
Price (`)
Share Price 
(`)
Risk free rate
Fair Value of 
option (`)
5-May-23
Tranche 1
 433,333 
May 05, 2032
12.12%
13.27
13.27
6.99%
0.23
Tranche 2
 433,333 
May 05, 2033
12.12%
13.27
13.27
6.99%
0.23
Tranche 3
 433,334 
May 05, 2034
12.12%
13.27
13.27
6.99%
0.23
264
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
The key assumptions used in Black – Scholes Model for calculating fair value as on the date of respective grants are:
a.	
Grant date
b.	
Risk free interest rate
c.	
Expected life
d.	
Expected volatility
e.	
Dividend yield
f.	
Price of the underlying share in the market at the time of the option grant
	
	
Transactions during the year -
Particulars
For the year ended
 March 31, 2024
For the year ended
 March 31, 2023
Expense during the year
 2.32 
 0.43 
(D) 	 Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“RHDFC”)
	
(i)	
RHDFCL Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 was approved by the Board of Directors of the company on 
February 06, 2019 and by shareholders of the company on March 05, 2019.
	
	
To the employees of the RHDFC
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
No. of 
Options 
outstanding 
as on April 
01, 2023 
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations 
during the 
year
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised 
/ expired
Options 
cancelled 
during the 
year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
20-May-19
 63.00 
 827,500 
 - 
 - 
 827,500 
 - 
 - 
 15,000 
 812,500 
7-Aug-19
 63.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
23-Jun-20
 61.04 
 1,421,800 
 - 
 -  1,421,800 
 - 
 - 
 186,600 
 1,235,200 
4-Nov-20
 61.04 
 978,700 
 - 
 - 
 978,700 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 978,700 
3-May-23
 51.69 
 -  260,000 
 - 
 - 
 260,000 
 - 
 70,000 
 190,000 
Total
 3,228,000 260,000 
 - 3,228,000  260,000 
 - 
 271,600 
 3,216,400 
	
	
To the employees of the Ultimate Holding Company (Religare Enterprises Limited)
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
No. of 
Options 
outstanding 
as on April 
01, 2023 
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Migrations 
during the 
year
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised 
/ expired
Options 
cancelled 
during the 
year
Number 
of Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
23-Jun-20
 61.04 
 163,400 
 - 
 - 
 163,400 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 163,400 
10-Sep-20
 61.04 
 351,800 
 - 
 - 
 351,800 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 351,800 
Total
 515,200 
 - 
 - 
 515,200 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 515,200 
	
(ii)	 Weighted average fair value of stock options granted during the year is as follows:
Grant date
For the year ended March 31, 2024
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Number of Options 
Granted during the year
Weighted average fair 
value (`)
Number of Options 
Granted during the year
Weighted average fair 
value (`)
3-May-23
 260,000 
 51.69 
 - 
 - 
265
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Following table depicts range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life
Total for all grants
No. of 
options
Range of exercise 
prices (`)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years)
Outstanding at the beginning of 
the year
 3,743,200 
 61.04 to 63.00 
 60.99 
 2.09 
Granted during the year
 260,000 
 51.69 
Cancelled during the year
 271,600 
 51.69 to 63.00 
Expired during the year 
0
 - 
Exercised during the year
0
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 3,731,600 
 51.69 to 63.00 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 3,541,600 
61.04 to 63.00
	
(iii)	 Method used for accounting for share based payment plan
	
	
The RHDFC has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of 
options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black – Scholes Model.
	
(iv)	 Transactions During The Year
Particulars
Year Ended March 31, 2024
Year Ended March 31, 2023
Number 
of Options 
outstanding
Amount 
(` Lakhs)
Number 
of Options 
outstanding
Amount 
(` Lakhs)
The HDFCL has:
Credited ESOP reserve on:
Debiting the employee related cost being ESOP expenses on 
its own employees
 3,216,400 
 - 
 3,228,000 
 - 
Debiting retained earnings being ESOP expenses on its 
Ultimate parent employees
 515,200 
 - 
 515,200 
 - 
Credited ‘equity’ & debited employee related cost being ESOPs 
granted to the employees of the Company by its parent
 300,000 
 - 
 675,000 
 - 
Credited ‘equity’ & debited employee related cost being 
ESOPs granted to the employees of the Company by its 
Ultimate parent
 740,000 
 - 
 740,000 
 0.22 
(E) 	 Religare Broking Limited (“RBL”)
	
The Board of Directors of the RBL have approved the following grants in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme (RBL ESOP 2019).
	
The details of grants approved for employees of the RBL and parent in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme:
To the employees of the RBL (Financial Year 2023-24)
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
Opening 
Balance as 
on April 01, 
2023
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
17-Apr-19
 12.12 
 3,900,000 
 - 
 3,900,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,900,000 
5-Aug-19
 12.12 
 300,000 
 - 
 300,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
9-Aug-19
 12.12 
 675,000 
 - 
 675,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 675,000 
9-Mar-20
 12.12 
 375,000 
 - 
 375,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 375,000 
16-Mar-20
 12.12 
 1,400,000 
 - 
 1,400,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,400,000 
9-Jun-20
 12.12 
 450,000 
 - 
 450,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 450,000 
266
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
To the employees of the RBL (Financial Year 2023-24)
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
Opening 
Balance as 
on April 01, 
2023
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
7-Sep-20
 10.23 
 2,000,000 
 - 
 1,800,000 
 - 
 - 
 200,000 
 1,800,000 
4-Feb-21
 10.23 
 600,000 
 - 
 500,000 
 - 
 - 
 100,000 
 500,000 
10-Nov-21
 12.91 
 1,300,000 
 - 
 478,500 
 821,500 
 - 
 - 
 1,300,000 
8-May-23
 14.08 
 - 
 4,550,000 
 - 
 4,050,000 
 - 
 500,000 
 4,050,000 
Total
11,000,000 
 4,550,000 
 9,878,500 
 4,871,500 
 - 
 800,000 14,750,000 
To the employees of the parent
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
Opening 
Balance as 
on April 01, 
2023
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2024
17-Apr-19
 12.12 
 3,000,000 
 - 
 3,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,000,000 
7-Sep-20
 10.23 
 1,345,000 
 - 
 1,345,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,345,000 
Total
 4,345,000 
 - 
 4,345,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,345,000 
To the employees of the RBL (Financial Year 2022-23)
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
Opening 
Balance as 
on April 01, 
2022
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2023
17-Apr-19
 12.12 
 4,600,000 
 - 
 3,900,000 
 - 
 - 
 700,000 
 3,900,000 
5-Aug-19
 12.12 
 300,000 
 - 
 300,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
9-Aug-19
 12.12 
 675,000 
 - 
 675,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 675,000 
9-Mar-20
 12.12 
 375,000 
 - 
 375,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 375,000 
16-Mar-20
 12.12 
 1,700,000 
 - 
 1,400,000 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
 1,400,000 
9-Jun-20
 12.12 
 450,000 
 - 
 297,000 
 153,000 
 - 
 - 
 450,000 
7-Sep-20
 10.23 
 2,400,000 
 - 
 1,320,000 
 680,000 
 - 
 400,000 
 2,000,000 
4-Feb-21
 10.23 
 800,000 
 - 
 396,000 
 204,000 
 - 
 200,000 
 600,000 
10-Nov-21
 12.91 
 1,900,000 
 - 
 429,000 
 871,000 
 - 
 600,000 
 1,300,000 
Total
13,200,000 
 - 
 9,092,000 
 1,908,000 
 - 
 2,200,000 11,000,000 
To the employees of the parent
Grant date
Exercise 
price (`)
Opening 
Balance as 
on April 01, 
2022
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding 
as on March 
31, 2023
17-Apr-19
 12.12 
 3,000,000 
 - 
 3,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,000,000 
7-Sep-20
 10.23 
 1,345,000 
 - 
 887,700 
 457,300 
 - 
 - 
 1,345,000 
Total
 4,345,000 
 - 
 3,887,700 
 457,300 
 - 
 - 
 4,345,000 
267
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
ESOP Scheme 2019
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Date of Grant
Various Dates
Various Dates
Date of Board Approval
March 08, 2019
March 08, 2019
Date of Shareholder's Approval
April 02, 2019
April 02, 2019
Number of Options Granted
 4,550,000 
 -   
Method of Settlement
Equity Settled
Equity Settled
Vesting period
1 to 5 years
1 to 3 years
Weighted average remaining contractual life (Vesting period)
Granted but not vested
 1.85 Years 
 1.75 Years 
Vested but not exercised
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for stock options 
exercised during the year
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
Exercise period
8 Years from the date of 
Vesting
8 Years from the date of 
Vesting
- 	
Vesting conditions for ESOP granted to RBL employees on April 17, 2019, 
August 05, 2019, August 09, 2019
- 	
Vesting conditions for ESOP granted to Holding Company employees on 
April 17, 2019
1) 25% vest after 1 year 
from the date of grant 
2) 37.5% vest after 2 
years from the date of 
grant
3) 37.5% vest after 3 
years from the date of 
grant
1) 25% vest after 1 year 
from the date of grant 
2) 37.5% vest after 2 
years from the date of 
grant
3) 37.5% vest after 3 
years from the date of 
grant
-	
Vesting conditions for ESOP granted to RBL employees on March 09, 2020, 
March 16, 2020, June 09, 2020, September 07, 2020, November 10, 
2021, February 04, 2021, May 08, 2023
-	
Vesting conditions for ESOP granted to Holding Company employees on 
September 07, 2020
1) 33% vest after 1 year 
from the date of grant 
2) 33% vest after 2 years 
from the date of grant
3) 34% vest after 3 years 
from the date of grant
1) 33% vest after 1 year 
from the date of grant 
2) 33% vest after 2 years 
from the date of grant
3) 34% vest after 3 years 
from the date of grant
-	
Vesting 
conditions 
for 
ESOP 
granted 
to 
RBL 
employees 
on 
November 10, 2021
1) 33% 
vest 
after 
2 
year from the date of 
joining 
2) 33% vest after 1 years 
from the 1st vesting 
date
3) 34% vest after 1 years 
from the 2nd vesting 
date
1) 33% 
vest 
after 
2 
year from the date of 
joining 
2) 33% vest after 1 years 
from the 1st vesting 
date
3) 34% vest after 1 years 
from the 2nd vesting 
date
268
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
ESOP Scheme 2019
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
-	
Vesting conditions for ESOP granted to RBL employees on May 8, 2023
1. 20% vest after 1 year 
from the date of grant
2. 20% vest after 2 years 
from the date of grant
3. 20% vest after 3 years 
from the date of grant
4. 20% vest after 4 years 
from the date of grant
5. 20% vest after 5 years 
from the date of grant
-
Weighted Average Fair Value of options (granted but not vested) as on grant 
date
13.88 
 11.50 
Range of Risk free interest rate
7.15%
5.48%
Dividend yield
0%
0%
Expected volatility
17.73%
13.51%
Note: RBL has accounted expense of `6.58 Lakhs as employee benefit Expenses on the aforesaid employee stock option plan 
(March 31, 2023: `(1.83) Lakhs). The balance in Share Based Payment Reserve is `47.18 Lakhs as of March 31,2024 (March 31, 2023: 
`40.32 Lakhs).
	
TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
During the year, the RBL has:
Credited ESOP reserve on:
-	
Debiting to employee related cost by `6.58 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `(1.76) Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its own employees;
-	
Debiting retained earnings by `0.28 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `1.10 Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its parents employees:
-	
Credited ‘equity’ & debited employee related cost by `Nil (March 31, 2023: `(0.08) Lakhs) being ESOPs granted to the employees 
of the Company by its parent.
50A	Retirement Benefit Plan
(i)	
Defined Contribution Plan
	
Contribution toward provident fund plan for all employees is made to regulatory authorities, where the Group has no further obligations. 
Such benefits are classified as Defined Contribution Scheme as the Group does not carry any legal or constructive obligations to pay 
further contributions apart from the contributions made on monthly basis which are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss account 
as incurred.
(ii)	 Defined Benefits Plan
	
The Group has defined benefit gratuity plans in India (funded). The Group’s defined benefit gratuity plan is a final salary plan for 
India employees, which requires contributions to be made to separately administered fund. The gratuity plan is governed by the 
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to specific benefit. 
The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and salary at retirement age. Each fund has the form of 
a trust and it is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and employee representatives. 
269
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy. 
Each year, the Board of Trustees reviews the level of funding in the India gratuity plan. Such a review includes the asset-liability matching 
strategy and investment risk management policy. This includes employing the use of annuities and longevity swaps to manage the risks. 
The Board of Trustees decides its contribution based on the results of this annual review. The Board of Trustees aim to keep annual 
contributions relatively stable at a level such that no plan deficits (based on valuation performed) will arise.
(iii)	 Other Benefits
	
The employees of the Group are entitled leave benefits as per the policy of the Group. The liability for compensated absences is 
accrued based on the actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date conducted by an independent actuary. The net present value of 
the Group’s obligation is determined based on the Projected Unit Credit Method (“CUPM”) at the end of each year.
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss and the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
(A)	 Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets :
	
Gratuity
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Benefits 
liability
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Benefits 
liability
Gratuity cost charged to profit & loss
Present value of DBO at the beginning 
of the year
 4,104.97 
 3,505.35 
 599.62 
 3,713.13 
 3,198.81 
 514.32 
Service Cost
 572.60 
 - 
 572.60 
 521.77 
 - 
 521.77 
Net interest expense
 247.96 
 114.31 
 133.65 
 168.53 
 88.98 
 79.55 
Expected Returned on Plan Assets
 - 
 113.71 
 (113.71)
 - 
 68.96 
 (68.96)
Sub total included in profit & loss
 820.56 
 228.02 
 592.54 
 690.30 
 157.94 
 532.36 
Benefits paid
 (444.89)
 (444.89)
 - 
 (486.26)
 (486.26)
 - 
Measurement gains/(losses) in other 
compressive income
Return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest 
expenses)
 - 
 4.84 
 (4.84)
 - 
 14.91 
 (14.91)
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions
 17.19 
 - 
 17.19 
 25.08 
 - 
 25.08 
Actuarial changes arising from changes 
in financial assumptions
 24.37 
 - 
 24.37 
 (249.81)
 - 
 (249.81)
Return on plan assets greater/(lesser) 
than discount rate
 - 
 238.96 
 (238.96)
 - 
 (6.73)
 6.73 
Experience adjustments
 411.96 
 - 
 411.96 
 400.26 
 - 
 400.26 
Subtotal included in OCI
 453.52 
 243.80 
 209.72 
 175.53 
 8.18 
 167.35 
Contributions by employer
 - 
 639.40 
 (639.40)
 - 
 626.68 
 (626.68)
Present value of DBO at the end of 
the year*
 4,934.16 
 4,171.68 
 762.48 
 4,092.70 
 3,505.35 
 587.35 
	
* Net of `166.57 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 200.33 Lakhs) related to Defined Benefit Asset of Religare Finvest Limited shown under Other Non Financial Assets.
270
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(B)	 Major Category of Plan asset as percentage of total plan asset : Gratuity
Investments quoted in active markets:
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Scheme of Insurance - ULIP Products
1%
1%
Scheme of Insurance - Conventional Products
21%
25%
Other (including FDs & Special Deposits)
18%
20%
Other (including assets under schemes of insurance)
60%
54%
Total
100%
100%
(C)	
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Expected payment for future years
 Gratuity 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 1,674.34 
 1,426.68 
Between 2 and 5 years
 726.55 
 724.07 
Between 5 and 10 years
 680.85 
 661.54 
Beyond 10 years
 - 
 - 
Total expected payments
 3,081.74 
 2,812.29 
(D)	 Actuarial Assumptions
	
•	
Financial Assumption
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
Range 4.85% to 
7.10%
Range 4.85% to 
7.10%
Expected Return on Assets
4.85%
4.85%
Salary Escalation
Range 5% to 9%
Range 6% to 7%
Methodology Used
 Projected Unit Credit 
	
•	
Demographic Assumption
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Mortality rate
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08), 
(2012-14) Ult.
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08), 
(2012-14) Ult.
271
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Withdrawal Rate
18-45 years: 
range 20% to 
65%  
46 and above: 
range 20% to 
35%  
CEO and above: 
upto 10%
18-45 years: 
range 20% to 
65% 
46 and above: 
range 20% to 
35%  
CEO and above: 
upto 10%
Retirement Age
58 years for 
all employees 
except for 
service is 
greater than 58 
year then,current 
age + 3 years as 
retirement age.
58 years for 
all employees 
except for 
service is 
greater than 58 
year then,current 
age + 3 years as 
retirement age.
	
Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible change of the respective assumptions occurring 
at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant. These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a 
change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation. While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice 
such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the asset value changes may offset the impact to some extent. For presenting the 
sensitivities, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end 
of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the Defined Benefit Obligation presented above. There was no 
change in the methods and assumptions used in the preparation of sensitivity analysis from previous year.
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
Increase by 0.5%
 (37.75)
 (30.49)
Decrease by 0.5%
 39.33 
 31.73 
Future salary increases
Increase by 0.5%
 39.42 
 32.02 
Decrease by 0.5%
 (38.17)
 (31.03)
	
Risk Analysis
The Company is exposed to a number of risks in the defined benefit plans. Most significancy risk pertaining to defined benefits plans 
and management estimation of the impact of these risks are as follows:
272
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Salary Growth Rate
The present value of defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participates. Salary increase 
considered @ 7%. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
	
Demographic Risk
This is the risk of variability of results due to systematic nature of decrements that include mortality, withdrawal, disability and retirement. 
The effect of these decrements on the defined obligation is not straight forward and depends upon the combination of salary increase, 
discount rate and vesting criteria. it is important not to overstate withdrawals because in the financial analysis the retirement benefit of 
short career employee typically costs less per year as compared to long service employee.
	
Interest rate risks
The defined benefit obligation uses a discount rate based on government bonds. If bonds yields fall, the defined benefit obligation will 
tend to increase.
51	 Related Party Disclosures
Nature of Relationship
Name of Party 
(a)	
Individual Owning Direct or Indirect Interest 
and Voting Power that Given them Control
Nil
(b)	
Joint Ventures of the Company
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited
(c)	
Key Managerial Personnel ("KMP")
Dr. Rashmi Saluja - Executive Chairperson 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal - Group CFO
Mrs. Vijaylakshmi Rajaram Iyer (up to January 5, 2023)
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Mr. Pankaj Sharma 
Mr. Gaurav Kaushik (Resigned w.e.f. July 29, 2022)
Mr. Prakash Chandra Jejani (w.e.f. November 10, 2022)
Mr. Rahul Mehrotra 
Mr. Gagan Chhabra
Mr. Anuj Gulati
Mr. Pankaj Gupta
Mr. Ajay Shah 
Mr. Chandrakant Mishra
Mr. Nitin Katyal
Mr. Anoop Singh 
Ms. Bhawana Jain (Ceased to be related party w.e.f. July 31, 2023)
Mr. Pratik Kapoor (Ceased to be related party w.e.f. August 16, 2022)
Mr. Sanjeev Meghani (Ceased to be related party w.e.f. July 31, 2023)
Mr. Manish Dodeja
Mr. Irvinder Singh Kohli (Resigned w.e.f. March 15, 2024)
Mr. Yogesh Kumar
273
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Name of Party 
Mr. Kolla Suresh (Appointed w.e.f. March 1, 2024)
Mr. Kartikeya Dhruv Kaji
Mr. Pratap Venugopal
Mr. Sunish Sharma
Mr. Sham Lal Mohan
Lt. Gen (Retd.) Shamsher Singh Mehta
Mrs. Asha Nair
Dr. Manjushree Ghodke
Mr. Tirlockee Chauhan
Mrs Renu Chauhan
Mr. Sanjay Chandel (Resigned w.e.f. January 11, 2023)
Mr. Gurpreet Singh Sidana (w.e.f. May 8, 2023)
Mr. Deepak Yohannan
Mr. Sachchida Nand Shrivastava (w.e.f. January 11, 2023)
Mr. Rajender Singh Kaira
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
(Late) Mr. Vijay Shankar Madan (up to August 23, 2022)
Ms. Preeti Madan (w.e.f. January 24, 2023)
(d)	
Enterprises over which KMP and close 
members of their families are able to exercise 
significant influence with whom transactions 
have taken place
Hamdard Laboratories India
Genleap Ecosystem Private Limited
Kedaara Capital Fund II LLP
Nish Capital Investment Advisors LLP
(e)	
Post-Employment Benefit Plan
Any Fund/Trust created by the Company for the benefit of its employees
Religare Enterprises Limited Group Gratuity Trust
Any Fund/Trust created by Subsidiary of reporting entity for the benefit of its 
employees
Religare Finvest Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited Group Gratuity 
Scheme
Religare Commodities Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Health Insurance Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Broking Limited Gratuity Trust (Formerly Religare Securities Limited 
Gratuity Trust)
Religare Capital Market Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
274
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Name of Party 
Religare Infrafacilities Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
(f)	
Subsidiaries / Subsidiaries of Subsidiary *
Religare Capital Markets Limited
Religare Capital Markets International (Mauritius) Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Europe) Limited
Religare Capital Markets (UK) Limited
Religare Capital Markets Corporate Finance Pte Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Hong Kong) Limited
Kyte Management Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Singapore) Pte Limited
Bartleet Wealth Management (Private) Limited (Board controlled subsidiary)
Bartleet Asset Management (Private) Limited  (Board controlled subsidiary)
Strategic Research Limited
Bartleet Religare Securities (Private) Limited (Board controlled subsidiary)
Tobler UK Limited
Religare Capital Markets Inc. 
	
* Refer Note 2.2 (C)
Note:
On recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee of Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a subsidiary company, and subject to 
the approval of RBI under the applicable Norms and Guidelines, Mr. Rakesh Asthaana has been proposed to be appointed as an Additional 
Director (designated as Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director). His appointment shall be effective post approval of the RBI.
	
Following transactions were carried out with related parties in the ordinary course of business at arm’s length 
basis:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
Issuance of Non -Convertible 
Debenture (Secured)
Hamdard Laboratories India
d
 3,000.00 
 8,000.00 
Issuance of Non -Convertible 
Debenture (Secured) Total
 3,000.00 
 8,000.00 
Redemption of Non- Convertible 
Debentures (Secured) 
Hamdard Laboratories India
d
 3,000.00 
 8,000.00 
Redemption of Non- Convertible 
Debentures (Secured) Total
 3,000.00 
 8,000.00 
275
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
INCOME
Brokerage Earned
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
c
 0.35 
 - 
Ms. Tirlockee Chauahan
c
 0.01 
 - 
Mrs Renu Chauhan
c
 0.01 
 - 
Mr. Sanjay Chandel
c
 - 
 0.03 
Ms. Jaishri Chandel
c
 - 
 0.01 
Brokerage Earned Total
 0.37 
 0.04 
Depository Charges
Mr. Sanjay Chandel
c
 - 
 0.01 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 0.00 
 0.03 
Depository Charges Total
 0.00 
 0.04 
Income from NPS-POP Services
Mr.Gurpreet Singh Sidana
c
 0.00 
 0.01 
Mr. Tirlockee Chauhan
c
 0.01 
 0.01 
Income from NPS-POP Services Total
 0.01 
 0.02 
Sale of DSC Token
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 0.01 
 - 
Sale of DSC Token Total
 0.01 
 - 
EXPENSES
Director's Sitting Fees*
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
c
 88.50 
 76.90 
Dr. Manjushree Ghodke
c
 7.00 
 5.80 
Ms. Vijayalakshmi Rajaram Iyer
c
 - 
 10.80 
Mr. Sanjay Chandel
c
 - 
 4.20 
Lt Gen (Retd) Shamsher Singh Mehta
c
 20.00 
 19.00 
Mrs. Asha Nair
c
 9.00 
 12.00 
Mr. Sham Lal Mohan
c
 21.00 
 16.00 
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
c
 78.70 
 72.50 
(Late) Mr. Vijay Shankar Madan
c
 - 
 17.10 
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
c
 40.80 
 23.00 
Mr. Pratap Venugopal
c
 29.00 
 7.00 
Mrs Preeti Madan
c
 13.20 
 1.00 
Mr. Sachchida Nand Shrivastava
c
 4.00 
 - 
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
c
 5.00 
 7.00 
Director's Sitting Fees Total
 316.20 
 272.30 
276
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
Remuneration to Key Management 
Personnel *
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
c
 17,405.00 
 9,558.44 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
c
Mr. Anuj Gulati
c
Mr. Pankaj Gupta
c
Mr. Ajay Shah 
c
Mr. Chandrakant Mishra
c
Mr. Nitin Katyal
c
Mr. Anoop Singh 
c
Ms. Bhawana Jain
c
Mr. Pratik Kapoor
c
Mr. Sanjeev Meghani
c
Mr. Manish Dodeja
c
Mr. Irvinder Singh Kohli
c
Mr. Yogesh Kumar
c
Mr. Kolla Suresh
c
Mr. Tirlockee Chauhan
c
Mr. Gurpreet Singh Sidana
c
Mr. Deepak Yohannan
c
Mr. Gaurav Kaushik
c
Mr. Pankaj Sharma
c
Mr. Prakash Chandra Jejani
c
Mr. Rahul Mehrotra 
c
Mr. Gagan Chhabra
c
Mr. Rajendra Singh Kaira
c
Remuneration to Key Management 
Personnel  Total
 17,405.00 
 9,558.44 
Contribution to Post Employment 
Benefit Plans
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited Group Gratuity 
Scheme
e
 39.30 
 52.57 
Religare Securities  Limited Group 
Gratuity Scheme
e
 56.83 
 136.97 
Contribution to Post Employment 
Benefit Plans Total
 96.13 
 189.54 
Interest on Non Convertible Debentures
Hamdard Laboratories India
d
 98.18 
 250.91 
Interest on Non Convertible 
Debentures Total
 98.18 
 250.91 
277
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
OTHER RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS
Premium Received in Advance / Cash 
Deposit
Nish Capital Investment Advisors LLP
d
 - 
 4.81 
Premium Received in Advance / Cash 
Deposit Total
 - 
 4.81 
Receipt / Refund of Premium
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
c
 0.36 
 0.29 
Mr. Pankaj Gupta
c
 0.45 
 0.48 
Mr. Manish Dodeja
c
 0.36 
 0.32 
Mr. Anoop Singh
c
 0.04 
 0.72 
Mr. Anuj Gulati
c
 0.01 
 0.91 
Mr. Ajay Shah
c
 1.46 
 - 
Mr. Irvinder Singh Kohli
c
 0.08 
 0.01 
Mr. Nitin Katyal
c
 1.03 
 - 
Mr. Pratik Kapoor
c
 - 
 0.28 
Mr. Sanjeev Meghani
c
 - 
 0.66 
Mr. Pratap Venugopal
c
 2.32 
 0.50 
Mr. Sunish Sharma
c
 0.25 
 0.11 
Mr. Kartikeya Dhruv Kaji
c
 0.08 
 - 
Kedaara Capital Fund II LLP
d
 0.93 
 20.19 
Genleap Ecosystem Private Limited
d
 - 
 2.83 
Nish Capital Investment Advisors LLP
d
 3.36 
 4.81 
Receipt / Refund of Premium Total
 10.72 
 32.12 
	
* Remuneration to Key Management Personnel 
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Short Term Employee Benefits - Directors' Sitting Fees
 316.20 
 272.30 
Short Term Employee Benefits - Others
 4,717.53 
 4,357.62 
Post - Employment Benefits
 229.87 
 136.63 
Long Term Employee Benefits
 2.52 
 6.62 
Termination Benefits
 - 
 - 
Employee Share Based Payments^
 12,455.08 
 5,057.57 
Total
 17,721.20 
 9,830.74 
	
^ (1) It includes amount of perquisite calculated on allotment of equity shares under ESOP schemes.
 	
 (2) Including ESOPs allotted by the Subsidiary Companies in the capacity of employees of the REL as per their respective ESOP policies.
278
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Note - 1
(a)	
7,400,000 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being ESOPs granted to the Key Management Personnel of the Company by 
the Company.
(b)	
529,000 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024  being ESOPs granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Finvest  Limited” by the Company.
(c)	
10,000   shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024  being  ESOPs  granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited” by the Company.
(d)	
36,000  shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being  ESOPs granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Broking Limited” by the Company.
(e)	
4,345,000, 3,155,100 and 17,665,249 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being ESOPs granted to the employees of the 
Company by subsidiary companies “Religare Broking Limited”, “Religare Finvest Limited” and “Care Health Insurance Limited” 
respectively.
(f)	
2,650,000 shares of RFL outstanding as at March 31,2024 being ESOP granted to the Key Management Personnel of RFL.
(g)	
300,000 shares outstanding as at March 31, 2024 being ESOPs granted to the employees of Religare Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited by RFL.
Note - 2: Does not include reimbursement of expenses to KMP’s/Directors.
Note - 3: Income and Expenses do not include applicable Indirect taxes.
Amount (` in Lakhs)
OUTSTANDING BALANCES 
Name of the Related Party
RP 
Type
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
PAYABLES
Security Deposits Payable
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 2.30 
 2.30 
Security Deposits Payable Total
 2.30 
 2.30 
Trade Payable
Mr. Tirlockee Chauhan
c
 - 
 0.01 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 1.87 
 1.87 
Other Payables Total
 1.87 
 1.88 
Other Payables
Religare Capital Markets (Hong Kong) 
Limited
f
 - 
 72.36 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 4.31 
 4.31 
Other Payables Total
 4.31 
 76.67 
KMP's Salary Payable
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
c
 - 
 593.00 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
c
KMP's Salary Payable Total
 - 
 593.00 
279
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
OUTSTANDING BALANCES 
Name of the Related Party
RP 
Type
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Insurance Premium Received in 
Advance
Kedaara Capital Fund II LLP
d
 - 
 1.00 
Nish Capital Investment Advisors LLP
d
 - 
 0.42 
Insurance Premium Received in 
Advance Total
 - 
 1.42 
RECEIVABLES
Inter Corporate Loans Receivable
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 901.60 
 901.60 
Inter Corporate Loans Receivable 
Total
 901.60 
 901.60 
Impairment Loss Allowance on 
Outstanding Inter Corporate Loans
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 901.60 
 901.60 
Impairment Loss Allowance on 
Outstanding Inter Corporate Loans 
Total
 901.60 
 901.60 
Interest Receivable on Inter Corporate 
Loans
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 295.49 
 295.49 
Interest Receivable on Inter 
Corporate Loans Total
 295.49 
 295.49 
Impairment Loss Allowance on Interest 
Receivable on Inter Corporate Loans
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 295.49 
 295.49 
Impairment Loss Allowance 
on Interest Receivable on Inter 
Corporate Loans Total
 295.49 
 295.49 
Trade Receivable
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 0.98 
 0.98 
Trade Receivable Total
 0.98 
 0.98 
Impairment Loss Allowance on Trade 
Receivable
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 0.98 
 0.98 
Impairment Loss Allowance on Trade 
Receivable Total
 0.98 
 0.98 
Advance given for Settlement of 
Corporate Guarantee
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
Advance given for Settlement of 
Corporate Guarantee Total
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
280
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
OUTSTANDING BALANCES 
Name of the Related Party
RP 
Type
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Impairment Loss Allowance on 
advance given for Settlement of 
Corporate Guarantee
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
Impairment Loss Allowance on 
advance given for Settlement of 
Corporate Guarantee Total
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
Other Receivables
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 545.04 
 545.04 
Other Receivables Total
 545.04 
 545.04 
Impairment Loss Allowance on Other 
Receivables
Religare Capital Markets Limited
f
 545.04 
 545.04 
Impairment Loss Allowance on 
Other Receivables Total
 545.04 
 545.04 
52	 Financial Risk Management
	
The Group business activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks, namely liquidity risk, market risks, credit risk and operational 
risk. The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the respective Group companies has the overall responsibility for establishing and governing 
the risk management framework. The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for the development 
of the risk strategy and implementing principles, frameworks, policies and limits. The Risk Management Committee is responsible for 
managing risk decisions and monitoring risk levels and reports to the  Board.
	
The Risk Management Unit is responsible for implementing and maintaining risk related procedures to ensure an independent control 
process is maintained. This unit works closely with and reports to the Risk Management Committee, to ensure that procedures are 
compliant with the overall framework.
	
The Risk Management Unit along with independent functions Compliance, FCU, Technical Teams is responsible for monitoring compliance 
with risk principles, policies and limits across the Group. The Group companies have their own unit which is responsible for the control 
of risks, including monitoring the actual risk of exposures against authorised limits and the assessment of risks of new products and 
structured transactions. It is the Group’s policy that this unit also ensures the complete capture of risks in its risk measurement and 
reporting systems. The Group’s policy also requires that exceptions are reported periodically, where necessary, to the Risk Management 
Committee, and the relevant actions are taken to address exceptions and any areas of weakness.
	
Treasury is responsible for managing its assets and liabilities and the overall financial structure. It is also primarily responsible for the 
funding and liquidity risks of the Group.
	
The Group risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set and monitor appropriate 
risk limits and controls, periodically review the changes in market conditions and reflect the changes in the policy accordingly. The key 
risks and mitigating actions are also placed before the Audit Committee of the Company.
	
It is the Group’s policy to ensure that a robust risk awareness is embedded in its organisational risk culture. Employees are expected to 
take ownership and be accountable for the risks the group is exposed to that they decide to take on. The Group’s continuous training and 
development emphasises that employees are made aware of the Group’s / company’s risk appetite and they are supported in their roles 
and responsibilities to monitor and keep their exposure to risk within the Group’s / company’s risk appetite limits. Compliance breaches 
281
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
and internal audit findings are important elements of employees’ annual ratings and remuneration reviews. Group also has in place ‘Staff 
Accountability Policy’ which is to monitor the employees performance.
	
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise of borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities 
is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial assets include loans given, trade and other receivables, investments 
and cash and cash equivalents that arises directly from its operations.
	
(A)	 Liquidity Risk
	
	
Liquidity risk arises where the Group is unable to meet its obligations as and when they arise. Liquidity risk may be measured at 
a structural level and cash flow level. Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the company’s cash flow position and ensures that the 
company is able to meet its financial obligation at all times including contingencies. The Company aims to maintain the level of its 
cash and cash equivalents, short term liquid assets in bank deposits and liquid mutual funds at an amount in excess of expected 
cash outflow on financial liabilities.
	
	
In NBFC companies to manage structural liquidity level, the Asset Liability Management Policy (“ALM Policy”) envisages adherence 
to certain key ratios and gap limits in normal business and under stressed market  conditions and to manage liquidity risk at cash 
flow level, the  ALM Policy envisages adherence to certain gap limits based on dynamic liquidity forecasts. Maintaining an optimal 
balance sheet structure and cash flow patterns shall be the cornerstone of the liquidity risk management strategy. Please refer 
Note 43 for maturity pattern of certain items of Assets and Liabilities at group level.
	
(B)	 Market Risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, to fair values or to future cash flows that may result from a change in the price of 
a financial instrument. The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency 
exchange rates and other market changes that affect market risk sensitive instruments. Market risk is attributable to all market risk 
sensitive financial instruments including investments, foreign currency receivables, payables and borrowings.
	
	
The Group’s exposure to market risk is a function of loans given, investment and borrowing activities and revenue generating in 
foreign currencies. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure of the Group’s earnings and equity 
to losses.
	
	
The Group size and operations result in it being exposed to the following market risks that arise from its use of financial instruments:
	
	
(i)	
Price Risk, Insurance Risk, Product Risk and Prepayment Risk
	
	
	
→	
The Group is mainly exposed to the price risk due to its investment in debt securities, government securities, mutual 
funds, etc. The price risk arises due to uncertainties about the future market values of these investments.
	
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2024, the investments in such instruments amounts to ` 648,731 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 518,000 
Lakhs). These are exposed to price risk.
	
	
	
	
The Group has laid policies and guidelines which it adheres to in order to minimise pricing risk arising from investments. 
One of the major group company is in the business of proving health insurance where investments are subject to the 
rules stipulated by IRDA.
	
	
	
→	
w.r.t. health insurance business:
	
	
	
	
Insurance risk refers to inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, bad portfolio, amount and timing of insurance 
liabilities. Product risk is the risk associated from developing and distributing new products. This includes the risk that 
the product features do not conform to regulatory requirements, are not supported by the system and / or the product 
terms and conditions are not transparent or misleading for the customers. The pricing risk results where the products 
are either not profitable or the pricing is uncompetitive or unfair. It also results when assumptions with respect to 
282
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
liabilities / claims, costs and returns associated with the sale of a product are inaccurately estimated. To mitigate this the 
same is constantly reviewed by appointed actuary who suggests changes in price in case of these risk.
	
	
	
	
Subsidiary also defines underwriting guidelines for each product including the non medical limits for different age 
categories.
	
	
	
→	
w.r.t. NBFC:
	
	
	
	
Prepayment risk is the risk that the company will incur a financial loss because its customers and counterparties repay 
or request repayment earlier or later than expected, such as fixed rate mortgages when interest rates fall.
	
	
	
	
The NBFC companies use regression models to project the impact of varying levels of prepayment on its net interest 
income. The model makes a distinction between the different reasons for repayment (e.g., relocation, refinancing and 
renegotiation) and takes into account the effect of any prepayment penalties. The model is back tested against actual 
outcomes.
	
	
(ii)	 Foreign Exchange Risk
	
	
	
Foreign exchange risk is the risk of impact related to fair value or future cash flows of an exposure in foreign currency, which 
fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
	
	
	
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates to foreign currency vendor payments. 
Foreign currency exposure of the Group is not significant considering the size and nature of business. 
	
	
(iii)	 Interest Rate Risk
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk which is likely to arise due to a fundamental duration mismatch of assets and 
liabilities, on account of short term gap between disbursements and raising the matching liability. Additionally, mismatches 
between floating and fixed assets and liabilities are expected to enhance interest rate risk. Since the Group relies on bank 
finance for funding and it finds its difficult to pass the revision in base rates by banks to customers immediately, general 
increase in interest rates is likely to affect the NIMs of the NBFC companies. Containing duration mismatches and maintaining 
an equitable mix of fixed - floating assets and liabilities shall be the cornerstone of interest rate risk management strategy.
	
(C)	 Credit Risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will incur a loss because its customers or counterparties fail to discharge their contractual 
obligations. The Group manages and controls credit risk by setting limits on the amount of risk it is willing to accept for individual 
counterparties and for geographical and industry concentrations and by monitoring exposures in relation to such limits.
	
	
In NBFC companies of the Group, credit risk is monitored by the credit risk department of the respective company’s independent 
Risk Management Unit. It is their responsibility to review and manage credit risk, including environmental and social risk for all 
types of counterparties. Credit risk consists of line credit risk managers who are responsible for their business lines and manage 
specific portfolios and experts who support both the line credit risk manager, as well as the business with tools like credit risk 
systems, policies, models and reporting.
	
	
NBFC companies has established a credit quality review process to provide early identification of possible changes in the 
creditworthiness of counterparties, including regular collateral revisions. Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit 
risk classification system, which assigns each counterparty a risk rating. Risk ratings are subject to regular revision. The credit 
quality review process aims to allow the Group to assess the potential loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed and take 
corrective actions.
283
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(D)	 Operational Risk
	
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising through fraud, unauthorized activities, error, omission, inefficiency, systems failure or from external 
events. It is inherent to every business organization and covers a wide spectrum of issues. The terms error, omission and inefficiency 
includes process failures, systems / machine failures and human error. Operational risk also includes Compliance and distribution risks. 
The Group cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but it endeavours to manage these risks through a control framework 
and by monitoring and responding to potential risks. Controls include effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation and 
reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment processes, such as the use of internal audit. Further, grievance and 
customers complaints are reviewed on periodic basis.
	
(E)	 Strategic Business Risk
	
	
Strategic risks are basically those risk which are typically managed by the top management group and are tactical in nature such 
as continue or discontinue a product line, scaling up or down the business, major investment decision, key borrowings, mergers 
or acquisitions etc.
	
(F)	 Reputational Risk
	
	
REL is also exposed to reputation risk arising from failures in governance, business strategy and process, regulatory-compliance 
and legal risk. These risks are generally covered under Operational risks. Reputational risk is the risk of potential damage to the 
Group due to deterioration of its reputation. The reputation of the Group may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, 
regulations, rules, reporting requirements, standards and codes of conduct applicable to its activities, rather than compliance with 
the internal limits or procedures. Proactive measures to minimize the risk of losing reputation could be a sound risk management 
framework, good corporate governance high level ethics and integrity, rigorous anti money laundering procedures, good business 
practices and reporting of all breaches which lead to reputational risk to the attention of senior management and the board. 
Management of subsidiaries and support functions of REL should take into consideration above basic risk categorization and 
devise their own risk cum control matrix for each of the product line, segment, business and operations.”
53	 Capital Management
	
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to:
	
# safeguard their ability to continue as going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for 
other stakeholders;
	
# maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital;
	
# ensure compliances with regulatory capital requirements; and
	
# maintain strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business.
	
In order to maintain and adjust the capital structure the group issues new shares and / or sells assets to reduce debts.
	
For the purposes of the different companies’ capital management, capital includes issued capital, share premium and all other equity 
reserves attributable to the equity holders.
	
Consistent with other in industries, the group companies monitor capital on the basis of different gearing ratios. Further, most of the 
group companies are regulated entities and it is necessary that they have sufficient capital and / or net worth to meet the regulatory 
requirements. All regulated companies ensure adherence to regulatory requirements with a safety margin.
54	 Other Notes
	
(a)	 The Micro, Small And Medium Enterprises Development (“MSMED”) Act, 2006:
	
	
`779.23 Lakhs was outstanding to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: `553.49 Lakhs). 
No amount was over due (i.e. outstanding for more than 45 days) during the years for which disclosure requirements under Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 are applicable.
284
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount ( ` in Lakhs)
S. 
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(i) 
the principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown separately) 
remaining unpaid to any supplier at the end of each accounting year;
-	
principal amount
 779.23 
 553.49 
-	
interest due 
 76.24 
 52.59 
(ii) the amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along with the amount of the 
payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting 
year;
 - 
 - 
(iii) the amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under Micro, Small and Medium Development Act, 
2006
 - 
 - 
(iv) the amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year; and
 0.03 
 - 
(v) the amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when  the interest dues above are actually paid to the small 
enterprises, for the purpose of disallowance of a deductible expenditure under 
Section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
(b)	 The NBFCs in the group have disbursed loans against mortgage of properties, and the borrowers have assigned their lease rentals, 
fees, credit card receivable, project receivable etc. through escrow towards repayment of EMIs/installments. The borrowers have 
opened their accounts with certain banks under escrow to the NBFC companies. The aforesaid escrow accounts do not form part 
of these financial statements.
(c)	 Securities received from clients by the subsidiaries of the Company in the business of stock broking, as collateral for margins, are 
held by the subsidiary companies in its own name in a fiduciary capacity.
(d)	 The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. Subramanian Lakshminarayanan and Mr. Francis Daniel Lee as Executive Chairman and 
Executive Director on November 14, 2017 and November 17, 2017 respectively subject to approval of shareholders. They ceased 
to be Executive Directors of the Company w.e.f. January 22, 2018 and January 24, 2018 respectively. The shareholders of the 
Company at the Annual General Meeting held on September 20, 2018 did not accord approval for payment of remuneration 
to them for their tenure as Executive Chairman / Executive Director. Accordingly, U/s 197(9) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Company has sent notices for refund of the remuneration of `82.61 Lakhs and  `4.36 Lakhs paid to them respectively. They have 
not refunded the amount till date . The Company has submitted an Complaint/Application with the ROC, Delhi for Adjudication 
of Penalty under Section 454 of the Companies Act, 2013 in September 2019 to recover the amount. However, no reply has 
been received from the ROC in the matter till date. The letters seeking status of said applications were submitted to the ROC in 
December, 2022. The recovery will be accounted on realisation.
(e)	 In case the Group companies have borrowings from banks or financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets:
(i)	
Whether quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the Group companies with banks or financial 
institutions are in agreement with the books of accounts?
 Yes 
(ii)	
If not, summary of reconciliation and reasons of material discrepancies, if any.
 N.A. 
285
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(f)	
Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”), a NBFC subsidiary of the Company has certain listed and unlisted shares in its demat account 
which includes shares obtained as security pertaining  to loans  given in past. Some of the customers have already repaid the 
loan and Company is required to return the securities to those customers as and when customer demands the securities back. 
In some of the cases customers have defaulted to repay the respective borrowings and litigation is on-going. Company will take 
the appropriate decision/action with respective borrower at the time of closure of litigation.
	
(g)	 Business Combination / Merger
	
(i)	
To ensure the simplification of group structure, thereby resulting in reduction in multiplicity of legal and regulatory compliances 
and reduction of costs and pooling of common resources, the Board of Directors of ‘Religare Enterprises Limited’ (‘REL /
Transferee Company’) at its meeting held on December 18, 2019 had considered and approved a merger of four of its direct 
/ indirect subsidiaries ‘Religare Comtrade Limited’ (RCTL), ‘Religare Insurance Limited’ (RIL),  ‘Religare Advisors Limited’ (RAL), 
and ‘Religare Business Solutions Limited’ (RBSL), (collectively referred to as the ‘Transferor Companies’) by way of a Scheme 
of Amalgamation (the ‘Scheme’), at Nil Consideration. The Delhi Bench of the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) 
through its order dated June 15, 2023 had approved the Scheme with the appointed date of the merger being April 01, 
2019, and thereafter the Scheme had been filed with the Registrar of Companies on June 28, 2023.
	
(ii)	
As all the Transferor Companies are the direct / indirect subsidiaries of the Transferee Company, and the entire paid up 
capital of the Transferor Companies is directly or indirectly beneficially held by the Transferee Company, no consideration is 
involved in the Scheme, and accordingly no new shares of the Transferee Company are issued in respect of shares held by 
the Transferee Company or its other subsidiaries in the Transferor Companies, and their entire share capital (including the 
preference share capital) is cancelled and extinguished.
	
(iii)	
The merger has been accounted for based on the audited financial statements of the Transferee and Transferor Companies, 
using the pooling of interest method, as per guidance on Business Combination of entities under common control as 
contained in Ind AS 103 ‘Business Combination’. The difference between the amount of investment in the shares of the 
Transferor Companies as appearing in the books of accounts of the Transferee Company and the amount of paid capital of 
the Transferor Companies as at the appointed date has been transferred to the Capital Reserve as detailed below:
Particulars
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Reversal of Share Capital of Transferor Companies 
-	
Religare Advisors Limited
 2,432.00 
-	
Religare Comtrade Limited
 3,712.67 
-	
Religare Insurance Limited
 0.50 
-	
Religare Business Solutions Limited 
 4.00 
 6,149.17 
Reversal of Preference Share Capital issued by  Religare Advisors Limited RAL   
 1,290.00 
Investment (net of impairment) in the Transferor Companies 
 (212.67)
Total amount transferred / credited to Capital Reserve 
 7,226.50 
(h)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) has issued show cause notice dated September 25, 2018 to Religare Commodities 
Limited (”RCL”), a step-down subsidiary of the Company, for alleged violation of regulations 5 (e), 9 (b) & 9 (f) of SEBI (Stock Broker & 
Sub Broker) Regulations, 1992. It has been found by SEBI that paired contracts floated by National Spot Exchange Limited (“NSEL”) 
were in contravention of provisions of Forward Contract Regulation Act and Central Government notification dated June 05, 
2007 on commodity spot contracts. Under the above notification the exemption to spot contracts was only for one day forward 
contracts subject to certain conditions inter-alia including “no short sale by the members of exchange and all outstanding positions 
of the trades at the end of day shall result into delivery. Forward Markets Commission (“FMC”) of SEBI conducted enquiry on 
above contracts of NSEL and found that NSEL board allowed such contracts were ultimately in the nature of financial transactions. 
RCL being the member of NSEL entered trades on behalf of clients for such paired contracts at NSEL at that time. SEBI has alleged 
286
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
RCL as not a Fit & Proper person to continue as Stock Broker and advised to submit reply as to why action should not be undertake 
against RCL under regulation 27 of SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations. RCL has submitted the reply on October 16, 2018 with SEBI.
	
Further, SEBI vide its letter dated October 16, 2019 has sought written explanation on the said matter and RCL has submitted the 
reply on November 22, 2019 with SEBI.
	
SEBI has vide its notice dated February 24, 2020 had called up to show cause as to why the information/ material brought out 
along with enquiry report concerning the fit and proper person criterion should not be considered and as to why the action 
recommended by the Designated Authority or any other action should not be taken against RCL as deemed fit by the Competent 
Authority, under Regulation 28(2) of intermediaries Regulations. RCL has submitted reply with SEBI on April 09, 2020.
	
SEBI has vide its notice dated November 10, 2022, granted an opportunity of a personal hearing to RCL on December 09, 2022. 
RCL presented the cases before the competent authority of SEBI in a personal hearing on December 09, 2022. Further, written 
submissions have been filed on December 8, 2022, and on January 12, 2023, with SEBI in continuation of the earlier replies filed 
by RCL.
	
Concluding the proceedings, SEBI has issued an order dated December 12, 2023, suspending the certificate of registration of 
RCL as a commodities derivatives broker for a period of three (3) months from the issuance of the Order or till the FIR filed against 
RCL by EOW ceases to be pending or RCL is discharged or acquitted by a Court in relation to the FIR, whichever is later. This order 
came into force with immediate effect.
	
In the matter, upon the appeal filed by RCL, the Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal (“SAT”), vide order dated December 19, 
2023, has stayed the effect and operation of the abovementioned impugned SEBI order. The matter is subjudice.
	
Since trading has been suspended in NSEL by the Ministry of Finance due to above alleged contracts, the exchange recoverable 
and client obligations of `411.54 Lakhs (March 31, 2023: `411.54 Lakhs) have been disclosed under Trade Receivable and Trade 
Payable respectively. RCL will immediately settle the balances of its clients as and when NSEL pays off.
	
(i)	
Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”)
	
The Company has received a letter dated February 28, 2018 from Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”), Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”), Government of India, intimating the Company that the MCA has ordered an investigation into the affairs of the 
Company by the SFIO. The investigation is going on as on date and  information sought by SFIO for Company and its subsidiaries 
through various communications is being provided.
(j)	
A Scheme of Arrangement u/s 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013 which provides for transfer and vesting of the E-Governance 
Undertaking of Religare Broking Limited (“Transferor Company”) to Religare Digital Solutions Limited (“Transferee Company”), on 
a going concern basis by way of a Slump Sale in accordance with Section 2(42C) read with section 50B of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, with effect from April 01, 2022 (‘Appointed Date’), has been approved by the Board of Directors of Transferor Company 
at its meeting held on May 18, 2022. The first motion application in the said matter has been filed with the Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 21, 2022. The First Motion Application for Scheme of Slump Sale of Business from 
RBL to RDSL was admitted by Delhi NCLT vide its order dated 30 Nov 2023. Thereafter, the Second Motion Application was filed in 
December 2023 which was admitted by Delhi NCLT on vide its order dated 05 Jan 2024. The Company is in the process of filing 
an application to rectify few inadvertent errors (use of word “amalgamation” instead of “arrangement”) in the order of NCLT and 
would serve the notice to few regulatory authorities pursuant to the direction in NCLT’s order. The accounting effect of the same 
will be given on approval of the Scheme by NCLT.
(k)	 Religare Credit Advisor Private Limited (“RCAPL”) a subsidiary company is into Investment Management and the management had 
taken a decision to not to carry on any commercial operations from 1 April, 2021. The management does not foresee any business 
to commence further business. Since the company is not working, the company is in discontinued operation and going concern 
assumptions does not apply to the company. Accordingly the financial statements of the company have not been prepared under 
the going concern assumption and all assets and liabilities have been stated at their net realizable values. Adjustments relating 
287
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amount or to classification of liabilities that may be necessary have been 
made based on Management’s assessment of the same.
(l)	
The Company does not fall under the classification of Large Corporate Borrower as mentioned under the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/
HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/144 dated November 26, 2018.
	
(m)	 Pursuant to RBI direction following are the details of the companies not consolidated {Refer Note 2.2 (C)}:
	
Religare Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”) is the holding company of under mentioned subsidiaries. The last audit for RCML was 
carried out for the financial year ended March 31, 2017. Since then, RCML does not have a functional board owing to which 
audited financial statements for subsequent years till FY 2022-23, are not available. Therefore, reporting has been done on the 
basis of last audited consolidated financials.
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Name of Entity
Nature of Business
GAAP
 Size of Assets 
(Amount) 
 Debt-Equity Ratio 
 Net Profit 
(Amount) 
FY 2016-17
FY 2016-17
FY 2016-17
Religare Capital 
Markets Limited
Institutional Equities Broking and 
Investment Banking
 IGAAP 
 21,976.03 
 (1.05)
 (51,644.34)
The details of the subsidiary companies considered in the above mentioned RCML consolidated financial statements are as under:
S. 
No.
Name of Entity
Proportion  of 
ownership Interest as 
at March 31, 2017
Country of 
Incorporation
 Nature of Business 
1
Religare Capital Markets 
International (Mauritius) 
Limited
100%
Mauritius
The company is an Investment Holding company 
having Category GBL-1 License from Financial 
Services Commission (FSC), Mauritius. 
2
Religare Capital Markets 
(Europe) Limited (RCME) 
(Formerly known as 
Religare Capital Markets 
Plc.)
100%
United 
Kingdom
The company was engaged in the business of 
securities broking and investment banking and 
regulated by Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
UK. The license was surrendered in year 2013 and 
currently it has no business operations. Entity under 
liquidation.
3
Religare Capital Markets 
(UK) Limited
100%
United 
Kingdom
The company was engaged in the business of 
providing corporate finance and it was regulated by 
FCA, UK. The license was surrendered in year 2012 
and currently it has no business operations.
4
Religare Capital Markets 
Corporate Finance Pte. 
Limited
100%
Singapore
The company was engaged into business of advising 
on corporate finance. It was regulated by Monetary 
Authority of Singapore (MAS), Singapore. The license 
was lapsed in year 2017 and currently it has no 
business operations.
5
Religare Capital Markets 
Inc
100%
USA
The company was a registered broker dealer 
engaged in securities broking and it was regulated 
by Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), USA. The 
license was surrendered in year 2012 and currently 
it has no business operations.
288
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
S. 
No.
Name of Entity
Proportion  of 
ownership Interest as 
at March 31, 2017
Country of 
Incorporation
 Nature of Business 
6
Tobler UK Limited
100%
United 
Kingdom
The company has no business operations.
7
Religare Capital Markets 
(HK) Limited
100%
Hong Kong
The company was engaged into securities broking 
business. It was regulated by SFC, Hong Kong. The 
license was surrendered in year 2017 and currently 
it has no business operations.
8
Religare Capital Markets 
(Singapore) Pte Limited
100%
Singapore
The company was engaged into securities broking 
business. It was regulated by MAS, Singapore. The 
license was surrendered in year 2017 and currently 
it has no business operations.
9
Kyte Management Limited
100%
BVI
The company is a holding company in British Virgin 
Island. It had operating subsidiaries namely Religare 
Capital Markets (Hong Kong ) Limited and Religare 
Capital Markets Singapore Pte. Limited.
10
Bartleet Religare 
Securities (Private) Limited 
(BRSL)
50%
Sri Lanka
The company is engaged into securities broking 
business. It is regulated by SEC and CSE, Sri Lanka.
11
Bartleet Asset 
Management (Private) 
Limited
50%
Sri Lanka
The company is engaged in the business investment 
advisory services. It is regulated by SEC, Sri Lanka.
12
Strategic Research 
Limited
50%
Sri Lanka
The company is engaged in equity research activities.
13
Bartleet Wealth 
Management (Private) 
Limited (Formerly known 
as Religare Bartleet Capital 
Markets (Private) Limited)
50%
Sri Lanka
The company was engaged in the business of 
providing wealth management services. Currently, it 
has no business operations.
(n)	 The IBOF Investment Management Private Limited (“IBOF”), a Joint Venture (JV) of the Company was registered with Securities 
Exchange Board of India as Investment Advisors vide registration number INA000002124. On expiry of the license, the Company 
did not renew the registration and has surrendered the same. The Company continues to act as Investment Manager for India Build 
Out Fund I (“Fund”) and Fund had received extension of one year upto December 31, 2020. In order to ensure exit of remaining 
investment and orderly closure of Fund, it is warranted that the Company needs to be in existence till the closure of the Fund. 
The management is of the opinion that it has sufficient resources to meet its obligations under the said Investment Management 
Agreement.
	
(o)	
During the previous year Religare Commodities Limited (”RCL”), a step-down subsidiary of the Company,
	
i)	
Pursuant to approval of the Board of directors of the Company and shareholders’ approval in Extra-Ordinary General Meeting 
held on December 13, 2022, the Company had issued  on private placement basis to Hamdard Laboratories India, 800 
(eight hundred) Non Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of the nominal value of INR 1,000,000 (Indian Rupees Ten Lakhs only) 
289
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
each, aggregating to ` 8,000 Lakh, at fixed coupon rate of 11% per annum compounded monthly and payable on maturity. 
The tenor of these NCDs was 400 days from date of issuance. On 15th December, 2022, the Company had received the 
proceeds and accordingly made the allotment of NCDs.
	
ii)	
These NCDs were secured by way of a first ranking charge on (i) all Loan Receivables, (ii) all its present and future rights, title 
and interests in and to such loan were receivables; and (iii) all its rights, title and interest (whether present or future) in and to 
the respected designated bank account , together with all monies which may from time to time be deposited in or standing 
to the credit of respected designated bank account.
	
iii)	
REL (Guarantor)  had provided an irrevocably, unconditionally and absolutely guarantee in favour of the Debenture Trustee, 
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited, to duly pay and discharge in case of a default on the part of the issuer in paying the NCDs when 
the same falls due as per and in terms of the Transaction Documents until the Final Settlement Date. The said guarantee 
stands withdrawn.
	
iv)	
Pursuant to approval of the Board of directors of the Company in the meeting held on March 17, 2023, the Company on 
28th March, 2023  had voluntarily redeemed entire NCDs as per Clause 6.2 of schedule 1  to the debenture trust deed  along 
with interest thereon .
(p)	
(i)	
REL has not redeemed 15 Lakhs preference shares issued to Oscar Investments Limited, which had become due for 
redemption on October 31, 2018 having the redemption value of ` 4,190.28 Lakhs, as it has disputed the said transaction 
to be an illegal one and has filed a police complaint with Economic Offence Wing (“EOW”). In the matter of Daiichi Sankyo 
Company Limited (the “Daiichi”) vs. Malvinder Mohan Singh and Others, REL has been made a garnishee with regards to 
these preference shares. REL has filed an interim application disputing its liability as a garnishee. The preference shares stand 
transferred in the account of the Court receiver. The Decree Holder i.e. Daiichi has filed an application by suppressing the fact 
that the entire shareholding of RHC Holdings Private Limited in Elive InfoTech Private Limited has been pledged in favour of 
Religare Finvest Limited (“RFL”) a wholly owned subsidiary of REL, as a security for various loans to group companies of RHC 
Holdings Private Limited and obtained a status quo order on the brand “Religare”. RFL has filed an objection application in 
the said proceedings. RFL has also filed an objection application against the release of properties to Daiichi. Elive Infotech 
Private Limited  has further filed an application seeking sale of the Religare Trademark along with payment of approx. ` 323 
Crores from REL for unauthorized usage of the Religare and allied Trademarks in light of the Brand License Agreement 
executed with RHC Holding Private Limited. The matter is sub-judice.
	
(ii)	
REL has not redeemed 250 Lakhs preference shares issued to RHC Finance Private Limited, which had become due for 
redemption on August 30, 2021 having the redemption value of ` 4,212.75 Lakhs. REL has also filed a petition with Hon’ble 
NCLT, Delhi under Section 55 and 59 of the Companies Act, 2013 seeking rectification of Register of Members of the 
Company, alleging the transaction to be a fraudulent one and has sought cancellation of preference shares along with 
stay on voting rights in the interim. On September 29, 2021, the Hon’ble NCLT directed ordering the status quo on the 
respondents to restrain them from exercising their voting power with the resolution, until the further orders. Further, vide 
order dated December 16, 2021, it was affirmed by Hon’ble NCLT that interim orders will continue. The matter is sub-judice.
	
(iii)	
The Company had created the provision of contingency towards the potential interest liability, if any, which may arise from the 
final outcome of above matters on prudent / conservative basis. The Company’s management based on its re-assessment 
of the facts of the matter and as advised by the legal experts in the earlier year, at March 31, 2023, was  of the view that 
there will be no contractual or legal obligation on the Company  to pay any compensation/interest in lieu of the unredeemed 
preference shares or on its redemption value irrespective of what may be the final outcome of the matters regarding the 
payment of redemption value of `8,403.03 Lakhs which are presently sub-judice as detailed above. Accordingly, the 
provision towards contingency of `2,941.67 Lakhs held on this account (`868.25 Lakhs created during the year ended 
March 31, 2023 and `2,073.42 Lakhs created upto March 31, 2022) had been reversed during the earlier year ended 
March 31, 2023, however, the provision towards the redemption value of `8,403.03 Lakhs has been continued on prudent / 
conservative basis under Note 23 - Other Financial Liabilities.
290
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(q)	 In Financial Year 2018, an Inter Corporate Loan of ` 285 Lakhs was given to Religare Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”) by one 
of the merged company i.e. Religare Advisors Limited (“RAL”) (now merged with REL - refer Note - 54(g)) for working capital 
requirement out of which ` 35 Lakhs were adjusted / received subsequently. Considering the cash flow issues and no business 
operations in RCML, REL had given Letter of Comfort (“LoC”) dated May 30, 2018 to RAL mentioning that REL agrees to meet 
and provide payment upto ` 250 Lakhs to RAL, which will be reimbursed by REL as and when business demands cash funds and 
support for revival of business. Due to its weak financial position and no business operation, RCML couldn’t repay the said Inter 
Corporate Loan till the balance sheet date and accordingly RAL had recognized impairment loss allowance of ` 250 Lakhs in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss in Financial Year 2022-23.
(r)	
Religare Global Asset Management, Inc. (“RGAM Inc.”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company in Delaware, USA stands 
dissolved during the year w.e.f. October 09, 2023, as per the report of the search conducted and received by the Company on 
December 27, 2023. As such, RGAM Inc. ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company, and its net assets i.e. bank balance is being 
transferred in the accounts of REL, and accounted for accordingly. There is no material impact of the same on these financial 
statements.
(s)	
During the year, the Company has carried out the fair valuation exercise of MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (“MIC”), 
acquired during the year (refer Note 2.2 (B.3)) in accordance with Ind AS 103 and realigned the assets and liabilities acquired on 
acquisition and purchase consideration in accordance with fair value as summarised below:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As on December 9, 
2023 (Fair Value)*
Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
 1.13 
Intangible Assets
 2.33 
Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
 112.31 
Trade Receivables
 0.27 
Cash and Cash Equivalents - Bank Balance
 5.60 
Other Current Assets
 8.99 
Total Assets (A)
 130.63 
Liabilities
Trade Payables
 4.08 
Borrowings - Inter Corporate Loan
 10.00 
Other Current Liabilities
 3.56 
Provision - Gratuity
 12.48 
Total Liabilities (B)
 30.12 
Total Identifiable Net Assets Acquired (A-B)
 100.51 
Less: Purchase Consideration
 300.00 
Goodwill
 199.49 
	
* Carrying value, as per the financial, is taken as fair value.
291
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
55	 Revenue from contract with customers
	
Set out below is the disaggregation of the Company’s standalone revenue from contracts with customers and reconciliation to statement 
of profit and loss:
Particulars
For year ended March 31, 2024
Interest Income
Support Service 
Income
Other Income
Total
Type of Services or service
Interest Income
 906.13 
 - 
 - 
 906.13 
Support Service Income
 - 
 766.14 
 - 
 766.14 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments
 - 
 - 
 236.05 
 236.05 
Profit on Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment
 - 
 - 
 1.24 
 1.24 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Geographical markets
India
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 - 
 - 
 237.29 
 237.29 
Services transferred over time
 906.13 
 766.14 
 - 
 1,672.27 
Total revenue from contracts with customer
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Particulars
For year ended March 31, 2024
Interest Income
Support Service 
Income
Other Income
Total
Type of Services or service
Interest Income
 2,043.05 
 - 
 - 
 2,043.05 
Support Service Income
 - 
 772.67 
 - 
 772.67 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments
 - 
 259.53 
 259.53 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 2,043.05 
 772.67 
 259.53 
 3,075.25 
Geographical markets
India
 2,043.05 
 772.67 
 259.53 
 3,075.25 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 2,043.05 
 772.67 
 259.53 
 3,075.25 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 - 
 - 
 259.53 
 259.53 
Services transferred over time
 2,043.05 
 772.67 
 - 
 2,815.72 
Total revenue from contracts with customer
 2,043.05 
 772.67 
 259.53 
 3,075.25 
	
Contract Balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Recoverable from support services
400.13
372.13
292
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
56	 Previous Year’s Figures
	
Previous year’s figures have been regrouped, re-arranged and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s 
classification. Further, as the financial results for the previous year include the impact of the merger as detailed in Note 54(g), accordingly 
the same may not be comparable.
Signature to Notes 1 - 56 Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements	
These are Consolidated Notes referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
293
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
FORM AOC - 1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of Subsidiaries / Associate Companies / Joint Ventures
Part “A” : Subsidiaries*	
1
Sl. No.
1
2
3
4
5
2
Name of the Subsidiary
Religare 
Finvest Limited 
Religare 
Broking 
Limited 
Religare 
Commodities 
Limited 
Care Health 
Insurance 
Limited
Religare Credit 
Advisor Private 
Limited
3
The date since when subsidiary was acquired
September 30, 
2005
July 20, 2016
April 1, 2006
April 2, 2007
December 20, 
2013
4
Reporting Period if different from Holding Company
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
5
Reporting Currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
 INR 
6
Exchange Rate as on last date of financial year
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
7
Equity Share Capital (` in Lakhs)
 26,209.53 
 23,079.58 
 200.00 
 97,204.37 
 93.98 
8
Other Equity (` in Lakhs)
 47,941.56 
 1,974.88 
 7,600.03 
 120,089.21 
 (19.75)
9
Total Assets (` in Lakhs)
 77,475.93 
 140,689.01 
 8,258.28 
 718,855.29 
 77.09 
10
Total Liabilities (` in Lakhs) (Excluding Equity and Other 
Equity)
 3,324.84 
 115,634.55 
 458.25 
 501,561.71 
 2.86 
11
Investments (` in Lakhs)
 28,982.70 
 386.23 
 - 
 656,306.68 
 - 
12
Total Revenue^ (Including Exceptional Items) (` in Lakhs)
 35,771.68 
 36,901.45 
 879.59 
 575,674.66 
 3.91 
13
Profit / (Loss) Before Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 6,320.21 
 4,515.36 
 819.16 
 40,616.73 
 - 
14
Provision for Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 (404.46)
 1,181.03 
 209.11 
 9,689.66 
 0.14 
15
Profit / (Loss) After Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 6,724.67 
 3,334.33 
 610.05 
 30,927.07 
 (0.14)
16
Other Comprehensive Income (` in Lakhs)
 (28.47)
 (57.40)
 - 
 5,575.57 
 - 
17
Total Comprehensive Income (` in Lakhs)
 6,696.20 
 3,276.93 
 610.05 
 36,502.64 
 (0.14)
18
Proposed Dividend (` in Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
19
% of shareholding (Equity) as on last date of financial year
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
62.98%
99.99%
294
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Part “A” : Subsidiaries*	
1
Sl. No.
6
7
8
9
10
2
Name of the Subsidiary
MIC Insurance 
Web Aggregator 
Private Limited @
Religare Global 
Asset Management 
Inc. **
Religare Housing 
Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
Religare Care 
Foundation #
Religare Digital 
Solutions 
Limited
3
The date since when subsidiary was acquired
December 8, 2023
December 1, 2010
June 15, 2009
February 4, 2022
April 7, 2022
4
Reporting Period if different from Holding Company
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
5
Reporting Currency
INR
 USD 
INR
INR
INR
6
Exchange Rate as on last date of financial year
N.A.
 83.34 
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
7
Equity Share Capital (` in Lakhs)
 899.12 
 - 
 3,999.80 
 5.00 
 10.00 
8
Other Equity (` in Lakhs)
 (848.63)
 - 
 17,703.67 
 (4.93)
 (7.52)
9
Total Assets (`in Lakhs)
 125.75 
 - 
 24,406.08 
 1.22 
 7.91 
10
Total Liabilities (` in Lakhs) (Excluding Equity and Other Equity)
 75.26 
 - 
 2,702.61 
 1.15 
 5.43 
11
Investments (` in Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
 838.75 
 - 
 - 
12
Total Revenue^ (` in Lakhs)
 7.86 
 11.89 
 4,332.51 
 41.51 
 0.32 
13
Profit / (Loss) Before Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 (75.86)
 4.25 
 19.76 
 (1.53)
 (1.91)
14
Provision for Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 (0.10)
 - 
 4.31 
 - 
 - 
15
Profit / (Loss) After Taxation (` in Lakhs)
 (75.76)
 4.25 
 15.45 
 (1.53)
 (1.91)
16
Other Comprehensive Income (` in Lakhs)
 (4.25)
 (0.52)
 4.05 
 - 
 - 
17
Total Comprehensive Income (` in Lakhs)
 (80.01)
 3.73 
 19.50 
 (1.53)
 (1.91)
18
Proposed Dividend (` in Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
19
% of shareholding (Equity) as on last date of financial year
100.00%
0.00%
87.50%
96.94%
100.00%
* Subsidaries as per Ind AS. (Refer Note 2.2(C) of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
^ In case of foreign subsidiaries total income is converted at monthly average exchange rate.
# It is a not-for-profit company (licensed under Section 8(1) of the Companies Act, 2013).
@ Post acquisition numbers of statement of profit and loss are reported here.
** The company was dissolved during the year w.e.f. October 09, 2023 (Refer Note - 54(r) of the Consolidated Financial Statements).
Note: Religare Comtrade Limited, Religare Insurance Limited, Religare Advisors Limited and Religare Business Solutions Limited have been merged with the 
Company w.e.f. April 1, 2019. (Refer Note 54(g) of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations
Sl. No.	 Name of the Company
(1)	
Religare Digital Solutions Limited
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Sd/-
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Executive Chairperson 
Director
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
295
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
FORM AOC - 1
Part “B” : Associates and Joint Ventures*
Statement pursuant to section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associates Companies and Joint 
Ventures
SI. 
No
Name of Associates / Joint Ventures
Joint Venture
Associate
IBOF Investment 
Management Private 
Limited
1
Latest audited balance sheet Date
March 31, 2023
NIL
2
Date on which the Associate or Joint Venture was associated or acquired
April 8, 2009
3
Equity Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by the Company on the year end
	
Numbers
 3,499,999 
	
Amount of Investment in Associates / Joint Venture (Net of Allowance for 
Impairment Loss / Provisions) (` in Lakhs)
 - 
	
Extend of Equity Shares Holding  (%)
50%
4
Description of how there is significant influence
 Refer Note A below 
5
Reason why the Associate / Joint Venture is not consolidated
 N.A. 
6
Net worth attributable to shareholding (of Holding Company) as per latest 
audited Balance Sheet (` in Lakhs)
 - 
7
Profit / (Loss) for the year
i.	
Considered in Consolidation (` in Lakhs)
 - 
ii.	
Not Considered in Consolidation  
(Owing to proportionate consolidation of Joint Venture) 
 N.A. 
* Associates and Joint Ventures as per Ind AS.
Note A:  There is significant influence due to percentage(%) of Share Capital
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Sd/-
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Executive Chairperson 
Director
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
296
Annual Report 2023-2024
Independent Auditor’s Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF ‘RELIGARE ENTERPRISES LIMITED’ ON STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Religare Enterprises Limited (the “Company”), which 
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, 
and the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Standalone Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements 
including a summary of the material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the “standalone 
financial statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (the ‘Act’) and the directions and guidelines issued by Reserve 
Bank of India as applicable to Non-Deposit Taking Systemically 
Important Core Investment Company (‘RBI Regulations’), in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024 and its Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Loss), its changes in equity and its cash flows 
for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
preparation of the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s Annual 
Report particularly with respect to Management Discussions and 
Analysis, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, 
Business responsibility report and Corporate Governance report 
but does not include the standalone financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The other information is expected to be 
made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the course 
of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement therein, we are required to report that fact to 
those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Standalone Financial 
Statements 
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the 
Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind 
AS”) notified under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, and RBI Regulations, as 
amended from time to time.
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of 
Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
297
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate 
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so. 
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial 
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
-	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
-	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the company has adequate internal financial 
controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls. 
-	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
-	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
-	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of 
the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the financial 
statements that, individually or in aggregate, makes it probable that 
the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and (ii) to 
evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the financial 
statements. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships 
and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe 
these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences 
of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication. We have determined that 
there are no key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1.	
As required by ‘the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020’ 
(“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we give 
in the Annexure-‘A’, a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraph 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
a.	
we have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
b.	
in our opinion, proper books of account as required by 
law have been kept by the Company so far as appears 
from our examination of those books.
298
Annual Report 2023-2024
	
c.	
the Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Statement 
of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
and the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows dealt 
with by this Report are in agreement with the books of 
account.
	
d.	
in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(“Ind AS”) notified under Section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended from time to time.
	
e.	
on the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors and taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 
March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
f.	
with respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate report in Annexure-‘B’;
	
g.	
In our opinion, the remuneration paid by the Company 
to its Director is in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act; and
	
h.	
with respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given to 
us:
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations on its financial position in its standalone 
financial statements - Refer note 35 to the standalone 
financial statements;
	
ii.	
The Company has not entered into any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts;
	
iii.	
There has been no amount, required to be transferred, 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company.
	
iv.	
(a)	
The Management has represented that, to the best 
of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are 
material either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to 
or in any other person or entity, including foreign 
entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(b)	
The Management has represented, that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which 
are material either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Company from any 
person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding 
Parties”), 
with 
the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures that have been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any 
material misstatement.
	
v.	
No dividend was declared or paid during the year; 
hence, the said clause is not applicable.
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test checks, 
the Company has used accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software except in certain components of audit 
trail were not operating due to system limitations, as 
described in note 51 (t) to the standalone financial 
statements. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of the audit trail 
feature being tampered with.
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 1, 2023, reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 on preservation of the audit trail as per 
the statutory requirements for record retention is not 
applicable for the financial year ended 31 March, 2024.
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn. No. 000346N
(Pawan K. Gupta)
Partner
Place: New Delhi
M. No. 092529
Dated: May 21, 2024 
UDIN – 24092529BKCYPB5739
299
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE-‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under `Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of the independent auditor’s report of 
even date on the standalone financial statements of Religare Enterprises Limited for the year ended March 31, 2024)
(i)	
In respect of the Company’s Property, plant and equipments, 
Intangible assets, and Right to use assets;
	
a.	
(A)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, plant and 
equipment and relevant details of Right to use 
assets.
	
	
(B)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of the Intangible assets.
	
b.	
As explained to us, the Property, plant and equipments 
are physically verified by the management at reasonable 
intervals, which in our opinion is reasonable, having 
regard to the size of the Company and nature of its 
assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on such 
physical verification.
	
c.	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the title deeds in respect of the immovable 
properties 
included 
in 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements under Property, plant and equipments (other 
than premises where the Company is the lessee and the 
lease agreement is duly executed in its favour) are held 
in the name of the Company.
	
d.	
The Company has not revalued any of its Property, plant 
and equipment (including Right to use assets) during the 
year.
	
e.	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, no proceedings have been initiated during 
the year or are pending against the Company as at 
March 31, 2024 for holding any benami property under 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 
1988) and rules made thereunder, as amended.
(ii)	
(a)	
The Company’s business does not involve inventories, 
hence reporting under   clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
	
(b)	
The Company has not been sanctioned any working 
capital limit, at any point of time during the year, from 
banks or financial institutions on the basis of security of 
current assets and hence reporting under clause 3(ii)(b) 
of the Order is not applicable.
(iii)	
The Company is a NBFC registered as Core Investment 
Company, under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934, and as a part of its business activities is engaged in 
lending/granting of the loans and investing in the Subsidaries, 
Associates and Joint Venture and others.
	
(a)	
As the Compnay is NBFC and as part of its business 
activities is engaged in lending/granting of the loans, 
hence reporting under this clause is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the loans and advances given in the 
nature of loans to its Subsidiary / Step-down Subsidiary 
Companies, investment made and security given and 
the terms and conditions of the guarantee provided by 
the Company are not prejudicial to its interest.
	
(c)	
and (d) In respect of the loans, and advances in the 
nature of loans, given by the Company though the 
schedule of repayment of principal and payment of 
interest has been stipulated, however, in 2 cases loans 
of ` 1,199.18 Lakhs (including interest accrued) (since 
fully impaired) are overdue since more than 90 days, 
for which the necessary steps were found to be taken 
by the Company during our examination of the relevant 
records.
	
(e)	
As the Company is a NBFC registered as Core 
Investment Company, hence reporting under this caluse 
is not applicable.
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records, the 
Company has not granted any loans, and advances 
in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand 
or without specifying the terms of repayment, hence 
reporting under this clause is not applicable.
(iv)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, and 
on the basis of our examination of the records, the Company 
has complied with the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of 
the Act in respect of the loans granted, investment made and 
guarantees and security provided, as applicable.
(v)	
The Company has not accepted any deposit or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits. Hence reporting under 
clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
300
Annual Report 2023-2024
(vi)	
The maintenance of cost records has not been specified 
by the Central Government of India under sub-section (1) 
of Section 148 of the Act for any of the business activities 
carried out by the Company. Hence reporting under clause 
3(vi) of the Order is not applicable.
(vii)	 In respect of statutory dues:
	
a.	
According to the information and explanations given to us 
and the records of the Company examined by us, in our 
opinion the Company is generally regular in depositing 
undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Service 
Tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty 
of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory 
dues as applicable with the appropriate authorities. 
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of the 
aforesaid dues were outstanding as at March 31, 2024 
for a period of more than six months from the date they 
became payable.
	
b.	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, and the records of the Company examined by 
us, there are no dues in respect of any statutory dues 
referred to in sub-clause (a) above which have not been 
deposited on account of any dispute except for the 
following:
Name of the Statute
Nature of Dues
Amount 
(in ` Lakhs)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the Dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
8,433.79
A.Y. 2013-14
Delhi High Court
1.76
A.Y. 2016-17
Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)
13,979.95
A.Y. 2017-18
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
Finace Act, 1994
Service Tax
286.57
F.Y. 2015-16
Dy. Commissioner of Commercial 
Tax, Gujarat 
(viii)	 There were no transactions relating to previously unrecorded 
income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).
(ix)	
(a)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to 
the information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or 
other borrowings or in the payment of interest to the 
lenders from whom such loans or borrowings have been 
borrowed.
	
(b)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or 
financial institution or other lender.
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has applied the term loans for the purpose for which 
these loans were obtained.
	
(d)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not raised loans on short-term basis, hence reporting 
under this clause is not applicable.
	
(e)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not taken any funds from any entity or person on 
account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries 
or associate or joint venture, hence reporting under this 
clause is not applicable.
	
(f)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not raised any loan during the year on the pledge 
of securities held in its subsidiaries, associates and joint 
venture. However, loans of ` 12,500 Lakhs were taken 
during the earlier year from two financial institutions 
against the security by way of first and exclusive pledge 
of its 100% shareholding in a Subsidiary Company i.e. 
Religare Broking Limited. The said loan is not due for 
payment so far, hence reporting whether there is any 
default in its repayment or not is not applicable.
(x)	
(a)	
The Company during the year has neither raised funds 
by way of initial public offer nor further public offer 
(including debt instruments), hence reporting under this 
clause is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully, partially or optionally convertible) 
during the year, hence reporting under this clause is not 
applicable.
301
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(xi)	
(a)	
Based on the audit procedures and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, no fraud by 
the Company or no material fraud on the Company has 
been noticed or reported during the year.
	
(b)	
No report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the 
Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under 
rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, with the Central Government, during the 
year and upto the date of this report.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, no whistle blower complaint was received by 
the Company during the year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company, hence reporting under 
clauses 3(xii)(a) to 3(xii)(c) is not applicable.
(xiii)	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and based on our examination of the records of the Company, 
transactions with the related parties are in compliance with 
Section 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable. The details 
of such transcations have been disclosed in the financial 
statements, as required by  Ind AS 24 – Related Party 
Disclosures.
(xiv)	 (a)	
In our opinion and based on our examination, the 
Company has an adequate internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and the nature of its 
business.
	
(b)	
We have considered, the internal audit reports for the 
year under audit, issued to the Company during the year, 
in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures.
(xv)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with Directors or persons 
connected with them.
(xvi)	 (a)	
The Company is required to and has been registered 
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934 as a Core Investment Company.
	
(b)	
The Company is conducting its activites as Non-Deposit 
Taking Systemically Important Core Investment Company 
(“CIC-ND-SI”) vide Certificate No. N-14.03222 dated 
June 03, 2014 issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
	
(c)	
The Company is a Core Investment Company (CIC) 
as defined in the regulations made by RBI, and it has 
continued to fulfil the criteria of a CIC as stipultated by 
RBI.
	
(d)	
As informed and in our view, there is no other Core 
Investment Company within the Group of the Company.
(xvii)	 The Company has incurred cash losses of ` 5,296.59 Lakhs 
during the current financial year and of ` 4,548.22 Lakhs 
during the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors of the 
Company during the year.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial 
liabilities, other information accompanying the financial 
statements and our knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
Management plans and based on our examination of the 
evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to 
our attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report indicating 
that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of 
the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on 
the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give 
any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 (a) & (b) During the year, no amount was required to be spent 
towards the Corporate Social Responsibility as Company has 
not made average net profits during the three immediately 
preceding financial years. Hence reporting under clause 3(xx) 
is not applicable.
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn. No. 000346N
(Pawan K. Gupta)
Place:  New Delhi 	
Partner
Dated: May 21, 2024
M. No. 092529
 
302
Annual Report 2023-2024
ANNEXURE-‘B’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of the independent auditor’s report 
of even date on the standalone financial statements of Religare Enterprises Limited for the year ended March 31, 2024)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of Religare Enterprises Limited (“the Company”) as of 
March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that 
date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in 
the “Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting” (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation 
of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and deemed to be 
prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit 
of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial 
reporting was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and 
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial 
reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is 
a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the Company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and Directors of the Company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control over financial reporting may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
303
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
statements and such internal financial controls with reference to  financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the ‘Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India.
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Regn. No. 000346N
(Pawan K. Gupta)
Place:  New Delhi 	
Partner
Dated: May 21, 2024
M. No. 092529

304
Annual Report 2023-2024
Standalone Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Financial Assets
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
6
 698.78 
 3,381.35 
	
Bank Balance other than above
7
 9.65 
 22.58 
	
Loans
8
 6,025.80 
 2,410.23 
	
Investments
9
 226,069.27 
 226,536.53 
	
Other Financial Assets
10
 254.18 
 327.55 
Non-Financial Assets
	
Current Tax Assets (Net)
11
 3,175.32 
 3,180.84 
	
Property, Plant and Equipment
12
 510.30 
 397.66 
	
Right -of- use Assets
13
 1,466.37 
 1,158.09 
	
Intangible Assets
14
 - 
 0.10 
	
Intangible Assets Under Development
14
 2.57 
 - 
	
Other Non-Financial Assets 
15
 2,251.66 
 2,394.23 
Total Assets
 240,463.90 
 239,809.16 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Financial Liabilities
Payables
	
Trade Payables
16
	
(i)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
	
(ii)	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 701.92 
 749.80 
	
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
17
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
	
Lease Liabilities
18
 1,626.67 
 1,204.71 
	
Other Financial Liabilities
19
 11,404.18 
 959.95 
Non-Financial Liabilities
	
Provisions
20
 1,879.44 
 1,338.58 
	
Other Non-Financial Liabilities
21
 112.84 
 198.14 
EQUITY
	
Equity Share Capital
22
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
	
Other Equity
23
 179,344.32 
 182,342.67 
Total Liabilities and Equity
 240,463.90 
 239,809.16 
Overview, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes.
1-5, 34-55
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
This is the Balance sheet referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
305
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note 
No.
Year Ended
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
March 31, 2023 
Income
Revenue From Operations
Interest Income
24
 904.73 
 2,106.79 
Net Gain on Fair Value Changes
25
 48.27 
 - 
Other
26
 225.10 
 271.81 
Total Revenue From Operations
 1,178.10 
 2,378.60 
Other Income
27
 1,346.14 
 3,275.57 
Total Income
 2,524.24 
 5,654.17 
Expenses
Finance Costs
28
 2,541.30 
 1,223.01 
Net loss on fair value changes
29
 - 
 60.61 
Impairment on Financial Instruments
30
 483.49 
 238.80 
Employee Benefits Expense
31
 3,743.17 
 3,000.91 
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
32
 584.56 
 299.92 
Others Expenses 
33
 2,359.27 
 2,340.75 
Total Expenses 
 9,711.79 
 7,164.00 
(Loss) Before Tax 
 (7,187.55)
 (1,509.83)
Tax Expense: 
34
-	
Taxes for earlier years written back
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
(Loss) for the Year
 (6,535.37)
 (1,506.87)
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
-	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
Re-measurement (loss) on defined benefit plans
 (46.93)
 (0.49)
Other Comprehensive (Loss) 
 (46.93)
 (0.49)
Total Comprehensive (Loss)
 (6,582.30)
 (1,507.36)
Earnings Per Equity Share (In `)
47
a)	
Basic EPS (`) 
 (1.98)
 (0.47)
b)	
Diluted EPS (`) 
 (1.98)
 (0.47)
Overview, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes.
1-5, 34-55
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements.	
This is the Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
306
Annual Report 2023-2024
Standalone Statement of Changes In Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Equity Share Capital
Particulars
Balance at the 
beginning of the 
reporting year
Changes in equity 
share capital during 
the year
Balance at the end 
of the reporting year
For the year ended March 31, 2023
 31,880.93 
 475.02 
 32,355.95 
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 32,355.95 
 616.17 
 32,972.12 
Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income / (Loss)
Total
Statutory 
Reserves 
Capital Reserve 
Securities 
Premium
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
General 
Reserve
Share 
Options 
Outstanding 
account
Share 
Application 
Money 
Pending 
allotment
Retained 
Earnings
Reserve on 
account of 
Scheme of 
Arrangement
Reserve on 
Forfeiture 
of Share 
warrant 
Balance as at March 31, 2022
10,992.57
13,752.15
4,161.12 438,882.11
623.14 3,904.14
131.16
27.69 (289,506.87)
(33.05) 182,934.16
(Loss) for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,506.87)
-
(1,506.87)
Re-measurement (loss) on defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.49)
(0.49)
Total Comprehensive (Loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,506.87)
(0.49)
(1,507.36)
Adjustment for ESOP expense 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
16.35
-
16.35
ESOP reserve created during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(20.17)
-
(20.17)
Securities Premium on shares allotted
-
-
-
947.38
-
-
-
-
-
-
947.38
Share Application Money (adjusted) / received (net of 
shares issued)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(27.69)
-
-
(27.69)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
10,992.57
13,752.15
4,161.12 439,829.49
623.14 3,904.14
110.99
- (290,997.39)
(33.54) 182,342.67
(Loss) for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(6,535.37)
-
(6,535.37)
Re-measurement (loss) on defined benefit plans
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(46.93)
(46.93)
Total Comprehensive (Loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(6,535.37)
(46.93)
(6,582.30)
Adjustment for ESOP expense 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.08
-
0.08
ESOP reserve created during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
18.86
-
-
-
18.86
Securities Premium on shares allotted
-
-
-
3,214.03
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,214.03
Share Application Money received (net of shares issued)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 350.98 
 - 
 - 
 350.98 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
10,992.57 
 13,752.15 
 4,161.12 443,043.52 
 623.14 3,904.14 
 129.85 
 350.98 (297,532.68)
 (80.47) 179,344.32 
Note
1.	
Securities Premium: This Reserve represents the premium on issue of shares and can be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	
Capital Redemption Reserve: The Company has recognised Capital Redemption Reserve on redemption of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares from its retained 
earnings. The amount in Capital Redemption Reserve is equal to nominal amount of the Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares redeemed. The Company may issue fully paid 
up bonus shares to its members out of the capital redemption reserve account.
3.	
General Reserve: This Reserve is created by an appropriation from one component of other equity (generally Retained Earnings) to another, not being an item of Other Comprehensive 
Income. The same can be utilised by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
4.	
Retained Earnings: This Reserve represents the cumulative profits / losses of the Company, which can be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
307
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
5.	
Statutory Reserves: In accordance to Section 45IC of RBI Act, 1934, every non-banking financial company shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty 
per cent of its net profit every year .
6.	
Capital reserve
	
(i)	
Reserve on acconut of scheme of arrangement: Pursuant to the terms of approved scheme of arrangement, the investment held by the Company in transferor entities and 
related provision for diminution stand cancelled; the difference between book value of investments and face value of shares has been credited to Capital Reserve.
	
(ii)	
Reserve on Forfeiture of Share warrant: The Company obtained an In–Principle approval under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 from National Stock Exchange of India and BSE Limited (“the Exchanges”) for issue and allotment of 175,224,258 convertible warrants of `52.30 each exercisable 
into equal number of Equity Shares of ` 10/- each of the Company on preferential basis. Pursuant to shareholder approval dated March 19, 2018, the Company issued and 
allotted 111,497,714 convertible warrant each on preferential basis under the provision of chapter VII of Securities Exchanges Board of India (Issue of Capital and disclosure 
requirement) Regulation 2009, as amended (ICDR Regulations) and section 62 and 42 of the Companies Act 2013. As these warrant holders could not exercise their preferential 
right for conversion of convertible warrant into equity share, hence the unutilised advance share warrant money received has been forfeited. The unutilised amount of ` 4,161.12 
Lakhs has been credited to Capital Reserve.
7.	
Share Options Outstanding account: The Share Option Outstanding account has been created in accordance with the approved Employee Stock Option Scheme.
8.	
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss): The other comprehensive income/(loss) till date, which is available for set off or adjustable only against such income/loss in future.
Overview, Material Accounting Policies and Other Notes.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1-5, 34-55
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
This is the Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Standalone Statement of Changes In Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
308
Annual Report 2023-2024
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2023 
A.	
Cash Flow From Operating Activities:
(Loss) Before Tax 
 (7,187.55)
 (1,509.83)
Adjustments for:
(Profit) / Loss on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment (Net)
 (1.24)
 5.79 
Interest Income 
 (1,261.18)
 (2,175.28)
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
 584.56 
 299.92 
(Profit) on Sale/Redemption of Current Investments
 (225.10)
 (271.81)
Credit Balances/Provisions Written back
 (201.31)
 (372.94)
Liability towards contingency expense written back
 - 
 (2,073.42)
Balance written off
 - 
 2.22 
Share Based Payment Expense / (Reversal)
 18.83 
 (5.00)
Finance Costs
 2,541.18 
 1,222.89 
ECL/Impairment losses on Financial Instruments 
 483.49 
 238.80 
(Gain) / Loss on Fair value changes in Investments (Net)
 (48.27)
 60.61 
Operating (Loss) before Working Capital changes
 (5,296.59)
 (4,578.05)
Adjustments for changes in Working Capital :
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Financial Assets
 281.27 
 4,123.67 
-	
Increase /Decrease in Loans
 (3,632.00)
 (475.00)
-	
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Non-Financial Assets
 344.61 
 (192.97)
-	
Increase/ (Decrease) in Trade and Other Payables
 (47.88)
 (1,544.90)
-	
Increase/ (Decrease) in Other Financial Liabilities
 94.73 
 (1,212.64)
-	
Increase/ (Decrease) in Provisions
 493.93 
 51.66 
-	
Increase/ (Decrease) in Non-Financial Liabilities
 (85.30)
 (241.07)
Cash (Used in) Operations
 (7,847.23)
 (4,069.30)
 - 	
Tax Refunds (Net)
 347.52 
 58.68 
Net Cash (Used in) Operating Activities
 (7,499.71)
 (4,010.62)
B.
Cash Flow From Investing Activities:
Adjustments for changes in :
Purchase of Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets
 (224.89)
 (52.56)
Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 1.23 
 85.86 
Purchase of Investments in Mutual Funds
 (13,699.29)
 (16,524.14)
Proceeds from sale of Investments in Mutual Funds
 14,527.91 
 41,449.13 
Amount paid on Acquisition / Investment in Subsidiaries
 (330.00)
 (21,242.51)
Interest Income Received
 983.75 
 2,030.51 
Changes in bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 3.88 
 397.46 
Net Cash generated from Investing Activities
 1,262.59 
 6,143.75 
C.
Cash Flow From Financing Activities:
Proceeds from Issue of Share Capital (including Securities Premium)
 3,896.20 
 1,394.72 
Share Application Money Received (net of share capital issued)
 350.98 
 - 
Proceeds from Borrowings (other than Debt Securities)
 - 
 12,500.00 
Principal payment of Lease Liabilities
 (480.27)
 (163.29)
Interest expense on Lease liabilities
 (212.36)
 (108.74)
Payment against financial liability of letter of comfort
 - 
 (12,500.00)
Net Cash generated from Financing Activities
 3,554.55 
 1,122.69 
Net (Decrease) / Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
 (2,682.57)
 3,255.82 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Year
 3,381.35 
 125.53 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Year
 698.78 
 3,381.35 
309
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Particulars 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2024 
Year Ended
 March 31, 2023 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year comprises of
Cash in hand
 0.01 
 0.03 
Cheques in hand
 - 
 19.89 
Balances with Banks in Current Accounts
 698.77 
 3,351.44 
Fixed deposit with maturity less than 3 months
 - 
 9.99 
TOTAL
 698.78 
 3,381.35 
Overview & Material Accounting Policies.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1-5, 34-55
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
This is the Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount ` in Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
310
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
1	
Corporate information
	
Religare Enterprises Limited (“”REL”” or “”the Company””) is 
a leading emerging markets financial services company in 
India. REL was originally incorporated as a private limited 
company under the Companies Act, 1956 on January 30, 
1984. The Company was registered with the Reserve Bank 
of India as a Non- Banking Financial Company under section 
45 IA of RBI Act, 1934 governed by erstwhile Non-Banking 
Financial (Non Deposit Accepting or Holding) Companies 
Prudential Norms (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2007 (“”NBFC 
Directions””).
	
The Company now holds the Certificate of Registration 
as a Non-Deposit Taking Systemically Important Core 
Investment Company (“CIC-ND-SI”) vide Certificate No. 
N-14.03222 dated June 03, 2014 issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (“RBI”) and accordingly at present is governed 
by the directions contained in Master Direction – Core 
Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 (“CIC 
Directions”). More than 90% of its total assets are invested in 
Non Current Investments in group companies. The Company 
has changed its registered office from First Floor, P-14, 45/90, 
P-Block, Connaught Place, New Delhi –110001 to 1407, 14th 
Floor, Chiranjiv Tower, 43, Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019 
w.e.f. August 16, 2022.
	
Religare is a diversified financial services group present 
across three verticals. REL offers an integrated suite of 
financial services through its underlying subsidiaries and 
operating entities, including loans to SMEs, Affordable 
Housing Finance, Health Insurance and Retail Broking. REL is 
listed on the BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange) and 
National Stock Exchange (NSE) in India.
2	
Basis of Preparation
2.1	 Statement of Compliance
	
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
as prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, the other relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, and the Master Directions / Guidelines 
issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as applicable and 
relevant to Core Investment Companies / Non-Banking 
Financial Companies (the ‘NBFC Regulations’), as amended 
from time to time. The notified Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) are followed by the Company in so far as they are not 
inconsistent with the NBFC Regulations.
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical 
cost basis, except for fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI) instruments, other financial assets held for 
trading and financial assets and liabilities designated at 
fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), all of which have 
been measured at fair value. Further, the carrying values of 
recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged items in 
fair value hedges, and otherwise carried at amortised cost, 
are adjusted to record changes in fair value attributable to 
the risks that are being hedged. The standalone financial 
statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) and all 
values are rounded to the nearest Lakhs, except when 
otherwise indicated.”
	
The financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 
were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of 
the Board of directors on May 21, 2024.
2.2	 Presentation of financial statements
	
The Company presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity. 
An analysis regarding recovery or settlement within 12 
months after the reporting date (current) and more than 12 
months after the reporting date (non–current) is presented in 
Note 48.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally reported 
gross in the balance sheet. They are only offset and reported 
net when, in addition to having an unconditional legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts without 
being contingent on a future event, the parties also intend to 
settle on a net basis in all of the following circumstances:
	
-	
The normal course of business
	
-	
The events of default
	
-	
The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the company 
and its counterparties
	
Derivative assets and liabilities with master netting 
arrangements are only presented net when they satisfy 
the eligibility of netting for all of the above criteria and not 
just in the event of default. There are no such netting off 
arrangement during the year ended March 31, 2024.
3	
Material accounting policies
3.1	 Recognition of interest income
3.1.1	The effective interest rate method
	
Under Ind AS 109 interest income is recorded using 
the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method for all financial 
instruments measured at amortised cost, debt instrument 
311
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
measured at FVOCI and debt instruments designated 
at FVTPL. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life 
of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter 
period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
The EIR (and therefore, the amortised cost of the asset) is 
calculated by taking into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition, fees and costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The Company recognises interest income using a rate of 
return that represents the best estimate of a constant rate of 
return over the expected life of the loan. Hence, it recognises 
the effect of potentially different interest rates charged at 
various stages, and other characteristics of the product life 
cycle (including prepayments, penalty interest and charges). 
If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial asset 
are revised for reasons other than credit risk. The adjustment 
is booked as a positive or negative adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset in the balance sheet with an increase or 
reduction in interest income. The adjustment is subsequently 
amortised through Interest income in the Statement of profit 
and loss.
3.1.2 Interest Income
	
The Company calculates interest income by applying the EIR 
to the gross carrying amount of financial assets other than 
credit-impaired assets. The financial asset is credit impaired 
when one or more events that have detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have occurred. 
When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired and is, 
therefore, regarded as ‘Stage 3’, the Company calculates 
interest income by applying the effective interest rate to 
the net amortised cost of the financial asset. If the financial 
assets cures and is no longer credit-impaired, the Company 
reverts to calculating interest income on a gross basis. 
For 
purchased 
or 
originated 
credit-impaired 
(POCI) 
financial assets , the Company calculates interest income 
by calculating the credit-adjusted EIR and applying that 
rate to the amortised cost of the asset. The credit-adjusted 
EIR is the interest rate that, at original recognition, 
discounts the estimated future cash flows (including 
credit losses) to the amortised cost of the POCI assets. 
Interest income on all trading assets and financial assets, 
if any, mandatorily required to be measured at FVTPL is 
recognised using the contractual interest rate in net gain on 
fair value changes.
3.2	 Financial instruments-initial recognition
3.2.1	Date of recognition
	
Financial assets and liabilities, with the exception of loans, 
debt securities, deposits and borrowings are initially 
recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the 
company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. This includes regular way trades: purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets 
within the time frame generally established by regulation or 
convention in the market place. Loans are recognised when 
funds are transferred to the customers’ account. The company 
recognises debt securities, deposits and borrowings when 
funds reach the Company.
3.2.2	Initial measurement of financial instruments
	
The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition 
depends on their contractual terms and the business model 
for managing the instruments. Financial instruments are 
initially measured at their fair value , except in the case of 
financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at FVTPL, 
transaction costs are added to, or subtracted from, this 
amount. Trade receivables are measured at the transaction 
price. When the fair value of financial instruments at initial 
recognition differs from the transaction price, the company 
account for the Day 1 profit or loss, as described below.
3.2.3	Day 1 Profit or Loss
	
When the transaction price of the instrument differs from 
the fair value at origination and the fair value is based on 
a valuation technique using only inputs observable in 
market transactions, the Company recognises the difference 
between the transaction price and fair value in net gain/
(loss) on fair value changes. In those cases where fair value 
is based on models for which some of the inputs are not 
observable, the difference between the transaction price 
and the fair value is deferred and is only recognised in profit 
or loss when the inputs become observable, or when the 
instrument is derecognised.
3.2.4	Measurement categories of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
The Company classifies all of its financial assets based on 
the business model for managing the assets and the asset’s 
contractual terms, measured at either:
	
-	
Amortised cost or FVTPL
	
The company classifies and measures its derivatives (other 
than those designated in a cash flow hedging relationship) 
and trading portfolio at FVTPL. The company may designate 
financial instruments at FVTPL, if so doing eliminates 
or significantly reduces measurement or recognition 
inconsistencies 
.Financial 
liabilities, 
other 
than 
loan 
commitments and financial guarantees, are measured at 
312
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
FVTPL when they are derivative instruments or the fair value 
designation is applied.
	
The Company classifies all of its financial assets based on 
the business model for managing the assets and the asset’s 
contractual terms, measured at either:
	
-	
Amortised cost or FVTPL
	
The company classifies and measures its derivatives (other 
than those designated in a cash flow hedging relationship) 
and trading portfolio at FVTPL. The company may designate 
financial instruments at FVTPL, if so doing eliminates 
or significantly reduces measurement or recognition 
inconsistencies 
.Financial 
liabilities, 
other 
than 
loan 
commitments and financial guarantees, are measured at 
FVTPL when they are derivative instruments or the fair value 
designation is applied.
	
The Company classifies all of its financial assets based on 
the business model for managing the assets and the asset’s 
contractual terms, measured at either:
	
- 	
Amortised cost or FVTPL
	
The company classifies and measures its derivatives (other 
than those designated in a cash flow hedging relationship) 
and trading portfolio at FVTPL. The company may designate 
financial instruments at FVTPL, if so doing eliminates 
or significantly reduces measurement or recognition 
inconsistencies 
.Financial 
liabilities, 
other 
than 
loan 
commitments and financial guarantees, are measured at 
FVTPL when they are derivative instruments or the fair value 
designation is applied.
3.3.	 Financial Instruments - Classification and sub 
measurement 
3.3.1 Bank balances, Loans, Trade receivables and 
financial investments at amortised cost
	
The Company measures Bank balances, Loans, Trade 
receivables and other financial investments at amortised cost 
if both of the following conditions are met:
	
(i)	
The financial asset is held within a business model with 
the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect 
ontractual cash flows.
	
(ii)	
The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount 
outstanding.
	
The details of these conditions are outlined below.
	
3.3.1.1 Business model assessment
	
	
The company determines its business model at the 
level that best reflects how it manages Company of 
financial assets to achieve its business objective.
	
	
The company business model is not assessed on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis, but at a higher level 
of aggregated portfolios and is based on observable 
factors such as:
	
	
-	
How the performance of the business model 
and the financial assets held within that business 
model are evaluated and reported to the entity’s 
key management personnel
	
	
-	
The risks that affect the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets held 
within that business model) and, in particular, 
the way those risks are managed The business 
model assessment is based on reasonably 
expected scenarios without taking ‘worst case’ 
or ‘stress case’ scenarios into account. If cash 
flows after initial recognition are realised in 
a way that is different from the Company’s 
original expectations, the Company does not 
change the classification of the remaining 
financial assets held in that business model, but 
incorporates such information when assessing 
newly originated or newly purchased financial 
assets going forward.
	
3.3.1.2 The Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) test.
	
	
As a second step of its classification process 
the Company assesses the contractual terms of 
financial to identify whether they meet the Solely 
Payments of Principal and Interest (SPPI) test. 
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is defined as the 
fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition 
and may change over the life of the financial asset . 
The most significant elements of interest within a 
lending arrangement are typically the consideration 
for the time value of money and credit risk. To make 
the SPPI assessment, the Company applies judgment 
and considers relevant factors such as the currency 
313
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
in which the financial asset is denominated, 
and the period for which the interest rate is set. 
In contrast, contractual terms that introduce a more 
than de minimise exposure to risks or volatility in the 
contractual cash flows that are unrelated to a basic 
lending arrangement do not give rise to contractual 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the amount outstanding. In such cases, the 
financial asset is required to be measured at FVTPL.
3.3.2 Financial assets or financial liabilities held for trading
	
The Company classifies financial assets as held for trading 
when they have been purchased or issued primarily for 
short-term profit making through trading activities or form 
part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed 
together, for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of 
short-term profit taking. Held-for-trading assets and liabilities 
are recorded and measured in the balance sheet at fair value. 
Changes in fair value are recognised in net gain on fair value 
changes. Interest and dividend income or expense is recorded 
in net gain on fair value changes according to the terms of the 
contract, or when the right to payment has been established. 
Included in this classification are debt securities, equities, 
and customer loans that have been acquired principally for 
the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
3.3.3 Debt instruments at FVOCI
	
Debt instruments are measured at FVOCI when both of the 
following conditions are met:
	
-	
The instrument is held within a business model, the 
objective of which is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets.
	
-	
The contractual terms of the financial asset meet the 
SPPI test.
	
	
FVOCI debt instruments are subsequently measured at 
fair value with gains and losses arising due to changes 
in fair value recognised in OCI. Interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss in the same manner as for financial assets 
measured at amortised cost. Where the Company 
holds more than one investment in the same security, 
they are deemed to be disposed of on a first–in first–
out basis. On derecognition, cumulative gains or losses 
previously recognised in OCI are reclassified from OCI 
to profit or loss.
3.3.4 Equity instruments at FVOCI
	
The 
Company 
subsequently 
measures 
all 
equity 
investments at fair value through profit or loss, unless the 
Company’s management has elected to classify irrevocably 
some of its equity investments as equity instruments at 
FVOCI, when such instruments meet the definition of 
definition of Equity under Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. Such classification 
is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Gains and losses on these equity instruments are never 
recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are recognised in profit 
or loss as dividend income when the right of the payment 
has been established, except when the Company benefits 
from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the 
instrument, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. 
Equity instruments at FVOCI are not subject to an impairment 
assessment.
3.3.5 Debt securities and other borrowed funds:
	
After initial measurement, debt issued and other borrowed 
funds are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on issue funds, and costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. A compound financial instrument 
which contains both a liability and an equity component is 
separated at the issue date.
	
The Company has issued financial instruments with equity 
conversion rights and call options. When establishing the 
accounting treatment for these non-derivative instruments, 
the Company first establishes whether the instrument is 
a compound instrument and classifies such instrument’s 
components separately as financial liabilities or equity 
instruments in accordance with Ind AS 32. Classification of the 
liability and equity components of a convertible instrument is 
not revised as a result of a change in the likelihood that a 
conversion option will be exercised, even when exercising 
the option may appear to have become economically 
advantageous to some holders. When allocating the initial 
carrying amount of a compound financial instrument to the 
equity and liability components, the equity component is 
assigned as the residual amount after deducting from the 
entire fair value of the instrument, the amount separately 
determined for the liability component. The value of any 
314
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
derivative features (such as a call options) embedded in 
the compound financial instrument, other than the equity 
component (such as an equity conversion option), is included 
in the liability component. Once the Company has determined 
the split between equity and liability, it further evaluates 
whether the liability component has embedded derivatives 
that must be separately accounted.
3.3.6 Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities in this category are 
those that are not held for trading and have been either 
designated by management upon initial recognition or are 
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value under 
Ind AS 109. Management only designates an instrument at 
FVTPL upon initial recognition when one of the following 
criteria are met. Such designation is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis:
	
-	
The designation eliminates, or significantly reduces, 
the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise 
from measuring the assets or liabilities or recognising 
gains or losses on them on a different basis.Or
	
-	
The liabilities are financial liabilities, which are 
managed and their performance evaluated on a fair 
value basis,Or
	
-	
The liabilities containing one or more embedded 
derivatives, unless they do not significantly modify the 
cash flows that would otherwise berequired by the 
contract, or it is clear with little or no analysis when a 
similar instrument is first considered that separation of 
the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited.
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL 
are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value. 
Changes in fair value are recorded in profit and loss 
with the exception of movements in fair value of 
liabilities designated at FVTPL due to changes in 
the Company’s own credit risk. Such changes in fair 
value are recorded in the Own credit reserve through 
OCI and do not get recycled to the profit or loss. 
Interest earned or incurred on instruments designated 
at FVTPL is accrued in interest income or finance cost, 
respectively, using the EIR, taking into account any 
discount/ premium and qualifying transaction costs 
being an integral part of instrument. Interest earned on 
assets mandatorily required to be measured at FVTPL 
is recorded using contractual interest rate.
3.3.7 Financial guarantees and undrawn loan commitments
	
Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial 
statements (within Provisions) at fair value. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, the Company’s liability under each guarantee is 
measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised 
less cumulative amortisation recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
The premium/deemed premium is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss on a straight line basis over the 
life of the guarantee.
	
Undrawn loan commitments are commitments under which, 
over the duration of the commitment, the Company is 
required to provide a loan with pre-specified terms to the 
customer. Undrawn loan commitments are in the scope of 
the ECL requirements.
	
The nominal contractual value of undrawn loan commitments, 
where the loan agreed to be provided is on market terms, are 
not recorded in the balance sheet.
	
The Company occasionally issues loan commitments at 
below market interest rates drawdown. Such commitments 
are subsequently measured at the higher of the amount of 
the ECL allowance  and the amount initially recognised less, 
when appropriate.
3.4	 Reclassification of financial assets and liabilities
	
The Company does not reclassify its financial assets 
subsequent to their initial recognition, apart from the 
exceptional circumstances in which the Company acquires, 
disposes of, or terminates a business line. Financial liabilities 
are never reclassified. The Company has reclassified its 
financial liabilities during FY 2023-24 (refer note 19 and 
51(c)).
3.5	 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
3.5.1 Derecognition 
of 
financial 
assets 
due 
to 
substantial modification of terms and conditions
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset, such as a loan 
to a customer, when the terms and conditions have been 
renegotiated to the extent that, substantially, it becomes a 
new loan, with the difference recognised as a derecognition 
gain or loss, to the extent that an impairment loss has not 
already been recorded. The newly recognised loans are 
classified as Stage 1 for ECL measurement purposes, unless 
the new loan is deemed to be POCI.
315
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
When assessing whether or not to derecognise a loan to 
a customer, amongst others, the Company considers the 
following factors:
	
- 	
Change in currency of the loan
	
- 	
Introduction of an equity feature
	
- 	
Change in counterparty
	
If the modification is such that the instrument would no longer 
meet the SPPI criterion If the modification does not result in 
cash flows that are substantially different, the modification 
does not result in derecognition. Based on the change in cash 
flows discounted at the original EIR, the Company records a 
modification gain or loss, to the extent that an impairment 
loss has not already been recorded.
3.5.2 Derecognition of financial assets other than due 
to substantial modification
	
3.5.2.1 Financial assets
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a Company of similar financial 
assets) is derecognised when the rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial asset have expired. 
The Company also derecognises the financial asset if it 
has both transferred the financial asset and the transfer 
qualifies for derecognition.
	
	
The Company has transferred the financial asset if, and 
only if, either:
	
	
(i)	
The Company has transferred its contractual 
rights to receive cash flows from the financial 
asset Or
	
	
(ii)	
It retains the rights to the cash flows, but has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received cash 
flows in full without material delay to a third party 
under a ‘pass–through’ arrangement.
	
	
Pass-through arrangements are transactions whereby 
the Company retains the contractual rights to receive 
the cash flows of a financial asset (the ‘original asset’), 
but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash 
flows to one or more entities (the ‘eventual recipients’), 
when all of the following three conditions are met:
	
	
	
(i)	
The Company has no obligation to pay 
amounts to the eventual recipients unless 
it has collected equivalent amounts from 
the original asset, excluding short-term 
advances with the right to full recovery of 
the amount lent plus accrued interest at 
market rates
	
	
	
(ii)	
The Company cannot sell or pledge the 
original asset other than as security to the 
eventual recipients
	
	
	
(iii)	
The Company has to remit any cash 
flows it collects on behalf of the eventual 
recipients 
without 
material 
delay. 
In addition, the Company is not entitled 
to reinvest such cash flows, except for 
investments in cash or cash equivalents 
including interest earned, during the 
period between the collection date and 
the date of required remittance to the 
eventual recipients.
	
	
	
A transfer only qualifies for derecognition if 
either:
  	
	
	
(i)	
The Company has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset 
	
	
	
	
Or
	
	
	
(ii)	
The Company has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset The Company 
considers control to be transferred if and 
only if, the transferee has the practical 
ability to sell the asset in its entirety 
to an unrelated third party and is able 
to exercise that ability unilaterally and 
without imposing additional restrictions on 
the transfer.
	
	
	
	
When 
the 
Company 
has 
neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards and has retained 
control of the asset, the asset continues 
to be recognised only to the extent of the 
Company’s continuing involvement, in 
which case, the Company also recognises 
an associated liability. The transferred 
asset and the associated liability are 
measured on a basis that reflects the 
rights and obligations that the Company 
has retained.
316
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
3.5.3 Financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under 
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. Where an 
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange 
or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference 
between the carrying value of the original financial liability 
and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
3.6	 Impairment of financial assets
3.6.1	Overview of the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) 
principles
	
ECL on Inter Company Loans
	
The Company calculates ECL’s based on total loans 
receivable (including accrued interest).The Loan assets 
are generally classified under three stages based on the 
evaluation of the following criteria:
	
•	
Stage 1 – Loans with low credit risk and where 
there is no significant increase in credit risk. 
Financial assets where no significant increase in 
credit risk has been observed are considered to be 
in ‘stage 1’ for which a 12 month ECL is recognised. 
The Company calculates the 12mECL allowance 
based on the expectation of a default occurring in the 
12 months following the reporting date.
	
	
These expected 12-month default probabilities are 
applied to a forecast EAD and multiplied by the 
expected LGD and discounted by an approximation to 
the original ROI.
	
•	
Stage 2 – Loans with significant increase in credit risk 
i.e assets with 30 days past due date.
	
	
When a loan has shown a significant increase in credit 
risk since origination, the Group records an allowance 
for the LTECLs.
	
	
The mechanics for computation of ECL is same as 
in stage 1 but Probability of default (PD’s) and Loss 
Given Default (LGD’s) are estimated over the LTECL of 
the financial asset. The expected cash shortfalls are 
discounted by an approximation to the original ROI.
	
	
•	
Stage 3 – Credit impaired loans. The asset with 
90 days past due date.
	
	
	
For loans considered credit-impaired, the 
Company recognises the lifetime expected 
credit losses for these loans. The financial asset 
in stage 3 will be fully impaired.
	
	
	
As ECL model is a forward-looking framework 
and considered reasonable and supportable 
information that includes forecasts of future 
economic 
conditions 
including, 
where 
relevant, multiple macroeconomic scenarios. 
When incorporating forward looking information, 
such as macro-economic forecasts to determine 
expected credit losses, an entity should 
consider the relevance of information for each 
specific financial instrument or group of financial 
instruments.
	
	
    Significant increase in credit risk (Stage -2)
	
	
	
An assessment of whether credit risk has 
increased significantly since initial recognition 
is performed at each reporting period by 
considering the change in the risk of default of 
the loan exposure. However, unless identified at 
an earlier stage, 30 days past due is considered 
as an indication of financial assets to have 
suffered a significant increase in credit risk. 
Based on other indications such as borrower’s 
frequently delaying payments beyond due dates 
though not 30 days past due are included in 
stage 2 for mortgage loans.
	
	
	
Credit Impaired (Stage -3)
	
	
	
The Company recognises a financial asset to be 
credit impaired and in stage 3 by considering 
relevant objective evidence, primarily whether:
	
	
	
1.	
Delay in payment of Interest on loan 
past over dues for more than 90 
days.2. Default in repayment of Loan 
outstandingRestructured 
loans 
(other 
than OTR) where repayment terms are 
renegotiated as compared to the original 
contracted terms due to significant credit 
distress of the borrower are classified as 
credit impaired. Such loans continue to 
be in stage 3 until they exhibit regular 
payment of renegotiated principal and 
interest over a minimum observation 
of period, typically 12 months- post 
renegotiation, and there are no other 
indicators of impairment. Having satisfied 
317
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
the conditions of timely payment over the 
observation period these loans could be 
transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh 
assessment of the risk of default be done 
for such loans.
	
	
	
	
ECL on Receivables 
	
	
	
	
from Support Services - Simplified Approach 
For 
receivables 
with 
no 
significant 
financing component with less than 
12 months life cycle entity can directly 
calculate life time expected losses. 
The Company uses a provision matrix 
to calculate ECL on recoverable from 
support services. The provision matrix 
is based on historical rate with  over 
the expected life of receivable and is 
adjusted for forward-looking estimates. 
At every reporting date , the historical 
observed default rates are updated for 
changes in the forward -looking estimates.
3.6.2	Credit-impaired financial assets:
	
At each reporting date, the company assesses whether 
financial assets carried at amortised cost and debt financial 
assets carried at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset 
is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or more events that have a 
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset 
is credit-impaired includes the following observable data:
	
a)	
Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
	
b)	
A breach of contract such as a default or past due 
event;
	
c)	
The restructuring of a loan or advance by the company 
on terms that the company would not consider 
otherwise;
	
d)	
It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter 
bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
	
e)	
The disappearance of an active market for a security 
because of financial difficulties.
	
	
POCI: Purchased or originated credit impaired (POCI) 
assets are financial assets that are credit impaired on 
initial recognition. POCI assets are recorded at fair 
value at original recognition and interest income is 
subsequently recognised based on a credit-adjusted 
EIR. ECLs are only recognised or released to the extent 
that there is a subsequent change in the expected 
credit losses.
	
	
For financial assets for which the Company has no 
reasonable expectations of recovering either the entire 
outstanding amount, or a proportion thereof, the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced. This is 
considered a (partial) derecognition of the financial asset. 
The Company derecognizes a financial asset when 
the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset 
expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of 
the asset to another party.
	
	
On derecognition of a financial asset accounted under 
Ind AS 109 in its entirety, the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the sum of consideration 
received and receivable is recognized in profit or loss.
	
	
If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset 
and the part transferred qualifies for derecognition in 
its entirety, the previous carrying amount of the larger 
financial asset shall be allocated between the part 
that continues to be recognised and the part that is 
derecognised, on the basis of the relative fair values of 
those parts on the date of the transfer.
3.6.3	Debt instruments measured at fair value through 
OCI
	
The ECLs for debt instruments measured at FVOCI do not 
reduce the carrying amount of these financial assets in 
the balance sheet, which remains at fair value. Instead, an 
amount equal to the allowance that would arise if the assets 
were measured at amortised cost is recognised in OCI as 
an accumulated impairment amount, with a corresponding 
charge to profit or loss. The accumulated loss recognised in 
OCI is recycled to the profit and loss upon derecognition of 
the assets.
3.6.4	Purchased or originated credit impaired financial 
assets (POCI)
	
For POCI financial assets, the Company only recognises the 
cumulative changes in LTECL since initial recognition in the 
loss allowance.
318
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
3.6.5	Trade receivables and contract assets
	
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition 
of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. 
The application of simplified approach does not require the 
Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition. The Company 
uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss 
allowance on portfolio of its trade receivables. The provision 
matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over 
the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted 
for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the 
historical observed default rates are updated for changes in 
the forward-looking estimates.
3.7	 Write-offs
	
Financial assets are written off either partially or in their 
entirety only when the Company has stopped pursuing the 
recovery. If the amount to be written off is greater than the 
accumulated loss allowance, the difference is first treated 
as an addition to the allowance that is then applied against 
the gross carrying amount. Any subsequent recoveries are 
credited to impairment on financial instrument on statement 
of profit and loss.
3.8	 Forborne and modified loans
	
The 
Company 
sometimes 
makes 
concessions 
or 
modifications to the original terms of loans as a response 
to the borrower’s financial difficulties, rather than taking 
possession or to otherwise enforce collection of collateral. 
The Company considers a loan forborne when such 
concessions or modifications are provided as a result of the 
borrower’s present or expected financial difficulties and the 
Company would not have agreed to them if the borrower 
had been financially healthy. Indicators of financial difficulties 
include defaults on covenants, or significant concerns raised 
by the Credit Risk Department. Forbearance may involve 
extending the payment arrangements and the agreement 
of new loan conditions. Once the terms have been 
renegotiated, any impairment is measured using the original 
EIR as calculated before the modification of terms. It is the 
Company’s policy to monitor forborne loans to help ensure 
that future payments continue to be likely to occur. 
When the loan has been renegotiated or modified but not 
derecognised, the Company also reassesses whether there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk. The Company 
also considers whether the assets should be classified as 
Stage 3. 
3.9	 Determination of fair value
	
The Company measures financial instruments, such as, 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset 
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. The fair 
value measurement is based on the presumption that the 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
-	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
-	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the 
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing 
the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in 
their economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into 
account a market participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by 
selling it to another market participant that would use the 
asset in its highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate 
in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are 
available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable 
inputs.
	
In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial 
instruments are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation 
techniques, as summarised below:
	
-	
Level 1 financial instruments −Those where the inputs 
used in the valuation are unadjusted quoted prices 
from active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
that the Company has access to at the measurement 
date. The Company considers markets as active only if 
there are sufficient trading activities with regards to the 
volume and liquidity of the identical assets or liabilities 
and when there are binding and exercisable price 
quotes available on the balance sheet date.
319
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
-	
Level 2 financial instruments−Those where the 
inputs that are used for valuation and are significant, 
are derived from directly or indirectly observable 
market data available over the entire period of the 
instrument’s life. Such inputs include quoted prices for 
similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted 
prices for identical instruments in inactive markets 
and observable inputs other than quoted prices such 
as interest rates and yield curves, implied volatilities, 
and credit spreads. In addition, adjustments may be 
required for the condition or location of the asset or the 
extent to which it relates to items that are comparable 
to the valued instrument. however, if such adjustments 
are based on unobservable inputs which are significant 
to the entire measurement, the Company will classify 
the instruments as Level 3.
	
-	
Level 3 financial instruments −Those that include one 
or more unobservable input that is significant to the 
measurement as whole.
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
	
The Company periodically reviews its valuation 
techniques including the adopted methodologies and 
model calibrations. However, the base models may 
not fully capture all factors relevant to the valuation 
of the Company’s financial instruments such as credit 
risk (CVA), own credit (DVA) and/or funding costs (FVA). 
Therefore, the Company applies various techniques 
to estimate the credit risk associated with its financial 
instruments measured at fair value, which include a 
portfolio-based approach that estimates the expected 
net exposure per counterparty over the full lifetime of 
the individual assets, in order to reflect the credit risk 
of the individual counterparties for non-collateralised 
financial instruments. The Company estimates the 
value of its own credit from market observable data, 
such as secondary prices for its traded debt and the 
credit spread on credit default swaps and traded debts 
on itself.
	
	
The Company evaluates the levelling at each reporting 
period on an instrument-by-instrument basis and 
reclassifies instruments when necessary based on the 
facts at the end of the reporting period.
3.10  Foreign currency translation
3.10.1 Functional and presentational currency
	
 The Standalone financial statements are presented in 
INR which is also functional currency of the Company. 
The Company determines the functional currency and items 
included in the financial statements are measured using that 
functional currency. The Company uses the direct method of 
standalone.
3.10.2 Transactions and balances
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the 
functional currency at the spot rate of ex-change ruling at the 
date of the transaction. However, for practical reasons, the 
Company uses an average rate if the average approximates 
the actual rate at the date of the transaction.
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the 
spot rate of exchange at the reporting date. All differences 
arising on non–trading activities are taken to other income/
expense in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Non–monetary items that are measured at historical cost in 
a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange 
rates as at the date of recognition.
3.11 Leasing
	
At inception of a contract, the Company assesses whether 
a contract is, or contains a lease. A contract is, or contains 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company 
uses the definition of a lease in Ind AS 116.
	
The determination of whether an arrangement is a lease, 
or contains a lease, is based on the substance of the 
arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the 
fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a 
specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys 
a right to use the asset.
	
There are arrangement wherein the common expenses for 
usage of assets which are not identified as per application 
guidance given in Appendix B of IND AS 116, accordingly 
IND AS 116 is not applicable.
320
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
3.11.1 Company as a lessee
	
Leases that do not transfer to the Company substantially all 
of the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased 
items are operating leases. Operating lease payments are 
recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and 
loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the 
increase is in line with expected general inflation, in which 
case lease payments are recognised based on contractual 
terms. Contingent rental payable is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which they it is incurred.
	
At commencement or on modification of a contract that 
contains a lease component, the Company allocates the 
consideration in the contract to each lease component on 
the basis of its relative stand alone prices. However, for 
leases of property, the Company has elected not to separate 
non – lease components and account for the lease and non 
– lease components as a single lease component.
	
The Company recognizes a right – of – use asset and a 
lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right- 
of – use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises 
the initial amount of the lease  liability adjusted for any lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date plus 
any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to 
dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the 
underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any 
lease incentives received.
	
The right- of – use asset is subsequently depreciated using 
the straight – line method from the commencement date to the 
end of the lease term, unless the lease transfers ownership of 
the underlying asset to the Company by the end of the lease 
term or the cost of the right – of – use asset reflects that 
the Company will exercise a purchase option. In that case 
the right – of – use asset will be depreciated over the useful 
life of the underlying asset, which is determined on the same 
basis as those of property and equipment. In addition, the 
right – of – use asset is periodically reduced by impairment 
losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the 
lease liability.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of 
the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease 
or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company’s 
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
	
The Company determines its incremental borrowing rate 
by obtaining interest rates from various external financing 
sources and makes certain adjustments to reflect the terms 
of the lease and type of the asset leased.
	
Lease payment included in the measurement of lease liability 
comprise the following:
	
-	
Fixed payments, including in – substance fixed 
payments;
	
-	
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a 
rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date;
	
-	
Amounts expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee; and
	
-	
The exercise price under a purchase option that the 
Company is reasonable certain to exercise, lease 
payments in an optional renewal period if the Company 
is reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, 
and penalties for early termination of a lease unless 
the Company is reasonably certain not to terminate 
early.
	
	
The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using 
the effective interest method. It is remeasured when 
there is a change in future lease payments arising from 
a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in 
the Company’s estimate of the amount expected to 
be payable under a residual value guarantee, if the 
Company changes its assessment of whether it will 
exercise a purchase, extension or termination option or 
if there is a revised in – substance fixed lease payment.
	
	
When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a 
corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying 
amount of the right – of – use asset, or is recorded in 
profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right – of – 
use asset has been reduced to zero.
	
	
The Company presents right – of – use assets that 
do not meet the definition of investment property in 
‘property, plant and equipment’ and lease liabilities 
under the head non – current ‘borrowings’.
	
	
Short – term leases and leases of low value assets
	
	
The Company has elected not to recognize right – of 
– use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low – 
value assets and short – term leases. The Company 
321
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
recognizes the lease payments associated with these 
leases as an expense on a straight – line basis over the 
lease term.
3.11.2 Company as a lessor
	
Leases where the Company does not transfer substantially all 
of the risk and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified 
as operating leases. Rental income arising from operating 
leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease 
terms and is included in rental income in the statement of 
profit or loss, unless the increase is in line with expected 
general inflation, in which case lease income is recognised 
based on contractual terms. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating operating leases are added to the carrying 
amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease 
term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents 
are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are 
earned.
3.12 Recognition of income and expenses
	
INCOME
	
Revenue (other than for those items to which Ind AS 109 
Financial Instruments are applicable) is measured at fair 
value of the consideration received or receivable. Ind AS 
115 Revenue from contracts with customers outlines a single 
comprehensive model of accounting for revenue arising from 
contracts with customers and supersedes current revenue 
recognition guidance found within Ind ASs.
	
The Company recognises revenue from contracts with 
customers based on a five step model as set out in Ind 115:
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer: A contract is 
defined as an agreement between two or more parties that 
creates enforceable rights and obligations and sets out the 
criteria for every contract that must be met.
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in the contract: 
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a 
customer to transfer a good or service to the customer.
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: The transaction 
price is the amount of consideration to which the Company 
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised 
goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected 
on behalf of third parties.
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance 
obligations in the contract: For a contract that has more 
than one performance obligation, the Company allocates 
the transaction price to each performance obligation in an 
amount that depicts the amount of consideration to which the 
Company expects to be entitled in exchange for satisfying 
each performance obligation.
	
Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the Company 
satisfies a performance obligation Income related to service 
is recognise as per principles of the IND AS 115 as mentioned 
above.
3.12.1 Interest Income
	
Interest Income is recognised as per policy mentioned in 
Note no 3.1.2.
3.12.2 Dividend income
	
Dividend income (including from FVOCI investments) is 
recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment 
is established, it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the dividend will flow to the entity and the 
amount of the dividend can be measured reliably. This is 
generally when the shareholders approve the dividend.
3.12.3 EXPENSE
	
3.12.3.1 Finance Cost
	
	
Finance costs represents Interest expense recognised 
by applying the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) to the 
gross carrying amount of financial liabilities other than 
financial liabilities classified as FVTPL. The EIR in case 
of a financial liability is computed 
	
	
i).	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability to the gross carrying 
amount of the amortised cost of a financial 
liability.
	
	
II).	
By considering all the contractual terms of the 
financial instrument in estimating the cash flows.
	
	
 III).	
Including all fees paid between parties to the 
contract that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs, and all other 
premiums or discounts.
322
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of 
the future cash flows is recognised in interest 
income with the corresponding adjustment to 
the carrying amount of the assets.
	
	
	
Interest expense includes issue costs that are 
initially recognized as part of the carrying value 
of the financial liability and amortized over the 
expected life using the effective interest method. 
These include fees and commissions payable to 
advisers and other expenses such as external 
legal costs, rating fee etc., provided these are 
incremental costs that are directly related to the 
issue of a financial liability.
	
3.12.3.2 Other Income and expenses
	
	
   All other Income and expenses are recognised in the 
period they occur.
3.13 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise 
cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to 
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
3.14 Property, plant and equipment
	
Property plant and equipment is stated at cost excluding the 
costs of day–to–day servicing, less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment in value. Changes in the 
expected useful life are accounted for by changing the 
amortisation period or methodology, as appropriate, and 
treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
Depreciation is calculated using the straight–line method 
to write down the cost of property and equipment to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives. Land is not 
depreciated. The estimated useful lives are, as follows:
Asset Description
Useful life of Asset 
(In Years) as per 
Schedule -III
Useful life of Asset 
(In Years) as 
estimated by the 
Company
Buildings
3 to 30
NA
Office equipment's
5 Years
5 Years
Server and Networks
6 Years
6 Years
Laptop and Desktop
3 Years
3 Years
Electrical Installation & Equipment's
10 Years
5 - 10 Years
Furniture & Fixtures
10 Years
5 - 10 Years
Car
8 Years
6 - 8 Years
	
Individual assets costing up to ` 5,000 are fully depreciated / 
amortized in the year in which they are acquired.
	
The Company depreciates certain items of property, plant 
and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different 
from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013. The management believes that these estimated 
useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the 
period over which the assets are likely to be used.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation 
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each 
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
	
Property plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal 
or when no future economic benefits are expected from its 
use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset 
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is recognised 
in other income / expense in the statement of profit and loss 
in the year the asset is derecognised. 
3.15 Intangible assets
	
Intangible Assets are recognised only if it is probable 
that the future economic benefits that are attributable 
to assets will flow to the Company and the cost of the 
assets can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are 
recorded at cost and carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated Impairment losses, if any. 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis 
over their estimated useful lives. The amortisation 
period and the amortisation method are reviewed at 
least at each financial year end. If the expected useful 
life of the asset is significantly different from previous 
estimates, the amortisation period is changed accordingly. 
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of an 
323
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
intangible asset are determined as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and recognised as income or expense in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.”
	
Computer software which is not an Integral part of the related 
hardware is classified as an intangible asset and is belong 
amortised over the estimated useful life. The estimated 
useful lives of Intangible assets are 5 years.
3.16	Impairments of Non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether 
there is an indication that an asset may be impaired and 
when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 
impaired. The Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs 
of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets or Company of assets. When the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, 
the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair 
value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are 
taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, 
an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations 
are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices 
for publicly traded companies or other available fair value 
indicators.
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed 
budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared 
separately for each of the Company’s CGUs to which the 
individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast 
calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer 
periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to 
project future cash flows after the fifth year.
	
To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods covered 
by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the Company 
extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget using a 
steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless 
an increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth 
rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for 
the products, industries, or country or countries in which the 
entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used.
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made 
at each reporting date to determine whether there is an 
indication that previously recognised impairment losses no 
longer exist or have decreased. If such indication exists, 
the Company estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable 
amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the assumptions used 
to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so 
that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its 
recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. 
Such reversal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss 
unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which 
case, the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 
impaired.
	
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the 
recoverable amount of each CGU (or Company of CGUs) to 
which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of 
the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss 
is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot 
be reversed in future periods.
3.17 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Short term employee benefits
	
Employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months 
of receiving employees services are classified as short 
term employee benefits. These benefits include salaries 
and wages , performance incentives  and compensated 
absences which are expected to occur in next twelve 
months. The undiscounted amount of short term benefits to 
be paid in exchange for employee services is recognised as 
an expense as and when the related service is rendered by 
employees.
	
Compensated absences
	
Compensated absences accruing to employees and 
which can be carried to future periods but where there 
are restriction on availment or encashment or where the 
324
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
availment or encashment is not expected to occur wholly 
with in next twelve months, the liability on account of benefits 
is determined actuarially using the projected unit credit 
method.
	
Defined Benefit Plans - Gratuity and Provident Fund
	
Provident Fund
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined 
contribution scheme. The Company has no obligation, 
other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. 
The Company recognises contribution payable to the 
provident fund scheme as an expense, when an employee 
renders the related service. If the contribution payable to the 
scheme for service received before the balance sheet date 
exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit payable to 
the scheme is recognised as a liability after deducting the 
contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid 
exceeds the contribution due for services received before 
the balance sheet date, then excess is recognised as an 
asset to the extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for 
example, a reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
	
Gratuity
	
The Company operates a defined benefit gratuity plan, 
which requires contributions to be made to a separately 
administered fund. The cost of providing benefits under the 
defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit 
credit method. Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit 
liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), 
are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through 
OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are 
not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the 
earlier of:
	
-	
The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and
	
-	
The date that the Company recognises related 
restructuring costs
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the 
net defined benefit liability or asset. The Company recognises 
the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as 
an expense in the Standalone statement of profit and loss:
	
-	
Service costs comprising current service costs, 
past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailments 
and non-routine settlements; and
	
-	
Net interest expense or income
3.18 Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events, 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. When the effect of the time value of money is 
material, the Company determines the level of provision by 
discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate reflecting 
the current rates specific to the liability. The expense relating 
to any provision is presented in the statement of profit and 
loss net of any reimbursement.
3.19 Operating Cycle
	
An asset or a liability is classified as current when it satisfies 
any of the following criteria:
	
1.	
It is expected to be realized / settled, or is intended 
for sale or consumption, in the Company’s normal 
operating cycle; or
	
2.	
It is held primarily for the purpose of being traded; or
	
3.	
It is expected to be realized / due to be settled within 
twelve months after the reporting date; or
	
4.	
It is cash or cash equivalent unless it is restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting date; or
	
5.	
The Company does not have an unconditional right 
to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting date.
	
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current.
3.20	Dividends on ordinary shares
	
The Company recognises a liability to make cash or non-cash 
distributions to equity holders of the parent when the 
distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at 
the discretion of the Company. As per the corporate laws in 
India, a distribution is authorised when it is approved by the 
shareholders. A corresponding amount is recognised directly 
in equity.
325
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Non-cash distributions are measured at the fair value of 
the assets to be distributed with fair value re-measurement 
recognised directly in equity.
	
Upon distribution of non-cash assets, any difference between 
the carrying amount of the liability and the carrying amount of 
the assets distributed is recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
4	
Taxes
4.1	 Current tax
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior 
years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax 
laws used to compute amount are those that are enacted, or 
substantively enacted, by the reporting date in the countries 
where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss 
(either in other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the 
underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate.”
4.2	 Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the 
reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
-	
Where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss
	
-	
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated 
with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can 
be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilised, except:
	
-	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination and, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor 
taxable profit or loss.
	
-	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the 
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable 
future and taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit 
will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are 
recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax 
asset to be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit 
or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax 
items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and 
the same taxation authority.
	
	
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, 
but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition 
at that date, are recognised subsequently if new 
information about facts and circumstances change. 
326
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Acquired deferred tax benefits recognised within the 
measurement period reduce goodwill related to that 
acquisition if they result from new information obtained 
about facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition 
date. If the carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any 
remaining deferred tax benefits are recognised in OCI/ 
capital reserve depending on the principle explained for 
bargain purchase gains. All other acquired tax benefits 
realised are recognised in profit or loss.
4.3	 Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT)
	
Minimum alternate tax (MAT ) paid in a year is charged to 
the statement of profit and loss as current tax. The Group 
recognizes MAT credit available as an asset only to the extent 
that it is probable that the Group will pay normal income tax 
during the specified period, i.e., the period for which MAT 
credit is allowed to be carried forward. In the year in which 
the Group recognizes MAT credit as an asset in accordance 
with the Guidance Note on Accounting for Credit Available 
in respect of Minimum Alternative Tax under the Income-tax 
Act, 1961, the said asset is created by way of credit to 
the statement of profit and loss and shown as “MAT Credit 
Entitlement.” The Group reviews the MAT Credit Entitlement 
asset at each reporting date and writes down the asset to the 
extent the Group does not have convincing evidence that it 
will pay normal tax during the specified period.
5	
Significant accounting judgments, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of the Company’s Standalone financial 
statements requires management to make judgments, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount 
of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the 
accompanying disclosures, as well as the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities 
affected in future periods.
	
Judgments
	
In the process of applying the company’s accounting policies, 
management has made the following judgments, which 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year.
5.1	 Business model assessment
	
Classification and measurement of financial assets depends 
on the results of the SPPI and the business model test. 
The company determines the business model at a level 
that reflects how company of financial assets are managed 
together to achieve a particular business objective. 
This assessment includes judgment reflecting all relevant 
evidence including how the performance of the assets 
is evaluated and their performance measured, the risks 
that affect the performance of the assets and how these 
are managed and how the managers of the assets are 
compensated. The company monitors financial assets 
measured at amortised cost or fair value through other 
comprehensive income that are derecognised prior to 
their maturity to understand the reason for their disposal 
and whether the reasons are consistent with the objective 
of the business for which the asset was held. Monitoring is 
part of the company’s continuous assessment of whether the 
business model for which the remaining financial assets are 
held continues to be appropriate and if it is not appropriate 
whether there has been a change in business model and so 
a prospective change to the classification of those assets.
	
Estimates and assumptions
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year, are described below. The company based 
its assumptions and estimates on parameters available, the 
financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances 
and assumptions about future developments, however, may 
change due to market changes or circumstances arising that 
are beyond the control of the company. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
5.2	 Fair value of financial instruments
	
The fair value of financial instruments is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) 
market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions (i.e., an exit price) regardless of whether that price 
is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. When the fair values of financial assets and 
financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot 
be derived from active markets, they are determined using 
a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of 
valuation models. The inputs to these models are taken 
from observable markets where possible, but where this is 
not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair values. 
Judgments and estimates include considerations of liquidity 
and model inputs related to items such as credit risk (both 
own and counterparty), funding value adjustments, correlation 
and volatility. For further details about determination of fair 
value please see Note 40.
327
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
5.3	 Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method
	
The company’s EIR methodology, recognises interest 
income / expense using a rate of return that represents the 
best estimate of a constant rate of return over the expected 
behavioural life of loans given / taken and recognises the 
effect of potentially different interest rates at various stages 
and other characteristics of the product life cycle (including 
prepayments and penalty interest and charges).
	
This estimation, by nature, requires an element of judgement 
regarding the expected behaviour and life-cycle of the 
instruments, as well expected changes to India’s base rate 
and other fee income/expense that are integral parts of the 
instrument.
5.4	 Impairment of financial asset
	
The measurement of impairment losses across all categories 
of financial assets requires judgment, in particular, the 
estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows 
and collateral values when determining impairment losses 
and the assessment of a significant increase in credit risk. 
These estimates are driven by a number of factors, changes 
in which can result in different levels of allowances.
	
The company’s ECL calculations are outputs of complex 
models with a number of underlying assumptions regarding 
the choice of variable inputs and their interdependencies. 
Elements of the ECL models that are considered accounting 
judgments and estimates include:
	
The company’s internal credit grading model, which assigns 
PDs to the individual grades
	
The company’s criteria for assessing if there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk and so allowances for 
financial assets should be measured on a LTECL basis and 
the qualitative assessment
	
The segmentation of financial assets when their ECL is 
assessed on a collective basis, dDevelopment of ECL models, 
including the various formulas and the choice of inputs, 
dDetermination of associations between macroeconomic 
scenarios and, economic inputs, such as unemployment 
levels and collateral values, and the effect on PDs, EADs and 
LGDs
	
Selection of forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios and 
their probability weightings, to derive the economic inputs 
into the ECL models
	
It has been the company’s policy to regularly review its 
models in the context of actual loss experience and adjust 
when necessary.
5.5	 Provisions and other contingent liabilities
	
The company operates in a regulatory and legal environment 
that, by nature, has a heightened element of litigation 
risk inherent to its operations. As a result, it is involved in 
various litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations 
and proceedings in the ordinary course of the company’s 
business.
	
When the company can reliably measure the outflow of 
economic benefits in relation to a specific case and considers 
such outflows to be probable, the company records a 
provision against the case. Where the probability of outflow is 
considered to be remote, or probable, but a reliable estimate 
cannot be made, a contingent liability is disclosed.
	
Given the subjectivity and uncertainty of determining the 
probability and amount of losses, the company takes into 
account a number of factors including legal advice, the stage 
of the matter and historical evidence from similar incidents. 
Significant judgment is required to conclude on these 
estimates.
328
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6	
Cash and cash equivalents
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Cash on hand
 0.01 
 0.03 
Balances with banks in current accounts
 698.77 
 3,351.44 
Fixed deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 - 
 9.99 
Cheques on hand
 - 
 19.89 
Total
 698.78 
 3,381.35 
7	
Bank Balances other than above 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed deposits including accrued interest (Refer Note 7.1)
 9.65 
 22.58 
Total
 9.65 
 22.58 
7.1	 Fixed deposits of ` 5.60 Lakhs (Previous Year: ` 5.60 Lakhs) has been pledged with Bank for Corporate Credit Card facility and balance 
with Government authorities.	
8	
Loans 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
At Amortised Cost
Loans to related parties (Refer note 49.2)
 6,951.60 
 3,319.60 
Loans to others (Refer Note 8.2)
 1.72 
 1.72 
Total - Gross
 6,953.32 
 3,321.32 
Less: Impairment loss allowance 
 903.32 
 903.32 
Less: Contingencies Reserves on Standard Loans (Refer Note 8.1)
 24.20 
 7.77 
Total - Net
 6,025.80 
 2,410.23 
Loans in India 
 6,953.32 
 3,321.32 
Loans Outside India 
 - 
 - 
8.1	 Contingency Reserves provision represents ECL provision or 0.40% on standarad loans whichever is higher of the Outstanding Standard 
Loans and Advances, which is in compliance with provisioning requirements for NBFCs prescribed under RBI Master Direction DNBR.
PD.008/03.10.119/2016-17– Non-Banking Financial Company – Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Company and Deposit 
taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 as amended from time to time.
8.2	 i)	
The Company had filed a petition under Section 7 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against “”ANR Securities Private Limited”” 
on October 09, 2018 for recovery of outstanding Gross loan amount (including Interest) of ` 8,139.66 Lakhs. The matter is sub-judice. 
As the Loan is unsecured and in view of the management there are very low probability of its recovery, the loan had been written 
off during the previous year, however, the litigation process will be continued for recovery of the claim filed.”
329
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
ii)	
The Company had filed a petition under Section 7 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against “”Ligare Aviation 
Limited”” on January 18, 2021 for recovery of outstanding loan amount ` 587.27 Lakhs. The matter is sub-judice. 
As the Loan was unsecured and in view of the management there are very low probability of its recovery, the loan had been written 
off during the previous year, however, the litigation process will be continued for recovery of the claim filed.
8.3 	Credit Quality of Assets
	
The table below shows the credit quality and the maximum exposure to credit risk based on the Company’s internal credit rating system 
and year-end stage classification. The amounts presented are gross of impairment allowances.
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Internal Rating Grade 
As at March 31, 2024
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Standard
 6,050.00 
 - 
 - 
 6,050.00 
Sub-Standard
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful
 - 
 - 
 903.32 
 903.32 
Loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 6,050.00 
 - 
 903.32 
 6,953.32 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Internal Rating Grade 
As at March 31, 2023
Stage 1
Stage 2 
Stage 3 
Total
Standard
 2,418.00 
 - 
 - 
 2,418.00 
Sub-Standard
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful
 - 
 - 
 903.32 
 903.32 
Loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 2,418.00 
 - 
 903.32 
 3,321.32 
8.4	 Asset Classification as per RBI Norms
	
The information on Asset Classification and Impairment Loss Allowance as per IND AS 109 and Provision as per prudential norms on 
“Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP)” as on March 31, 2024 is as under: 	
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Asset Classification as per RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per INDAS 
109
Gross 
carrying 
value as per 
INDAS
Loss 
Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
IND AS 109
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference
between IND AS
109 provisions
and IRACP norms
(Excess / (Short) 
as to compare to 
India’s 109#)
Performing Asset
Standard Asset
Stage 1
 6,050.00 
 21.15 
 24.20 
 3.05 
Total
 6,050.00 
 21.15 
 24.20 
 3.05 
Non Performing Asset
Sub standard Asset
Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful
up to 1 year
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
330
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Asset Classification as per RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per INDAS 
109
Gross 
carrying 
value as per 
INDAS
Loss 
Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
IND AS 109
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference
between IND AS
109 provisions
and IRACP norms
(Excess / (Short) 
as to compare to 
India’s 109#)
1-3 Years
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
More Than 3 Years
Stage 3
 903.32 
 903.32 
 903.32 
 - 
 903.32 
 903.32 
 903.32 
 - 
Loss 
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Subtotal for NPA
 903.32 
 903.32 
 903.32 
 - 
Other items such as guarantees, loan 
commitments, etc. which are in the 
scope of IND AS 109 but not covered 
under current Income Recognition, Asset 
Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) 
norms.
Stage1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
Stage1
 6,050.00 
 21.15 
 24.20 
 3.05 
Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Stage 3
 903.32 
 903.32 
 903.32 
 - 
Grand Total
 6,953.32 
 924.47 
 927.52 
 3.05 
	
# Company has made provision of `24.20 Lakhs as per IRA CP Norms
9	
Investments
 
 Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Investments measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
A.	
Mutual Funds/Venture Capital Fund/Alternative Investment Funds
 5,173.89 
 5,971.26 
Investments measured at Cost
B.	
Equity Shares of Subsidiaries (fully paid up)
 254,557.64 
 254,227.53 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (33,662.26)
 220,895.38 
 (33,662.26)
 220,565.27 
C.	
Equity Shares of others (fully paid up)
 2,823.33 
 2,823.33 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (2,823.33)
 - 
 (2,823.33)
 - 
D.	
Equity Shares of Subsidiary (partly paid up) (Refer note 35.1)
 38,550.00 
 38,550.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance (Refer note 51(f))
 (38,550.00)
 - 
 (38,550.00)
 - 
E.	
Equity Shares of Joint Venture (fully paid up)
 350.00 
 350.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (350.00)
 - 
 (350.00)
 - 
F.	
Preference Shares of Subsidiary (Refer Note 51(f))
 18,500.00 
 18,500.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (18,500.00)
 - 
 (18,500.00)
 - 
G.	
Preference Shares of others (fully paid up)
 40.95 
 40.95 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (40.95)
 - 
 (40.95)
 - 
Total 
226,069.27 
226,536.53 
(i)	
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Investments with in India
 226,069.27 
 226,536.53 
Total 
226,069.27 
226,536.53 
331
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9.1	 Details of investments are given below:
 
 Amount (` in Lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
A
Mutual Funds / Venture Capital Fund / Alternative Investment 
Fund
No of Shares
Amount
No of Shares
Amount
A.1
Investment in Venture Capital Fund
-	
India Build Out- Fund- I 
 10,594 
 - 
 10,594 
 - 
Total (A.1)
 - 
 - 
A.2
Investment in Mutual Funds
-	
Invesco India Money Market Fund - Direct Plan Growth
 59,709.15 
 1,713.65 
 - 
 - 
-	
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct Growth 
 - 
 - 
 220,081.91 
 5,504.00 
-	
Axis Money Market Fund - Direct Growth
 263,740.85 
 3,460.24 
 - 
 - 
Total (A.2)
5,173.89 
5,504.00 
A.3
Investment in Alternative Investment Funds
-	
Cerestra Infrastructure Trust
 386 
 404.09 
 386 
 404.09 
-	
India Bulls Real Estate Fund Category II AIF
 - 
 63.17 
 - 
 63.17 
Less: Impairment loss Allowance (Refer Note 9.6)
 (467.26)
 - 
Total (A.3)
 - 
 467.26 
Total (A)
 5,173.89 
 5,971.26 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
No of Shares
Amount
No of Shares
Amount
B
Investment in Equity Shares of Subsidiaries
-	
Religare Finvest Limited [(Refer Notes 51(m)]
262,095,287 
 68,451.59 262,095,287 
 68,451.59 
-	
Care Health Insurance Limited (Refer Note 9.3)
612,224,375 
145,826.72 612,224,375 
145,826.72 
-	
Religare Broking Limited (Refer Note 17.1)
230,795,817 
 39,900.00 230,795,817 
 39,900.00 
-	
Religare Credit Advisors Pvt Limited
 939,828 
 - 
 939,828 
 - 
-	
Religare Care Foundation
 25,500 
 2.55 
 25,500 
 2.55 
-	
Religare Finvest Limited- ESOP (Refer Note 9.2) 
 - 
 40.10 
 - 
 39.99 
-	
Religare Housing Development Co. Ltd - ESOP (Refer Note 
9.2)  
 - 
 4.29 
 - 
 4.29 
-	
Religare Broking Limited- ESOP (Refer Note 9.2)  
 - 
 2.39 
 - 
 2.39 
-	
Religare Global Asset Management Inc. (U.S.A.) (refer Note 
9.4)
 - 
 - 
 10 
 - 
-	
MIC Insurance Web Aggregators Private Limited (Refer 
Note 9.5)
 89,912,176 
 330.00 
 - 
 - 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
(33,662.26)
 (33,662.26)
220,895.38 
220,565.27 
332
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
No of Shares
Amount
No of Shares
Amount
C
Investment in Equity Shares of others 
-	
Netambit Infosource & E-Services Private Limited 
 67,536 
 2,823.33 
 67,536 
 2,823.33 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (2,823.33)
 (2,823.33)
-
-
D
Investment in Equity Shares of subsidiary (Partly paid up)
-	
Religare Capital Markets Limited (Refer note 35.1)
 81,550,000 
 38,550.00 
 81,550,000 
 38,550.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance (Refer note 51(f)
 (38,550.00)
 (38,550.00)
 - 
 - 
E
Investment in Equity Shares of Joint venture 
-	
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited
 3,499,999 
 350.00 
 3,499,999 
 350.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (350.00)
 (350.00)
 - 
 - 
F
Investments in Preference Shares of subsidiary
-	
Religare Capital Markets Limited
0.002 % Cumulative Non-Convertible
170,000,000 
 17,000.00 170,000,000 
 17,000.00 
0.003 % Cumulative Non-Convertible
 5,000,000 
 500.00 
 5,000,000 
 500.00 
0.004 % Cumulative Non-Convertible
 10,000,000 
 1,000.00 
 10,000,000 
 1,000.00 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance (Refer note 51(f))
 (18,500.00)
 (18,500.00)
 - 
 - 
G
Investments in Preference Shares Of Others
-	
Netambit Infosource & E-Services Private Limited 
Compulsory Convertible Cumulative Preferred Participatory 
Series E Preference Shares -Tranche -1 & 2 - Coupon Rate 
0.01% 
 40,952 
 40.95 
 40,952 
 40.95 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
 (40.95)
 (40.95)
 - 
 - 
Total
 226,069.27 
 226,536.53 
9.2	 The Company grants ESOP’s to group companies employees in accordance with approved Employee Stock Option Scheme. (Refer 
note 46)
9.3	 During the FY 2022-23, the Company had made investment of `19,241.33 Lakhs in right issue of Care Health Insurance Limited. 
The right share of 1,74,92,122 was purchased at price ` 110 per equity share (Including premium of `100 per share).
9.4	 Religare Global Asset Management, Inc. (RGAM Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company in Delaware, USA stands dissolved w.e.f 
October 09, 2023 as per the report of the search conducted and received by the Company on December 27, 2023. Accordingly, RGAM 
Inc. ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company.
333
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9.5	 During the year, the Company has acquired 100% equity stake in MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (MIC) for a consideration 
of ` 300 Lakhs on November 09, 2023. Post acquistion, the Company has made investment of ` 30 Lakhs in rights issue of MIC. 
The right share of 30,00,000 was purchased at price of ` 1 per equity share. [Refer Note 51(o)] 
9.6	 There is very low probability of recovery of Investment in AIF’s i.e. Cerestra Infrastructure Trust and India Bull Real Estate Fund. 
The management has decided to create 100% impairment on these investments during the year. 	
10	 Other Financial Assets 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Security Deposits (Refer Note 10.1(c))
 113.98 
 315.83 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 - 
 (136.06)
Interest accrued but not due  
-	
on Loan to related parties (Refer note 49.2)
 355.00 
 332.23 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 (295.49)
 (295.49)
-	
on loan to Others
 0.37 
 0.37 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 (0.37)
 (0.37)
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposit
 - 
 0.89 
Recoverable for Support Services (Refer note 10.1 (a) & (b))
 400.13 
 372.13 
Less: Expected Credit Loss  
 (372.13)
 (372.13)
Staff Advances
 41.86 
 30.28 
Margin/Advances recoverable in cash
 16.14 
 16.14 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 (16.14)
 (16.14)
Other Receivables
 10.83 
 76.00 
In Fixed deposit accounts with maturity for more than 12 months from balance sheet date.
 - 
 3.87 
Total
 254.18 
 327.55 
10.1(a)	
Recoverable from support services are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days.
	
(b)	
Amount of ` 28.00 Lakhs (Previous Year: ` Nil), is due since less than 6 months, and the amount of ` 372.13 Lakhs (Previous Year: 
` 372.13 Lakhs) which has been fully impaired is pending since more than three years.
	
(c)	
Considering the status of security deposit receivables and pending NCLT proceedings against few property owners the chances of 
recovery of these amounts were remote, hence the receivable amount of `136.06 Lakhs (previous year: 351.56 Lakhs) had been 
written off in current financial year.
11 	 Current Tax Assets (Net) 
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance income tax
 3,175.32 
 3,180.84 
Total 
 3,175.32 
 3,180.84 
334
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
12	 Property, Plant and Equipment
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross Carrying 
 Depreciation 
Net block
As at 
April 01, 
2023
 Additions/ 
Adjustments 
 Deductions/ 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
April 01, 
2023
 For the 
year 
Deductions/ 
Adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 
31,2023 
Land
 24.71 
 - 
 - 
 24.71 
 - 
 - 
 24.71 
 24.71 
Computer systems and 
peripherals
 39.77 
 17.17 
 0.03 
 56.91 
 15.07 
 10.90 
 0.03 
 25.94 
 30.97 
 24.70 
Vehicles
 129.97 
 - 
 - 
 129.97 
 116.17 
 3.00 
 - 
 119.17 
 10.80 
 13.80 
Leasehold improvements
 186.66 
 191.02 
 - 
 377.68 
 23.11 
 48.03 
 - 
 71.14 
 306.54 
 163.55 
Furniture and Fixtures
 165.16 
 - 
 - 
 165.16 
 51.61 
 30.82 
 - 
 82.43 
 82.73 
 113.55 
Office Equipments
 89.49 
 14.13 
 - 
 103.62 
 32.14 
 16.93 
 - 
 49.07 
 54.55 
 57.35 
Total
 635.76 
 222.32 
 0.03 
 858.05 
 238.10 
 109.68 
 0.03 
 347.75 
 510.30 
 397.66 
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023	
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Gross block
 Depreciation 
Net block
As at 
April 01, 
2022
 Additions/ 
Adjustments 
 Deductions/ 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
April 01, 
2022
 For the 
year 
Deductions/ 
Adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 
31,2022
Land
 24.71 
 - 
 - 
 24.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.71 
 24.71 
Computer systems and 
peripherals
 30.04 
 9.85 
 0.12 
 39.77 
 7.70 
 7.37 
 - 
 15.07 
 24.70 
 22.34 
Vehicles
 258.87 
 - 
 128.90 
 129.97 
 146.05 
 19.07 
 48.95 
 116.17 
 13.80 
 112.82 
Leasehold improvements
 154.96 
 31.70 
 - 
 186.66 
 5.47 
 17.64 
 - 
 23.11 
 163.55 
 149.49 
Furniture and Fixtures
 164.46 
 0.70 
 - 
 165.16 
 20.88 
 30.73 
 - 
 51.61 
 113.55 
 143.58 
Office Equipments
 79.18 
 10.31 
 - 
 89.49 
 18.24 
 13.90 
 - 
 32.14 
 57.35 
 60.94 
Total 
 712.22 
 52.56 
 129.02 
 635.76 
 198.34 
 88.71 
 48.95 
 238.10 
 397.66 
 513.87 
12.1	 There are no adjustments to Property, Plant and Equipment on account of borrowing costs and exchange differences. There is no revaluation of assets 
during the year.
12.2  Losses arising from the retirement of, and gains or losses arising from disposal of tangible assets which are carried at cost or revalued amount are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
12.3  The title deeds in respect of land are in the name of the Company.
335
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
13	 Right-of-Use Assets (ROU)
	
The changes in carrying value of ROU assets for the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Gross block
 Depreciation  
Net block
As at 
April 01, 
2023
 Additions/ 
Adjustments 
 Deductions/ 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
April 01, 
2023
 For the 
year 
Deductions/ 
Adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 
31,2023 
Right-of-Use Assets (premises 
in lease)*
 1,153.07 
 768.81 
 268.46 
 1,653.42 
 374.19 
 334.75 
 268.45 
 440.49 
 1,212.93 
 778.88 
Right-of-Use Assets (vehicles)*
 393.28 
 14.26 
 - 
 407.54 
 14.07 
 140.03 
 - 
 154.10 
 253.44 
 379.21 
Total
 1,546.35 
 783.07 
 268.46 
 2,060.96 
 388.26 
 474.78 
 268.45 
 594.59 
 1,466.37 
 1,158.09 
	
* [Refer Note 44]
	
The changes in carrying value of ROU assets for the year ended March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
Gross block
 Depreciation 
Net block
As at 
April 01, 
2022
 Additions/ 
Adjustments 
 Deductions/ 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
April 01, 
2022
 For the 
year 
Deductions/ 
Adjustments
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Right-of-Use Assets  
(premises in lease)*
 1,128.84 
 24.23 
 - 
 1,153.07 
 177.21 
 196.99 
 - 
 374.19 
 778.88 
 951.63 
Right-of-Use Assets (vehicles)*
 - 
 393.28 
 - 
 393.28 
 - 
 14.07 
 - 
 14.07 
 379.21 
 - 
Total
 1,128.84 
 417.51 
 - 
 1,546.35 
 177.21 
 211.06 
 - 
 388.26 
 1,158.09 
 951.63 
14	 Intangible assets
	
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross block 
Amortisation
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Additions 
during the 
Year 
Deletions / 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
April 1, 
2023 
Impairment 
during the 
Period 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
 As at 
March 31, 
2023 
Computer Software
 229.66 
 - 
 - 
 229.66 
 229.56 
 0.10 
 - 
 229.66 
 - 
 0.10 
Total 
 229.66 
 - 
 - 
 229.66 
 229.56 
 0.10 
 - 
 229.66 
 - 
 0.10 
Intangible assets 
under development
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
Total 
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 - 
336
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023
 Amount (` in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Gross block 
Amortisation
Net block
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Additions 
during the 
Year 
Deletions / 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 1, 
2022
Impairment 
during the 
Period 
 Deletions / 
Adjustments 
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
 As at 
March 31, 
2022
Computer Software
 229.66 
 - 
 - 
 229.66 
 229.41 
 0.15 
 - 
 229.56 
 0.10 
 0.25 
Total 
 229.66 
 - 
 - 
 229.66 
 229.41 
 0.15 
 - 
 229.56 
 0.10 
 0.25 
14.1 There are no adjustments to Intangible Assets on account of borrowing costs and exchange differences. There is no revaluation of assets during the 
year.
14.2 Losses arising from the retirement of, and gains or losses arising from disposal of intangible assets which are carried at cost or revalued amount are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
337
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
15 	  Other Non Financial Assets 
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Advance recoverable in cash or in kind
 0.38 
 0.38 
Less: Expected Credit Loss on Doubtful Advances
 (0.38)
 (0.38)
Balance with government authorities
 170.21 
 350.72 
Less: Expected credit loss
 (8.44)
 (8.44)
Prepaid expenses
 46.97 
 60.38 
Deposits paid under protest
 1,646.05 
 1,555.40 
Capital advance
 - 
 22.10 
Advance for services 
-	
related parties (refer note no 49.2)
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 (1,326.50)
 (1,326.50)
-	
to others
 38.35 
 54.70 
Less: Expected Credit Loss 
 (8.20)
 (8.20)
Less: Contingent Provision on Standard Asset
 (0.60)
 (0.80)
Stamp Papers on hand 
 3.79 
 3.79 
Less: Expected credit loss
 (2.22)
 (2.22)
Art works
 1.78 
 1.78 
Assets Acquired in satisfaction of Receivables**
 363.97 
 363.97 
Others
 - 
 1.05 
Total
 2,251.66 
 2,394.23 
	
** Pursuant to the approved Scheme of Arrangement, the assets (land & Building) transferred from erstwhile “Religare Securities Limited” (RSL). The title of the 
acquired assets is in the name of erstwhile Religare Securities Limited. These assets were acquired in satisfaction of the receivables / loans and the management 
is in the process to sell the same. The same have been measured at lower of its carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. As per current valuation report, the 
Net Realizable Value is ` 380.21 Lakhs
16	 Payables
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(I)	
Trade Payables 
(i)	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 701.92 
 749.80 
Total  
 701.92 
 749.80 
	
16.1	 Refer Note no. 36 for ageing of Trade Payables
338
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
17	 Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Borrowings measured at Amortised Cost
Secured 
Term Loan from Financial Institutions (Refer note 17.1)
 12,422.41 
 12,256.33 
 12,422.41 
 12,256.33 
Unsecured 
Liability portion of redeemable preference shares (Refer note 51(c))
 - 
 8,403.03 
 - 
 8,403.03 
Total
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
Borrowings with in India
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
Borrowings outside India
 - 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
17.1 Terms and Security pledged for Loans from Financial Institutions are given below:
	
Term Loan (net of borrowing cost) from two Financial Institutions (received in two tranches) is secured by first and exclusive pledge of 
100% shareholding of Subsidiary Company i.e. Religare Broking Limited (RBL) held by the Company. It carries interest rate bifurcated 
in two tranches i.e. @ 13.40 % and 18.00% per annum. Loan and accrued interest is payable in single instalment / bullet repayment by 
September, 2024.
17A	Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
	
The changes in the Company’s liabilities arising from the financing activities can be classified as follows:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Borrowings (Other than debts securities)
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
Lease Liabilities
 1,626.67 
 1,204.71 
Interest accrued but not due on term loan
 2,870.39 
 923.92 
Total
 16,919.47 
 22,787.99 
18	 Lease Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Lease Liabilities for : (Refer Note 44)
-	
Buildings/Premises
 1,352.89 
 822.80 
-	
Vehicles
 273.78 
 381.91 
 1,626.67 
 1,204.71 
339
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
19	 Other Financial Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Interest accrued but not due on term loan
 2,870.39 
 923.92 
Security Deposits from related parties (Refer note 49.2)
 2.30 
 2.30 
Payable to employees
 19.58 
 19.71 
Other Payables
 98.25 
 2.15 
Liability portion of redeemable preference share (Refer note 51.c)
 8,403.03 
 - 
Margin for vehicle
 10.63 
 11.87 
Total 
 11,404.18 
 959.95 
20	 Provisions
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 43)
-	
for Gratuity  
 193.21 
 114.52 
-	
for Leave Encashment 
 166.23 
 124.06 
-	
for Bonus
 1,520.00 
 1,100.00 
Total 
 1,879.44 
 1,338.58 
21	 Other Non Financial Liabilities
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Statutory Dues Payable
 112.84 
 198.14 
Total 
 112.84 
 198.14 
22	 Equity Share Capital
	
The Company has only one class of equity share capital having a par value of ` 10 per share, referred to herein as Equity Share.
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
22.1
Authorized Equity Share Capital
827,705,000 (March 31, 2023: 654,450,000) Equity Shares of ` 10 each 
 82,770.50 
 65,445.00 
Total
 82,770.50 
 65,445.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up 
329,721,163 (March 31, 2023: 323,559,463) Equity Shares of ` 10 each 
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
Total
 32,972.12 
 32,355.95 
340
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
22.1(a) Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Amount (in ` Lakhs)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024 
As at March 31, 2023 
 Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
 Number of 
shares 
 Amount 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 323,559,463 
 32,355.95 
 318,809,312 
 31,880.93 
Add: Issued during the year
 6,161,700 
 616.17 
 4,750,151 
 475.02 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 329,721,163 
 32,972.12 
 323,559,463 
 32,355.95 
22.1(b)	 Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
	
	
Equity Shares: The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of ` 10 per share. Each shareholder is entitled 
to one vote per share held. Dividend if any declared is payable in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 
is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
22.1(c)	 Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
Amount (in ` Lakhs)
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2024 
As at March 31, 2023 
 Number of 
shares 
 % of Holding in 
the class* 
 Number of 
shares 
 % of Holding in 
the class* 
Equity Shares
M B Finmart Private Limited
 18,102,636 
5.49
 5,536,136 
 1.71 
Investment Opportunities V Pte. Limited
 - 
 - 
 24,764,469 
 7.66 
VIC Enterprises Private Limited 
 24,606,021 
7.46
 12,039,521 
 3.72 
PLUTUS Wealth Management LLP
 20,000,000 
6.07
 23,000,000 
 7.11 
Puran Associates Private Limited
 30,731,432 
9.32
 18,164,432 
 5.61 
	
* Also refer to Note no 51(g)
22.1(d)	 Details of the shareholding of promoters of the Company:
Name of the Promoters*
As at March 31, 2024 
As at March 31, 2023 
 Number of 
shares 
 % of Holding in 
the class* 
 Number of 
shares 
 % of Holding in 
the class* 
N.A. 
w.e.f. June, 2011 the Company has become ‘listed entity with no promoters 
22.1(e)	 a)	
During the current year, the Company granted 68,00,000 stock options at a grant price of ` 169.20 - `207.20 per share 
under “Religare Enterprises Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019” (REL ESOP Scheme 2019).
	
	
b)	
During the current year, the Company has allotted 61,61,700 equity shares, pursuant to exercise of stock options granted 
under “Religare Enterprises Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019” (REL ESOP Scheme, 2019). These equity shares 
of face value of ` 10/- each have been allotted at an exercise price ranging from ` 29.43 per share to ` 159.25 per share. 
Further, post end of the year, the Company has further allotted 2,91,250 equity shares of face value of ` 10/- each under the 
REL ESOP Scheme, 2019 .
22.1(f)	 There are no shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares or allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract without 
payment being received in cash, or bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date.
341
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
22.2 The Company has preference share capital having a par value of ` 10 per share, referred to herein as 
preference share capital.		
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
162,000,000 (March 31, 2023: 162,000,000) Redeemable Preference Shares of ` 10 each
 16,200.00 
 16,200.00 
Total
 16,200.00 
 16,200.00 
23	 Other equity
23.1 Reserves & Surplus
Amount (in ` Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)
Securities Premium
Opening balance
 439,829.49 
 438,882.11 
Add: Securities premium on share allotted
 3,214.03 
 947.38 
Closing balance
 443,043.52 
 439,829.49 
(b)
Capital Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
 623.14 
 623.14 
Closing Balance
 623.14 
 623.14 
(c)
Capital Reserve
c.1
Reserve on account Scheme of Arrangement
Opening Balance
 13,752.15 
 13,752.15 
Closing Balance
 13,752.15 
 13,752.15 
c.2
Reserve on Forfeiture of Share warrant
Opening balance
 4,161.12 
 4,161.12 
Closing balance
 4,161.12 
 4,161.12 
Total Capital Reserve (c.1+c.2)
 17,913.27 
 17,913.27 
(d)
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 3,904.14 
 3,904.14 
Closing Balance
 3,904.14 
 3,904.14 
(e)
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
 10,992.57 
 10,992.57 
Closing Balance
 10,992.57 
 10,992.57 
(f)
Retained Earnings
Opening balance
 (290,997.39)
 (289,506.87)
Add: Adjustment for ESOP expense 
 0.08 
 16.35 
Add: (Loss) for the year
 (6,535.37)
 (1,506.87)
Closing balance
 (297,532.68)
 (290,997.39)
342
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (in ` Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(g)
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)
Opening Balance
 (33.54)
 (33.05)
Add: Remeasurement (loss) on defined benefit plans
 (46.93)
 (0.49)
Closing balance
 (80.47)
 (33.54)
23.2 Share Options Outstanding Account
Opening Balance
 110.99 
 131.16 
Changes during the year
 18.86 
 (20.17)
Closing balance
 129.85 
 110.99 
23.3 Share Application Money pending allotment
Opening balance
 - 
 27.69 
Add: Share Application Money received 
 4,181.18 
 1,394.72 
Less: Share application Money utilised on allotment of share
 (3,830.20)
 (1,422.41)
Closing Balance
 350.98 
 - 
Total Other Equity
 179,344.32 
 182,342.67 
Note - For nature of reserves, please refer Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
24	 Interest Income
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
On Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost
Interest Income on Inter Corporate Loans
 904.73 
 2,106.79 
Total 
 904.73 
 2,106.79 
25	 Net Gain on Fair Value Changes
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Gain on fair valuation of Investments (net)
 48.27 
-
Total 
 48.27 
-
26	 Revenue from operations - Others
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Current Investments
 225.10 
 271.81 
Total 
 225.10 
 271.81 
343
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
27	 Other Income
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Support Service Income
 766.14 
 772.67 
Profit on Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 1.24 
 - 
Interest on Fixed Deposits with Banks
 1.40 
 10.46 
Interest Income Others
 13.04 
 8.88 
Profit on Sale/Distribution of Non current investments
 10.95 
 3.88 
Interest on Income Tax Refund
 342.00 
 29.83 
Credit Balances/Provisions Written back
 201.31 
 372.94 
Liability toward contingency expense written back (Refer Note 51(c))
 - 
 2,073.42 
Miscellaneous Income
 10.06 
 3.50 
Total
 1,346.14 
 3,275.57 
28	 Finance Costs
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
On Financial liabilities measured at Amortised Cost
Interest on Loan from Financial Institutions
 2,328.82 
 1,114.15 
On Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
Interest expense on lease Liabilities (Refer note 44)
 212.36 
 108.74 
Other Costs
Bank Charges
 0.12 
 0.12 
Total
 2,541.30 
 1,223.01 
29	 Net Loss on fair value changes
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Loss on fair valuation of Investments (net)
 - 
 60.61 
Total 
 - 
 60.61 
344
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
30	 Impairment on Financial Instruments
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Impairment Losses on Financial Instruments
 16.23 
 238.80 
Impairment Losses on Alternate Investment Funds
 467.26 
 - 
Balances written off:
-	
Loans (including interest)
 - 
 19,680.42 
-	
Security Deposits
 136.06 
 351.56 
Less: Reversal of Impairment Loss allowance
 (136.06)
 (20,031.98)
Total
 483.49 
 238.80 
31	 Employee Benefits Expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Salaries and wages
 3,490.12 
 2,744.31 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 74.31 
 60.48 
Share Based Payments to employees
 18.83 
 (5.00)
Staff welfare expenses
 73.00 
 138.38 
Gratuity and compensated absences expenses
 85.64 
 57.22 
Recruitment and training
 1.27 
 5.52 
Total
 3,743.17 
 3,000.91 
32	 Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Depreciation on property, plant & equipment (Refer note 12)
 109.68 
 88.71 
Amortisation of Right of use Assets (Refer note 13)
 474.78 
 211.06 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer note 14)
 0.10 
 0.15 
Total 
 584.56 
 299.92 
345
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
33	 Other Expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Rent
 77.56 
 92.70 
Repairs and maintenance - others
 79.60 
 95.60 
Communication Costs
 22.82 
 11.54 
Printing and stationery
 14.02 
 16.57 
Advertisement and publicity
 226.36 
 123.66 
Director's sitting fees
 74.80 
 73.20 
Auditor's fees and expenses (Refer note 33.1)
 33.28 
 31.92 
Legal and Professional charges
 1,058.13 
 1,425.67 
Insurance
 25.22 
 31.54 
Custodial and stamp charges
 10.47 
 23.98 
Provision For Bad/ Doubtful (Others)
 - 
 2.22 
Filing Fees
 13.09 
 15.53 
Membership and subscription fees
 50.26 
 29.61 
Travel and conveyance
 275.67 
 124.12 
Postage and Courier
 0.39 
 1.00 
Office Expenses
 87.47 
 53.38 
Electricity and water
 22.27 
 17.85 
Fines & Penalties
 9.38 
 4.51 
Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment
 - 
 5.79 
Software Licence Fees
 25.18 
 16.09 
GST input credit (expense off)
 201.84 
 185.18 
Miscellaneous Expenses
 56.80 
 47.41 
Less: Expenses shared by subsidiaries/JVs
 (5.34)
 (88.32)
Total
 2,359.27 
 2,340.75 
33.1	Auditor’s fees and expenses
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
As Auditor: 
	
Statutory Audit Fees (including limited reviews)
 22.00 
 23.15 
	
Tax Audit Fees
 3.30 
 3.30 
In Other Capacity:
	
For other Services & Certification
 5.40 
 2.22 
	
Reimbursement of expenses
 2.58 
 3.25 
Total 
 33.28 
 31.92 
346
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
34	 Tax Expense recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
Current Tax
Taxes for earlier years written back
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
Deferred Tax
 - 
 - 
Total
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
34.1	Reconciliation of the total tax charge
	
The tax charge shown in the statement of profit and loss differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been charged at 
India corporate tax rate. A reconciliation between the tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate is as 
follows:
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
 March 31,2024 
Year Ended 
 March 31,2023 
(Loss) Before Tax (A)
 (7,187.55)
 (1,509.83)
Applicable Tax Rate (B)
25.17%
25.17%
Computed Tax Expense (A X B)
 - 
 - 
Tax Effect of :
	
Taxes for earlier years written back
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
Current Tax (Reversal) (C)
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
Deferred tax (D)
 - 
 - 
Tax (Reversal) recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss (C + D) (E)
 (652.18)
 (2.96)
Effective Tax Rate (E /A X 100)
NA
NA
35	 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
Amount (` in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023 
(a)	
Guarantees 
	
-	
Guarantees given to banks on behalf of: 
	
-	
Subsidiaries (Refer Note 35(i))
 24,700.00 
 25,739.00 
	
- 	
Company to Tax Authorities (issued against cash collateral in form of fixed deposits)
 0.10 
 0.10 
(b)	
Other money for which the Company is contingently liable
	
-	
Disputed Tax Demands not provided for -Direct Tax (Refer Note 35(ii), 35.2, 35.3,35.5 
& 35.6)
 23,718.08 
 42,944.44 
	
-	
Disputed Tax Demands not provided for -Indirect Tax (Refer Note 35(iii))
 319.77 
 512.14 
	
-	
Claim against the Company not acknowledged as debts
 10.37 
 10.37 
	
-	
Obligations for unpaid call on Equity shares (Refer Note 35.1)
 4,077.50 
 4,077.50 
Total
 52,825.82 
 73,283.55 
(i)	
The Company has given a corporate guarantee to banks on behalf of its wholly owned subsidiary Religare Broking Limited (RBL) 
amounting to ` 34,500 Lakhs (Previous year: ` 30,500 Lakhs) against various credit facilities. As on March 31, 2024, a sum of 
` 24,700 Lakhs (Previous year: ` 25,739 Lakhs) was outstanding towards the said credit facility.
347
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ii)	
Includes demands which are pending for adjudication with various income tax authorities i.e. ITAT, CIT (Appeal), Commissioner of 
Income Tax, etc.
(iii)	
Includes demands which are pending for adjudication with CESTAT, Joint Commissioner of GST.
35.1	  Inclusive of Unpaid Capital call on equity shares of Religare Capital Markets Limited amounting to ` 4,077.50 Lakhs.
35.2 The Income tax return filed for the AY 2016-17 was picked up for assessment proceedings u/s 143(3) and the Income tax Department 
vide its final assessment order on 31.03.2021 has made an aggregate disallowance amounting to ` 1,24,942 Lakhs (including the 
disallowance of capital loss of RCML pursuant to reduction of share capital aggregating to ` 84,427 Lakhs). Further, the tax department 
has raised a demand aggregating to ` 20,451 Lakhs (including interest u/s. 234B and 234C of ` 7,642 Lakhs) after setting- off advance 
tax and TDS for the subject year. Subsequently, the AO has passed a rectification order dated 14.02.2023 & 15.05.2023 u/s. 154 r.w.s. 
143(3) of the Act and reduced the disallowance to ` 1,24,935 Lakhs and reduced the demand to ` 16,412 Lakhs. Further, against 
the disallowances made by the AO in the final assessment order, the Company has filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellant 
Tribunal (‘ITAT’) on 19.04.2021. Consequent to the appeal filed by the company, the Hon’ble ITAT vide its order dated 21.09.2023 has 
adjudicated the matter. The order of ITAT has following impacts:
	
(i)	
Out of the aggregate disallowances of ` 1,24,935 Lakhs made in the rectified assessment order, on additions aggregating to 
` 40,508 Lakhs, the ITAT has granted relief to the Company.  Pursuant to the order of ITAT, the Company has also filed an appeal 
effect application before the Assessing officer on 13.10.2023 to give effect to the order passed by the ITAT. Basis the appeal 
effect application, the demand of `16,412 Lakhs shall reduce to approx. ` 1,259 Lakhs.
	
(ii)	
The ITAT has confirmed the disallowance of short term and long term losses aggregating ` 84,427 Lakhs, claimed in the subject AY 
on write off of investment made in preference shares of a subsidiary. Against this issue upheld by the ITAT, the Company has filed 
an appeal before Delhi High Court on 17.01.2024, which has been duly admitted by the Delhi High Court on 29.04.2024. Now the 
matter is pending for adjudication before Delhi High Court. Further, the tax department has also filed an appeal before Delhi High 
Court on the grounds which were allowed by the ITAT to the company and the said appeal is pending at admission stage.
35.3 The assessment proceeding was initiated u/s 143(3) for AY 2017-18 and the AO has passed a final assessment order on 24.01.2022 
confirming all the disallowances/additions, aggregating to ` 94,746 Lakhs, proposed in the draft assessment order dated 31.03.2021 and 
raised a demand of ` 13,996 Lakhs (including interest u/s. 234B of ` 4,940 Lakhs) after setting- off advance tax and TDS for the subject year. 
Against the said order passed by the Income tax department, the Company has taken following action (i) The company has filed an 
appeal before the Income Tax Appellant Tribunal (‘ITAT’) against the disallowances made by the income tax department, which is 
currently pending for adjudication before ITAT and (ii) the company had filed stay application before ITAT for stay of demand and the 
Hon’ble ITAT considering the facts of the present matter has granted interim stay on the operation of recovery of demand.
35.4 In accordance with the approval for payment of Brand License Fees granted by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors in their 
respective meetings held on December 8, 2016 and December 10, 2016 respectively, the Company during the year ended March 31, 
2017, had entered into an agreement for payment of Brand License Fees to RHC Holding Private Limited (“RHC”) for a period of 6 
years effective April 01, 2016 for usage of the “Religare” trademark/brand. During the year ended March 31, 2018, RHC has assigned 
the trade mark “Religare” and its logo to Elive Infotech Pvt Limited (assignee/Elive). Further, Elive has waived the right to receive the 
brand license fee from REL or its subsidiaries/affiliates till the time interest on loans availed by the group companies of Elive and RHC 
from Religare Finvest Limited is serviced. In the suit titled SCCPL & Another vs. LVB & Others having no. CS(COMM) 633/2018 pending 
before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, SCCPL had claimed ownership of “Religare Brand” by way of an Assignment Deed allegedly 
executed in its favour by RHC and Elive. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court vide its order date 22.02.2018 passed an order to maintain 
status quo regarding the Religare Trademark. RHC and Elive have filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C against SCCPL for 
wilfully knowing, deliberately making false statements and submitting forged documents. Loancore Servicing Solutions Ltd. has filed 
substitution on behalf of SCCPL by way of assignment deed. Further, Daiichi has also obtained a status quo order on the brand 
“Religare” by suppressing the fact that the entire shareholding of RHC Holdings Pvt. Ltd. in M/s Elive Infotech Pvt. Ltd. had been pledged 
in favour of RFL as a security for various loans to group companies of RHC Holdings Pvt. Ltd. RFL had filed objection application in the 
said proceedings.
348
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
35.5 Income Tax Assessment proceedings of the Company for the assessment year 2021-22 was completed National e-Assessment Centre 
vide assessment order dated 16.12.2022 after making adjustments on account of (i) Addition on account of Interest income on which 
TDS has been deducted by UCO bank amounting to ` 2,57,030 under the head PGBP and (ii) denial of brought forward losses 
pertaining to AY 2013-14 & AY 2016-17 aggregating to ` 7,560 Lakhs set-off with the income of the subject AY. Consequent to the 
adjustments made in the assessment order a demand of ` 2,148 Lakhs has been raised.
	
Against such assessment order the company has taken following action: (i) filed an appeal before CIT-A on 13.01.2023, (ii) Rectification 
Application dated 13.01.2023, once the rectification is adjudicated, the demand of ` 2,148 Lakhs will be reduced to Nil and (iii) stay 
of demand application is filed on 16.01.2023. Aforesaid actions taken by the company against the assessment order are pending for 
adjudication.
	
Further, the modified return is also filed u/s 170A basis the order of NCLT dated 15.06.2023 and all the points raised by the AO in the 
assessment order as stated above has been duly incorporated in the modified return of income. Therefore, the points raised by the 
AO in the assessment order have now become infructuous.  The AO is now required to pass the updated assessment order basis the 
modified return of income filed by the company.
35.6 The income tax proceedings for the Assessment Year 2013-14 was completed vide assessment order dated 28.03.2016, wherein the 
disallowance u/s. 14A of Act of ` 194 Lakhs and disallowance u/s. 37(1) on account of fines and penalties of ` 35.18 Lakhs has been 
made.
	
Aggrieved by the said order, Company filed an appeal to the CIT-A, the CIT-A vide its order dated 28.07.2017 has granted partial relief 
by deleting the disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act and confirming disallowance of fines and penalties u/s. 37(1) of Act. Subsequently, the 
appeal was filed to the Hon’ble Income tax Appellate Tribunal (‘ITAT’) and the Hon’ble ITAT vide its order dated 25.02.2021 and MA 
order dated 01.04.2022 has given following directions (i) to restrict the disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act only to the extent of the exempt 
income earned by company for the subject AY and (ii) remanded back the matter to the AO for verification of facts and documents 
respecting the claim of company for fines and penalties.
	
Pursuant to the order of ITAT, the jurisdictional Assessing officer has passed an order giving effect to the appeal order dated 04.02.2023 
wherein it has restricted the disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act to the extent of dividend income and determined a refund of ` 34.95 
Lakhs.
	
However, in the subject matter the National Faceless Appeal Centre (“”NFAC””), without any jurisdiction passed an assessment order 
dated 29.03.2023 under section 143(3) read with section (r.w.s) 254 r.w.s 144B of the Act. In the aforesaid order the NFAC has made 
the identical disallowance which was made by the jurisdictional AO in original assessment order passed u/s. 143(3) of the Act dated 
28.03.2016 and raised a demand of ` 8,434 Lakhs. The order passed by NFAC has several legal and factual errors. The NFAC has 
passed this order without any jurisdiction and also overruled orders of ITAT and CIT- A. The said order has several computation errors 
as well and the NFAC has also not given the company an opportunity of being heard through video conferencing despite of a specific 
request made by the company.
	
In view of such errors in the assessment order passed causing undue hardship on the company, the company has filed a writ petition 
before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court seeking relief by quashing this impugned order and determining refund as per the appeal effect 
order passed by the jurisdictional AO. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court has duly admitted the writ petition of the company and has stayed 
the operation of the impugned order dated 29.03.2023 till the conclusion of matter. The matter is currently pending for adjudication.
349
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
36	 Trade Payable Age wise schedule
	
Outstanding for following periods from the date of transaction.
	
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Less than 1 
year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More than 3 
years 
 Total 
i)	
MSME 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Others
 - 
 455.21 
 32.17 
 41.81 
 172.73 
 701.92 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 455.21 
 32.17 
 41.81 
 172.73 
 701.92 
	
As at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Unbilled 
dues
 Less than 1 
year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More than 3 
years 
 Total 
i)	
MSME 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Others
 - 
 369.12 
 48.11 
 238.90 
 93.67 
 749.80 
iii)	
Disputed dues- MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Disputed dues- Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 369.12 
 48.11 
 238.90 
 93.67 
 749.80 
37	 Relationship with Struck off Company
Name of The struck off 
Company
Nature of Transaction 
with Struck of 
Company
 Outstanding Balance 
as at March 31, 2024 
 Outstanding Balance 
as at March 31, 2023 
 Relationship with the 
Struck off Company 
Concord Sat 
Communication Private Ltd 
Payable
 0.14 
 0.14  Vendor/Trade Payables 
38	 Business Ratio’s
To provide information on the operational efficiency of the Company, following relevant analytical ratios have been disclosed as below:
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Remarks
i)	
Return on 
Equity (ROE)
Profit After Tax
Share 
Holders Fund
-3.08%
-0.70%
Interest 
income 
decreased 
and 
interest expense increased resulting 
in increase in losses during the year
ii)	
Return on 
Assets (ROA)
Profit After Tax
Total Asset
-2.72%
-0.63%
iii)	
Current Ratio
Current Asset
Current 
Liability
 0.84 
 10.81 The 
current 
ratio 
declined 
as 
repayment of borowing is due in Sep-
24 and the current assets are lesser 
than the JM loan liability 
iv)	
Debt Equity 
Ratio
Borrowings
Share Holders 
Fund
 0.06 
 0.10 Reclassification of Preference Share 
Capital
	
Note:
	
1.	
Share Holder’s Fund is sum of Equity Share capital plus Other Equity
	
2.	
Current Asset and Current Liabilities as per Maturity Analysis refer note no 48.
350
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
39	 Segment Reporting:
	
1	
Basis of Segmentation
	
	
The segment reporting of the Company has been prepared in accordance with Ind AS 108 “Operating Segment”. For management 
purpose the Company is organised into business units based on services and has two reportable segments (a) Investment and 
Financing Activities, and, (b) Support Services.
	
	
The Segments have been identified as reportable segments by the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”). 
Segment profit amounts are evaluated regularly by the Board, which has been identified as CODM, in deciding how to allocate 
resources and in assessing performance.
	
	
Segments Revenue, Results, Assets and Liabilities include the respective amounts identifiable to each of the segments and 
amount allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated expenditure consists of common expenditure incurred for all segments. 
The asset and liabilities that cannot be allocated between segments are shown as unallocated between the segments and shown 
as unallocated corporate assets and liabilities respectively.
	
2	
Information about Reportable Segments:
	
	
Primary Segment
	
	
(a)	
The business segment has been considered as the primary segment for disclosure. The Company’s primary business 
comprises of ‘Investment and Financing Activities’ and ‘Support Services’. The business segments have been identified 
considering the nature of services, the differing risks and returns, the organization structure and the internal financial reporting 
system.
	
	
(b)	
Segment revenue, results, assets and liabilities have been accounted for on the basis of their relationship to the operating 
activities of the segment and amounts allocated on a reasonable basis.
	
	
(c)	
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses incurred 
on behalf of other segments and not directly identifiable to each reportable segment have been allocated to each segment 
on the basis of associated revenues of each segment. All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments 
have been disclosed as unallocable expenses.
	
	
(d)	
Assets (including Property Plant & Equipment’s) and liabilities that are directly attributable to segments are disclosed under 
each reportable segment. Common assets have been allocated to each segment on the basis of associated revenues of 
each segment. Liabilities have been allocated to each segment on the basis of total segment expense. All other assets and 
liabilities are disclosed as unallocable.
	
	
If the segment result of a segment includes interest or dividend income, its segment assets include the related receivables, loans, 
investments, or other interest or dividend generating assets.
	
	
If the segment result of a segment includes interest expense, its segment liabilities include the related interest-bearing liabilities.
351
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
INFORMATION ABOUT PRIMARY BUSINESS SEGMENT
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Investment 
and 
Financing 
Activities
Support 
Services
Unallocated
TOTAL
Investment 
and 
Financing 
Activities
Support 
Services
Unallocated
TOTAL
(i)	
Segment Revenue 
External Revenue
 1,202.10 
 767.37 
 10.05 
 1,979.52 
 4,464.78 
 773.31 
 13.53 
 5,251.62 
Inter -Segmental Revenue
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balances Written Back
 - 
 201.31 
 - 
 201.31 
 - 
 372.94 
 - 
 372.94 
Add: Interest/Dividend Income
 - 
 - 
 343.41 
 343.41 
 - 
 - 
 29.61 
 29.61 
Total Revenue
 1,202.10 
 968.68 
 353.46 
 2,524.24 
 4,464.78  1,146.25 
 43.14 
 5,654.17 
(ii)	
Segment Results
 (4,175.92)
(3,365.07)
 353.44 
 (7,187.55)
 (1,245.18)
 (307.79)
 43.14 
 (1,509.83)
Other Comprehensive Income
 (25.99)
 (20.94)
 - 
 (46.93)
 (0.39)
 (0.10)
 - 
 (0.49)
Total Comprehensive Income
 (4,201.91)
(3,386.01)
 353.44 
 (7,234.48)
 (1,245.57)
 (307.89)
 43.14 
 (1,510.32)
Tax Expense
 - 
 - 
 (652.18)
 (652.18)
 - 
 - 
 (2.96)
 (2.96)
(Loss) after tax
 (4,201.91)
 (3,386.01)
 1,005.62 
 (6,582.30)
 (1,245.57)
 (307.89)
 46.10 
 (1,507.36)
(iii)	
Segment Assets
232,963.49 
 2,679.04 
 4,821.37 
240,463.90 
235,073.97 
 1,554.35 
 3,180.84 
239,809.16 
Total Assets
232,963.49 
 2,679.04 
 4,821.37 
240,463.90 
235,073.97 
 1,554.35 
 3,180.84 
239,809.16 
(iv)	
Segment liabilities
 21,068.91 
 6,965.72 
 112.83 
 28,147.46 
 19,976.77 
 4,937.47 
 196.30 
 25,110.54 
Total liabilities
 21,068.91 
 6,965.72 
 112.83 
 28,147.46 
 19,976.77  4,937.47 
 196.30 
 25,110.54 
(v)	
Capital Expenditure
 558.17 
 449.79 
 - 
 1,007.96 
 376.18 
 93.89 
 - 
 470.08 
(vi)	
Depreciation/Amortization
 323.71 
 260.85 
 - 
 584.56 
 240.48 
 59.44 
 - 
 299.92 
(vii)	
Non Cash Expenditure 
other than Depreciation
 595.26 
 90.07 
 - 
 685.33 
 197.89 
 36.70 
 - 
 1,028.67 
	
	
Note :-
	
	
1.	
Advance tax / TDS receivable and statutory payments are considered as unallocated item.
	
	
2.	
Depreciation cost allocated on actual basis.
40	 Fair value measurement
	
This note describes the fair value measurement of both financial and non-financial instruments and is structured as follows:
	
40.1	Valuation Principles
	
40.2	Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy
	
40.3	Fair Value of financial instruments not measured at fair value
	
40.4	Valuation Techniques
	
40.5	Movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
	
40.6	Disclosure of fair value of financial measurement hierarchy for financial instruments
	
40.7	Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value
352
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
40.1 Valuation Principles
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal 
(or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions (i.e., an exit price), regardless of whether 
that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
	
	
In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation 
techniques.
	
40.2 Fair value hierarchy
	
	
Fair value of the financial instruments is classified in various fair value hierarchies based on the following three levels:
	
	
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets or liabilities.
	
	
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted price included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. 
as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
	
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using market approach and valuation 
techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
	
	
Level 3: Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
	
	
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the fair value is determined using generally 
accepted pricing models based on a analysis, with the most significant inputs being the discount rate that reflects the credit risk of 
counterparty.
	
	
The fair value of trade receivables, trade payables and other current financial assets and liabilities is considered to be equal to the 
carrying amounts of these items due to their short-term nature. Where such items are Non-current in nature, the same has been 
classified as Level 3 and fair value determined using basis. Similarly, unquoted equity instruments where most recent information 
to measure fair value is insufficient, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements, cost has been considered as 
the best estimate of fair value.
	
	
There has been no change in the valuation methodology for Level 3 inputs during the year. The Company has not classified any 
material financial instruments under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 
the year.
353
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Financials Instruments
	
	
Financial instruments – Fair values and risk management
	
	
Financial instruments by category
 Amount (in ` Lakhs) 
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 FVTPL 
 FVTOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
 FVTPL 
 FVTOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 698.78 
 - 
 - 
 3,381.35 
Bank Balance other than above
 - 
 - 
 9.65 
 - 
 - 
 22.58 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 6,025.80 
 - 
 - 
 2,410.23 
Investments
 5,173.89 
 - 
 220,895.38 
 5,971.26 
 - 
 220,565.27 
Other Financial assets
 - 
 - 
 254.18 
 - 
 - 
 327.55 
Total
 5,173.89 
 - 
227,883.79 
 5,971.26 
 - 
226,706.98 
Financial Liabilities
Trade Payables
 - 
 - 
 701.92 
 - 
 - 
 749.80 
Borrowings (Other than Debt 
Securities)
 - 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 - 
 - 
 20,659.36 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1,626.67 
 - 
 - 
 1,204.71 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 11,404.18 
 - 
 - 
 959.95 
Total
 - 
 - 
 26,155.18 
 - 
 - 
 23,573.82 
	
40.3 Financial Assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy
	
	
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy:
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss
-	
Investment in Mutual Fund/Alternate Investment Fund/Venture 
Capital Fund
 5,173.89 
 - 
 - 
 5,173.89 
Total
 5,173.89 
 - 
 - 
 5,173.89 
	
	
As at March 31, 2023
Particulars
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss
-	
Investment in Mutual Fund/Alternate Investment Fund/Venture 
Capital Fund
 5,567.17 
 404.09 
 - 
 5,971.26 
Total
 5,567.17 
 404.09 
 - 
 5,971.26 
354
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
40.4 Valuation Techniques
	
	
a)	
Mutual Funds
	
	
	
-	
Open ended Mutual funds at NAV’s declared or quoted
	
	
	
-	
Close ended Mutual funds at  declared or published NAV’s by Asset Management Financial Institution (AMFI)
	
	
b)	
Alternate Investment Funds
	
	
	
- 	
Alternate Investment Funds value at NAV’s as declared by Fund Management companies.
	
	
c)	
Equity instruments
	
	
	
The majority of equity instruments are of non-listed entities,  and are initially recognised at transaction price and re-measured 
(to the extent information is available) and valued on a case-by-case and classified as Level 3.
	
40.5 Movements in Level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value
	
	
The following tables show a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities which are 
recorded at fair value. Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 occur when the market for some securities became more liquid, which 
eliminates the need for the preciously required significant unobservable valuation inputs. Since the transfer, these instruments 
have been valued using valuation models incorporating observable market inputs. Transfers into Level 3 reflect changes in market 
conditions as a result of which instruments become less liquid. Therefore, the Company requires significant unobservable inputs 
to calculate their fair value.
	
	
The following tables show the reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value:
	
	
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)	
Particulars
 FY 2023-24 
 FY 2022-23 
Opening Balance
 5,971.26 
 30,430.15 
Purchase
 13,699.33 
 15,199.25 
Sales
 14,302.81 
 39,869.34 
Impairment loss allowance
 467.26 
 - 
Profit on Sale/Redemption 
 225.10 
 271.81 
Closing Balance
 5,173.89 
 5,971.26 
Unrealised gains / (losses) related to balances held at the end of the year
 48.27 
 (60.61)
	
40.6 Disclosure of fair value of financial measurement hierarchy for financial instruments as given below
	
	
As at March 31, 2024	
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Assets
Cash and Cash equivalents
 698.78 
 - 
 - 
 698.78 
 698.78 
Bank balances other than above
 9.65 
 - 
 - 
 9.65 
 9.65 
Investments
 226,069.27 
 5,173.89 
 - 
 220,895.38 
 226,069.27 
Loans
 6,025.80 
 - 
 - 
 6,025.80 
 6,025.80 
Other Financial Assets
 254.18 
 - 
 - 
 254.18 
 254.18 
Total Financial Assets
 233,057.68 
 5,173.89 
 - 
 227,883.79 
 233,057.68 
355
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
 701.92 
 - 
 - 
 701.92 
 701.92 
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
 12,422.41 
 - 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 12,422.41 
Lease Liabilities
 1,626.67 
 - 
 - 
 1,626.67 
 1,626.67 
Other Financial Liabilities
 11,404.18 
 - 
 - 
 11,404.18 
 11,404.18 
Total Financial Liabilities
 26,155.18 
 - 
 - 
 26,155.18 
 26,155.18 
	
	
As at March 31, 2023
 Amount (in ` Lakhs) 
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2023
 Carrying 
Amount 
 Fair Value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial Assets
Cash and Cash equivalents
 3,381.35 
 - 
 - 
 3,381.35 
 3,381.35 
Bank balances other than above
 22.58 
 - 
 - 
 22.58 
 22.58 
Investments
 226,536.53 
 5,567.17 
 404.09 
 220,565.27 
 226,536.53 
Loans
 2,410.23 
 - 
 - 
 2,410.23 
 2,410.23 
Other Financial Assets
 327.55 
 - 
 - 
 327.55 
 327.55 
Total Financial Assets
 232,678.24 
 5,567.17 
 404.09 
 226,706.98 
 232,678.24 
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
 749.80 
 - 
 - 
 749.80 
 749.80 
Borrowings (other than debt 
securities)
 20,659.36 
 - 
 - 
 20,659.36 
 20,659.36 
Lease Liabilities
 1,204.71 
 - 
 - 
 1,204.71 
 1,204.71 
Other Financial Liabilities
 959.95 
 - 
 - 
 959.95 
 959.95 
Total Financial Liabilities
 23,573.82 
 - 
 - 
 23,573.82 
 23,573.82 
	
40.7 Valuation methodologies of financial instruments
	
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current 
transaction between willing parties, other than in forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to 
estimate the fair values:
	
1.	
The Company has disclosed financial instruments such as cash & cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade payables, 
other financial assets and liabilities at carrying value because their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of the 
far values due to their short term nature.
	
2.	
Financial instruments with fixed and variable interest rats are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as 
interest rates and individual credit worthiness of the counter party. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken to the 
account for the expected losses of these receivables.
356
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
41	 Financial Risk Management, Objectives and Policies
	
41.1 Introduction and risk profile
	
	
Company has operations in India. Whilst risk is inherent in the Company’s activities, it is managed through an integrated risk 
management framework, including on-going identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls. 
This process of risk management is critical to the Company’s continuing profitability and each individual within the Company is 
accountable for the risk exposures relating to his or her responsibilities. The Company is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and 
market risk. It is also subject to various operating and business risks.
	
41.1.1 Risk Management Structure
	
	
The Board of Directors are responsible for the overall risk management approach and for approving the risk management 
strategies and principles.
	
	
The Board has constituted the Risk Management Committee which is responsible for monitoring the overall risk process within 
the Company. The Risk Management Committee (RMC) has the overall responsibility for the development of the risk strategy and 
implementing principles, frameworks, policies and limits. The RMC is responsible for managing risk decisions and monitoring risk 
levels.
	
	
The Head of respective department/function shall be responsible for implementation of the risk management system as may be 
applicable to their respective areas of functioning who will maintain record of each risk identified along with mitigation plan in Risk 
& Control Matrix (RCM) and will update it periodically.
	
	
The Company’s policy is that risk management processes throughout the Company are audited at regular interval by the Internal 
Audit function, which examines both the adequacy of the procedures and the Company’s compliance with the procedures. 
Internal Audit discusses the results of all assessments with management, and reports its findings and recommendations to the 
Supervisory Board and Audit Committee.
	
41.2 Financial Risk Management:
	
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise of borrowings, trade and other payables. The main 
purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s principal financial assets, other than 
derivatives, include trade and other receivables, investments and cash and cash equivalents that arise directly from its operations.
	
	
The Company is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. It is also subject to various operating and business risks.
	
	
Market risk is the risk of loss of future earnings, fair values or future cash flows that may result from a change in the price of a 
financial instrument. The value  of a financial instrument may  change  as a result of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency 
exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and  other  market changes that affect market risk sensitive instruments. Market risk 
is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments, including investments and deposits, receivables, payables and 
borrowings.
	
	
The Company’s overall risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential 
adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company.
357
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
The sources of risks which the Company is exposed to and their management is given below
Risk
Exposure Arising From
Measurement
Management
•	
Market Risk
-	
Foreign 
Exchange 
Risk
Committed commercial 
transactions not denominated 
in INR.
Cash Flow Forecasting
Amount insignificant 
-	
Interest Rate 
Risk
Borrowings at fixed/ variable 
rates, Investments in Debt 
Schemes of Mutual Funds and 
Other  Debt Securities
Interest Rate Movements
Portfolio Diversification
-	
Equity Price 
Risk
Investments in equity 
Financial Performance of 
the investee Company
Equity risk relates to the sensitivity of financial 
products to the changes in prices
•	
Credit Risk
Cash and Cash equivalents, 
Trade Receivables, Investments, 
Loans
Ageing Analysis, 
Collateral Analysis, Credit 
Rating
Diversification of Bank deposits, mutual fund 
investments and portfolio credit monitoring, 
credit limit and credit worthiness through 
collateral based monitoring.
•	
Liquidity Risk Borrowings and Other Liabilities 
and Liquid Investments
Rolling Cash Flow 
Forecasts
Adequate unused credit lines  and borrowing 
facilities, Portfolio Diversification
	
41.2.1	 Credit Risk
	
	
The Company continuously monitors all assets subject to ECLs. In order to determine whether an instrument or a portfolio of 
instruments is subject to 12m ECL or LTECL, the Company assesses whether there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition. The Company considers an exposure to have significantly increased in credit risk underlying 
assets and accordingly changes the ECL.
	
	
When estimating ECLs on a collective basis for a Company of similar assets, the Company applies the same principles for 
assessing whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
	
	
For other Financial asset an Investments the company ha an investment policy which allow the Company to investment with 
counter parties having credit rating and with limits as predefined in Investment policy.
	
41.2.2	 Interest Rate Risk
	
	
Interest rate risk is the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument which fluctuates because of changes in the 
market Interest rates. The company’s position with regards to interest income treasury team manages the interest rate by 
diversifying its portfolio across tenures.
	
41.2.3	 Reputational Risk
	
	
Reputational Risk As per the above standard, REL is also exposed to reputation risk arising from failures in governance, 
business strategy and process, regulatory-compliance and legal risk. These risks are generally covered under Operational 
risks. Reputational risk is the risk of potential damage to the Company due to deterioration of its reputation. The reputation of 
the Company may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, reporting requirements, standards and 
codes of conduct applicable to its activities, rather than compliance with the internal limits or procedures. Proactive measures 
to minimize the risk of losing reputation could be a sound risk management framework, good corporate governance high 
level ethics and integrity, rigorous anti money laundering procedures, good business practices and reporting of all breaches 
which lead to reputational risk to the attention of senior management and the board.
	
	
Management of subsidiaries and support functions of REL should take into consideration above basic risk categorization and 
devise their own risk cum control matrix for each of the product line, segment, business and operations.”
358
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
41.2.4	 Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the potential of loss arising from their inability either to meet obligations or to fund increases in assets as they 
fall due without incurring unacceptable costs or losses.
	
41.2.4.1	Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
	
	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flows of the Company’s financial assets and 
liabilities as at March 31, 2024 and Previous year ended March 31, 2023.
Particulars
On demand
Less than 3 
months
3 to 12 
Months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 
years
Total
As at March 31, 2024
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalent and other bank 
balances
 698.78 
 - 
 9.65 
 - 
 - 
 708.43 
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
and loss
 - 
 - 
 5,173.89 
 - 
 - 
 5,173.89 
Other Financial Assets
 70.34 
 - 
 41.09 
 142.75 
 - 
 254.18 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 6,025.80 
 - 
 - 
 6,025.80 
Financial investments at amortised cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
220,895.38 
220,895.38 
Total undiscounted financial assets
 769.12 
 - 
 11,250.43 
 142.75 
220,895.38 
233,057.68 
Financial liabilities
Trade Payable
 - 
 210.28 
 355.38 
 136.26 
 - 
 701.92 
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 - 
 12,422.41 
Lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 294.97 
 1,331.70 
 - 
 1,626.67 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 117.83 
 2,881.02 
 8,405.33 
 11,404.18 
Total undiscounted financial liabilities
 - 
 210.28 
 768.19  16,771.39 
 8,405.33  26,155.18 
Total Net financial assets/(liabilities)
 769.12 
 (210.28)
 10,482.23 
(16,628.65)
212,490.05 
206,902.50 
Particulars
On 
demand
Less than 
3 months
3 to 12 
Months
1 to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalent and other bank 
balances
 3,381.35 
 - 
 22.58 
 - 
 - 
 3,403.93 
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
and loss
 - 
 - 
 5,504.00 
 467.26 
 - 
 5,971.26 
Other Financial Assets
 102.20 
 - 
 16.82 
 208.53 
 327.55 
Loans
 - 
 - 
 2,410.23 
 - 
 - 
 2,410.23 
Financial investments at amortised cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 220,565.27 
 220,565.27 
Total undiscounted financial assets
 3,483.55 
 - 
 7,953.63 
 675.79  220,565.27  232,678.24 
Financial liabilities
Trade Payable
 210.28 
 247.80 
 291.72 
 - 
 749.80 
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12,256.33 
 8,403.03 
 20,659.36 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 466.23 
 738.48 
 - 
 1,204.71 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 24.16 
 935.79 
 - 
 959.95 
Total undiscounted financial liabilities
 - 
 210.28 
 738.19 
 14,222.32 
 8,403.03 
 23,573.82 
Total Net financial assets/(liabilities)
 3,483.55 
 (210.28)
 7,215.44  (13,546.53)
 212,162.24  209,104.42 
359
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
41.2.5	 Market risk
	
Market the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables 
such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. The Company classifies exposures to market risk into either 
trading or non–trading portfolios and manages each of those portfolios separately. Non–trading positions are managed and 
monitored using other sensitivity analyses.
	
41.2.5.1	Total market risk exposure
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Primary 
risk 
sensitivity
Carrying 
amount
Traded 
risk
Non-traded 
risk
Carrying 
amount
Traded 
risk
Non-traded 
risk
Assets
Cash and cash equivalent and 
other bank balances
 708.43 
 - 
 708.43 
 3,403.93 
 - 
 3,403.93 Interest rate
Financial assets at Fair value 
Through P&L
 5,173.89 
 - 
 5,173.89 
 5,971.26 
 - 
 5,971.26 Equity price
Loans
 6,025.80 
 - 
 6,025.80 
 2,410.23 
 - 
 2,410.23 Interest rate
Financial investments– 
amortised cost
 220,895.38 
 -  220,895.38  220,565.27 
 -  220,565.27 Equity price
Total
232,803.50 
 - 232,803.50 232,350.69 
 - 232,350.69 
Liabilities
Borrowings (other than Debt 
Securities)
 12,422.41 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 20,659.36 
 - 
 20,659.36 Interest rate
Lease Liabilities
 1,626.67 
 - 
 1,626.67 
 1,204.71 
 - 
 1,204.71 Interest rate
Security Deposits
 2.30 
 - 
 2.30 
 2.30 
 - 
 2.30 Interest rate
Trade payables
 701.92 
 - 
 701.92 
 749.80 
 - 
 749.80 Interest rate
Other liabilities
 11,401.88 
 - 
 11,401.88 
 957.65 
 - 
 957.65 Interest rate
Total
 26,155.18 
 - 
 26,155.18 
 23,573.82 
 - 
 23,573.82 
	
41.2.6	 Operational risk
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from 
external events. This risk shall also incorporate possible causes of loss resulting from regulatory non-compliances. The main 
sources of operational risk are Process design, Employees, Equipment, Information technology, Physical risk, regulatory 
non-compliance, Fiduciary etc.
42	 Capital
	
The Company maintains an actively managed capital base to cover risks inherent in the business and is meeting the capital adequacy 
requirements of the local banking supervisor, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) of India. The adequacy of the Company’s capital is monitored 
using, among other measures, the regulations issued by RBI. Company has complied in full with all its externally imposed capital 
requirements over the reported period.
	
42.1 Capital Management
	
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company complies with externally 
imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to 
maximize shareholder value.
360
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it according to changes in economic conditions and the risk 
characteristics of its activities. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividend 
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue capital securities. No changes have been made to the objectives, 
policies and processes from the previous years. However, they are under constant review by the Board.
43	 Retirement benefit Plan
	
43.1 Defined Contribution Plan
	
	
Contribution toward provident fund plan for all employees is made to regulatory authorities, where the Company has no further 
obligations. Such benefits are classified as Defined Contribution Scheme as the Company does not carry any legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions apart from the contributions made on monthly basis which are charged to the Statement 
of Profit and Loss account as incurred. The amount charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss is ` 74.31 Lakhs during the year 
(2022-23: ` 60.48 Lakhs).
	
43.2 Defined Benefits plan
	
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan in India (funded). The Company’s defined benefit gratuity plan is a final salary plan 
for its employees, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. The gratuity plan is governed by 
the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to specific benefit. 
The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and salary at retirement age. The fund has the form of 
a trust and it is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and employee representatives. 
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
	
	
Each year, the Board of Trustees reviews the level of funding in the India gratuity plan. Such a review includes the asset-liability 
matching strategy and investment risk management policy. This includes employing the use of annuities and longevity swaps to 
manage the risks. The Board of Trustees decides its contribution based on the results of this annual review. The Board of Trustees 
aim to keep annual contributions relatively stable at a level such that no plan deficits (based on valuation performed) will arise.
	
43.3 Others benefits
	
	
The employees of the Company are entitled to leave benefits as per the policy of the Company. The liability for compensated 
absences is accrued based on the actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date conducted by an independent actuary. The net 
present value of the Group companies’ obligations are determined based on the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of each 
year.
	
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss and the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
	
(A)	 Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets and net defined benefit liability 
recognised in statement of Balance Sheet:
	
	
Gratuity
Particulars
As at  March 31, 2024
As at  March 31, 2023
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Benefits 
liability 
(Net)
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Benefits 
liability 
(Net)
Present value of DBO at the beginning of 
the year
 156.15 
 41.63 
 (114.52)
 130.03 
 42.07 
 (87.96)
Service Cost
 23.63 
 - 
 (23.63)
 20.71 
 - 
 (20.71)
Net interest expense
 10.59 
 2.46 
 (8.13)
 7.83 
 2.47 
 (5.36)
Sub total included in Statement of Profit 
and Loss
 34.22 
 2.46 
 (31.76)
 28.54 
 2.47 
 (26.07)
361
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
As at  March 31, 2024
As at  March 31, 2023
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Benefits 
liability 
(Net)
Defined 
benefits 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Benefits 
liability 
(Net)
Remeasurement gains/(losses) in other 
comprehensive income
Defind benefit paid from Plan asset
 (14.07)
 (14.07)
 - 
 (3.20)
 (3.20)
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 12.99 
 - 
 (12.99)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
financial assumptions
 1.53 
 - 
 (1.53)
 (6.86)
 - 
 6.86 
Return on plan assets greater/(lesser) than 
discount rate
 - 
 0.31 
 0.31 
 - 
 0.29 
 0.29 
Experience adjustments
 32.72 
 (32.72)
 7.64 
 (7.64)
Subtotal included in OCI
 33.17 
 (13.76)
 (46.93)
 (2.42)
 (2.91)
 (0.49)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Present value of DBO at the end of the 
year
 223.54 
 30.33 
 (193.21)
 156.15 
 41.63 
 (114.52)
	
(B)	 Major Category of Plan asset as percentage of total plan asset
Investments quoted in active markets:
 Gratuity 
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Scheme of Insurance - ULIP Products
100.00%
100.00%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
The current service cost and net interest expense for the year pertaining to Gratuity expenses have been recognised in “‘Gratuity 
and compensated absences expenses”. The remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are included in Statement of Profit 
and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income in Statement of change in Equity.
	
(C)	 Expected payment for future years
Investments quoted in active markets:
 Gratuity 
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 22.36 
 24.65 
Between 2 and 5 years
 78.49 
 93.80 
Between 5 and 10 years
 306.99 
 229.73 
Beyond 10 years
 - 
 - 
Total expected payments
 407.84 
 348.18 
362
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(D)	 Actuarial Assumptions
	
	
Financial Assumption
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
7.00%
7.10%
7.00%
7.10%
Salary Escalation
7.00%
7.00%
7.00%
7.00%
Methodology used
 Projected Unit Credit 
	
	
Demographic Assumption
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Mortality rate
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2006-08) Ult.
Withdrawal Rate
18-35 years: 27% 
36-45 years: 30% 
46 and above: 
0%
18-35 years: 20% 
36-45 years: 15% 
46 and above: 
20%
18-35 years: 27% 
36-45 years: 30% 
46 and above: 
0%
18-35 years: 20% 
36-45 years: 15% 
46 and above: 
20%
	
	
Sensitivity Analysis
	
	
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible change of the respective assumptions occurring 
at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant. These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact 
of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation. While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, 
in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the asset value changes may offset the impact to some extent. 
For presenting the sensitivities, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit 
credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the Defined Benefit Obligation 
presented above. There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in the preparation of sensitivity analysis from 
previous year.
Impact on defined benefits obligations
 Gratuity 
Leave Encashment
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount Rate
Increase by 0.5%
 (7.50)
 (3.23)
 (4.78)
 (1.81)
Decrease by 0.5%
 7.89 
 3.37 
 5.02 
 1.87 
Future salary increases
Increase by 0.5%
 7.85 
 3.36 
 5.00 
 1.86 
Decrease by 0.5%
 (7.54)
 (3.25)
 (4.80)
 (1.82)
	
	
Risk Analysis
The Company is exposed to a number of risks in the defined benefit plans. Most significance risk pertaining to defined benefits 
plans and management estimation of the impact of these risks are as follows
	
	
Salary Growth Rate
The present value of defined benefit plans liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participates. Salary increase 
considered @ 7%. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
363
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
Demographic Risk
This is the risk of variability of results due to systematic nature of decrements that include mortality, withdrawal, disability and 
retirement. The effect of these decrements on the defined obligation is not straight forward and depends upon the combination of 
salary increase , discount rate and vesting criteria. it is important not to overstate withdrawals because in the financial analysis the 
retirement benefit of short career employee typically costs less per year as compared to long service employee.
	
	
Interest rate risks
The defined benefit obligation uses a discount rate based on government bonds. If bonds yields fall, the defined benefit obligation 
will tend to increase.
44	 IND AS 116: Details of assets taken under operating lease are as under:
	
(i)	
The right-of-use assets consist of:
	
	
i)	
Building - Lease period is in the bracket of 3-9 years
	
	
ii)	
Vehicles- lease period is in the bracket of 3-5 years
	
(ii)	 The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases:
	
	
-	
Right-of-use assets
Particulars
Assets on Lease - Land & Building
Assets on Lease - Vehicles
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gross Value
Opening Balance
 1,153.07 
 1,128.84 
 393.28 
 - 
Additions/ Deletions 
(net)
 500.35 
 24.23 
 14.26 
 393.28 
Closing Balance
 1,653.42 
 1,153.07 
 407.54 
 393.28 
Accumulated 
depreciation
Opening Balance
 374.19 
 177.21 
 14.07 
 - 
Charge during the 
financial year
 66.30 
 196.99 
 140.03 
 14.07 
Closing Balance
 440.49 
 374.19 
 154.10 
 14.07 
Carrying value
Closing Balance
 1,212.93 
 778.88 
 253.44 
 379.21 
	
	
-	
Lease Liabilities
Particulars
Assets on Lease - Land & Building
Assets on Lease - Vehicles
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current
232.28
84.32
62.69
170.82
Non-Current
1,120.61
738.48
211.09
211.09
Total
1,352.89
822.80
273.78
 381.91 
364
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(iii)	 Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss	
	
	
The Profit and Loss showing the following amount relating to leases:	
Particulars
Assets on Lease - Land & Building
Assets on Lease - Vehicles
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Asset wise depreciation 
charge of right-of-use 
assets
 334.75 
 196.99 
 140.03 
 14.07 
Interest expense (included 
in finance cost)
 178.05 
 104.58 
 34.31 
 4.16 
Expense relating to short-
term leases (included in 
Rent under other expenses)
 50.92 
 66.65 
 - 
 - 
Total
 563.72 
 368.23 
 174.34 
 18.23 
	
(iv) 	Total Cash outflow during the year:	
Particulars
Assets on Lease - Land & Building
Assets on Lease - Vehicles
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Payments for the principal 
portion of the lease liability 
(Financing Activities)
 323.57 
 150.20 
 156.70 
 13.09 
Payments for the interest 
portion of the lease liability 
(Financing Activities)
 178.05 
 104.58 
 34.31 
 4.16 
	
(v) 	 At the balance sheet date, the Company had commitments under non-cancellable leases which fall due 
as follows:
Particulars
Assets on Lease - Land & Building
Assets on Lease - Vehicles
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Maturity analysis – contractual 
undiscounted cash flows
Within 1 Year
 375.40 
 175.34 
 157.33 
 149.74 
Within 2 Years
 383.63 
 149.98 
 139.30 
 149.74 
Within 3 Years
 309.48 
 156.69 
 2.40 
 138.13 
Within 4 Years
 298.01 
 153.44 
 2.40 
 2.41 
Within 5 Years
 179.53 
 164.31 
 - 
 2.41 
After 5 Years
 269.29 
 448.81 
 - 
 - 
Total undiscounted lease 
liabilities
 1,815.34 
 1,248.57 
 301.43 
 442.43 
Impact of discounting and other 
adjustments
 462.45 
425.77
 27.65 
 60.52 
Lease liabilities included in the 
balance sheet
 1,352.89 
 822.80 
 273.78 
 381.91 
365
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
45	 Revenue from contract with customers
	
Set out below is the disaggregation of the Company revenue from contracts with customers and reconciliation to statement of profit and 
loss:
Type of Services or service
For year ended March 31, 2024
Interest Income
Support Service 
Other Income
Total
Interest Income
 906.13 
 - 
 - 
 906.13 
Support Service Income
 - 
 766.14 
 - 
 766.14 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments
 - 
 - 
 236.05 
 236.05 
Profit on Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment
 - 
 - 
 1.24 
 1.24 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Geographical markets
India
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 - 
 - 
 237.29 
 237.29 
Services transferred over time
 906.13 
 766.14 
 - 
 1,672.27 
Total revenue from contracts with customer
 906.13 
 766.14 
 237.29 
 1,909.56 
Particulars
For year ended March 31, 2023
Interest Income
Support Service 
Other Income
Total
Type of Services or service
Interest Income
 2,117.25 
 - 
 - 
 2,117.25 
Support Service Income
 - 
 772.67 
 - 
 772.67 
Profit on Sale/Redemption of Investments
 - 
 - 
 275.69 
 275.69 
Profit on Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 2,117.25 
 772.67 
 275.69 
 3,165.61 
Geographical markets
India
 2,117.25 
 772.67 
 275.69 
 3,165.61 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 2,117.25 
 772.67 
 275.69 
 3,165.61 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 - 
 - 
 275.69 
 275.69 
Services transferred over time
 2,117.25 
 772.67 
 - 
 2,889.92 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 2,117.25 
 772.67 
 275.69 
 3,165.61 
	
Contract Balances
 As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Recoverable from support services (refer note 10.1)
 400.13 
 372.13 
366
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
46	 Disclosure on Employees Stock Options Scheme
	
46.1 ESOP Policy
	
	
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the 
equity instruments at the grant date. Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based payments 
transactions are set out in notes to accounts.
	
	
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase 
in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected 
to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss such that the 
cumulative expenses reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the Share Option Outstanding Account.
	
	
ESOPs (equity – settled share – based payments)  have also been granted to the employees of:
	
	
Subsidiary (including step down subsidiary) whereby:
	
	
i)	
The Company has debited these shares as ‘Investment in Subsidiary’ and credited its equity;
	
	
ii)	
The subsidiary has debited its expenses (employee related cost) and credited the capital contribution from the parent;
	
	
The employees of the Company are recipient of equity – settled share based payments either from the Company and / or its 
subsidiary (including step down subsidiary.
	
	
i)	
Where the transaction is with the subsidiary, credit to ‘Dividend Income’ and debit to expenses (employee related cost)
	
	
ii)	
The Subsidiary has debited Investment and credited to capital contribution.”
	
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
	
46.2 ESOP DISCLOSURES
	
	
Details of the Scheme:
	
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 12, 2019, approved the Religare Enterprises Limited Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2019 (“REL ESOP 2019 / Scheme”) to issue and allot stock options up to a maximum of  10% of expanded share 
capital of the Company (after taking into account any other equity Shares including through convertible instruments)  for the 
permanent employees and directors whether a whole-time director or not (other than Promoters of the Company, Independent 
Directors and Directors holding directly or indirectly more than 10% of the outstanding Equity Shares of the Company) of the 
Company and its present and future holding company and subsidiary company(ies) in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. The shareholders of the Company approved the Scheme vide their 
special resolution passed through postal ballot on March 29, 2019.
	
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives 
of the Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme.
	
46.3 The details of grants approved for employees of the Company and employees of its subsidiaries (including step down subsidiaries) 
in accordance with the Employees Stock Option Scheme:
367
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
46.3.1 To the employees of the Company
	
	
	
REL ESOP scheme 2019
Tranches
Grant date
Exercise 
price
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding
Estimated 
Fair Value 
of Share 
Granted
Tranche-1
1-Apr-19
 29.43 
 8,950,000 
 25,000 
 - 
 1,350,000  7,575,000 
 25,000 
 30.90 
Tranche-3
8-Aug-19
 30.85 
 150,000 
 - 
 - 
 75,000 
 75,000 
 - 
 31.05 
Tranche-4
9-Sep-19
 31.35 
 650,000 
 - 
 - 
 650,000 
 - 
 - 
 32.03 
Tranche-5
1-Jun-20
 24.10 
 5,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 5,000,000 
 - 
 - 
 24.90 
Tranche-6
27-Jul-20
 39.55 
 3,670,000 
0
 - 
 3,268,000 
 402,000 
 - 
 39.03 
Tranche-7
14-Apr-21
 94.80 
 2,500,000 
 - 
 - 
 2,500,000 
 - 
 - 
 95.03 
Tranche-8
12-Nov-21
 159.25 
 300,000 
 99,000 
 102,000 
 99,000 
 - 
 201,000 
 159.63 
Tranche-9
10-Aug-22
 129.85 
 4,500,000 
 1,485,000  3,015,000 
 - 
 - 
 4,500,000 
 129.85 
Tranche-10
11-May-23
 169.70 
 4,200,000 
 -  4,200,000 
 - 
 - 
 4,200,000 
 168.08 
Tranche-11
22-May-23
 169.20 
 300,000 
 - 
 300,000 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
 169.80 
Tranche-12
8-Aug-23
 207.20 
 2,300,000 
 -  2,300,000 
 - 
 - 
 2,300,000 
 209.50 
Total
 32,520,000 
 1,609,000  9,917,000  12,942,000  8,052,000  11,526,000 
	
46.3.2	 To the employees of the subsidiaries (including step down subsidiaries)
	
	
	
REL ESOP scheme 2019
Tranches
Grant date
Exercise 
price
Options 
granted
Options 
vested and 
exercisable
Options 
unvested
Options 
exercised
Options 
cancelled
Options 
outstanding
Estimated 
Fair Value 
of Share 
Granted
Tranche-1
1-Apr-19
 29.43 
 6,175,000 
 156,750 
 -  1,685,000 4,333,250 
 156,750 
 30.90 
Tranche-2
19-Jun-19
 29.43 
 500,000 
 - 
 - 
 300,000 
 200,000 
 - 
 24.15 
Tranche-3
8-Aug-19
 30.85 
 450,000 
 - 
 - 
 350,000 
 100,000 
 - 
 31.05 
Tranche-4
9-Sep-19
 31.35 
 350,000 
 - 
 - 
 150,000 
 200,000 
 - 
 32.03 
Tranche-6
27-Jul-20
 39.55 
 2,830,000 
 368,250 
 -  2,009,250 
 452,500 
 368,250 
 39.03 
Tranche-8
12-Nov-21
 159.25 
 50,000 
 33,000 
 17,000 
 - 
 - 
 50,000 
 159.63 
Total
10,355,000 
 558,000 
 17,000  4,494,250 5,285,750 
 575,000 
	
46.3.3	 Weighted average fair value of stock options granted as per ESOP scheme exercised is as follows:	
Particulars
Tranche
Grant date
No. of options 
granted
Weighted average 
fair value 
Maximum Tenure
FY 2019-20
Tranche 1
1-Apr-19
 15,125,000 
 ` 29.43 
 4 & 5 years 
Tranche 2
19-Jun-19
 500,000 
 ` 29.43 
 4 years 
Tranche 3
8-Aug-19
 600,000 
 ` 30.85 
 4 years 
Tranche 4
9-Sep-19
 1,000,000 
 ` 31.35 
 4 years 
FY 2020-21
Tranche 5
1-Jun-20
 5,000,000 
 ` 24.10 
 2 years 
Tranche 6
27-Jul-20
 6,500,000 
 ` 39.55 
 3 years 
368
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
Tranche
Grant date
No. of options 
granted
Weighted average 
fair value 
Maximum Tenure
FY 2021-22
Tranche 7
14-Apr-21
 2,500,000 
 ` 94.80 
 1 years 
Tranche 8
12-Nov-21
 350,000 
 ` 159.25 
 3 years 
FY 2022-23
Tranche 9
10-Aug-22
 4,500,000 
 `129.85 
 3 years 
FY 2023-24
Tranche 10
11-May-23
 4,200,000 
 `169.70 
 3 years 
Tranche 11
22-May-23
 300,000 
 `169.20 
 3 years 
Tranche 12
8-Aug-23
 2,300,000 
 `207.20 
 3 years 
	
46.3.4	 Following table depicts range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life
Total for all grants
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
No. of 
options
Range of 
exercise 
prices
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 11,576,200 
`24.10 - 
`159.25
 ` 59.79 
 0.72  12,407,851 
`24.10 - 
`159.25
 ` 59.79 
 1.21 
Granted during the 
year
 6,800,000 
`169.70-
`207.20
` 182.36
 3.00 
 4,500,000 
`129.85
` 129.85
 2.36 
Cancelled during the 
year
 113,500 
`29.43 - 
`39.55
` 33.31
-
 581,500 
`29.43 - 
`39.55
` 34.19
-
Expired during the 
year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the 
year
 6,161,700 
`24.10 - 
`39.55
 - 
 - 
 4,750,151 
`24.10 - 
`39.55
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the 
end of the year
 12,101,000 
`29.43 - ` 
207.20
` 155.71
1.93
 11,576,200 
`24.10 - 
`159.25
` 59.79
0.72
Exercisable at the end 
of the year
 2,167,000 
`29.43 - 
`159.25
 - 
 - 
 4,277,200 
`29.43 - 
`159.25
 - 
 - 
	
46.4	
Method used for accounting for share based payment plan	
	
The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair 
value of options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black – Scholes Model.
	
The key assumptions used in Black – Scholes Model for calculating fair value as on the date of respective grants are:
	
•	
Grant date
	
•	
Risk free interest rate
	
•	
Expected life
	
•	
Expected volatility
	
•	
Dividend yield
	
•	
Price of the underlying share in the market at the time of the option gran
369
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Note: For the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company has accounted expense of ` 18.83 Lakhs as Employee Benefit 
Expenses on the aforesaid employee stock option plan , including subsidiaries and step down subsidiaries scheme (Previous 
year: reversal of ` 5.00 Lakhs). The balance in share option outstanding account is ` 129.85 Lakhs as of March 31, 2024 
(` 110.99 Lakhs of March 31, 2023).	
	
46.5 TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR
	
	
During the year, the Company has:
	
	
Credited ESOP reserve on:
	
i)	
Debiting to employee related cost by ` 18.55 Lakhs (previous year: `6.09 Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its own employees; 
	
ii)	
Debiting investment in subsidiaries by ` 0.11 Lakhs (previous year: ` 1.19 Lakhs) being ESOP expenses on its subsidiaries 
employees;
	
	
Credited to ESOP Reserve’ & debited employee related cost by ` 0.28 Lakhs (previous year: ` 1.09 Lakhs) being ESOPs 
granted to the employees of the Company by its subsidiary;
	
	
The part of ESOP granted to employees of the its subsidiaries stand cancelled during the year. On Cancellation of ESOP’s the 
amount of `0.08 Lakhs (previous year: ` 1.19 Lakhs) was transferred from ESOP reserve A/c to Retained earning.
47	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of Company (after adjusting for interest on the 
convertible preference shares and interest on the convertible bond, in each case, net of tax) by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on the exercise of all the 
outstanding share options as per ESOP scheme.
	
The following table shows the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS calculations:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net (Loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company
 (6,535.37)
 (1,506.87)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 
 329,721,163 
 318,809,312 
Effect of dilution:
- For stock Options (as per ESOP scheme)
 2,119,646 
 4,750,151 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution
 331,840,809 
 323,559,463 
Earnings per share
(`)
(`)
Equity shareholders of the Company for the year:
Diluted earnings per share 
 (1.98)
 (0.47)
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of the 
completion of these financial statements which would require the restatement of EPS.
370
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
48	 Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities
	
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled. 
With regard to loans and advances to customers, the Company uses the same basis of expected repayment behaviour as used for 
estimating the EIR. Issued debt reflect the contractual coupon amortisations.	
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 698.78 
 - 
 698.78 
 3,381.35 
 - 
 3,381.35 
Bank Balance other than  above
 9.65 
 - 
 9.65 
 22.58 
 - 
 22.58 
Loans 
 6,025.80 
 - 
 6,025.80 
 2,410.23 
 - 
 2,410.23 
Investments
 5,173.89 
220,895.38 
226,069.27 
 5,504.00 
221,032.53 
226,536.53 
Other Financial Assets
 111.43 
 142.75 
 254.18 
 115.15 
 212.40 
 327.55 
Non-financial Assets 
Current Tax Assets (Net)
 583.34 
 2,591.98 
 3,175.32 
 1,666.82 
 1,514.02 
 3,180.84 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 - 
 510.30 
 510.30 
 - 
 397.66 
 397.66 
Right-of-use Assets
 - 
 1,466.37 
 1,466.37 
 - 
 1,158.09 
 1,158.09 
Intangible assets (incl. under development)
 - 
 2.57 
 2.57 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
Other Non-Financial Assets
 76.52 
 2,175.14 
 2,251.66 
 118.57 
 2,275.66 
 2,394.23 
Total Assets 
 12,679.41 
227,784.49 
240,463.90  13,218.70 226,590.46 239,809.16 
LIABILITIES 
Financial Liabilities 
Trade Payables
 565.66 
 136.26 
 701.92 
 458.08 
 291.72 
 749.80 
Borrowings (Other than debt securities)
 12,422.41 
 - 
 12,422.41 
 - 
 20,659.36 
 20,659.36 
Lease Liabilities
 294.97 
 1,331.70 
 1,626.67 
 466.23 
 738.48 
 1,204.71 
Other financial liabilities
 120.13 
 11,284.05 
 11,404.18 
 24.16 
 935.79 
 959.95 
Provisions 
 1,596.08 
 283.36 
 1,879.44 
 76.08 
 1,262.50 
 1,338.58 
Other Non Financial Liabilities
 112.84 
 - 
 112.84 
 198.14 
 - 
 198.14 
Total Liabilities 
 15,112.09 
 13,035.37 
 28,147.46 
 1,222.69 
 23,887.85 
 25,110.54 
Net 
 (2,432.68)
214,749.11 
212,316.44  11,996.02 202,702.60 214,698.62 
371
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
49. Related Party Disclosures
	
List of Related parties for Financial Year 2023-24
Nature of Relationship
Name of Party 
a (i)	 Subsidiaries
Religare Finvest Limited
Religare Capital Markets Limited
Care Health Insurance Limited
Religare Broking Limited
Religare Credit Advisor Private Limited
Religare Care Foundation (w.e.f February 4, 2022)
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited  
(w.e.f December 8, 2023)
Religare Global Asset Management Inc. (dissolved w.e.f. October 
09, 2023 as per search report received on December 27, 2023)
a (ii)	 Step Down Subsidiaries
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Religare Commodities Limited
Religare Digital Solutions Limited (w.e.f. April 7, 2022)
Religare Capital Markets International (Mauritius) Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Europe) Limited
Religare Capital Markets (UK) Limited
Religare Capital Markets Corporate Finance Pte Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Hongkong) Limited
Tobler (UK) Limited
Kyte Management Limited
Religare Capital Markets (Singapore) Pte Limited
Bartleet Wealth Management (Private) Limited
(Board controlled subsidiary)*
Bartleet Asset Management (Private) Limited*
(Board controlled subsidiary)*
Strategic Research Limited
Bartleet Religare Securities (Private) Limited)
(Board controlled subsidiary)*
Religare Capital Markets Inc. 
(b)	
Joint Venture
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited 
(c)	
Key Managerial personnel 
Dr. Rashmi Saluja - Executive Chairperson 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal - Group CFO
(d)	
Individuals owning directly or indirectly interest in voting 
power that gives them control 
Independent Directors
Mrs. Vijaylakshmi Rajaram Iyer (up to January 05, 2023)
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha 
Mr. Hamid Ahmed 
Mr. Vijay Shankar Madan 
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
372
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Nature of Relationship
Name of Party 
Mrs Preeti Madan (w.e.f. January 24, 2023)
(e)	
Employees Trust
Any Fund/Trust created by Reporting entity for the benefit of 
its employees
Post employee benefit plans for the benefit of
Religare Enterprises Limited Group -Gratuity Trust 
employees of the reporting entities or Group
Companies
Any Fund/Trust created by Subsidiary of reporting entity for 
the benefit of its employees
Religare Finvest Limited Group Gratuity Scheme 
Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 
Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Commodities Limited Group Gratuity Scheme 
CARE Health Insurance Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Broking Limited Group Gratuity Scheme Group Gratuity 
Scheme
(f)	
Employee trust where there is significant influence
Religare Capital Market Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
Religare Infrafacilities Limited Group Gratuity Scheme
	
 49.1 Following transactions carried out with related parties in ordinary course of business at Arm length basis 
(As per IND AS 24)
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
Inter Corporate Loans Repaid
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 12,500.00 
Inter Corporate Loans Given
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 5,000.00 
 7,200.00 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 1,000.00 
 1,100.00 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private 
Limited
a (i)
 50.00 
 - 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 9,533.60 
 22,000.00 
Inter Corporate Loans Received Back
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (i)
 1,100.00 
 - 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 1,318.00 
 11,582.00 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 9,533.60 
 22,000.00 
Interest on Inter Corporate Loan 
received
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 63.66 
 401.60 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 609.33 
 1,537.16 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
 118.48 
 - 
373
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
Security Deposit repaid
Religare Commodities Limited
a (i)
 - 
 608.65 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 1,178.53 
Subscription / Investment to Equity 
/ Preference Shares/ Commercial 
Papers  by the Company
Equity Share 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private 
Limited
a (i)
 30.00 
 - 
Care Health Insurance Limited
a (i)
 - 
 19,241.33 
Religare Finvest Limited (Adjustment)
a (i)
 - 
 2,000.00 
Corporate Guarantee given on behalf 
of subsidiaries
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 4,000.00 
 25,739.00 
Security Deposits received back
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 3.00 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 0.24 
 - 
Security Deposits Given
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 - 
 0.24 
Insurance Premium - Health / Travel
Care Health Insurance Limited
a (i)
 15.72 
 8.57 
Refund of Premium during the year
Care Health Insurance Limited
a (i)
 0.64 
 0.34 
Interest Income on Inter Corporate 
Loans
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 92.88 
 390.52 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 677.03 
 1,707.96 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 134.25 
 8.32 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private 
Limited
a (i)
 0.57 
 - 
Support Service Income
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 337.93 
 401.99 
Care Health Insurance Limited 
a (i)
 72.84 
 69.31 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 294.87 
 273.06 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 60.50 
 28.32 
Expenses Reimbursement by Other 
Companies (Allocation of Expenses)
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 28.83 
 23.81 
Care Health Insurance Limited 
a (i)
 27.84 
 21.23 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 27.43 
 22.80 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 20.58 
 21.12 
Purchased of Property, plant and 
equipment
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 0.07 
374
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
Director Sitting Fees
Mr. Malay Kumar Sinha
(d)
 22.40 
 20.80 
Mrs. Vijayalakshmi Rajaram Iyer
(d)
 - 
 10.80 
Mr. Hamid Ahmed
(d)
 20.40 
 20.00 
Mr. Vijay Shankar Madan
(d)
 - 
 3.60 
Mr. Praveen Kumar Tripathi
(d)
 13.80 
 10.00 
Mr. Ranjan Dwivedi
(d)
 5.00 
 7.00 
Mrs Preeti Madan
(d)
 13.20 
 1.00 
Expenses Reimbursement to Other 
Companies / (Recovery of Expenses)
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 0.32 
 2.62 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 15.76 
 22.94 
Depository Expenses
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 0.04 
 0.04 
Investment in Subsidiaries (ESOP 
scheme)
(for ESOP issued to Subsidiaries 
company employees)
Religare Finvest Limited3
a (i)
 0.11 
 0.94 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited4
a (ii)
 - 
 0.22 
Religare Broking Limited5
a (i)
 - 
 0.03 
Investment in Subsidiaries (ESOP 
Adjustment) 
(for ESOP issued to Subsidiaries 
company employees)
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 1.38 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 - 
 0.11 
Expense Reimbursement to 
subsidiaries (ESOP scheme)
(for ESOP issued by Subsidiaries to 
REL employees)
Religare Broking Limited6
a (i)
 0.07 
 1.10 
Remuneration to Key Managerial 
Personnel (Expense)
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
(c)
 1,463.41 
 1,426.38 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
(c)
 424.03 
 351.84 
Remuneration to Key Managerial 
Personnel (ESOP perquisite value) 
(Refer note 7 below)
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
(c)
 5,473.60 
 3,394.38 
Mr. Nitin Aggarwal
(c)
 3,581.91 
 676.00 
ESOP to Key Management Personnel 
(As per INDAS)
Key Management Personnel2
(c)
 0.49 
 (23.92)
375
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
49.2 Outstanding Balances
Amount (` in Lakhs)
NATURE OF TRANSACTIONS
Name of the Related Party
RP Type
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended on 
March 31, 2023 
Payable/ Liabilities
Security Deposit Payable
Religare Capital Markets Limited
a (i)
 2.30 
 2.30 
Trade Payables
Religare Commodities Limited
a(ii)
 - 
 5.66 
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 - 
 36.60 
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 2.15 
 4.59 
Bonus Payable to KMP's
Bonus Payable / Provision
 711.60 
 593.00 
Receivables
Loan Receivable 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
a (i)
 901.60 
 901.60 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private 
Limited
a (ii)
 50.00 
 - 
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 5,000.00 
 1,318.00 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 1,000.00 
 1,100.00 
Interest Receivable
Religare Capital Market Limited
a (i)
 295.49 
 295.49 
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 49.17 
 29.25 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private 
Limited
a (i)
 0.51 
 - 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 9.83 
 7.49 
Security Deposit Receivable
Religare Finvest Limited
a (i)
 - 
 0.24 
Corporate Guarantee
Religare Broking Limited/ Religare 
Commodities Limited
"a (i) / 
 (ii)"
 12,500.00 
 12,500.00 
Religare Broking Limited
a (i)
 22,000.00 
 18,000.00 
Advance given for Settlement of 
Corporate Guarantee
Religare Capital Market Limited
a (i)
 1,326.50 
 1,326.50 
Other Receivables
Religare Broking Limited 
a (i)
 27.81 
 0.34 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
a (i)
 312.43 
 312.43 
Care Health Insurance Limited
a (i)
 20.02 
 - 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
a (ii)
 0.19 
 - 
376
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Note
	
1)	
Transaction of Equity and Preference Capital contributions with Related party shown. Outstanding balance of Investment in equity 
and preference share capital is not showing.
	
2)	
74,00,000 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being  ESOPs granted to the Key Management Personnel of the Company 
by the Company.
	
3)	
5,29,000 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024  being  ESOPs  granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Finvest  Limited” by the Company.
	
4)	
10,000   shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024  being  ESOPs  granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited” by the Company.
	
5)	
36,000  shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being  ESOPs  granted to the employees of subsidiary company “Religare 
Broking Limited” by the Company.
	
6)	
43,45,000, 31,55,100 and 1,76,65,249 shares outstanding as on March 31, 2024 being ESOPs granted to the employees of 
the Company by subsidiary company “Religare Broking Limited”, “Religare Finvest Limited” and “Care Health Insurance Limited” 
respectively.
	
7)	
Including ESOPs allotted by the Subsidiary Companies in the capacity of employees of the REL as per their respective ESOP 
policies.
	
49.3 Key Management Personnel Compensation as per Ind AS-24:”	
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Short Term Employee Benefits
 1,815.91 
 1,747.67 
Post -employment benefits
 71.53 
 30.55 
Long term employee Benefits
 - 
 - 
Termination Benefits
 - 
 - 
Employee Share based payments (refer note 46)
 18.83 
 (9.05)
Total
 1,906.27 
 1,769.17 
50 -Other Notes as per RBI Guidelines:
	
A.	 (i)	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2015,  the Company received the Certificate of Registration as a Non-Deposit 
Taking Systemically Important Core Investment Company (“CIC-ND-SI”) vide Certificate No. N-14.03222 dated June 03, 2014 
issued by the RBI under the CIC Directions. By virtue of the CIC registration as aforesaid, the provisions of net owned fund 
requirements under section 45-IA (1)(b) of the RBI Act, 1934 and provisions  related to  “Asset Income Pattern”, “Requirement 
to Capital Adequacy (CRAR)” and “Concentration of Credit/Investment” as applicable for NBFCs under NBFC Master 
Directions 2016 shall not apply to the Company, subject to the compliance of conditions specified in the CIC Directions.
	
	
	
Further, pursuant to the Revised Regulatory framework issued vide notification no DNBR (PD) CC No.002/03.10.1001/2014-15 
dated November 10, 2014 and Guidelines on Corporate Governance - Review issued vide notification no DOR (NBFC) 
PD.003/03.10.19/2016-17 dated November 09, 2017, compliance requirement of Corporate Governance are exempted for 
a CIC Company. Accordingly, the Company has not disclosed matters specified in the said guidelines.
377
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
(ii)	 Component of Adjusted Net worth and other Compliance  Ratios:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(a)	
Investment and Loans to group companies as a proportion to Net Assets (%)
96.88%
96.97%
(b)	
Investment in Equity Shares and Compulsory Convertible Instruments of group 
companies as a proportion of Net Assets (%)
92.68%
95.58%
(c)	
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) [Adjusted Net worth / Risk Weightage Assets] (%)
65.73%
64.48%
(d)	
Leverage Ratios (Times) [Outside liabilities / Adjusted Net worth] (Times)
0.42
0.40
(e)	
Unrealized appreciation in the book value of quoted investments (`in Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
(f)	
Diminution in the aggregate book value of quoted investment
 - 
 - 
	
	
Disclaimer:
(a)	
Reserve Bank of India does not accept any responsibility or guarantee about the present position as to the financial 
soundness of the Company or for the correctness of any of the statements or representations made or opinions expressed 
by the Company and for discharge of liability by the company.
(b)	
Neither is there any provision in law to keep, nor does the Company keep any part of the deposits with the Reserve Bank 
and by issuing the Certificate of Registration to the Company, the Reserve Bank of India neither accepts any responsibility 
nor guarantee for the payment of the public funds to any person/body corporate.
	
B.	
Off Balance Sheet Exposure
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i)	
Off balance sheet exposure
 52,825.82 
 73,283.55 
ii)	
Financial Guarantee as a % of total off-balance sheet exposure
0.0%
0.0%
iii)	
Non-Financial Guarantee as a% of total off-balance sheet exposure
46.76%
35.12%
iv)	
Off balance sheet exposure to overseas subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
v)	
Letter of Comfort issued to any subsidiary
 - 
 - 
C.	 I)	
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR)
	
	
	
As mentioned in note 50(a)(i), requirement of maintaining CRAR is not applicable on the company being a CIC.
Items
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(i)
CRAR (%)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
(ii)
CRAR - (Tier I Capital (%)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
(iii)
CRAR - (Tier II Capital (%)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
Refer Note 50 (a)(i)
	
	
II)	
Exposure to Real Estate Sector
Category
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(a)
Direct Exposures
(i)	
Residential Mortgages
-
-
(ii)	
Commercial Real Estate
-
-
(iii)	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other 
Securitised exposures:- 
-
-
(a)	
Residential, 
(b)	
Commercial Real Estate 
-
-
Total
-
-
378
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Category
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(b)
Indirect Exposures 
Fund based and non fund based exposures on National Housing 
Bank(NHB) and Housing Finance Companies(HFCs)
 - 
 - 
	
	
III)	 Investments
(1) Value of Investments
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1
Gross Value of Investments
(a) In India
 320,463.06 
 320,463.07 
(b) Outside India
 - 
 - 
2
Provisions for depreciation
(a) In India
 94,393.79 
 93,926.54 
(b) Outside India
 - 
 - 
3
Net Value of Investment
(a) In India
 226,069.27 
 226,536.53 
(b) Outside India
 - 
 - 
(2)
Movement of Provisions Held towards Depreciation  
of Investment
1
Opening Balance
 93,926.53 
 94,134.88 
2
Provisions made During the year
 467.26 
 4.34 
3
Less - Write off/ write back of provisions during the year
 - 
 212.69 
4
Closing Balance
 94,393.79 
 93,926.53 
	
	
IV)	 ALM Maturity pattern of assets and liabilities
Particulars
1 to 7 days
8 to 14 
days
15-30/ 
31 days
Over 1 
month to 2 
month
Over 2 
month to 
3 months
Total
Liabilities
Borrowing - Inter Corporate Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Borrowing -Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets
Advances (net of provisions)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investments (net of provisions)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,982.81 
 700.00 
 4,682.81 
Particulars
Over 3 
Months up 
to 6 months
Over 6 
months 
to 1 year
1 Year to 
3 years
Over 3 years 
to 5 years
Over 5 
years
Total
Liabilities
 - 
Borrowing - Inter Corporate Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Borrowing -Others
 12,422.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  12,422.41 
Assets
 - 
Loan & Advances (net of provisions)
 - 
 29.56 
 6,025.81 
 - 
 41.86 
 6,097.23 
Investments (net of provisions)
 491.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
379
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
V)	 Investment in Other CIC’s
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	
Total amount representing any direct or indirect capital contribution made by 
one CIC in another CIC (including name of CICs
NA
NA
(b)	
Number of CICs with their names wherein the direct or indirect capital 
contribution exceeds 10% of Owned Funds
NA
NA
(c)	
Number of CICs with their names wherein the direct or indirect capital 
contribution is less than 10% of Owned Funds
NA
NA
	
	
VI)	 Provisions and Contingencies
	
Provisions and Contingencies shall be presented as under:
Break up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ shown under the Profit and 
Loss Account
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
 483.49 
 4.33 
Provision towards NPA
 - 
 250.00 
Provision made towards Income tax
 - 
 - 
Provision against Letter of comfort
 - 
 4.52 
Other Provision and Contingencies {refer Note 51(c)}
 - 
 (2,073.42)
Provision for Standard Assets
 16.43 
 (15.53)
Business ratio's
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
i)	
Return on Equity (ROE)
(3.08%)
(0.7%)
ii)	
Return on Assets (ROA)
(2.72%)
(0.6%)
III)	
Net Profit per employee (In Lakhs)
(32.34)
(81.27)
	
	
VII)	 Concentration of NPA’s
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
(Amount)
 Exposure as a 
% of total assets
(Amount)
 Exposure as a 
% of total assets
Total Exposure to top five NPA accounts
903.32
0.4%
903.32
0.4%
	
	
VIII)	Overseas Assets (for those with Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries abroad)
Name of The 
Joint Venture
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Other Partner 
in JV
Country
Total Assets
Other Partner 
in JV
Country
Total Assets
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
380
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
D.	 Disclosures of details as required in terms of Paragraph 21 of CIC Direction:
Liabilities side:
 Amount 
Outstanding  
 Amount 
Overdue 
 Amount 
Outstanding  
 Amount 
Overdue 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2023
1)	
Loans and Advances availed by the CIC 
inclusive of interest accrued thereon but 
not paid:
a)
Debentures:	
Secured
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
	
:	
Unsecured
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(other than falling within the meaning of 
Public deposits)
 - 
 - 
b)
Deferred Credits
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
c)
Term Loans
 12,422.41 
 - 
 12,256.33 
 - 
d)
Inter-Corporate loans and borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
e)
Commercial Paper
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
f)
Other Loans (unsecured finance lease)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
a)	
Working Capital Loan from Banks
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b)	
Interest accrued and not due on 
Loans
 2,870.39 
 - 
 923.92 
 - 
Assets:
Amount Outstanding
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
2)	
Break-up of Loans and Advances including bills receivables (other than those 
included in (4) below):
a) Secured
 - 
b)
Unsecured
 6,097.22 
 2,481.65 
3)	
Break-up of Leased Assets and stock on hire and hypothecation loans counting 
towards AFC activities
i)
Lease assets including lease rentals under sundry debtors:
a)	
Financial Lease
-
b)	
Operating Lease
-
ii)
Stock on hire including hire charges under Sundry Debtors:
-
a)	
Assets on hire
-
b)	
Repossessed Assets
-
iii) Other Loans counting towards Financing activities.
a)	
Loans where assets have been repossessed
-
b)	
Loans other than (a) above
-
4)	
Break-up of Investments(Net):
1
Quoted:
i)	
Shares:	
a)	
Equity
-
-
	
	
	
b)	
Preference
-
-
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
-
-
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
-
-
iv)	
Government Securities
-
-
381
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Assets:
Amount Outstanding
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
v)	
Others 
-
-
2
Unquoted:
i)	
Shares:	
a)	
Equity
-
	
	
	
b)	
Preference
-
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
-
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 5,173.89 
 5,504.00 
iv)	
Government Securities
-
v)	
Others - Venture Capital Fund
 - 
 - 
Long Term Investments (at gross value):
1
Quoted:
i)	
Shares:	
a)	
Equity
-
-
	
	
b)	
Preference
-
-
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 -
 -
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 -
 -
iv)	
Government Securities
 -
 -
v)	
Others 
 -
 -
2
Unquoted:
i)	
Shares:	
a)	
Equity *
 220,895.38 
 220,565.27 
	
	
b)	
Preference**
 - 
 - 
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 - 
 - 
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 - 
 - 
iv)	
Government Securities
 - 
 - 
v)	
Others - Alternative Investment Fund
 - 
 467.26 
	
	
* Including Partly paid up Equity shares of Gross Investment `38,555.00 Lakhs (Face Value of ` 15 each out of which `10 is paid up) and net investment for 
this category of share is Nil.
5)	
Borrower group-wise classification of assets financed as in (2) and (3) above:
Category
 Amount net of Provisions 
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
 Secured 
 Unsecured 
Total
 Secured 
 Unsecured 
Total
1
Related Parties
a)	
Subsidiaries
 - 
 6,025.80 
 6,025.80 
 - 
2410.23
 2,410.23 
b)	
Companies in the same 
group
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
c)	
Other related parties
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Other than related parties
 - 
 29.55 
 29.55 
 - 
 45.70 
 45.70 
Total
 - 
 6,055.35 
 6,055.35 
 - 
 2,455.93 
 2,455.93 
382
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
6)	
Investor group-wise classification of all investments (current and long term) in shares and securities (both 
quoted and unquoted):
Category
Break-up or Fair 
value or NAV
 Book Value (Net 
of Provisions) 
1
Related Parties
(a) Subsidiaries
 230,213.71 
 220,895.24 
(b) Companies in the same group
 - 
 - 
(c) Other related parties
 - 
 - 
2
Other than related parties
 5,173.89 
 5,173.89 
Total
 235,387.60 
 226,069.13 
7)	
Other information
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i)
Gross Non-Performing Assets
(a)	
Related parties
 1,551.50 
 1,551.50 
(b)	
Other than related parties
 9.92 
 9.92 
(ii)
Net Non-Performing Assets
(a)	
Related parties
 - 
 - 
(b)	
Other than related parties
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
363.97
363.97
8.	
Joint Venture as required by IND AS-112 - “ Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities” are given below:
Particulars
Description of 
Interest
% of Interest
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
IBOF Investment Management Private Limited
Equity Shareholding
50.00%
50.00%
	
	
*Due to  long term restrictions, company excluded from consolidation 
	
	
Company’s Interest in Joint Ventures
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Assets
 - 
 7.47 
Liabilities
 - 
 7.20 
Revenue
 - 
 - 
Depreciation
 - 
 0.00 
Other Expenses
 - 
 4.06 
383
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
9.	
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to subsidiaries and associates
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Name of Subsidiary/ Associates:
 Outstanding 
Balance 
 Maximum amount 
outstanding at any 
time during the 
year 
 Outstanding 
Balance 
 Maximum amount 
outstanding at any 
time during the 
year 
Religare Capital Markets Limited
 2,228.11 
 2,228.11 
 2,228.11 
 2,228.11 
Religare Broking Limited
 5,000.00 
 5,000.00 
 1,318.00 
 5,700.00 
Religare Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
 1,000.00 
 1,100.00 
 1,100 
 1,100.00 
MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited
 50.00 
 50.00 
 - 
 - 
	
50.1 Following are the information of the Companies that are not consolidated
	
	
Pursuant to RBI Direction following are the details of the Companies not consolidated [Refer Note 51(f)].
	
Religare Capital Markets Limited (herein refer to as ‘RCML’) is the holding company of under mentioned subsidiaries. The last audit 
for RCML was carried out for Financial Year ended March 31, 2017. Since then, RCML does not have a functional board owing to 
which audited financial statements for subsequent years till FY 2022-23, are not available. Therefore, reporting has been done on 
the basis of last audited consolidated financials.
Sr 
No
Name of Entity
Type of Business
IGAAP
 Size of 
Assets 
 Debt-Equity 
Ratio 
 Net Profit/
(Loss) 
FY 16-17
FY 16-17
FY 16-17
1
Religare Capital Markets 
Limited
Institutional Equities Broking 
and Investment Banking
IGAAP
 21,976.03 
 (1.05)
 (51,644.34)
	
	
The subsidiary companies of RCML (Incorporated in Country as detailed under) not considered in the 
consolidated financial statements:
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity
Proportion  of 
ownership Interest
Country of 
Incorporation
Nature of Business
1
Religare Capital Markets 
International (Mauritius) Limited
100.00%
Mauritius
The Company is an Investment Holding Company 
having Category GBL-1 License from Financial 
Services Commission (FSC), Mauritius. 
2
Religare Capital Markets 
(Europe) Limited (RCME)     
[Formerly known as Religare 
Capital Markets Plc. ]
100.00%
United 
Kingdom
The Company was engaged in the business of 
securities broking and investment banking and 
regulated by Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
UK. The license was surrendered in year 2013 
and currently it has no business operations. Entity 
is under liquidation process.
3
Religare Capital Markets (UK) 
Limited
100.00%
United 
Kingdom
The Company was engaged in the business of 
providing corporate finance and it was regulated 
by FCA, UK. The license was surrendered in year 
2012 and currently it has no business operations.
4
Religare Capital Markets 
Corporate Finance Pte. Ltd.
100.00%
Singapore
The Company was engaged into business of 
advising on corporate finance. It was regulated 
by Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), 
Singapore. The license was lapsed in year 2017 
and currently it has no business operations.
384
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity
Proportion  of 
ownership Interest
Country of 
Incorporation
Nature of Business
5
Religare Capital Markets Inc
100.00%
USA
The Company was a registered broker dealer 
engaged in securities broking and it was regulated 
by Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), USA. 
The license was surrendered in year 2012 and 
currently it has no business operations.
6
Tobler UK Limited
100.00%
United 
Kingdom
The Company has no business operations. 
7
Religare Capital Markets (HK) 
Limited
100.00%
Hong Kong
The Company was engaged into securities 
broking business. It was regulated by SFC, Hong 
Kong. The license was surrendered in year 2017 
and currently it has no business operations.
8
Religare Capital Markets 
(Singapore) Pte Limited
100.00%
Singapore
The Company was engaged into securities 
broking business. It was regulated by MAS, 
Singapore. The license was surrendered in year 
2017 and currently it has no business operations.
9
Kyte Management Limited
100.00%
BVI
The company is a holding company in British 
Virgin Island. It had operating subsidiaries namely 
Religare Capital Markets (Hong Kong ) Limited and 
Religare Capital Markets Singapore Pte. Limited.
10
Bartleet Religare Securities 
(Private) Limited [BRSL]
50.00%
Sri Lanka
The Company is engaged into securities broking 
business. It is regulated by SEC and CSE, Sri 
Lanka.
11
Bartleet Asset Management 
(Private) Limited
50.00%
Sri Lanka
The Company is engaged in the business 
investment advisory services. It is regulated by 
SEC, Sri Lanka.
12
Strategic Research Limited
50.00%
Sri Lanka
The Company is engaged in equity research 
activities.
13
Religare Bartleet Capital 
Market (Pvt) Ltd
50.00%
Sri Lanka
The Company was engaged in the business 
of providing wealth management services. 
Currently, it has no business operations.
	
	
Note: As per the latest Consolidated Audited Financials of Religare Capital Markets Limited for the year ended March 31, 2017.
	
	
ii)	
Nature and type of exposure on each entity:
Sr 
No
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2024
Year Ended
March 31, 2023
i)
Investments in equity 
 38,555.00 
 38,555.00 
ii)
Investments in convertible instruments,
 - 
 - 
iii)
Investments in bonds/ debentures/ other instruments, 
 - 
 - 
iv)
Loans and advances,
 901.60 
 901.60 
v)
Any other (Investment in Preference Share)
 18,500.00 
 18,500.00 
vi)
Any Others (Receivable against business transaction)
 312.43 
 312.43 
vii)
Any Others (Interest on Loan)
 295.49 
 295.49 
 58,564.52 
 58,564.52 
	
	
	
Note : All Investments and other transactions (at gross Value) are with ‘Religare Capital Market Limited’ only.
385
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
iii)	 Total exposure of the CIC towards non-financial business (entity–wise)
	
	
	
1	
Receivable against business transaction	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
NA
	
	
iv)	 Loans and advances to firms/companies in which directors are interested 	 	
	
	
	
	
NA
	
	
v)	
Investments by the loanee of the CIC in the shares of parent company and group companies.	 NA
	
50.2 Public disclosure on liquidity risk
	
	
(i)	
Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and borrowings)
Sr. 
No.
Number of Significant Counterparties
Amount
% of Total 
deposits
% of Total 
Liabilities
1
NA
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
	
(ii)	 Top 20 large deposits (amount in Lakhs and % of total deposits)
Sr. 
No.
Name
Amount
% of Total 
deposits
1
NA
NA
NA
	
	
(iii)	 Top 10 borrowings (amount in Lakhs and % of total borrowings)
Sr. 
No.
Name
Amount
% of Total 
deposits
1
JM Financial Products Limited
 6,250.00 
50.00%
2
JM Financial Credit Solutions Ltd
 6,250.00 
50.00%
 12,500.00 
	
	
	
Note - Liability portion of redeemable preference shares not considered as borrowing for this disclosure
	
	
(iv)	 Funding Concentration based on significant instrument/product
Sr. 
No.
Name of the instrument/product
Amount
% of Total 
Liabilities
1
Corporate Loans (net of borrowing cost)
 12,422.41 
43.5%
2
Liability portion of redeemable preference shares
 8,403.03 
29.4%
Total
 20,825.44 
75.8%
	
	
	
Note - The amount shown in the table is as per REL financial as on March 31, 2024
	
	
(v)	 Stock Ratios:  
	
	
	
(a)	
Commercial papers as a % of total public funds ,total liabilities and total assets
Sr No
Commercial papers ( Amount)
% Total Public Funds
% Total Liabilities
% Total Assets
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
386
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
	
	
(b)	
Non-convertible debentures (original maturity of less than one year) as a % of total public funds,  total liabilities 
and total assets
Sr No
Non Convertible Debenture ( Amount)
% Total Public Funds
% Total Liabilities
% Total Assets
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
	
	
(c)	
Other short-term liabilities  if any as a % of total public funds  total liabilities and total assets
Sr 
No
Other Short Term Liabilities 
Amount
% Total Public 
Funds
% Total 
Liabilities
% Total 
Assets
1
Liabilities other than borrowing (Sundry creditors, 
provisions and Other financial Liabilities)
 18,489.58 
88.8%
64.7%
7.7%
	
(vi)	 Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
The Company has borrowing from group companies but does not have bank borrowings or deposits. The Company manages 
its liquidity risk based on the asset liability management policy which includes liquidity risk management and incorporates the 
principles laid down by RBI in the liquidity risk management framework of NBFC.
51	 Other Notes
	
a)	
Classification of Loans and Advances and provision for Non-Performing Assets and provision towards diminution in the value 
of Investments other than long term have been made in accordance with the NBFC Regulations / Directions after considering 
subsequent recoveries and realizable value of investments respectively. Provision for Investment is made in accordance with 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended 
from time to time. The classification of loans into standard, sub-standard and loss assets and investments have been disclosed at 
gross value and the corresponding provision against non-performing assets / investments has been included under provisions in 
accordance with NBFC Directions. The notified Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) are followed by the Company in so far as they 
are not inconsistent with the NBFC Directions / Regulations.
	
b)	
As during the current year there is no taxable income no provision for income tax has been considered necessary. Further, as the 
Company had opted for new tax regime under section 115BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the provisions of MAT under Section 
115JB are not applicable to the Company.
	
c)	
(i)	
REL has not redeemed 15 Lakhs preference shares issued to Oscar Investments Limited, which had become due for 
redemption on October 31, 2018 having the redemption value of ` 4,190.28 Lakhs, as it has disputed the said transaction 
to be an illegal one and has filed a police complaint with Economic Offence Wing (EOW). In the matter of Daiichi Sankyo 
Company Limited (the ‘Daiichi’) vs. Malvinder Mohan Singh and Others, REL has been made a garnishee with regards to these 
preference shares. REL has filed an interim application disputing its liability as a garnishee. The preference shares stand 
transferred in the account of the Court receiver. The Decree Holder i.e. Daiichi has filed an application by suppressing the fact 
that the entire shareholding of RHC Holdings Pvt Ltd in Elive InfoTech Pvt Ltd. has been pledged in favour of Religare Finvest 
Limited (RFL) a wholly owned subsidiary of REL, as a security for various loans to group companies of RHC Holdings Pvt Ltd 
and obtained a status quo order on the brand “Religare”. RFL has filed an objection application in the said proceedings. 
RFL has also filed an objection application against the release of properties to Daiichi. Elive Infotech Pvt. Ltd.  has further filed 
an application seeking sale of the Religare Trademark along with payment of approx. ` 323 Crores from REL for unauthorized 
usage of the Religare and allied Trademarks in light of the Brand License Agreement executed with RHC Holding Pvt. Ltd. The 
matter is sub-judice.
	
	
(ii)	
REL has not redeemed 250 Lakhs preference shares issued to RHC Finance Pvt. Limited, which had become due for 
redemption on August 30, 2021 having the redemption value of ` 4,212.75 Lakhs. REL has also filed a petition with Hon’ble 
NCLT, Delhi under Section 55 and 59 of the Companies Act, 2013 seeking rectification of Register of Members of the 
387
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Company, alleging the transaction to be a fraudulent one and has sought cancellation of preference shares along with 
stay on voting rights in the interim. On September 29, 2021, the Hon’ble NCLT directed ordering the status quo on the 
respondents to restrain them from exercising their voting power with the resolution, until the further orders. Further, vide 
order dated December 16, 2021, it was affirmed by Hon’ble NCLT that interim orders will continue. The matter is sub-judice.
	
	
iii)	
The Company had created the provision of contingency towards the potential interest liability, if any, which may arise from the 
final outcome of above matters on prudent / conservative basis. The Company’s management based on its re-assessment 
of the facts of the matter and as advised by the legal experts in the earlier year, at March 31, 2023, was  of the view that 
there will be no contractual or legal obligation on the Company  to pay any compensation/interest in lieu of the unredeemed 
preference shares or on its redemption value irrespective of what may be the final outcome of the matters regarding the 
payment of redemption value of ` 8,403.03 Lakhs which are presently sub-judice as detailed above. Accordingly, the 
provision towards contingency of ` 2,941.67 Lakhs held on this account (` 868.25 created during the year ended March 31, 
2023 and ` 2,073.42 Lakhs created upto March 31, 2022) had been reversed during the earlier year ended March 31, 2023, 
however, the provision towards the redemption value of ` 8,403.03 Lakhs has been continued on prudent / conservative 
basis under Note 19 - Other Financial Liabilities.
	
d)	
In FY 2018, an Inter Corporate Loan of ` 285.00 Lakhs was given to Religare Capital Markets Limited (RCML) by one of the merged 
Company i.e. Religare Advisors Limited (RAL) (now merged with REL - refer note 51.r) for working capital requirement out of which 
` 35 Lakhs were adjusted / received subsequently. Considering the cash flow issues and no business operations in RCML, REL had 
given Letter of Comfort (LoC) dated 30th May 2018 to RAL mentioning that REL agrees to meet and provide payment upto ` 250 
Lakhs to RAL, which will be reimbursed by REL as and when business demands cash funds and support for revival of business. 
Due to its weak financial position and no business operation, RCML couldn’t repay the said Inter Corporate Loan till the balance 
sheet date and accordingly RAL had recognized impairement loss allowance of ` 250 Lakhs in the statement of Profit and Loss in 
FY 2022-23.
	
e)	
The Company has neither traded nor invested in Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency during the year ended March 31, 2024 / 
March 31, 2023.
	
f)	
Though the Company has investment in entire equity shares of ‘Religare Capital Markets Limited (“RCML”)’, however, the right to 
exercise control through voting rights may not be available with the Company. Besides this, in terms of the tripartite agreement 
between the Company, RCML and ‘RHC Holding Private Limited’, severe long term restrictions and significant restrictive covenants 
have been imposed on major decision making at RCML, by the holders of preference shares in RCML. Considering the same, the 
financial results of RCML and its subsidiaries have not been considered in the consolidated financial statements of the Company, 
in accordance with the applicable Indian Accounting Standards. The Company has fully impaired the value of its investment in 
RCML. The net worth of the RCML as per the last audited financial statements as at March 31, 2017 was negative by ` 61,971.95 
Lakhs, and thereafter, the financial statements/results of RCML are not available with the Company. There is a contingent liability of 
` 4,077.50 Lakhs towards uncalled equity shares capital of RCML.
	
g)	
The Company has received the Public Announcement dated September 25, 2023 in relation to an Open Offer to the Public 
Shareholders of the Company on behalf of the Burman Group of Companies [i.e. M.B. Finmart Private Limited (“Acquirer 1”), Puran 
Associates Private Limited (“Acquirer 2”), VIC Enterprises Private Limited (“Acquirer 3”), and Milky Investment & Trading Company 
(“Acquirer 4”) (hereinafter the “Acquirers”)], for acquisition of upto 90,042,541 fully paid-up equity shares of face value of ` 10 
each from the public shareholders of the Company representing 26.00% of the Expanded Voting Share Capital of the Company. 
The Open Offer has been made pursuant to and in compliance with Regulations 3(1) and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and subsequent amendments thereto. The Detailed 
Public Statement dated October 03, 2023 has been published by the Acquirers on October 04, 2023, and the Draft Letter of Offer 
has been submitted by the Acquirers with SEBI on October 11, 2023. The Acquirers have received the approval of the Competition 
Commission of India (“CCI”) as mentioned in the Press Release dated January 23, 2024 followed by detailed order of the same 
date uploaded on on the CCI website on March 15, 2024, the same has been appealed against and pending adjudication before 
Hon’ble National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Further, the Company received an endorsement email from the RBI 
addressed to the Acquirer on their Application for prior approval for change in management and control stating that request cannot 
388
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
be acceded to, as application for prior permission for acquiring control and / or change in management has to be submitted by 
the NBFC in which, change in management and control is taking place. Presently there is no impact of the same on the Company, 
however, the Company is monitoring and evaluating the above development closely.
	
h)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity, including foreign entities (Intermediaries) 
with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
-	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
-	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
i)	
The Company is not declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any other lenders.
	
j)	
Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”)
	
	
The Company has received a letter dated February 28, 2018 from Serious Fraud Investigation Office (“SFIO”), Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”), Government of India, intimating the Company that the MCA has ordered an investigation into the affairs of the 
Company by the SFIO.  The investigation is going on as on date and information sought by SFIO for Company and its subsidiaries 
through various communications is being provided.
	
k)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for 
holding any Benami property.
	
l)	
The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. Subramanian Lakshminarayanan and Mr. Francis Daniel Lee as Executive Chairman 
and Executive Director on November 14, 2017 and November 17, 2017 respectively subject to approval of shareholders. 
They ceased to be Executive Chairman and Executive Director of the Company w.e.f. January 22, 2018 and January 24, 2018 
respectively. The shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting held on September 20, 2018 did not accord 
approval for payment of remuneration to them for their tenure as Executive Chairman / Executive Directors. Accordingly, U/s 197(9) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has sent notices for refund of the remuneration of ` 82.61 Lakhs and  ` 4.36 Lakhs 
respectively paid to them. They have not refunded the amount till date. The Company has submitted an Complaint/Application 
with the ROC, Delhi for Adjudication of Penalty under Section 454 of the Companies Act, 2013 in September, 2019 to recover the 
amount.  However, no reply has been received from the ROC in the matter till date. The letters seeking status of said applications 
were submitted to the ROC in December, 2022. The recovery will be accounted on realisation.
	
m)	
(i)	
Religare Finvest Limited (RFL) a wholly owned subsidary, had faced significant asset liability mismatches and suffered losses 
as a result of shiphoning and misappropriation of its funds under the control of the erstwhile promoters. RFL had made 
defaults in repayment of its obligation towards the borrowings and interest thereon. During the year ended March 31, 2021, 
RFL had proposed its Debt Restructuring Plan (DRP) to the lenders, and as the same could not be approved, RFL proposed 
One Time Settlement (‘OTS’) with its lenders, which was finally agreed by all the lenders (except few unsecured lenders) and 
executed on December 30, 2022. OTS interalia stipulated the payment of total upfront consideration of ` 217,800 lacs i.e. 
` 215,000 lacs to the secured lenders and ` 2,800 lacs to the unsecured lenders. The said OTS had been implemented by 
RFL by payment of entire upfront consideration of ` 217,800 lacs (` 177,800 lacs on December 31, 2022, and ` 40,000 
lacs on March 8, 2023). RFL has also received No Due Certificates from all the lenders under OTS. As part of the OTS, RFL 
has also entered into an Upside Sharing Agreement on December 30, 2022 with the OTS lenders in terms of which RFL 
shall share with the lenders, 70% of the principal and 50% of the interest of the FDR with LVB (net of expenses), subject to a 
minimum of ` 50,000 Lakhs and 60% of the Corporate Loan Book (‘CLB’) (net of expenses), both currently being pursued as 
part of litigations instituted by RFL, as and when recovered by RFL.
	
	
(ii)	
Apart from OTS as detailed in para - 51m(i) above, 1,000 Unsecured Rated Listed Redeemable Non-Convertible Subordinated 
Debentures of ` 1,000,000/- each amounting ` 11,860 Lakhs (including accrued interest) issued by RFL had also been 
settled for an amount of ` 2,000 Lakhs by REL with one of its Lenders in the earlier year on April 22, 2022 as per the 
389
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Settlement Agreement entered with the said lender, and the impact thereof had been taken in the accounts of the previous 
period / year accordingly.
	
	
(iii)	
During the current year, RFL has settled the unsecured loan taken from ICICI Bank Ltd., which was not part of OTS, and has 
paid the final settlement amount of ` 18,750.00 Lakhs as per the terms of the settlement against the outstanding dues of 
` 41,784.62 Lakhs.
	
	
(iv)	
Debenture holders of NCD series 30, 32, 35 and 36 (having the overdue outstanding of ` 9,539.46 Lakhs) who were not part 
of OTS, have accepted the settlement offer of RFL during the current year. As per the terms of the settlement, the settlement 
amounts aggregating to ` 9,533.60 Lakhs (net of TDS of ` 5.86 Lakhs) have been paid in full.
	
	
(v)	
As RFL in the past had faced significant asset liability mismatches, suffered losses and made defaults in repayment of 
its obligation towards the borrowings and interest thereon, it had been put under Corrective Action Plan (CAP) by RBI, 
which inter-alia prohibits it from expansion of credit / investment portfolios other than investment in Government Securities. 
As detailed in para 51.m(i) to 51.m(iv) above, RFL in its revival journey has repaid / settled  the debts of all its lenders, and 
now it is debt free company with no subsisting default, and there is improvements in its  financial ratios and liquidity position 
and strengthening of the corporate governance standards and it is ready to resume lending business based on its core 
competencies, and RFL has submitted the request letter to RBI for the removal of CAP and restrictions thereto, and is taking 
the necessary corrective measures and has submitted the information / details as required and advised by RBI in this regard.
	
	
(vi)	
After settlement with lenders, there is significant improvement in RFL’s  financial performance, ratios and position, which has 
a positive impact on the value of the investment of the Company in RFL,  however, considering that RFL is still Under CAP, the 
Company considering the principle of prudency has not reversed  the impairment on its investment in RFL.
	
n)	
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
	
o)	
In terms of the Share Purchase Agreement dated April 05, 2023 with IGEAR Holdings Private Limited (IHPL), The Indian Express 
Private Limited (TIEPL) and MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Limited (MIC) for acquisition of 100% stake in MIC, an IRDAI 
registered insurance web aggregator, the acquisition of MIC has been completed by the Company on December 08, 2023. 
Accordingly, it has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company on December 08, 2023.
	
p)	
REL had entered into a Share Purchase Agreement on April 05, 2023 with Religare Finvest Limited (RFL), a wholly owned subsidiary 
of REL and Religare Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (RHDFCL), subsidiary company of RFL, for acquisition of 
entire equity stake of RHDFCL held by RFL. RFL currently holds 87.5% of total share capital of RHDFCL. Post-acquisition, RHDFCL 
shall become a direct subsidiary of REL. The application seeking approval of RBI in the matter submitted by RHDFCL on April 18, 
2023 has been returned by RBI with an advice to submit a fresh application with complete information, for which RHDFCL is taking 
the necessary steps.
	
q)	
(i).	
The Company continues to be barred from declaring dividends as per RBI letter issued in December, 2019.
	
	
(ii).	
The Company does not fall under the classification of Large Corporate Borrower as mentioned under the SEBI Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/144 dated November 26, 2018.
(r)	
Business Combination / Merger
	
(a)	
To ensure the simplification of group structure, thereby resulting in reduction in multiplicity of legal and regulatory compliances 
and reduction of costs and pooling of common resources, the Board of Directors of ‘Religare Enterprises Limited’ (‘REL /
Transferee Company’) at its meeting held on December 18, 2019 had considered and approved a merger of four of its direct 
/ indirect subsidiaries ‘Religare Comtrade Limited’ (RCTL), ‘Religare Insurance Limited’ (RIL),  ‘Religare Advisors Limited’ (RAL), 
and ‘Religare Business Solutions Limited’ (RBSL), (collectively referred to as the ‘Transferor Companies’) by way of a Scheme 
of Amalgamation (the ‘Scheme’), at Nil Consideration. The Delhi Bench of the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) 
390
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
through its order dated June 15, 2023 had approved the Scheme with the appointed date of the merger being April 01, 
2019, and thereafter the Scheme had been filed with the Registrar of Companies on June 23, 2023.
	
(b)	
As all the Transferor Companies are the direct / indirect subsidiaries of the Transferee Company, and the entire paid up 
capital of the Transferor Companies is directly or indirectly beneficially held by the Transferee Company, no consideration is 
involved in the Scheme, and accordingly no new shares of the Transferee Company are issued in respect of shares held by 
the Transferee Company or its other subsidiaries in the Transferor Companies, and their entire share capital (including the 
preference share capital) is cancelled and extinguished.
	
(c)	
The merger has been accounted for based on the audited financial statements of the Transferee and Transferor Companies, 
using the pooling of interest method, as per guidance on Business Combination of entities under common control as 
contained in Ind AS 103 ‘Business Combination’. The difference between the amount of investment in the shares of the 
Transferor Companies as appearing in the books of accounts of the Transferee Company and the amount of paid capital of 
the Transferor Companies as at the appointed date has been transferred to the Capital Reserve as detailed below:
Particulars
Amount
Reversal of Share Capital of Transferor Companies 
-	
Religare Advisors Limited
 2,432.00 
-	
Religare Comtrade Limited
 3,712.67 
-	
Religare Insurance Limited
 0.50 
-	
Religare Business Solutions Limited 
 4.00 
 6,149.17 
Reversal of Preference Share Capital issued by  Religare Advisors Limited RAL   
 1,290.00 
Investment (net of impairment) in the Transferor Companies 
 (212.67)
Total amount transferred / credited to Capital Reserve 
 7,226.50 
s) 	
he Company has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
-	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
-	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
t)	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has issued a notification Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules, 2021, which is 
effective from 1st April, 2023, states that every Company which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account 
shall use only the accounting software where there is a feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, and 
further creating an edit log of each change made to books of account along with the date when such changes were made 
and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled. The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account which has feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the software, except certain components of audit trail were not operating due to system 
limitations. Further, it was not tampered at any time during the year.
u)	
The Company has no such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other 
relevant provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
v)	
The title deed of immovable properties of the Company are held in the name of the Company.
391
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
52. Micro and Small enterprises
	
The below information in respect to Micro and Small Enterprises are on the basis of information provided by the parties and available 
on record:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Principal amount and interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier covered under 
MSMED Act.
- Principal
- Interest
 - 
 - 
Amount of interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006, along 
with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each 
accounting year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the year of delay in making payment (which have 
been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest 
specified under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest accrued during the year and remaining unpaid at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until 
such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the 
purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
53. Corporate Social Responsibility
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder and pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Committee, the Board has approved a Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) policy and the same has been 
uploaded on the website of the Company www.religare.com. CSR Policy contains the CSR activities which can be carried out by the 
Company, governance structure, implementation process, etc. As the Company has not made average net profits during the three 
immediately preceding financial years, no amount was required to be spent on CSR activities during the current financial year.
54.	 Loans or advances in the nature of loan to Promoters, Directors, KMP and related party either severally or 
jointly with any other person:
Type of Borrowers
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature 
of loan outstanding
% to the total
Loans and Advances
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature 
of loan outstanding
% to the total 
Loans and Advances
Promoters
-
-
-
-
Directors
-
-
-
-
KMP's
-
-
-
-
Related Parties (Refer note below)*
 8,278.10 
99.32%
 4,646.10 
99.96%
	
*Note - The amount in mentioned in table is at gross value
392
Annual Report 2023-2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
55. Previous Year Figures
	
The previous year figures have been regrouped and reclassified wherever considered necessary. Further, as the financial figures for the 
previous year include the impact of the merger as detailed in paras 51(r) above, accordingly the same may not be comparable.
Signature to Note No 1 to 55 forming part of Financial Statements
These are the Notes referred to in our report of even date
For S. P. Chopra & Co.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Firm Registration No.: 000346N
Chartered Accountants 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Pawan K. Gupta
Dr. Rashmi Saluja
Praveen Kumar Tripathi
Partner
Executive Chairperson 
Director
Membership No.: 092529
DIN- 01715298
DIN- 02167497
Sd/-
Sd/-
Nitin Aggarwal 
Reena Jayara
Group - CFO 
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A19122
Place: New Delhi
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2024
Date: May 21, 2024
393
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Concept, content and design by Report Yak (contact@reportyak.com)
