 
CRISIL Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: L67120MH1987PLC042363 
Registered Office: CRISIL House, Central Avenue, Hiranandani Business Park, Powai, Mumbai - 400076.  Phone: +91 22 3342 3000  |  Fax: +91 22 3342 3001 
www.crisil.com 
 
August 17, 2022 
 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, 5th floor 
Plot No. C/1, G Block 
Bandra-Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051  
 
Listing Department 
BSE Limited 
P J Towers 
Dalal Street  
Mumbai 400 001 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
Sub.: Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR) of the Company for the financial year ended 
December 31, 2021 
 
 
Please find enclosed herewith a copy of the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR) of the Company 
for the financial year ended December 31, 2021. This report should be read together with the ESG Report and ESG 
Databook. 
 
The 
BRSR 
report 
is 
also 
being 
uploaded 
on 
the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://www.crisil.com/en/home/investors/financial-information/annual-report-info-2021/sustainability-report.html  
 
Kindly take the same on record.  
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For CRISIL Limited 
 
 
 
Minal Bhosale 
Company Secretary 
ACS 12999 
 
Encl.: a/a 
 
 
 
MINAL 
AMIT 
BHOSALE
Digitally signed by 
MINAL AMIT 
BHOSALE 
Date: 2022.08.17 
17:51:39 +05'30'
90 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 20221 | 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
CREATING POSSIBILITIES
Through
Through
commitment to 
commitment to 
sustainability
sustainability
Sustainability
Sustainability
Launched a 
comprehensive ESG 
compendium and 
ESG scores for top 
225 Indian companies
Integrated ESG 
analytics and 
research
Increased number 
of sustainability 
specialists to 77
CRISIL ESG 
REPORT 2021
100	 Operating responsibly 
106	 Our ESG products and services
110	 Our people, our capital
118	 Fostering close partnerships
124	 Our commitment to the environment 
128	 Our commitment to communities
This ESG Report should be read alongwith the 
ESG Databook and Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report appearing on pages 
134 to 163 of the CRISIL Annual Report 2021.
These reports form part of  consolidated 
reporting on CRISIL’s ESG performance. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
92 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 93
Dear Stakeholder,
Investors, consumers and 
lenders are evaluating the 
sustainability credentials of 
companies with as much rigour 
these days as they scrutinise 
financial statements.
This is persuading Indian companies 
to integrate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) frameworks into their 
decision-making process. 
On its part, the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) has also asked 
listed companies to start publishing their 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (BRSR) from next fiscal.
I am happy to share that your company has 
voluntarily begun preparing the BRSR report 
starting calendar 2021.
This is in line with our commitment to 
continuously refine our sustainability 
disclosures and stay apace with the global 
standards.
Indeed, sustainability is the cornerstone of 
our strategy and operations. Our quest for 
excellence in this space has also shaped our 
ESG statement. 
In 2021, we conducted a materiality 
assessment to identify topics most relevant 
to us from the ESG standpoint, and then 
created policies and frameworks for each of 
its three aspects.
As an eco-friendly enterprise, we also 
make consistent efforts to minimise our 
carbon footprint through environmental 
conservation and tree-plantation initiatives. 
Our CSR arm, CRISIL Foundation, 
endeavours to create a social impact among 
economically disadvantaged communities 
within and beyond our office locations.
We also foster a diverse talent pool and 
provide an inclusive and equitable work 
culture, and strive to be a well-governed 
organisation that creates sustainable value 
for stakeholders. 
Technology is integral to enabling your 
company maintaining the highest 
governance standards of data privacy, risk 
management, and information security.
One of the important developments for your 
company this year has been integration 
of ESG principles across organisational 
functions and offerings. 
Our ESG research, data, insights, and 
solutions empower customers and 
stakeholders to make decisions with 
conviction and redefine their approach to 
risk management for sustainable value 
Amish Mehta
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, CRISIL Limited
creation. Our endeavour is to address 
the challenges of disclosure quality and 
comparability.
Most recently, towards our commitment to 
be an ESG leader, we:
•	 Led with empathy and care to ensure 
safety and well-being of our employees 
and their families; rolled out timely 
interventions, including medical support, 
financial support, vaccination drives, and 
leave benefits
•	 Extended our best-in-class governance 
practices to our major subsidiaries in the 
UK and India, and appointed independent 
members to these Boards, going beyond 
the regulatory thresholds to engender 
greater governance and transparency 
•	 Adopted a supplier diversity framework to 
welcome more micro, small and medium 
enterprises, and businesses led by 
women, veterans, specially abled, and 
LGBTQ+ persons into our supply chain
•	 Stepped up focus on information security 
through investments and employee 
awareness initiatives 
•	 Continued to contribute to financial 
inclusion in India through Mein Pragati, 
our flagship CSR programme. As part of 
the Reserve Bank of India’s MoneyWise 
Centre for Financial Literacy project, the 
CRISIL Foundation launched 419 centres 
to serve people across 17 states and 
union territories
•	 Planted over 36,500 trees and 
rationalised our real estate footprint to 
tackle climate change
•	 In 2021, we launched the first-of-its-kind 
ESG compendium along with ESG scores 
for the top 225 listed Indian companies. 
We also work with top global financial 
institutions to accelerate the integration 
of ESG analytics and research
•	 As thought leaders, we engage with policy 
makers and regulators to shape policy 
frameworks and disclosure requirements
This report explains how we assess 
and manage material ESG risks and 
opportunities across our global operations. 
We hope it helps you gain a deeper insight 
into our ESG orientation.
We look forward to your continued 
encouragement to enable us to play a 
leading role in this very important journey.
With best wishes
Amish Mehta
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
94 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
About CRISIL
3,973
EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE 
2,800+
NEW CLIENTS ADDED IN 2021
PRESENCE IN
11COUNTRIES
12600+ 
CLIENTS
New York, USA
London, UK
Wroclaw, Poland
Hangzhou, China
Hong Kong
Tokyo, Japan
Sydney, Australia
Singapore
India
Mumbai
Ahmedabad
Gurugram
Hyderabad
Bengaluru
Chennai
Kolkata
Pune
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Stamford, USA
CRISIL (CRISIL Limited and its 
subsidiaries) is a leading, agile 
and innovative global analytics 
company driven by its mission of 
making markets function better. 
We are India’s foremost provider 
of ratings, data, research, 
analytics and solutions, with a 
strong track record of growth, 
a culture of innovation, and a 
global footprint that sets us apart. 
We have delivered independent 
opinions, actionable insights and 
efficient solutions to over 100,000 
customers.
Our market-leading ratings, 
benchmarks, analytics and 
solutions empower lenders, 
borrowers, issuers, investors, 
regulators, and intermediaries to 
make decisions with conviction. 
We help clients manage and 
mitigate risks, take pricing and 
valuation decisions, reduce time 
to market, generate more revenue, 
and enhance returns. 
We also help catalyse 
global economic growth and 
development by helping shape 
public policy on infrastructure in 
emerging markets.
We are majority owned by S&P 
Global Inc., a leading provider of 
transparent and independent 
ratings, benchmarks, analytics, 
and data to the capital and 
commodity markets worldwide.
2021 REVENUE 
RS 2,300.69 CRORE
At CRISIL, ESG is 
serious business
In 2021, CRISIL Limited’s 
Board reviewed the ESG 
practices and policies 
of CRISIL and renewed 
its commitment towards 
ESG, by enhancing 
practices, disclosures 
and a decision to enrich 
its ESG offerings. 
CRISIL also formed 
a management level 
steering committee, 
comprising senior 
leaders and 
enthusiastic young team 
members to conduct a 
comprehensive review 
of its ESG practices 
and define the path 
forward. The committee 
met regularly and 
actively evaluated 
existing ESG practices, 
and benchmarked 
and aligned CRISIL’s 
policies with the best in 
class global standards. 
Defining new practices 
and policies in the 
areas of stakeholder 
engagement, public 
engagement, employee 
health and safety, 
diversity & inclusion, 
emission management 
and other environment 
factors for the year,  
has given an impetus  
to CRISIL’s ESG journey 
in 2021. 
Awards
Marketing Impact Recognition
Human Resources Recognition
Global Recognition
CSR Recognition
Product Launch–ESG Gauge
Great Place to Work 
Recognition
2nd year in a row
Excellence Award
Diversity Recognition
Hall of Fame
Product Innovation–SEM
CSR Foundation of the Year 
Award
Diversity and Inclusion 
Recognition
Excellence Award
Zurich, Switzerland
Dubai, 
UAE
96 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Heightened 
awareness 
about 
the 
ill-effects 
of 
environment pollution and the need to adopt sustainable 
practices has spurred demand for environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) data and analysis across the 
financial world. The pandemic has telescoped this trend. 
At CRISIL, forethought on these aspects has helped us 
integrate ESG factors in our offerings early on. Today, our 
ESG research, data, insights, assessments and solutions 
are empowering customers and stakeholders to make 
sustainable choices and contributing to global progress 
on this front. 
ESG is already playing a material role in the decisions 
of governments, regulators, investors, lenders and 
corporates. Our insights and solutions are powering 
these decisions, and also helping redefine their approach 
to risk management, creating sustainable value, and 
surmounting challenges of disclosure quality and 
standardisation. 
ESG reporting has been evolving globally. The Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), for one, has introduced 
new requirements for ESG reporting by listed Indian 
companies and enhanced disclosures on ESG standards. 
Starting fiscal 2022-2023, listed companies are required 
to publish Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reports (BRSR) annually.
CRISIL is committed to continuously refine its ESG 
disclosures in line with globally recognised standards. 
In keeping with this, CRISIL has prepared this report 
voluntarily for fiscal 2021 even though BRSR is not 
mandatory so far. 
At CRISIL, we endeavour to make sustainability 
foundational to everything we do. We minimise our carbon 
footprint and contribute to protecting the ecosphere 
of the communities we work in. Diversity, equity and 
inclusion, and employee well-being are essential for our 
long-term, sustainable growth. We are committed to 
upholding the highest standards of corporate governance. 
We integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
factors in our offerings. Our ESG research, data, insights, 
assessments and solutions empower customers and 
stakeholders to make decisions with conviction and 
contribute to sustainable progress globally.
CRISIL’s ESG Statement
ESG is foundational to CRISIL
About the Report 
This is CRISIL’s first elaborate ESG Report (“the Report”). It has been 
prepared in accordance with SEBI’s BRSR framework to highlight CRISIL’s 
ESG practices. The reporting scope and boundaries for our disclosures, 
unless otherwise stated, cover the operations of CRISIL Limited and all 
its subsidiaries. 
Since CRISIL is in the services business, specialising in research and 
analytics, our solutions and services rely more on intellectual, rather 
than physical assets. We do not have any manufacturing facilities. From 
among the ESG themes therefore, governance and social factors and 
respective impacts are more relevant to us. 
The CRISIL Annual Report contains Directors’ Report and Management 
Discussion & Analysis Report, which provide information on our business 
strategy and financial performance. The Corporate Governance report, 
contains disclosures of the company’s governance framework. The 
ESG Databook highlights the key ESG metrics, while the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report co-relates the ESG reporting 
with the BRSR reporting principles. All reports should be read in 
conjunction with this ESG Report for a holistic perspective of CRISIL’s ESG 
performance for the year.
Reporting boundaries
The report’s boundaries and exclusions have been listed below:
Data
Basis
Exclusions
Financial 
CRISIL’s consolidated 
global operations
Indicated at appropriate 
places in the Report
Environment
CRISIL’s consolidated 
global operations
Serviced offices, where 
CRISIL does not have 
operational control and 
occupancy of less than or 
equal to 10 employees are 
excluded.
(Singapore (1), Japan 
(1), UAE (1), Australia (1), 
Switzerland (1), US (1), 
UK(1) and India (2) offices 
are excluded).
Social
CRISIL’s consolidated 
global operations 
Indicated at appropriate 
places in the Report
Governance
All policies, trainings, 
stakeholder 
engagement 
efforts and other 
reported metrics 
cover consolidated 
operations, including 
subsidiaries 
All Board related data / 
metrics relate to CRISIL 
Limited on a standalone 
basis. Other exclusions, 
if any, are indicated at 
appropriate places in the 
Report
Communities
India operations of 
CRISIL
Overseas operations of 
CRISIL
Unless specifically stated at appropriate places in the Report, all data / metrics 
relate to the financial year January 1 to December 31 2021.
Our ESG goalposts
Environmental
l	 Baselining reporting metrics on emission 
considering work from home scenario
l	 Measures for optimization of resource use 
l	 Reduce, reuse and recycle to minimise 
waste, including e-waste
Social 
l	 Foster diversity and nurture inclusion
l	 Drive annual targets set for key Social 
metrics :
	Increase in female employee population 
	Employee engagement (VIBE*) score 
	VIBE score for DEI*
l	 Women as an integral part of CRISIL skilled 
workforce and strong representation in 
CRISIL leadership
l	 Address pertinent social and environmental 
issues through CSR initiatives 
Governance
l	 Set highest standards of corporate 
governance
l	 Continue to engage with stakeholders
l	 Ensure supplier diversity and ESG 
assessment of value chain 
Sustainable products 
l	 Revenue from new ESG offerings
* VIBE is our annual employee engagement tool. VIBE 
Score for DEI (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion): Average % 
favourable response in employee engagement survey 
for DEI specific questions
98 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Strategy 
Our strategy focuses on evolving and growing our 
core business, which includes Ratings, Research 
& Analytics and Risk Solutions. Further, by 
leveraging our domain and intellectual property, 
we aim to pursue growth in attractive adjacencies 
and new markets. Our strategy is underpinned by 
technology and talent as key enablers. In addition, 
with strong focus on innovation, we are constantly 
investing in new products and solutions in 
emerging areas. 
The recent pandemic has made a compelling case 
for corporates, lenders, investors and policy-
makers around the world to embrace sustainability 
in decision making. We have adopted sustainability 
as a strategic approach with an aim to minimise 
our carbon footprint and protecting the ecosphere 
of communities we work in. Further, we also strive 
to provide a comprehensive and best-in-class 
suite of sustainability offerings across evaluation, 
scores, analytics and services.
Materiality and strategy 
Material ESG topics 
ESG risks and opportunities impact and shape 
our operations and business activity. It is, 
therefore, important to have a firm grasp on what 
they are and sharpen focus on which matter most 
to our stakeholders. Our materiality assessment 
helps us pinpoint the ESG priorities for CRISIL 
and its internal and external stakeholders. 
In 2021, we conducted a materiality 
assessment to identify our most relevant 
(or “material”) reporting topics from an 
ESG perspective — which is a broader 
standard than that used in our financial 
disclosures. These topics are incorporated 
in the material topics graphic.
In deciding on these priorities for the 
Company, we have been guided by 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards’ 
principles 
of 
materiality, 
stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability 
context and completeness. 
The universe of our priorities within the domains 
of E, S and G has been derived through a 
consultative exercise, wherein the priorities were 
evaluated in order of their importance to our 
business and our stakeholders. We leveraged 
inputs from stakeholder engagements, surveys, 
strategic processes, peer benchmarking and 
industry standards to sharpen management 
insight on material topics. We organise and 
present this Report around these carefully 
identified material topics. 
Material 
ESG topics 
for CRISIL
CSR programs
Pursue 
growth via 
adjacencies
New 
markets
New 
products
Evolve and 
grow the core 
business
Ratings
Risk  
Solutions
Research & 
Analytics
Develop 
foundational 
capabilities
People
Innovation
Technology
Talent retention 
& succession
Risk 
Management & 
Compliance
Employee 
enablement & 
well being
Strong  
governance 
oversight
Ethical conduct
Environmental 
response
ESG products & 
offerings
Diversity  
& inclusion
Data privacy 
& information 
security
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
100 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
Operating responsibly
The principles of responsible behaviour 
and governance, embedded in the core of 
CRISIL, have enabled us to take purposeful 
and pioneering strides in our ESG journey. 
Our values of integrity, excellence, accountability, 
teamwork, and respect inform our business activities 
and behaviour, and enable us to sustain our credible and 
independent voice. Our Code of Ethics guides employees 
towards ethical conduct, conflict-free working, and 
respect for client data confidentiality. The Whistle-Blower 
Policy encourages reporting of concerns around unethical 
behaviour, misconduct and violation of the Code of Ethics. 
Essentially, therefore, corporate governance at CRISIL 
reflects principles that are held in high esteem globally. 
We have also focused on risk management to enable us 
to continue successfully on the path of sustainable goals. 
We also believe in extending the mission to the industry 
by offering ESG products and services and thought 
leadership programmes, thus establishing a virtuous cycle 
of responsible behaviour that benefits the society at large.
Sanjay Chakravarti
President and Chief Financial Officer, CRISIL Limited
Business ethics, transparency 
and accountability
CRISIL’s objective is to make markets function better by 
providing independent opinions, actionable insights and 
efficient solutions. Ethics, transparency and accountability 
are our guiding principles in achieving this end. They form 
the foundation of our business conduct and make CRISIL 
stand tall as an independent and credible opinion maker 
with high analytical rigour. These principles are enshrined in 
CRISIL’s Code of Ethics. 
CRISIL’s Code of Ethics holds its employees to the highest 
standards of ethical conduct, conflict-free working and 
respect for client data confidentiality. The Code of Ethics 
covers overarching norms for ethical business practices, 
non-discrimination, 
diversity, 
fair 
labour 
practices, 
workplace safety and conduct, information protection 
and confidentiality, conflict-free working and anti-bribery 
including gifts or favours.
CRISIL’s Code of Ethics and Supplier Code of Conduct for 
employees and suppliers, respectively, are available on the 
website at: 
Code of Ethics: https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/
investors/corporate-governance/code-of-ethics.pdf 
Supplier Code of Conduct: https://www.crisil.com/content/
dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/supplier-code-
of-conduct.pdf 
Individual policies reinforce and articulate detailed 
practices for certain principles. In addition to the Code of 
Ethics, CRISIL’s employees are expected to adhere to the 
S&P Code of Business Ethics Policy. 
As an independent intermediary, CRISIL is expected to act 
with unimpeachable integrity at all times. For this, we have 
established a strong governance framework for conflict 
management. 
CRISIL has in place practices and policies for managing 
conflict across businesses. Sharing of client confidential 
information is restricted through the institution of strong 
physical and logical firewalls within and across businesses. 
Periodic reviews are conducted across businesses for 
identifying potential conflicts. CRISIL’s personal trading 
policy imposes strict restrictions on employees’ investing 
activities to ensure avoidance of potential conflicts. CRISIL’s 
Gift Policy is available at https://www.crisil.com/content/
dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/gift-policy.pdf.
CRISIL‘s ratings business is housed in a subsidiary - CRISIL 
Ratings Limited with a separate independent board 
embracing highest governance standards and transparency 
norms.
Conflict-free environment
Corporate governance
At CRISIL, corporate governance is a reflection of the 
principles embedded in its values, policies and day-to-day 
business practices, leading to sustainable, value-driven 
growth of the Company. CRISIL maintains the highest 
standards of corporate governance and disclosure practices 
and is committed to transparency in all its dealings. 
The Board of CRISIL comprises eminent persons of proven 
competence and integrity. Board members are highly 
involved in Company matters, reviewing long-term strategic 
planning, budgets, policies, risk mitigation and operations, 
directly or through Board committees in a planned manner. 
The Company has an executive committee comprising the 
Managing Director and a team of senior leaders with proper 
demarcation of responsibilities and authority. The Board 
and Senior Management are committed to continuous 
improvement through annual evaluations, succession 
planning and regular training. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of CRISIL lays 
down detailed guidelines for remuneration of the Board, 
Managing Director, Senior Management and employees and 
covers fixed and variable components. Long-term incentives 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
CRISIL BOARD HIGHLIGHTS
88%
Non-executive members
50% 
Independent members
38%  
Women members
3
Nationalities
5 
Dedicated committees – Audit, Risk Management, 
Stakeholders’ Relationship, Nomination & 
Remuneration, CSR
Non-Executive Chairperson
Blend of global experience
102 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
CRISIL Values
CRISIL Values set out the 
fundamental principles that 
we stand for. These are at the 
core of every business activity 
and underpin our business 
behaviour. Steadfast adherence 
to our Values has earned 
CRISIL its reputation of credible 
independent voice, earning long-
standing stakeholder support and 
pivoting its growth over the years.
Evaluation of environmental, sustainability and governance 
related risks is embedded in the overall risk assessment 
process. Achievement of related goals is evaluated. Key 
scenarios of supporting processes and activities that enable 
achievement of these goals are assessed. Appropriate 
mitigation and monitoring plans are put in place to mitigate 
ESG related risks.
Our talent pool is our biggest strength. High quality talent 
has enabled CRISIL to be at the forefront of innovation 
and lead in introducing many state-of-the-art ratings 
products over the years. Our employees come from diverse 
backgrounds spanning knowledge areas, age, gender, skills 
and experience. 
As part of our thought leadership and outreach initiative, 
we authored several opinion pieces and articles on 
important industry and regulatory developments, in 
Risk management
Knowledge organisation
are envisaged for management and key talent to bind 
management’s performance to the long term sustainability 
of the Company. These are in the form of ESOPs with 
staggered vesting or performance-linked deferred cash 
with payouts in multiple tranches linked to Company’s 
performance in terms of 3 year EPS CAGR. The annual 
variable pay approach links to business, financial and non-
financial sustainability goals through balance score-card 
model by linking individual performance to Company’s 
achievements on the balance score-card.
CRISIL is majority owned by S&P Global Inc. We have been 
S&P’s trusted partner and have been providing support 
services to S&P entities since 2003 (i.e. prior to becoming a 
subsidiary of S&P). Services provided by CRISIL are at arm’s 
length pricing and in the ordinary course of business. CRISIL 
has a robust mechanism for scrutiny and approval of related 
party transactions by its Audit Committee. CRISIL’s Related 
Party Transactions Policy is available at: https://www.crisil.
com/content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/
Related-PartyTransaction-Policy-of-CRISIL.pdf
CRISIL’s Taxation Policy, aims to outline the Company’s 
approach to matters relating to tax compliance and 
management 
and 
commitment 
to 
maintaining 
full 
transparency with tax authorities, both in letter and spirit. 
This Policy is available at: https://www.crisil.com/content/
dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/crisil-taxation-
policy.pdf. 
More details on CRISIL’s Corporate Governance framework 
are available in the Corporate Governance Report section of 
the Annual Report. 
Risk 
Assessment
l	Combination of 
bottom-up and 
strategic view of 
key risks
Approach
l	Balanced 
approach to risk 
management 
by mitigating 
risks to an 
acceptable level 
Process
l Risks are 
Identified 
and assigned 
probability of 
occurrence 
& potential 
impact
Mitigation 
Plans
l	Designed, 
implemented 
and monitored 
on a periodic 
basis
Key Risk Themes
l	Identified and 
assessed using 
a combination 
of qualitative 
and quantitative 
parameters
Reporting
l	Key risk themes and 
mitigation plans 
presented to the 
internal & Board 
Committees
Oversight
l Risk Management 
Committee of the Board
l	Internal Risk 
Management Committee
1712	
121	
20 
	 MBA & PGDM	
Chartered Accountants	
CFA
As on December 31, 2021, CRISIL’s India employees include:
INTEGRITY
We are independent in our thinking and 
act with unimpeachable integrity at all 
times. Our opinions and analyses are 
credible, unbiased and not bound by any 
company, government or market. 
EXCELLENCE
We continuously innovate to deliver 
actionable analyses and solutions 
that help customers make informed 
business decisions and mitigate risk. 
We are committed to the highest quality 
standards, while robust analytical rigour 
ensures that our insights are objective, 
distinct, consistent and reliable.
ACCOUNTABILITY
We are committed to what we do, we 
stand by our opinions and analyses, and 
we assume complete responsibility and 
ownership of our decisions and actions.
RESPECT
We treat everyone with mutual trust and 
respect, be they colleagues, customers 
or other stakeholders. We embrace and 
cherish the inclusivity and diversity of our 
organisation.
TEAMWORK
We collaborate with, and incorporate 
the expertise and insights of each team 
member to enhance the value of our 
deliverables to customers, investors and 
other market participants.
104 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
  External stakeholders look up to us as a domain expert 
and a credible, independent voice. Our engagements may 
also influence policy and outcomes. In order to ensure that 
our engagement on public policy matters is responsible, 
CRISIL has adopted a Framework for Responsible Public 
Engagement which is available at:https://www.crisil.com/
content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/
CRISIL-Framework-for-Responsible-Public-Engagement.
pdf. 
It demonstrates what guides us while engaging on public 
policy matters, the manner of engagement, and sets out 
the responsible behaviour expected of employees while 
engaging with regulators, industry or other forums.
premier dailies and online platforms. We also contributed 
as knowledge partners, speakers or panellists at various 
summits organised by industry associations. During the 
year, we reached out to over 40,000 stakeholders, including 
government officials, policymakers, regulators, corporates, 
banks, investment banks, MSMEs, industry associations 
and financial intermediaries in Indian and global markets, 
through 5 virtual events and 60+ webinars hosted by CRISIL 
and 100+ events at which CRISIL experts participated as 
speakers or panellists. 
We are members of industry associations such as the 
Confederation of Indian Industry and Federation of Indian 
Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Several employees 
participate in national and sub-committees set up for 
facilitating and enabling a conducive policy and regulatory 
framework for sectors.
Employees may raise concerns, seek advice and report 
violations, if any, in respect of Code of Ethics with either their 
manager, the Human Resources department representative, 
or the Legal or Compliance departments. 
Additionally, CRISIL’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages 
and supports reporting of concerns about issues such 
as unethical behaviour, grave misconduct, leaking of 
unpublished price-sensitive information (UPSI), and actual 
or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Ethics. 
Complaint redressal is tracked rigorously at various levels 
of management. During the year, we established an ethics 
hotline number and email address as an additional channel 
to report any concerns under the Policy.
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Board 
regularly dedicates exclusive time to review policy violations 
and stakeholder complaints. 
Heightened sensitivity towards policy violations, taking a 
rigid stance on transgressions and review of such matters 
at the highest levels by a Board-level committee reinforce 
the compliance culture at CRISIL. 
The Whistle-Blower Policy and contacts for reporting 
complaints are available at https://www.crisil.com/content/
dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/CRISIL-
Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf
CRISIL’s Code of Ethics is communicated throughout the 
organisation and reinforced through training, assessment 
and affirmation of employees at the time of joining, and 
on an annual basis. Training/certification on the Code of 
Ethics and S&P Code of Business Ethics is mandatory for 
all employees across the organisation, including the senior 
management. Further, we conduct special drives through 
the year for raising awareness on compliance policies 
through mailers, online interactions and Q&A sessions with 
employees. 
In a first, during 2021, the training was extended to contract 
staff working on CRISIL premises as well to familiarise them 
with CRISIL principles of ethical conduct and affirm their 
commitment to the principles. 230 of our contract staff 
benefited from the trainings. 
The tone is set at the top as CRISIL Board members too 
participate in annual e-learning on the Code of Conduct and 
affirm the same annually. 
Training on ethics
Grievance Redressal 
Training on Code of Ethics
Contract staff
Employees
230
2021
2020
* Headcount covers new joiners as well as employees, taking 
the on-boarding and annual refreshers respectively
4697
3876
0
Association	
	
	 Committee
FICCI	
Member	
National Committee 
	
	
on Capital Markets
FICCI	
Member	
Civil Aviation 
FICCI	
Co-Chairman	
Economic Policy 	
 
	
	
Committee
CII	
Member 	
Economic Advisory  
	
	
Committee
During the year, we established an ethics hotline 
number and email address as an additional channel to 
report any concerns under the Whistle-Blower Policy.
106 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
ESG is a strategic and important agenda for CRISIL, and we 
integrate ESG factors in our offerings. Our ESG research, 
data, insights, assessments, and solutions empower 
customers and stakeholders to make decisions with 
conviction and contribute to sustainable progress globally. 
Globally, CRISIL Research & Risk Solutions (GRRS) team 
supports sell-side houses, asset managers and other 
financial institutions address their sustainability challenges. 
CRISIL’s bespoke research solutions, which include ESG 
data models, custom due-diligence questionnaires and 
deep-dive reports, are used by investment research firms to 
enhance and augment their ESG research capabilities. We 
have partnered with firms to enhance their ESG coverage, 
ensure standardisation, overcome data gaps, and improve 
data accuracy.
CRISIL 
Ratings 
continues 
to 
consider 
ESG 
factors 
impacting fundamental business sustainability as a part 
of credit assessments. Taking cognisance of its increasing 
importance in investment decisions, CRISIL Ratings will 
start disclosing the impact of ESG parameters separately 
while assigning credit ratings. 
As its first offering in the ESG research segment in India, 
CRISIL released ‘ESG Compendium-ESG Gauge’ in 2021, 
where we analysed and scored top 225 listed Indian 
companies. Powered by our strong sectoral research 
capabilities and rich databases, the ESG score measures 
the track record, trends and disclosure standards followed 
by the 225 companies. It provides a relative, pan-sectoral 
assessment on all material ESG parameters relevant to the 
Indian context. 
As a part of the customised engagement with clients 
we provide analysis of a company’s ESG/Sustainability 
practices in relation to its peers and best in class global 
practices. In addition to gap analysis, an assessment on the 
way forward and implementation roadmap is provided. 
Custom and annual research done by our Global 
Benchmarking Analytics business reviews the impact of ESG 
on our clients - Research in this area serves dual purposes. 
It allows for peer to peer insight for research participants 
and our clients to understand related trends amongst their 
competitors as well as in their role as a service provider.
CRISIL Global Analytical Centre (GAC), which provides 
dedicated financial analytical support for S&P businesses, 
supports S&P Global Ratings on ESG evaluations, which 
provides a forward-looking, long-term opinion of readiness 
for disruptive ESG risks and opportunities.
Our ESG Products 
and Services
With the world striving to curb increasingly severe 
climate disasters and governments pledging support to 
sustainability issues, ESG has become a corporate sine qua 
non. Appreciation of the non-financial impact of businesses 
enables investors and other stakeholders to take an 
informed view on the risks and opportunities associated 
with the enterprise. 
Demand for sustainable and socially responsible investment 
is rising. Investment managers are encouraging companies 
to improve their disclosure of such issues. Therefore, 
consistent, reliable and comparable ESG data is a top 
priority for investors and corporations. 
Importance of ESG products in India
CRISIL’s ESG offerings
ESG research for sell side and buy side
Sustainability assessment of loan book
ESG Benchmarks and framework assessment
Supporting S&P Global in ESG Evaluations
CRISIL’s ESG offerings 
ESG Scores (India):
225+ companies
Thought leadership on ESG
During 2021, we conducted multiple webinars and launched 
a comprehensive whitepaper that focused on specific ESG 
topics. Snapshot and links to some of the popular ESG 
research content is given here
l	 Race to comply with SFDR and taxonomy rules+
l	 Bracing for convergence in ESG reporting standards+
l	 Convergence cometh, know thy blind spots+
l	 How collaboration between banks can help them better 
navigate the impact of climate risk+ 
l	 How cross-industry collaboration between multilateral 
development banks (MBDs) can help them better navigate 
the impact of climate risk+ 
l	 Fossil-fuel financing flourishes amid climate-change 
clamour+
l	 Tech the road to green finance - Mounting regulatory 
scrutiny will steer EU automakers towards sustainable 
debt+
l	 Impact of ESG and PPP Loans on U.S. Businesses and 
Their Relationships with Banks+ 
l	 Asset Growth, Manager Turnover and ESG Create 
Opportunities for Global Managers+
l	 In Year of Crisis, European Institutions Sought Stability, 
Embraced ESG+
l	 Amid Diverging Strategies, U.K. Corporates and Local 
Authorities Agree on ESG+
l	 For Corporate Banks, the Clock is Ticking on ESG and 
Sustainability+
l	 ESG can bridge the growth capital gap+
l	 Alongside the ESG Leadership Summit 2021, CRISIL 
released the ESG Compendium for Indian companies, 
which scores and compares top 225 Indian listed 
companies
Click on + to read. All content available on www.crisil.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
108 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
Marquee ESG assignments delivered during 2021:
CRISIL assesses climate transition 
plan for green loan guarantee 
CRISIL GRRS performed an independent assessment of 
the climate transition plan of a UK-based energy services 
company, acting on behalf of UK Export Finance (UKEF). 
This was related to the UK government’s first ever green 
loan guarantee transaction under its Transition Export 
Development Guarantee (TEDG) scheme. It allowed the 
energy company to analyze/understand sustainability/ 
ESG issues to raise £430 million to capitalise on 
opportunities linked to clean energy, hydrogen and 
decarbonisation. Website link - https://www.gov.uk/
government/news/ukef-backs-landmark-430-million-
green-transition-loan-for-wood-plc.
Case Studies 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 109
CRISIL supported IFC in a report on Green building market
The International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, fosters sustainable 
economic growth in developing countries by financing private sector investment, mobilizing private capital in 
local and international financial markets, and providing advisory and risk mitigation services to businesses 
and governments. One of IFC’s priority areas is mainstreaming climate change mitigation and reduction 
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. IFC aims to support climate-related investments and activities to 
support the private sector to address climate change. IFC is particularly interested in green buildings, with 
a focus on supporting the development of green building regulations at national and sub-national level as 
well as developing voluntary standards and approaches. Through advisory services, targeted financing 
and direct investment, IFC aims to create a new path for green growth in the built environment. 
CRISIL’s Risk & Infrastructure Solutions business (CRIS) assisted IFC in gathering and analysing information 
to inform IFC of the current state of the building market in India to assess the maturity of the green building 
market within it, and to identify key actors.	
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
110 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
Our People, Our Capital 
At CRISIL, we strive to create an ESG ecosystem 
— one that values people, diversity, responsibility, 
and innovation as much as data privacy, 
information security, and technology-backed 
solutions. Creating a truly inclusive workplace is our primary 
building block to evolving a responsible, inclusive and conscious 
organisation. CRISIL further fosters the principles of inclusion 
through carefully curated learning and development experiences, 
including new-age skills and a vast training agenda on issues such 
as emotional intelligence, leadership, future-ready managerial skills, 
collaboration, and skills development for mid-career stage women. 
CRISIL also makes efforts to permeate the culture of responsibility 
and inclusiveness to our suppliers and partners, in the true spirit 
of partnership that we believe in. Together, we are committed to 
evolving a supremely ESG conscious organisation.
Anupam Kaura
President and Chief Human Resources Officer, CRISIL Limited
Diversity and inclusion
An organisation can innovate and excel only when it includes 
people from varied backgrounds and welcomes different 
thoughts, perspectives and ideas. Enabling collaboration 
between multiplicity of thought processes and building 
a culture of inclusivity is paramount at CRISIL. We are 
committed to ensuring an inclusive environment for all 
employees, where they can look forward to bringing their 
true, whole self to work each day.
During the year, CRISIL undertook several initiatives and 
programmes to encourage diversity and inclusion. These 
have enhanced employee awareness and encouraged 
reflection on racism, empathy, gender, and transgender & 
LGBTQ needs, and nurtured cultural sensitivity. 
In response to the pandemic, we offered flexibility in working 
patterns. Some of our women leaders hosted sessions on 
topics such as ‘Finding the New Balance’. We also ensured 
that pregnant colleagues and employees with pregnant 
wives were given additional support during these trying 
times.
We endeavour to enhance global inclusion by conducting 
trainings on diversity and inclusion for new joiners and 
enhancing equity through policies and benefits. 
Our annual CEO awards framework includes a category on 
Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) champions.
Our employees have consistently acknowledged our good 
work environment and are appreciative of the inclusive and 
secure team environment at CRISIL. Our internal VIBE scores 
also reiterate that an inclusive and secure team climate has 
created a positive outlook among our employees.
CRISIL recognised as 
one of the 100 Best 
Companies for Women 
in India for the sixth 
consecutive year by 
Avtar Group in 2021, 
which is testimony to our 
efforts on diversity and 
inclusiveness. 
CRISIL continued to 
be certified as a Great 
Workplace™ by the Great 
Place to Work® Institute. 
CRISIL received ‘Silver’ 
employer title in India 
Workplace Equality 
Index (IWEI) 2021
VIBE score for DEI*
85%
We all thrive when each of us brings our true, 
whole, human self to work. Diversity unlocks 
opportunity, inclusion drives growth, and 
together they spark innovation, unleashing 
potential in each of us, for all of us.
CRISIL’s Diversity Statement
* VIBE Score for DEI (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion) : Average % favourable response in employee engagement survey for DEI specific 
questions
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
112 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Committed to creating an open and equal workplace for a 
diverse workforce, CRISIL has gone a step further. We are 
moving beyond gender diversity and making structured 
efforts to attract and hire candidates from the LGBTQ+ 
community.
Our endeavour has been to stand in support of our LGBTQ+ 
colleagues and foster belonging and empowerment at work. 
During the year, CRISIL celebrated Pride Month in June, 
whereby we launched initiatives where employees shared 
their messages to support and encourage colleagues from 
the LGBTQ+ community on their coming out journey. We also 
commemorated their past struggles. 
We also conducted webinars on inclusion and sensitisation 
sessions for the recruitment team and people managers. We 
were also a part of a panel discussion around diversity and 
inclusion strategies held by LGBTQ+ leaders.
In keeping with our focus on diversity and inclusion, we have 
taken several strides to recruit differently abled persons. 
As a case in point, we participate in career fairs for the 
differently abled. 
During the year, we conducted a survey to identify 
differently abled employees and their special needs, if any. 
12 employees have voluntarily reported special needs under 
this survey. We are conscious of addressing the needs of 
employees and visitors with special needs. All our major 
offices have infrastructure that is safe and friendly for our 
differently abled employees. Our recruitment questionnaire 
also incorporates questions to understand special needs 
when a differently-abled employee joins CRISIL. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. The Company’s 
commitment to maintaining a discrimination-free work 
environment extends to all persons involved in the operation 
of the business and prohibits discrimination or unlawful 
harassment. All employees are responsible for maintaining 
a work atmosphere free from discrimination by treating 
others with dignity and respect. 
LGBTQ+ initiatives 
Initiatives for differently abled colleagues
Equal opportunities and treatment
l	 Pride Month celebration- June 2021
l	 Medical insurance covering same-sex partners
l	 Performance recognition and equal career 
development opportunities
l	 Self-identification opportunities
l	 Participation in diversity job fairs
l	 Promoted inclusivity through emails with 
preferred pronouns
l	 300 + employees attended webinar on 
diversity along  with a fireside chat with an 
external LGBTQ+ leader.
l	 Virtual job fairs with DEI vendors (India)
Initiatives taken to support our LGBTQ+ colleagues:
Hiring related initiatives
l	 Focused women hiring, including 
efforts at tapping women alumni 
from a rehire standpoint
l	 Women panellists as part of every 
internal job post interview 
l	 Career fair to hire women with 
career break
l	 Second career programme for 
women 
l	 Hiring from women-specific 
B-schools	
Women-centric programmes
l	 WINSPIRATION/WINS: Leadership 
programmes for women 
employees
l	 WiT (Women in Technology) 
l	 Women’s Leadership 
Development Programme: Over 
150 women in mid-career stages 
covered in a learning journey for 
over a year
Maternity-stage programmes
l	 Maternity counselling
l	 Performance-rating protection 
for employees on maternity leave
l	 Flexible work arrangements
l	 Six-month paid maternity leave
l	 Child care support
l	 Sabbatical leave policy
Other initiatives
l	 Women’s Day focused initiatives 
and events
l	 Women career development 
programme
l	 Tracking promotion rates at mid-
career stages
l	 Tracking attrition rates by gender
l	 Adequate board representation
Diversity of the workforce has always been our strength. 
Spanning knowledge areas, age, gender, skills, experience, 
and nationalities, we have employees based in 11 countries 
across the world.
Diversity helps broaden our perspective and enriches us 
with a better understanding of client requirement and 
markets. In the process, it enables us to equip our clients 
with the best solutions.
Women colleagues drive diversity
Our global workforce
Women constitute 37.6% of CRISIL’s workforce
Women constitute 37.6% of our workforce, 30% of our Manager-and-
above level and 38% of our Board members. They are spread across 
diverse roles and hold highly visible positions, ranging from profit and 
loss responsibilities to leading critical functions, such as strategy, 
marketing, information security, and compliance. This stems from our 
conviction that only excellence, innovation and achievement matter.
36.7%
Employees 
hired during 
2021 are 
women
16%
of women at 
grade  
Director and 
above
16,029
Hours of 
training to  
women 
employees
Our employee distribution across regions and gender is as follows:
Total 
employees
3973
1495
2478
India 3396
1295
2101
We had 861 people working on a contract basis as on December 31, 2021.
Other 
Countries 33
12
21
73
Argentina 117
44
China 78
48
30
USA 139
42
97
UK 137
38
99
UAE 21
4
17
Poland 52
12
40
114 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
In a highly competitive environment, CRISIL’s formidable 
talent pool is the key differentiator. We, as an organisation, 
strongly believe in equipping our people with the best and 
latest technology, domain expertise and competencies by 
imparting continuous training and upskilling programmes, 
which give them a competitive advantage.	
During the year, CRISIL launched the ‘Manager of the 
future’ programme to develop managerial effectiveness, 
empowering employees to lead teams effectively in an 
evolving/future work environment. Also, we equipped 
managers with tools and frameworks to lead and engage 
with their teams virtually.
Artificial intelligence-driven (AI) solutions are becoming 
a competitive requirement for enhancing the customer 
experience. Given that CRISIL already has talent that can 
be swiftly repurposed by refreshing their skills, the Data 
Science Certification Programme was launched for the 
GR&RS business during the year. The idea was to create a 
self-learning programme that starts at a beginner/hobbyist 
level and graduates towards a practitioner and finally an 
industry-leader level. This is being done to gain good traction 
among CRISIL’s young and diverse demographic and keep 
them motivated throughout their learning journey. 
The Lead Team was a training launched during the year 
for tenured managers on developing agility and a growth 
mindset, 
emotional 
intelligence, 
accountability 
and 
collaboration, 
solution-oriented 
decision-making, 
and 
building resilient teams through virtual classroom trainings. 
In order to align individuals with the need for embodying 
professionalism and learning as a way of life, CRISIL has 
launched the Campus to Corporate Programme. 
Various other programmes for skill upgradation, covering 
presentation skills and business communication, among 
others, were launched during the year.
Talent development and training
Particulars
Count
Training 
person hours
Average 
training 
person hours
Permanent 
employees
3973
42807.61
10.77
Permanent women 
employees
1495
16028.85
10.72
Contract staff
861
5018.89
5.83
Note: Headcount of employees as on Dec 31, 2021. Additonally, 
there are awareness programmes conducted under CSR, etc where 
participation was on a walk-in basis. These are not included in the 
aforesaid data
Note: Covers trainings to permanent employees only.
Types of 
trainings- 
Onroll
Skill upgradation  69%
Behavioural  12 %
Risk Management  3 %
Data Privacy  4 %
Information Security  8 %
Ethics  4 %
Training Hours (Male)  63%
Training Hours (Female)  37%
Trainings  
by Gender
A leadership development programme, 
helped build future-ready leaders and 
strengthen the succession pipeline for 
CXO and CXO-1 roles. 
A women’s leadership development 
programme enabled women leaders 
at CRISIL to progress their career. 
This programme also helped build a 
strong pipeline of women talent to 
take up senior leadership positions.
LEAD
EMPOWER
I have been working with CRISIL since 
5 years. Moving to a new role and team 
through Internal Job Posting (IJP) has given 
me enhanced exposure and scope to grow 
personally and professionally. The driving 
factor to apply for an IJP was a desire to do 
something different from what I did in my 
previous role, learn new skills and move to 
a more challenging environment.
Increased mobility is a great move not 
just for the individual but also the larger 
team. CRISIL gives its employees space to 
grow and also invests in their professional 
growth. I feel happy and motivated in my 
new role.
~ Our Employee from Global Analytical Centre team
Employee engagement
With communication holding the key to any symbiotic 
relationship, we at CRISIL constantly strive to engage with 
our employees across geographies. Our intranet – CRISIL 
Yammer – is an online pan-organisation engagement 
platform. Our employee town halls, conducted by our MD 
and CEO and respective business leaders every quarter, 
are a vital channel of communication wherein employees 
across the globe can interact freely with the leadership. 
We deepen our employee engagement through impactful 
training and by ensuring the work environment is motivating 
and positive. If anything, we deepened our engagement 
during the pandemic through virtual fun activities such as 
interactive games and talent contests. 
We celebrate our employee achievements with our robust 
Reward and Recognition programme. To ensure employees 
are motivated and are at their productive best, we continue 
to strengthen the programme, with annual awards for 
Employee Expectations
l	 Career advancement
l	 Fair compensation
l	 Meaningful collaboration at work
Modes of engagement with Employees
Frequency of engagement
Meetings, letters, emails, calls 
Ongoing
Internal HR communications 
Ongoing
Employee town halls 
Quarterly, special
Employee metrics tracked by CRISIL  
in its balanced scorecard 
l	 Diversity 
l	 Attrition
l	 Engagement 
Cultural events 
Event based
Training 
Planned frequency
Appraisals 
Mid-term, annual
Mobile applications and portals 
Ongoing
Survey 
Mid-term and annual
85%
employees feel 
comfortable 
voicing their 
ideas and 
opinions 
73%
employees feel 
that their work is 
appreciated
77%
employees feel 
motivated by 
CRISIL’s vision for 
the future
Promoting health and wellness
CRISIL has rolled out a Health and Safety Policy, which 
covers the impact the nature of work environment has 
on health, including ergonomic health impacts, fire 
safety, communicable diseases, and commute/business 
travel safety. The policy is aimed at including employee 
participation to eliminate hazards and reducing occupational 
health and safety risks.
Being in the financial services sector, our workplace and 
processes are inherently non-hazardous and safe in nature. 
All our work facilities are risk-assessed for safety. Office 
infrastructure is well-sanitised, periodic maintenance of 
electric and electronic devices is undertaken, cafeteria 
services ensure healthy food – all to ensure that safety and 
well-being of employees is taken care of at the workplace.
Standard operating norms have been issued to ensure that 
all offices in India are compliant on working conditions and 
health & safety measures. All offices in India have been 
assessed for compliance with such norms during 2021 
to verify and validate our EHS performance. As a regular 
practice during the pre-pandemic period this used to be 
supplemented with various training sessions on emergency 
response, fire-fighting and evacuation. 
At CRISIL, we value the importance of providing a safe 
working environment to women employees. Women 
employees commuting to airports and returning home at 
night are accompanied by security. Also, a confirmation 
phone call is made by the security control room to ensure the 
women employees travelling at night have reached safely.
Employee safety
excellence, quarterly rewards for service excellence, and 
spot recognition programmes.
We recognise the right to freedom of association in 
accordance with the laws of the land. However, we do not 
have a recognised employee association.
Employees participated in large numbers in the annual 
employee engagement surveys. Over 89% of the employees 
responded to the survey in 2021.
116 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
I have been working with CRISIL for nine years. CRISIL’s working 
environment is employee-friendly, and consideration for 
employee convenience is high. While I missed the working 
environment at CRISIL during the past two years due to the 
pandemic-enforced WFH, we still have a close engagement 
within the teams. I attended a number of interactive 
programmes, too, which helped us cope well with WFH 
challenges. The upgrade to medical support assistance was 
exemplary. My mother had to undergo a surgery. I was worried 
about the long documentation part, but I just had to submit my 
E-card while admitting in the hospital; rest all was taken care 
by CRISIL HR, Mediclaim and the partner teams. The discharge 
and the claim processes were also quick and smooth. A big 
KUDOS to the HR team for running the process smoothly!!
~ Employee from our Corporate Technology team
Care during the pandemic
The unprecedented second wave of COVID – 19 affected 
several employees and their families, some of whom needed 
medical attention. Several initiatives were undertaken 
during the pandemic, focused on not only our employees, 
but also their families. The highlights of the same are 
presented below:
4440+
COVID vaccinations
1862
persons attended 
awareness sessions 
on covid 
MEDICAL SUPPORT
l	 Support for hospitalisation
l	 Ambulance assistance and help with 
securing hospital bed 
l	 Covid-19 testing and medicine home deliveries
l	 Daily health assessment and remote case management
l	 Delivering medical equipment (oxygen concentrators) to 
homes 
l	 Launched CRISIL Care- an emergency health response 
app to facilitate timely access to medical advice and 
infrastructure	
FINANCIAL SUPPORT
l	 Covid-19 treatment for employees and 
family members
l	 Advance bonus - Advance bonus payment for 
India employees at executive and middle management 
levels (50% bonus calculation at 100% of targets)
l	 Emergency interest-free salary advance to meet 
immediate medical expenses related to Covid-19 
treatment
l	 Reimbursements for technology infrastructure, monthly 
internet expenses
l	 Medical reimbursements towards Covid-19 
treatment 	
SUPPORTING FAMILIES
l	 Inclusion of Covid-19 treatment expenses in 
the medical insurance policy
l	 Employee communication with wellness 
seminars and awareness events
l	 Employment support and professional counselling 
support for surviving spouse / sibling of deceased 
employee
l	 One year’s salary to dependents
l	 Health insurance coverage for two years for the family 
members of the deceased colleague
l	 Education support for children of deceased employee 
up to class 12
l	 Covid-19 care packages
VACCINATION DRIVES	
l	 Vaccination camps for employees and 
their immediate family members and 
reimbursement of vaccine cost
LEAVE BENEFITS
l	 Leave for Covid-19 infected employee
l	 Compassionate leave granted to 
employees in the unfortunate event of 
the demise of an immediate family member 
- 
spouse, parent, child
l	 Wellness day-offs, over and above available leaves, for 
rest and rejuvenation of our employees	
OTHER MEASURES 
l	 Launched dedicated CRISIL Helpline to 
extend all hands support for any kind of help 
required by any employee
l	 Communication from senior leadership advising 
periodically on best health practices, resources 
available from CRISIL and a flexible approach
l	 Volunteer groups extended help in hospital searches, 
finding oxygen concentrators, food supply, etc.
l	 26 webinars were held on various topics covering 
work-from-home wellness, sleep, work-life balance, 
communication in relationships, digital detox, gratitude, 
managing mental health, etc.
Respect for human rights 
CRISIL upholds the principles of human rights and fair 
treatment in its business activities. We have reinforced this 
stance by adopting the Policy on Anti-Slavery, which ensures 
transparency and prohibits the use of forced, compulsory or 
trafficked labour in our business. The policy extends to all 
CRISIL subsidiaries (please refer to the statement appended 
at the end of this Report). The statement is also accessible 
at 
https://www.crisil.com/en/home/investors/corporate-
governance.html
Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers and 
vendors to uphold our objective of protection of human 
rights by ensuring, prohibition of child and forced labour and 
promoting health and safety.
Standard operating norms have been issued to ensure that 
all offices in India are compliant on working conditions, 
health & safety measures and have requisite safeguards 
against engagement of child labour, forced labour and 
sexual harassment violations. All offices in India have been 
assessed for compliance with such norms during 2021 to 
verify and validate our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) 
performance. 
3537
employees trained 
during the year on POSH 
(Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment) 
247
employees trained during 
the year on Modern  
Slavery Code
100%
of CRISIL offices in 
India assessed for EHS 
performance
No
instances of Human rights 
violations
Various reporting channels and redressal mechanisms are made available at all levels to all the employees for reporting 
violations of human rights.
118 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Sustainable Supply Chain
We at CRISIL provide fair and equal opportunity to all 
suppliers. Partnering with diverse suppliers is a significant 
component of CRISIL’s overall commitment to seek a diverse 
and inclusive workplace. CRISIL’s Central Procurement Team 
is based out of India and manages global procurement.  
We encourage our suppliers to adopt our Suppliers’ Code of 
Conduct, which outlines the minimum standards of conduct 
that CRISIL expects its vendors and suppliers in the areas 
of business ethics and integrity, fraud prevention, non-
discrimination, diversity, child labour, health and safety, 
environmental compliance and sustainability. Suppliers 
who have deployed their resources at CRISIL’s premises 
and where resources have access to our technology 
infrastructure and applications, need to affirm compliance 
with the Code of Conduct in their dealings with CRISIL. 
The Supplier Code of Conduct is available on the website 
at 
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/investors/
corporate-governance/supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf.
Supply Chain Sustainability Assessment
Supplier diversity 
In 2021, 170 suppliers, covering 52% of our spend 
participated in a self -assessment survey to gauge how 
effectively our supply chain is managing critical issues, 
such as working conditions, health and safety and labour 
practices. We believe that learnings from this assessment 
will bring more rigor to our supplier assessment process and 
raise the bar on ESG practices across CRISIL’s supply chain 
over time.
CRISIL’s policy of equal opportunity towards our stakeholders 
ensures that we engage with suppliers on merit and business 
needs. However, CRISIL is equally conscious of the need for 
inclusive procurement, to deliver broader societal benefits 
by generating economic opportunity for disadvantaged 
communities. During 2021, CRISIL adopted a Supplier 
Diversity framework through which we intend to welcome 
the marginalized section of suppliers classified as MSME 
(micro, small and medium enterprises) and businesses 
owned / led by women, veterans, differently-abled and 
LGBTQ+ enterprises into our supply chain. The framework 
also provides guidance on reviewing our spend through 
diverse supplier base and for defining goals for sourcing 
from diverse group of suppliers. 
170 suppliers covering 52% of our 
procurement spend* assessed for ESG practices
*In computing the aforesaid percentage, total procurement spend 
has been considered excluding employee and associate costs, 
rental, utilities and bank charges.
Fostering close 
partnerships
Supplier engagement 
As a part of enhancing our supplier engagement, in 2021, we 
rolled out our first annual feedback survey to our suppliers. 
This survey is aimed at strengthening our relationship with 
the suppliers by identifying their expectations and improving 
the procurement process at CRISIL. 
98%
suppliers would 
recommend 
CRISIL to others.
94%
suppliers find it 
very easy to talk 
to the concerned 
personnel within 
the organization
93%
suppliers feel 
that CRISIL 
responds to 
the queries and 
resolves the 
raised issues 
actively within 
agreed timelines.
Our supplier engagement survey outcomes 
Supplier Expectations
Modes of engagement with suppliers
Frequency of engagement
l	 Responsiveness and timely resolution of queries 
l	 Long term and mutually beneficial relationship
Meetings, letters, emails, calls
Ongoing
Surveys and assessments
Annual
Metrics tracked by CRISIL in its corporate 
procurement team’s Balanced Scorecard 
l	 Engagement Score
l	 Enhanced ESG Assessment of supply chain
l	 Improved supplier diversity 
Applications and portals
Ongoing
Customer orientation
Our clients range from large corporates to investors and 
top global financial institutions. We work with commercial 
and investment banks, insurance companies, private equity 
players, and asset management companies globally. We 
also engage with governments and policy makers in the 
infrastructure space in India and other emerging markets. 
Our clients rely on us to provide rich research-back data, 
insightful analysis and independent opinions to enable 
them to make decisions with conviction. CRISIL has a 
culture of innovation and has many a firsts to its credit in 
the development of the Indian ratings, bond valuation and 
indices market. We are a preferred partner when it comes to 
rating innovative structures.
ESG conscious eco-system
We operate in a ESG conscious ecosystem which values data 
privacy & confidentiality, information security, innovation, 
technology backed solutions and a holistic solution-oriented 
approach. Continuous engagement with clients drives agility 
and prompts us in introducing new offerings and expanding 
client relationships with value-enriching solutions. We track 
as a part of our balanced scorecard, key metrics relating to 
customers, like growth in revenue from new offerings and 
revenue from key customers, which are cascaded across the 
businesses. We demonstrate strong ESG stewardship as is 
expected by many of our global clientele. 
2840
new clients 
added during 
2021
93%
revenues from 
repeat business 
during 2021
We operate in 
a high ESG-
conscious 
ecosystem. 
Each of our 
top 10 clients 
have published 
sustainability 
reports
19.1%
procurement 
through MSME 
suppliers*
0.3%
procurement 
through 
suppliers that are 
women owned 
enterprises *
0.1%
procurement 
through 
differently abled 
suppliers*
*In value terms
During 2021, our sourcing from marginalised suppliers was 
as follows:
120 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Research Insights 
CRISIL’s objective is to make markets function better. 
Our franchise activities play a vital role in this regard. 
During 2021, CRISIL continued to interact with market 
participants and issuers through seminars and webinars 
on key developments in the economy and sectors. Such 
interactions help us shape up the thought process and give 
direction to the market on key issues impacting the sectors. 
Many of CRISIL’s clients are institutions responsible for 
handling finances of small investors. CRISIL strives to add 
value through its franchise and thought leadership activities 
and distinctive research on contemporary issues, which help 
clients and investor community to quantify and mitigate 
investment and credit risks. CRISIL also regularly comes out 
with new research publications. Snapshot of some of the 
new publications and apps released by CRISIL’s businesses:
I have been using CRISIL Research for nearly 25 years. They 
have been a dependable partner helping us make sound 
credit decisions. The quality of analysis, quick turnaround 
and well-thought out responses to queries is commendable.
-Chief Credit Officer of a leading bank in India
Engagement practices 
Listening to customers
CRISIL undertook the net promoter score (NPS) survey 
across its client base as a step towards our objective to 
be customer and market-led and deliver exceptional and 
differentiated customer experience. The NPS system 
creates a consistent and simplified baseline customer 
sentiment metric among customers and provides timely 
insights that are easy to act on. 
Additionally, 
our 
business 
development 
and 
senior 
management teams from various businesses engage 
with customers through periodic meetings, project level 
feedback and surveys to help us assess our clients’ needs 
and improve our offerings and service quality. Besides, we 
emphasise on regular one-on-one interactions with clients 
and undertake conscious outreach initiatives to clients and 
investors to understand their perspectives and address 
their concerns.
Each business receives and addresses customer complaints 
regularly. Complaint redressal is tracked rigorously 
at various levels of management. The Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee of the Board regularly dedicates 
exclusive time to review stakeholder complaints, including 
customer complaints. 
Customer Expectations
l	 Actionable insights
l	 Cutting edge analysis 
l	 Effective solutions
Modes of engagement with customers
Frequency of engagement
Meetings, letters, emails, calls 
Mobile applications and portals 
Webinars, newsletters, publications 
Surveys 
Feedback forms 
Ongoing
Ongoing
Weekly / monthly
Monthly
Project/ service based
Customer metrics tracked by CRISIL  
in its Balance Scorecard
l	 Net Promoter Score
l	 Revenue from key clients
l	 Contribution from new offerings
Business Continuity, Data privacy  
and information security
Our clients trust us to retain confidentiality of the sensitive 
information that we have access to as part of our service 
delivery. Very often, we access our clients’ internal systems/ 
platforms and our clients trust that we will continue to 
maintain the integrity of such systems.
Comprehensive IT policies
Data leakage protection & protection from cyber risks
Business continuity and disaster recovery 
Information technology (IT) is core to the operations of all 
CRISIL businesses. All technology services are governed 
through comprehensive policies and processes. These 
processes allow information access to personnel within the 
Company based on identified roles. Audits are conducted 
regularly to identify areas of vulnerability and to identify 
actions that mitigate the operational risks. ISO certification 
of key CRISIL offices is conducted to ensure compliance with 
policies related to IT and management system.
The Company has put in place a ‘Data Leakage Prevention’ 
process. The Information security team implements tools 
to strengthen information security posture and evaluate 
areas of vulnerabilities and improve the controls to prevent/
detect/neutralise malicious network penetration (cyber-
attack). Various monitoring controls are in place to timely 
detect and respond to any targeted cyber-attacks. Highly 
responsive technology team and enablement efforts have 
ensured smooth transition to remote working during the 
pandemic.
CRISIL’s business processes are automated through 
bespoke business applications that capture and maintain 
information 
regarding 
business 
processes, 
client 
agreements, reports generated and assignments delivered, 
thus creating an adequate database for our knowledge. The 
technology used by the Company at all locations provides 
for redundancy and disaster recovery. 
For critical business processes, the business teams have 
defined a business continuity plan (BCP) and have tested it 
with the help of the IT team. BCP outlines critical processes, 
downtime tolerances, planned recovery methodologies 
and ensures that requisite alternate infrastructure is 
readily available, while at the same time, ensuring safety 
of teams during emergencies. CRISIL BCP embeds crisis 
communication.
The technology department keeps abreast of the changes 
and suitably undertakes projects for technology upgradation 
to keep the infrastructure current and to provide for 
redundancy. 
At CRISIL, we are deeply invested in ESG and as a digitally enabled organization, we 
are investing heavily in cloud computing with a security first mindset. This means that 
we continue to improve the impact to the environment through more efficient use of 
technology resources while keeping information and cyber security as our top priority. 
We constantly evolve our technology tools and processes to ensure the highest 
standards of data privacy, governance and protection and in the process, also digitally 
enable our clients with benchmarking, market insights and analytics.
Zak Murad, Chief Technology and Information Officer, CRISIL Limited
Our marquee publications to our 
clients 
l	 CRISIL Analytica
l	 Essential Insights
l	 Fund Insights
l	 Rate View
80,000+
readers* for our weekly and monthly 
newsletters from across businesses
100+
leading media publications carried 
our views globally with over 4000+ 
quotes 
*Gross readership
122 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
4678.25
hours of training on 
cyber security and 
InfoSec imparted to 
employees during 2021
More than 82%
employees undertook 
trainings on cyber 
security and InfoSec 
during 2021
Conflict of interest
Data privacy 
Confidentiality of client information is of utmost importance 
at CRISIL. We lay great stress on appropriate policies and 
controls over employee trading practices, regular awareness 
and training sessions and reporting. Our policies not only 
cover CRISIL’s, but also clients’ securities depending on 
the restricted list maintained for each business. A critical 
initiative related to empanelment of brokers in India through 
whom CRISIL’s employees are permitted to trade has enabled 
monitoring of employee trades on a timely and independent 
basis and reduced the reliance on self-disclosure by 
employees. This channelled approach has strengthened 
monitoring and surveillance of security trades and holdings 
disclosed by employees as well as augmented our conflict 
management framework. 
As companies increasingly deliver products and services 
over the internet and through mobile devices, privacy 
concerns associated with handling customer data are on 
the rise. Being in B2B domain, CRISIL does not have access 
to wide range of personal data of customers. CRISIL is fully 
committed in following the highest standards of data privacy 
in accessing and managing personal data of stakeholders. 
CRISIL’s Corporate Privacy Policy describes the manner in 
which data is collected, used, disclosed and security and 
retention procedures. Stakeholders rights, including for 
erasure and storage are guaranteed under the Policy. We 
adapt privacy policy and processes as needed in line with 
new technologies, changing customer needs and emerging 
regulations. 
CRISIL’s Corporate Privacy Policy is available on https://
www.crisil.com/en/home/crisil-privacy-notice.html. 
Key focus areas of CRISIL’s data privacy practices
Stringent data leakage 
controls at gateways 
and endpoints
Security governance 
process adhering to ISO 
27001
Defence in depth, 
cutting across perimeter, 
Network, Endpoint, 
application & data
Business-led security 
hardening controls
Third party risk 
management controls
Initiatives to increase information security awareness :
l	 InfoSec advisory
l	 InfoSec awareness, materials and posters
l	 Phishing simulations
l	 Tabletop exercise on managing ransomware threat
l	 Insider threat awareness
l	 Be risk aware program 
l	 Security JAM program
Cyber defence center 
to monitor and thwart 
cyber attacks
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
124 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
Our commitment 
to the environment
CRISIL believes economic 
progress cannot be at the cost of 
the environment.  
This year, we initiated significant efforts to 
enhance the rigour of tracking our carbon 
footprint, which would help strengthen 
reporting of our environment performance 
and bring down carbon emissions in a 
planned manner. Through ‘CRISIL Re’, our 
flagship environment conservation initiative, 
we remain committed to the climate change 
and environment agenda. We have also 
rolled out dedicated training modules to 
constructively engage employees, their 
families, and their friends in the conservation 
of oceans and forests, tackling climate 
change and its impact. CRISIL is fully 
committed to improving environmental 
performance across its business activities 
and encourages employees to join this effort. 
Maya Vengurlekar
COO, CRISIL Foundation, and Senior Director, 
Marketing & Communication, CRISIL Limited
Positive Environmental Impact
Trees for Future 
Being in the services sector, CRISIL’s business activities 
are inherently non-energy intensive. Nonetheless, CRISIL 
recognizes the potential of its operations and its footprint 
and its impact on natural ecosystems through the usage 
of resources such as energy and water as well as through 
emissions and other outputs. CRISIL therefore strives to 
minimize this impact and believes that environmental 
considerations should be integrated in its business activities. 
We are fully committed to improving our environmental 
performance across all of our activities. 
CRISIL has an environmental policy which governs the 
environmental practices followed by the Company. CRISIL’s 
environment policy underlines our commitment to be 
responsible by improving our environmental performance 
across 
activities, 
and 
encouraging 
our 
employees 
and members of the wider community to work for the 
environment. This policy is available on the website at 
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/investors/
corporate-governance/crisil-environment-policy.pdf.
With the objective of educating our employees on ESG, 
in 2021, we rolled out a dedicated training module on 
environmental awareness. This training module highlighted 
the need for environment conservation, how CRISIL can 
contribute to building a greener planet and how our 
employees can do their bit in conserving the environment. 
CRISIL’s environment conservation programme, under 
the aegis of the CRISIL CSR Policy undertaken by its CSR 
arm CRISIL Foundation, focuses on the conservation of 
the environment by focusing on relevant programmes 
in the vicinity of CRISIL offices. The program strives to 
constructively engage  employees  and  their families, 
friends and relatives in environment conservation. This 
involves preserving the oceans and forests, tackling climate 
change and its impact – thereby positively impacting “Life 
below Water” and “Life on Land” – two of the key United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
In 2021, the Foundation planted 36,580 trees across four 
cities, taking the cumulative number of tree plantations 
to over 109,000 (2015 to 2021). With an aim to keep the 
employees engaged in conversations pertaining to bio-
diversity, environment conservation, sustainability and 
responsible volunteering, CRISIL Foundation organised 
a series of webinars and virtual knowledge sessions on 
environment protection, bio-diversity conservation and 
social leadership. 
CRISIL observed World Environment Day (June 5) and World 
Ocean’s Day (June 8) through a series of speaker sessions in 
collaboration with S&P Global India focusing on environment, 
climate change and bio-diversity conservation.
2203* employees undertook training on 
environmental awareness 
*Upto January 31, 2022
36,580
Trees planted in 2021
1,09,000+
Cumulative trees planted 
till 2021
61,000+
Trees maintained in 2021
99,280 
Trees maintained 
(cumulative till 2021)
Trees planted between 2015 – 2021 expected to offset 1.6 mn kg of CO2 
per year post maturity
Employee: tree ratio
1:19
914 
CRISIL 
employees 
involved (in 2021)
11,576
CRISIL employees 
involved (cumulative 
till 2021)
2,399
Family and friends 
volunteered 
(cumulative till 2021)
Carbon sequestration  
potential of
8,646.29
metric tonnes of CO2 over  
a 15-year period from  
33,368 trees planted between 
2019 to 2021 at 10 sites in 
Mumbai and Pune
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
126 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Energy Conservation 
The goal of conservation of the environment is aligned with 
CRISIL’s strong belief of doing business in greener ways. As a 
conscious step in this direction, we are progressively moving 
towards energy-saving LED technology for our office lighting 
needs, monitoring energy consumption and embracing 
composting techniques to reduce waste removal to landfills.
The pandemic has brought in newer ways of doing business 
and engaging with stakeholders and given immense 
learnings to businesses. Progressive business thinking 
demands that successful practices be absorbed for 
operational convenience and efficiency. CRISIL intends to 
therefore introduce a hybrid work model post pandemic, 
as a result of which, a part of of its workforce will work 
from home. This model will eschew excess office space no 
longer required. Towards preparing for this model, we have 
consolidated our office space across geographical locations 
in India. We had area inventory of 494933 sq.ft. which has 
been reduced by 132987 sq.ft (27% of total office space). 
This has resulted in lower consumption of electricity, water 
and other utilities, thus contributing to lower emissions. 
Green Buildings 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a 
green building certification program used worldwide. CRISIL 
House, Mumbai, our corporate headquarters, has achieved 
a LEED Platinum certification, the highest such certification 
in 2009. As the commitment continues with the same vigour 
and dedication, the certification was renewed in 2016 
retaining the Platinum certification which is a hallmark of 
our commitment to the environment. The second largest 
office within the CRISIL family in India is CRISIL House, 
Gurugram which has been given a LEED Gold certification. 
Both offices together, house more than 50% of the CRISIL 
workforce in India. 
CRISIL’s initiatives to reduce energy consumption
At the operations level, CRISIL has 
consolidated its data centers by reducing 
the number of physical servers through 
virtualization, and has provided an enclosed 
space and focused cooling for the servers 
The design and usage of the air-conditioning 
system in CRISIL House conserves energy 
and minimizes electricity usage. Air-
conditioning units are specific to areas; 
individual units are controlled and adjusted 
zonewise using an integrated building 
management system. The building is 
designed and built to minimize thermal 
leakage, both inward and outward
Motion sensors are used to optimize lighting 
usage
In addition to reducing energy consumption, 
bank of photovoltaic panels are installed at 
CRISIL House to generate solar energy 
Employees are encouraged to use 
conferencing facilities and webinars as a 
means of interacting with clients and the 
market wherever possible 
The Company has provided buses for 
employees to travel to office, which apart 
from enhancing employee convenience also 
reduces usage of vehicles due to pooling 
effect
Preferred parking slots and charging points 
are provided for electric cars at CRISIL 
House
	
15679.03	
21872.12
India Operations (in Giga Joules)	
Fiscal 2021	
Fiscal 2020
Direct and indirect energy 
consumption
Reduced GHG Emissions 
Water conservation
Our efforts to promote a sustainable environment 
encompass our operations and people. At our facilities, 
we are embedding best practice management and green 
behaviours to support our environmental goals. 
During 2021, CRISIL’s scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased 
as a result of consolidation of office spaces. As a part 
of our computation methodology for emissions, we have 
covered home working related emissions too under Scope 
3. During 2021, emissions under scope 3 increased in view of 
continued work from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic as 
well as increase in capex and procurement expenses. 
CRISIL recognises the potential of its operations and 
large employee footprint, to create an impact on natural 
ecosystems through optimal usage of resources such 
as energy and water. Therefore CRISIL believes water 
conservation should be an important element of its business 
activities and strives towards minimising the environmental 
impact by its operation.
Waste Management
The Company’s solid waste management practices also 
ensures zero contribution to landfills from CRISIL House. 
Dry waste is handed over to scrap vendors for recycling 
whereas the wet waste is converted to compost on the site 
itself. Throughout CRISIL, a number of initiatives have been 
taken over the years to reduce paper consumption. One 
of the most pervasive uses of paper is the paper cup – a 
company of CRISIL’s size can save as much as 12 tonnes of 
paper in a year, besides savings on transport and disposal, 
by not using these cups. CRISIL has replaced paper cups 
with reusable metal cups.
Emissions
Units
2020
2021
Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions
MtCO2e
5101
3527.4
Scope 3 emissions
MtCO2e
5581
6225.7
Total GHG emissions 
(Scopes 1-3)
MtCO2e
10682
9753.1
Emissions per employee 
(Scope 1 & 2)
MtCO2e
1.20
0.8
Emissions per rupee crore 
of turnover (Scope 1 & 2)
MtCO2e/ 
crore
2.47
1.53
CRISIL House Mumbai has a 
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) 
for recycling of water routed to 
sanitary use and for watering 
CRISIL House’s 17,000 square feet 
of green areas at CRISIL House, 
Mumbai
128 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Our commitments 
to communities
CRISIL further builds the sustainability of various rural 
communities through its CSR programmes, thereby 
contributing towards building the resilience and capacities 
of marginalized communities. Over the many years, CRISIL 
has remained focused in its belief of ‘doing good with what 
we are good at’ in building financial capabilities of vulnerable 
communities, especially women.
Mein Pragati, RBI MoneyWise Centers for Financial Literacy 
(CFL) and GramShakti Certification are our prominent 
initiatives towards building financial capabilities among the 
socially and economically disadvantaged sections of the 
society.  
Mein Pragati (in Assam and Rajasthan)
Impetus on long-term sustainability of the Sakhi cadre 
Sakhi cadre drives last-mile impact 
Launched in Assam in 2015 and replicated in Rajasthan in 
2016, Mein Pragati aims to empower rural women through 
financial capability building. Phase I of the programme 
empowered over 1.65 lakh women through multi-touchpoint 
financial literacy workshops.
Phase II of the programme, aimed to consolidate the 
programme in order to achieve deeper and more meaningful 
intervention with participants of Phase I by creating a cadre 
of community workers called the ‘Sakhi’ to support the 
community in building their financial awareness and access. 
The year 2021 aimed to strengthen, sustain and expand the 
impact created so far through on-boarding Sakhis in newer 
locations of Assam and Rajasthan.
The 2021 strategy focused on covering a larger geography 
by expansion and institutionalisation of Sakhi cadre and 
making it self-sustainable, by forming Sakhi Clusters in 
Assam and expanding into new blocks and districts of 
Assam and Rajasthan.
During the year, the programme witnessed a seamless, 
organic expansion into new locations, backed by a robust, 
self-sufficient Sakhi cadre. 1,257 Sakhis were on-boarded 
during the year, taking the total to over 1,852 Sakhis in 2,482 
villages. These Sakhis are proactively driving the agenda 
of financial awareness, inclusion and strengthening social 
security cover for the vulnerable population.  
The Sakhi cadre has been instrumental in enhancing 
awareness about and access to banking, financial services 
and government schemes among the community. The 
efficacy, robustness and relevance of Sakhis came to 
the fore as they continued to provide timely support to 
the community to access financial services – despite the 
pandemic situation.
Assam Sakhi cadre 
Impact and reach as on December 31, 2021 * 
(Barpeta, Darrang, Goalpara, Kamrup, Morigaon, and 
Nalbari) 
No. of Sakhis
1,245
Cumulative outreach
623,500+
Linkages enabled by the Sakhi cadre
487,100+
l	 Banking and Financial products/ 
services
196,300+
l	 Government entitlements and social 
welfare schemes
147,900+
l	 KYC, Aadhaar, PAN card applications
142,800+
Rajasthan Sakhi cadre
Impact and reach as on December 31, 2021 * 
(Alwar and Dausa)
No. of Sakhis
607
Cumulative outreach
261,400+
Linkages enabled by the Sakhi cadre
77,600+
l	 Banking and Financial products/ 
services
37,360+
l	 Government entitlements and social 
welfare schemes
27,000+
l	 KYC, Aadhaar, PAN card applications
8,760+ 
* Cumulative data from April 1, 2018
*Cumulative data from September 1, 2018
GramShakti Certification Programme
Having proved the efficacy and relevance of Sakhi cadre in 
Assam and Rajasthan, CRISIL Foundation devised an online 
learning and certification programme called GramShakti 
incorporating all the best practices involved in training and 
development of Sakhis. Accessed through a tech-based 
learning application, customised in regional languages with 
interactive and engaging content, the programme comprises 
theory and practical assignments.
Launched in late 2018, GramShakti is CRISIL Foundation’s 
attempt to provide a scalable model for creating a pan-India 
cadre of trained community leaders who can effectively 
address the issue of financial exclusion and empower 
women.
During the year, the programme expanded to over 3,100 
end users across CRISIL Foundation’s intervention areas 
and replicated in non-intervention locations through 
partnerships. There are currently 790 community cadre in 
Assam, Haryana and Maharashtra, who have been formally 
certified through a convocation programme and provide 
support to their communities through last-mile awareness 
and handholding.
The story of Pragati Das
A 30 year old widow with two 
children, Pragati Das, is a CRISIL 
Sakhi who hails from Kamrup Rural, 
a district in Assam. She was always 
self-driven and motivated, and was 
part of the local self-help group 
in the village. After being trained 
as a Sakhi, she started providing 
doorstep services to her community 
members and thereby gradually 
increasing her surplus income. 
She became very enthusiastic about 
learning new schemes and products 
– especially government sponsored 
welfare schemes. She went about 
linking the community members 
with various schemes like Ujjwala 
scheme, Caste certificate, and PAN 
cards. Due to her proactive work in 
her village, she has now become a 
community leader of her village – a 
member of the panchayat.
3,100+
No. of end users
10 
States covered 
790
Certified cadre
1,700+
Cadre completed course
130 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
CRISIL ESG REPORT 2021 | 131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
CRISIL Foundation is the only corporate CSR arm selected 
by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to implement its pilot 
Moneywise Centres for Financial Literacy (CFL) project 
for financial inclusion in Maharashtra and Haryana during 
2017. In August 2019, the RBI awarded CRISIL Foundation 
five additional tribal blocks in Rajasthan, expanding 
the project’s scope to 25 centres across three states in 
partnership with NABARD and seven sponsor banks. 
Since inception in 2017, the centres have directly reached 
out to over 650,000 community members and facilitated over 
125,000 applications for banking products and schemes. 
A footfall of over 26,000 walk-ins for query resolution and 
handholding indicates their growing trust and acceptance 
among the community. Each of these centres, have actively 
supported local banks and stakeholders, and have become 
integral part of the financial inclusion eco-system over the 
years.
In its National Strategy for Financial Inclusion (2019-
2024), the RBI had formally announced1 its intent towards 
expanding into all blocks in the country by 2024. As part 
of the scale-up phase, CRISIL Foundation has received a 
formal mandate to expand CFLs in 429 blocks across 18 
States/UTs over a three year period (2021-24). 
Towards the scale-up mandate, CRISIL Foundation has 
successfully opened 419 CFLs during the year across 17 
States and UTs.
1  Formally documented in the National Strategy for Financial Inclusion 
2019-2024 released by the RBI (https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/Publication-
ReportDetails.aspx?UrlPage=&ID=1154)
RBI MoneyWise Centres for Financial Literacy 
(CFL) 
* Cumulative data from October 1, 2017
The story of Sulochana 
Sulochana lives with husband, son and two daughters, in a 
village at Manora, Washim in Maharashtra. After becoming 
CRISIL certified GramShakti, she became well aware of the 
banking sector and understood the on-ground constraints 
faced by rural women and banks.
She gradually began supporting the community members in 
building their financial awareness. She became a proponent 
for Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana – a government scheme for the 
girl child. Apart from them, she regularly guided and facilitated 
registration for insurance and pension schemes to build the 
safety net. She has now been appointed as a Bank Sakhi by 
the District Co-operative Bank (DCCB).
Deepening Mein Pragati impact through 
sustainable livelihoods in Assam
A dedicated Covid-19 response – lighting numerous lives
Financial independence & livelihoods opportunities go 
hand-in-hand and hence, CRISIL Foundation, in 2018 
initiated a few livelihood pilots (on a small scale) in Assam. 
1.	Areca-nut plate manufacturing – to establish a 
community-owned, operated and managed areca-nut 
plate manufacturing unit
2.	Eri Silk cultivation – to establish a community-owned, 
operated and managed Eri Silk producing unit and move 
up the value chain (cocoon – yarn – yardage – apparel)
3.	Handloom – to set up backward (production) and 
forward (marketing) linkages
In 2018, these pilots were initiated with a small pool of 75 
households and were subsequently scaled up over 2019 
and 2020 with help from local NGOs. These initiatives have 
gained steady momentum through enhanced household 
coverage, and improved income generation for over 1,500 
households by 2021. 
Initiatives like setting up of an Eri Resource Centre to 
improve overall cocoon production, creating low-cost 
rearing spaces to increase quantity/quality of produce, 
enhancing design and business skills and leveraging online 
platforms (like Antaran Artisan Connect) for weavers have 
increased beneficiaries’ returns and stabilised their income 
over the years.
Project ‘Oxygen for All’ – a partnership between CRISIL 
Foundation and ACT Grants – successfully deployed 118 
oxygen devices across 10 facilities in Delhi, Bangalore, 
Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Kolkata. These included low-
flow oxygen concentrators and cylinders. 
Project ‘Take the Shot’ – To support marginalized 
communities with COVID-19 vaccination, CRISIL Foundation 
also partnered with Sambhav Foundation to organize 
vaccination drive for over 8,339 community members across 
Mumbai and Pune – largely comprising of construction 
workers, street vendors, drivers, house helps, and daily 
wage laborers. This initiative was also facilitated through 
employee contribution.
States
Impact and reach as on December 31, 2021 * 
(Haryana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan)
125,000+
Applications mobilised 
for banking services 
(Bank accounts, social 
security schemes, digital 
linkages etc.)
7
Districts
25
Blocks
1,613
Villages
26,000+
Walk-ins to CFL 
offices
650,000+ Cumulative outreach (through 
multiple touch-point trainings)
132 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Shaping the larger social consciousness quotient …
Despite a Work from Home scenario, CRISIL continued 
keeping the employees meaningfully engaged by contributing 
to the ‘social’ agenda. A series of virtual knowledge sessions 
on environment protection, bio-diversity conservation and 
social leadership enabled CRISILites to engage and interact 
with key social impact leaders
In addition, an array of virtual volunteering opportunities 
allowed them to give back to the communities by way of their 
time and inputs.
1.	Wise Wednesdays – A virtual capacity building 
initiative for Foundation’s field staff 
Focused initiative to build capacities of the Foundation’s 
field team by leveraging the CRISIL employees. Sessions 
include those on improving presentation skills, making 
impactful 
presentation, 
mutual 
funds, 
building 
networking skills etc.
2.	Telephonic Spoken English Programme (TSEP) 
Improving 
spoken 
English 
to 
school 
drop-outs/ 
unemployed youth in partnership with Kotak Education 
Foundation. 
3.	Teaching rural India – eVidyaloka
Enable rural children learn Maths and Science through 
self-recorded videos in English and regional languages. 
Daan Utsav
Engagement with 
Team Everest &  
Book Share India
over 1,200 
books/ items received. 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 133
134 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
ESG Databook
(This Databook should be read in conjunction with ESG Report and BRSR Report)
General information
3. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
Sr. 
no.
Description of 
Main Activity 
Description of Business Activity 
% of turnover 
of the entity 
1
Ratings
Providing credit ratings including bond ratings, bank loan ratings, SME ratings, other 
grading services
26%
2
Research
Research services include Global Research & Risk Solutions activities divided into 
financial research, risk & analytics and corporate research and India research 
activities comprising economy & industry research, funds & fixed income research 
and equity & company research
67%
3
Advisory
Providing policy and regulatory advisory, public-private partnership frameworks, 
infrastructure financing mechanisms, business / commercial diligence and strategic 
advice, programme management, monitoring and evaluation, providing consulting and 
software solutions pertaining to credit risk, market risk, operational risk, providing 
software solutions, regulatory requirements, business intelligence, analytics and 
digital software solutions
7%
2. Products/Services sold by the entity 
(accounting for 90% of the entity’s 
Turnover)
Sr. 
no.
Product/ 
Service
NIC Code
% of Turnover of 
the entity
1
Ratings
66190
26%
2
Research
66190
67%
3
Advisory
70200
7%
1. 	Number of locations where plants and/or operations /
offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number 
of plants
Number 
of offices
Number of 
locations
State/Countrywide 
presence
National 
 -
11
11
7 states
International
 -
11
11
10 countries 
(excluding India)
11.
Coalition Development 
Singapore Pte. Ltd.
Subsidiary Company
100
12.
Greenwich Associates LLC
Subsidiary Company
100
13.
Greenwich Associates Singapore 
PTE. LTD.
Subsidiary Company
100
14.
Greenwich Associates Japan 
K.K.
Subsidiary Company
100
15.
Greenwich Associates Canada 
ULC
Subsidiary Company
100
16.
Greenwich Associates UK 
Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
17.
CRISIL Irevna Australia Pty Ltd
Subsidiary Company
100
4. Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary 
/ associate companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column A, 
participate in the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Group Holding of S&P Global, Inc. 
a)	 S&P India LLC
b)	 S&P Global Asian Holdings 
Pte. Ltd.
c)	 S&P International LLC
Holding Company
66.88
No. The holding companies have an 
independent reporting on ESG.
2.
CRISIL Ratings Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
Yes for all subsidiaries. Refer to 
“Reporting boundaries” on pg. no. 97 of 
the ESG report.
3.
CRISIL Risk and Infrastructure 
Solutions Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
4.
Pragmatix Services Private 
Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
5.
CRISIL Irevna UK Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
6.
CRISIL Irevna US LLC
Subsidiary Company
100
7.
CRISIL Irevna Argentina S.A.
Subsidiary Company
100
8.
CRISIL Irevna Poland Sp. Z.oo.
Subsidiary Company
100
9.
CRISIL Irevna Information 
Technology (Hangzhou) Co. Ltd.
Subsidiary Company
100
10.
Coalition Development Limited
Subsidiary Company
100
Governance related
5.	 Details of women representation
Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women (including differently abled)
Total
No. of Females (including differently abled)
No. of females who are differently abled persons
No.
%
No.
%
Board of Directors
8
3
37.50%
0
0
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33%
0
0
6.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the 
financial year
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors
1*
Ethics, transparency and accountability
100%@
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel**
7
Code of Ethics, Prevention of sexual harassment, Information 
and cyber security awareness, Risk awareness, Environment 
conservation, Data privacy, Personal trading policy
100%
Employees 
other than 
BoD & 
KMPs@
23
Code of Ethics, Prevention of sexual harassment, Modern slavery, 
environment conservation, Business continuity management, 
Risk awareness, Information and cyber security, Data privacy, 
Personal trading policy and various skill upgradation trainings
92 % 
*	 Training rolled out in December 2021 and includes completion up to January 2022.
**	MD &CEO is included in both KMP and Board trainings.
@	 Covers various trainings on principles of ethical conduct, fairness and transparency, such as CRISIL Code of Ethics, CRISIL Code of Conduct for 
Directors and S&P COBE. Copies of the Codes and their coverage of ethical conduct principles are available at https://investor.spglobal.com/
corporate-governance/documents/code-of-business-ethics-for-employees/ ; https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-
governance/code-directors-sr-management.pdf 
and 
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-
ethics.pdf  
7.	 Details of remuneration/salary/wages
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/Salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/Salary/
wages of respective category
Board of Directors
6**
3,920,000
3
4,987,500
Key Managerial Personnel
2
46,067,563
2*
62,815,346
Employees other than BoD & KMP
2750
1,137,598
1600
9,86,242@
**	 Note: Remuneration to MD & CEO has been included in KMP. Includes all Directors who have served on the CRISIL Limited Board during the year.
*	 Includes remuneration paid to Ms. Ashu Suyash who held the position of Managing Director & CEO of CRISIL Limited till September 30, 2021
@	 Aggregate number of employees are not comparable with the headcount as on December 31, 2021 since the aforesaid data pertains to 
remuneration paid to employees on-roll during 2021.
Sr. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary 
/ associate companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column A, 
participate in the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
136 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
7 (a).	
Ratio of remuneration
Ratio of remuneration of MD & CEO to the median remuneration of employees
2021
Mr. Amish Mehta, MD & CEO ~
10.17
~ Appointed as Managing Director and CEO with effect from October 1, 2021. The ratio indicated above is calculated basis the remuneration 
for the period October 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. Based on annualised remuneration the ratio will be 40.69. 
8.	 Details on material business conduct issues
Material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental, social and governance 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to business and the approach that the Company is taking to address them
Sr. 
No.
High Priority / 
Material issue
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case 
of risk, 
approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
1
Strong governance 
oversight
Opportunity
ESG risks and 
opportunities impact 
and shape our 
operations and business 
activity. In 2021, we 
conducted a materiality 
assessment to identify 
our most relevant (or 
“material”) reporting 
topics from an ESG 
perspective — which is 
a broader standard than 
that used in our financial 
disclosures. 
The universe of our 
priorities within the 
domains of E, S and 
G has been derived 
through a consultative 
exercise, wherein 
the priorities were 
evaluated in order 
of their importance 
to our business and 
our stakeholders. 
We leveraged inputs 
from stakeholder 
engagements, surveys, 
strategic processes, 
peer benchmarking and 
industry standards to 
sharpen management 
insight on material 
issues.
Please 
refer 
to the 
section 
titled 
‘Risk 
Manage-
ment’ on 
page no 
103 of 
the ESG 
Report
Strong governance oversight ensures 
growth and strategic direction.
2
Ethical conduct
Opportunity
Ethical conduct is central to CRISIL’s 
value proposition and recognition as 
an independent and credible analytical 
organization which has led to continued 
trust from its clientele
3
Diversity & 
inclusion
Opportunity
Creates a diverse workforce with 
different perspectives, high engagement 
and fosters innovation
4
Talent retention & 
succession
Risk
High attrition could have negative 
implications which are mitigated through 
talent retention initiatives  
5
Employee 
enablement & well 
being
Opportunity
Employee empowerment, learning & 
development and well-being initiatives 
leads to a productive workforce
6
Risk Management 
& Compliance
Risk
Risk management ensures timely 
identification of risks and stability of 
operations
7
Data privacy 
& information 
security
Risk
Investments in this area will have short 
term financial impact but in the long run 
will create positive outcomes in the form 
of improved security and controls
8
ESG products & 
offerings
Opportunity
Increased ESG focus globally presents 
valuable revenue potential 
9
Environmental 
response
Risk
Climate change can lead to physical 
risk to company property due to climate 
disasters and cost for transition to low 
carbon economy
10
CSR programs
Opportunity
CSR program leads to equitable 
and sustainable development of the 
communities in which CRISIL operates.
Employee related
CRISIL has no workmen amongst its employee category as all employees are at positions of executive and above. Hence, 
all the references and data points required for workmen are not applicable.
9.	 Details on awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles  
during 2021 
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training
%age of value chain partners covered under 
the awareness programmes
21
Code of Ethics, Prevention of sexual 
harassment, Modern slavery, environment 
conservation, Risk awareness, Information and 
cyber security, Data privacy, Personal trading 
policy and various skill upgradation trainings
35%
10.	 Detail on list of trade & industry chambers/ associations of which the Company is a member of/are 
affiliated to
Sr 
No
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations 
Scope of Entity 
(State/National)
1
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
National
2
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
All India Management Association (AIMA)
National
11. Headcount
(a) Total (including differently abled)
S. No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male (%)
Female (%)
No. (B)
(B/A)%
No. (C)
% (C/A)
1
Permanent Employees
3973
2478
62.4%
1495
37.6%
2
Contract staff
861
524
60.9%
337
39.1%
3
Total
4834
3002
62.1%
1832
37.9%
The above data is as of December 31, 2021
(b) Differently abled Employees
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male (%)
Female (%)
No. (B)
(B/A)%
No. (C)
% (C/A)
1
Permanent Employees
12
10
83.3%
2
16.7%
2
Contract staff
0
0
-
0
-
3
Total
12
10
83.3%
2
16.7%
The above data is as of December 31, 2021
12. Details of employees in terms of minimum wages paid
Category
2021
2020
Total
Equal to minimum 
wage
More than minimum 
wage
Total
Equal to minimum 
wage
More than minimum 
wage
No.
%
No
%
No.
%
No
%
Employees
Male
2101
0
0%
2101
100%
1981
0
0%
1981
100%
Female
1295
0
0%
1295
100%
1175
0
0%
1175
100%
Total
3396
0
-
3396
-
3156
0
-
3156
- 
The above table covers only India employees.
138 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 139
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
13. Details of statutory dues (PF, Gratuity, ESI) deducted and deposited with the authorities approved by 
government
Statutory Dues
2021
2020
No. of employees 
eligible for 
deduction
Deducted as 
prescribed  
(in Rs.)
Deposited  
(in Rs.)
No. of employees 
& eligible for 
deduction
Deducted as 
prescribed  
(in Rs.)
Deposited  
(in Rs.)
PF
4359
17,63,95,379
17,63,95,379
3,705
15,98,44,880
15,98,44,880
Gratuity
230
6,44,81,110
6,44,81,110
149
5,21,47,303
5,21,47,303
ESI
1
142
142
6
3,980
3,980
Number of employees, in respect of which PF and statutory dues given above are not comparable with the overall headcount as on Dec 31 
since the above table indicates payments made in respect of employees on-roll during the years.
14. Details of measures for the well-being
Category
Total
Health Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care facilities
No
%
No
%
No
%
No
%
No
%
Permanent
a. Male
2101
2101
100
2101
100
-
-
2101
100
-
-
b. Female
1295
1295
100
1295
100
1295
100
-
-
1295
100
c. Total
3396
3396
100
3396
100
1295
-
2101
-
1295
-
Contract staff
a. Male
523
523
100
523
100
-
-
523
100
-
-
b. Female
337
337
100
337
100
337
100
-
-
-
-
c. Total
860
860
100
860
100
337
-
523
-
-
-
Note: This covers eligible India employees as on December 31, 2021. Well-being measures are extended to overseas employees in 
accordance with the statutory norms and regulations as applicable to the respective overseas jurisdiction.
15. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees
Category
2021
2020
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
2174
2174
100%
2040
2040
100%
Female
1267
1267
100%
1188
1188
100%
Total
3441
3441
100%
3228
3228
100%
Note: The table covers the employees who were on-roll and subject to performance reviews during 
the years. Hence, the employee numbers are not comparable with the headcount as on December 31.
16. Return to work and retention rates from parental leave
Permanent employees
Contract staff
Permanent employees
Gender
Paternity 
leave
Maternity 
leave
Paternity 
leave
Maternity 
leave
Gender
Return to work 
rate
Retention rate
Male
61
NA
0
NA
Male
100%
100%
Female
NA
27
NA
0
Female
100%
100%
Total
61
27
0
0
Note: The above table covers only India employees
17. Details of training
Category
2021
2020
Category
2021
2020
Total 
assigned
Trained on 
health & safety 
measures
Total 
assigned
Trained 
on health 
& safety 
measures
Total 
assigned
Trained on skill 
upgradation
Total 
assigned
Trained on skill 
upgradation
No
%
No
%
No
%
No
%
Employees
Employees
Male
310
213 68.71%
0
0 0%
Male
13,969 10,750 76.96%
10,389
10,115
97.36%
Female
160
154 96.25%
0
0 0%
Female
  8,454
6,613 78.22%
  7,412
7,239
97.67%
Total
470
367 78.09%
0
0 0%
Total
22,423 17,363 77.43%
17,801
17,354
97.49%
Contract staff
Contract staff
Male
0
0
0%
0
0 0%
Male
861
359
41.70%
2,094
2,091
99.86%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0 0%
Female
592
309 52.20%
1,338
1,335
99.78%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0 0%
Total
1453
668 45.97%
3,432
3,426
99.83%
Notes:
(1)	 The aforesaid headcount of training is an aggregation of multiple trainings assigned to/taken by different sections of employees during 
the year. For example a person who has been assigned or who has taken 3 trainings would be counted thrice. In view of this, the total 
number of headcount will not be comparable with the headcount figures as on December 31.
(2) 	 Total assigned column represents the number of persons to whom trainings were assigned during the years. The numbers and 
percentage in the trained column indicates the persons who have completed the respective trainings.
(3)	 H&S training such as fire safety, evacuation, etc. requires physical presence of staff. Due to work from home, H&S trainings were 
suspended in 2020. In 2021, these commenced only to a limited extent, for BCP coordinators. Besides this, 26 webinars on care during 
Covid were held where participation was on a walk-in basis, which are not included in the aforesaid data.
Health & Safety and Trainings
18. Details on training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the company
Category
2021
2020
Total 
(A)
Nos. 
trained 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Total 
(C)
Nos. 
trained 
(D)
% 
(D/C)
Permanent employees
5247
3801
72.44%
3462
3054
88.21%
Contract staff
1293
532
41.11%
1514
1360
88.21%
Total
6540
4333
66.25%
4976
4414
88.70%
Note: The table depicts that aggregate number of employees to whom various human rights related 
trainings were assigned during the years (A&C columns) and number of employees completing the 
training (B&D columns). Hence, the number is not comparable with the employee headcount as on 
December 31.
19. Details on assessment of value chain partners
Assessment for the year
% of value chain 
partners (by 
value of business 
done with such 
partners) that 
were assessed*
Sexual Harassment
52%
Working Conditions
52%
Health & Safety
52%
Discrimination at workplace
52%
Child Labour
52%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
52%
Wages
52%
*In computing the aforesaid percentage, total procurement 
spend has been considered excluding employee and associate 
costs, rental, utilities and bank charges
20. Details on assessment of office on  
human rights.
Assessment for the year 2021*
% of your offices that 
were assessed
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
100%
Health and safety practices
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Working Conditions
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
* This assessment framework was designed and rolled out in 
2021. In the first phase, only Indian locations have been covered.
140 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 141
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
21.	 Details on Complaints/Grievances on any aspect of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct in the financial year 
Stakeholder group from whom 
complaint is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
2021
2020
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Business partners
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Investors
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Shareholders
Yes
36
2*
-
19
1
-
Employees
Yes
2
Nil
-
1
Nil
-
Customers
Yes
7
1
-
2
1
-
Value Chain Partner
Yes
1
Nil
-
1
Nil
-
Others
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
3
Nil
- 
Note: The above complaints pertain to CRISIL Limited on standalone basis.
*The two shareholders’ complaints were received towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 and have been resolved since.
22. Details on Number of Complaints made by employees
2021
2020
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
-
-
-
1*
-
-
Working Conditions
2
-
-
1
-
-
Health & Safety
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
-
Discrimination at workplace
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
-
Child Labour
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
-
Wages
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
-
Other human rights related 
issues
NIL
-
-
NIL
-
- 
Note: The above complaints pertain to to CRISIL Limited on standalone basis.
*Complaint by contract staff
23. Details on turnover rate for permanent employees
2021
2020
2019
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
20.1%
17.8%
19.2%
12.5%
11.6%
12.2%
22.1%
21.3%
21.8%
Note: Exits given are voluntary regrettable exits
24. Percentage of input material (by value of all 
inputs) to total inputs sourced from suppliers
2021
2020
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ 
small producers
19.13%
NA
Sourced directly from within 
the district and neighbouring 
districts
NA
NA
NA: Information not available
24(a). Details of Social Impact Assessment
Name & brief 
details of 
Project
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
Mein 
Pragati 
(Rajasthan)
Yes
Yes
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/crisil-foundation/generic-
pdf/mein-pragati-rajasthan-phase-II-endline-report-2021.pdf
CRISIL Re
Yes
Yes
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/crisil-foundation/generic-
pdf/crisil-re-tree-audit-report-2021.pdf
GramShakti
Yes
Yes
https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/crisil-foundation/generic-
pdf/gramshakti-certification-phase-I-endline-report-2021.pdf
24(b).	Details on CSR projects undertaken 
in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies
Sr. 
No.
State
Aspirational Districts*
Amount 
Spent
1
Assam
Darrang, Barpeta, 
Goalpara , Dhubri and 
Baksa
INR 1.58 cr
2
Maharashtra
Washim
INR 1.49 cr
3
Haryana
Nuh/ Mewat
Note: *As per Government of India data - link: https://nfdb.gov.
in/PDF/List%20of%20AD.pdf
24(c). Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Sr. 
No
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects*
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
Names of vulnerable & marginalized 
groups
1
Mein Pragati (Assam and 
Rajasthan)
3,66,710
100%
Women, Scheduled Castes (Dalits)
Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes
Elderly or Aged People
2
RBI-CFL Pilot (Maharashtra, 
Haryana and Rajasthan)
95,703
100%
*For the year 2021
Communities
142 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 143
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Environment 
25(b). Details of water consumption based on 
sources
Parameter
2021
2020
Water withdrawal by source (in 
kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
0
0
(ii)	 Groundwater
0
0
(iii)	Third party water
7228.50
14731
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v)	 Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal 
(in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
7228.50
14731
Total volume of water 
consumption (in kilolitres)
7228.50
14731
Water intensity per crore rupee 
of turnover (Water consumed / 
turnover)
3.14
7.13
Note: Data available only for Mumbai, Pune and Gurugram offices 
which are exclusively managed and controlled by CRISIL. 
25(a). Energy consumption (In Giga Joules) and 
energy intensity
Parameter
2021
2020
Total electricity consumption (A)
15303.70
21311.50
Total fuel consumption (B)
375.33
560.62
Energy consumption through 
other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
15679.03
21872.12
Energy intensity per crore rupees 
of turnover
6.81
10.60
Energy intensity per employee
3.42
5.35 
26.	 List innovative technologies, solutions & initiatives undertaken resulting in lower environment 
footprint adopted by the company, if any 
Sr. No
Environmental 
footprint
Initiatives undertaken
Web link, if any
a
Land use
Consolidation of offices initiated in 2021 and reduced approx 132987 
sq.ft. area
-
b
Emissions
-
-
c
Water
CRISIL House Mumbai has a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) for recycling 
of water routed to sanitary use and for watering CRISIL House’s 17,000 
square feet of green areas at CRISIL House, Mumbai
-
d
Energy
l	 Consolidation of data centre
l	 Office AC controlled through integrated building management system 
at CRISIL House
l	 Photovoltaic panels are installed at CRISIL House to generate solar 
energy 
l	 Preferred parking slots and charging points are provided for electric 
cars at CRISIL House
-
e
Biodiversity
-
-
f
Any other
Hybrid work model post pandemic
- 
27(a). Details related to waste management  
(Metric tonnes)
Parameter
2021
2020
Plastic waste (A)
NA
NA
E-waste (B)
8.07**
NA
Bio-medical waste (C)
NA
NA
Construction and demolition waste (D)
NA
NA
Battery waste (E)
NA
NA
Radioactive waste (F)
NA
NA
Other Hazardous waste. (G)
0
0.28
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). 
2.49*
NA
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes 
(A+B + C + D + E + F + G +H)
10.56
0.28
27(b). Details on total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
2021
2020
(i)Recycled
8.70
NA
(ii)Re-used
-
-
(iii)Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
8.70
- 
NA: Information not available
27(c). Details on total waste disposed by 
nature of disposal method (in metric 
tonnes)
Category of waste
2021
2020
(i) Incineration
-
-
(ii) Landfilling
0.06
-
(iii) Other disposal operations
1.80
0.28
Total
1.86
0.28
Notes for table no. 27(a,b,c):
*	 Data relates only to CRISIL House Mumbai premises. During 2021, 
standard operating guidelines were issued for management of 
waste for other office locations as well.
**	Data related to all India office.
NA: Information not available
28. Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity
Parameter
Unit
2021
2020
Nox
Grams
7320.18
NA
SOx
Grams
635.60
NA
Particulate matter (PM)
Grams
1149.07
NA
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
NA
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Grams
5284.80
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
NA
NA
NA
Others –please specify - Carbon dioxide (as CO2 )
Grams
523.41
NA
Others –please specify - Carbon monoxide (as CO )
Grams
3551.68
NA
NA: Information not available
29(a).	Carbon emitted (in Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent)
Parameter
2021
2020
Scope 1 GHG emissions
249.21
737.30
Scope 2 GHG emissions
3278.20
4364.17
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
per crore rupee of turnover
1.53
2.47
Emission per employee (Scope 1& 2)
0.8
1.20
29(b). Carbon emitted (in Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent)
Parameter
2021
2020
Total Scope 3 emissions
6225.7
5580.55
Total Scope 3 emissions per crore 
rupee of turnover
2.71
2.70
Emission per employee (Scope 3)
1.29
1.30
144 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
ESG DATABOOK | 145
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
GHG emissions computational method
The reporting period of this inventory is calendar year 2021.
The emission calculation includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 
emissions from all relevant Kyoto Protocol gases. The below 
sources of emission have been included in the scope of this 
inventory.
Scope 1 emissions: these are direct emissions resulting 
within an organization’s boundary and arise from sources 
that the organization owns or controls. In the case of 
this inventory, the scope 1 sources include natural gas 
combustion, fuel combustion, fugitive emissions of 
refrigerants, combustion of fuels in backup generators.
Scope 2 emissions: these are indirect emissions from the 
electricity that is used by the organization and is outside the 
organization’s boundary.
Scope 3 emissions: this includes all other indirect 
emissions that occur outside the organization but are a 
result of the activities related to the organization. In the 
case of this inventory, the scope 3 sources include business 
travel (via road, rail, and air), hotel stay, paper and work from 
home provision for employees.
Data computational methods
An independent GHG inventory has been developed for all 
the locations under CRISIL Limited. A detailed discussion 
was conducted to understand the operational boundary 
and identification of sources of GHG emissions. After the 
discussion, the data for these identified activities resulting 
in scope 1,2, and 3 has been captured for calculation.
Provided below is the general process of activity data 
collection and source of respective emission factors that 
have been used for the calculation:
Stationary combustion- The total annual quantity of 
high-speed diesel (fuel) used by diesel generators (Diesel 
used in owned DG set which is part of scope 1 and shared 
DG sets which are part of scope 3) was captured and used 
for the emissions calculation. The emissions factor for the 
calculation was derived from the IPCC 5th Assessment 
Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. Similarly, The Global Warming 
Potentials (GWP) was sourced from the IPCC 5th Assessment 
Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. In certain cases where the 
total amount spent on the purchase of HSD was available, 
instead of the quantity consumed, the annual average price 
of HSD per liter for 2021 has been taken from the Ministry of 
Petroleum & Natural Gas, Government of India (ppac.gov.in) 
to obtain the total quantity of HSD consumed.
∑Total Diesel Consumption (in liters) x Liter to kg conversion 
x Net Calorific Value x Emission factor (CO2 CH4 and N2O) 
= Total Emissions from DG sets owned in buildings
Mobile emissions- The total annual quantity of fuel 
consumed in company-owned vehicles accounting for scope 
1 as well as fuel used for employee commute and business 
travel via road accounting to scope 3, were captured and 
used for the emission calculation. The emissions factor for 
diesel/petrol was sourced from the IPCC 5th Assessment 
Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. Similarly, The Global 
Warming Potentials (GWP) were sourced from the IPCC 5th 
Assessment Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. In certain cases 
where the total amount spent on the purchase of HSD and 
petrol available, instead of the quantity consumed, the 
annual average price of HSD or petrol per liter for 2021 
was taken from the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, 
Government of India (ppac.gov.in) to obtain the total quantity 
of respective fuel consumption.
If fuel consumption from mobile sources is given in amount 
spent
∑Total Diesel or Petrol Consumption (in INR) x Avg. INR to liter of 
diesel or Petrol in 2021
x Liter to kq conversion x Net Calorific Value x Emission factor 
(CO2 CH4 and N2O)
= Total mobile emissions
If fuel consumption from mobile sources is given in liters of fuel
∑Total Diesel or Petrol Consumption (in liters)
x Liter to kg conversion x Net Calorific Value x Emission factor 
(CO2 CH4 and N2O)
= Total mobile emissions
Fugitive emissions- The quantity of refrigerants based 
on the monthly top-up on air conditioning equipment. The 
emissions factors were sourced from the UK Department for 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2021 (DEFRA-2021).
∑Total refrigerants top
– up in buildings (in kg) x Net Calorific value x Emission factor 
(CO2 CH4 and N2O)
= Total fugitive emissions
Gaseous fuels LPG emissions- The quantity of LPG used 
in office locations was captured and used for the calculation 
of emissions. The emissions factors were sourced from the 
UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 
2021 (DEFRA-2021).
If fuel consumption provided in Kgs
∑Total LPG consumption (in kg) x Net Calorific Value x Emission 
factor (CO2 CH4 and N2O)
=Total LPG emissions
If fuel consumption provided in amount spent
∑Total LPG consumption (in INR)
x Average INR to Kg conversion based on commercial LPG prices 
in 2021
 x Net Calorific Value x Emission factor (CO2 CH4 and N2O) = Total 
LPG emissions
Emissions from electricity consumed: The total 
electricity consumed in kWh was collected for each of 
the buildings in the target locations. The corresponding 
location wise grid emission factors were sourced from the 
websites and publications of base countries (India: CEA grid 
emission factor report, UK: 2021 Government Greenhouse 
Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, USA: EPA 
database, Argentina: IGES database, China: IGES database)
∑Total electricity used (in kWh) x Grid emission factor (CO2e) = 
Total emissions
Paper emissions- Total number of reams of paper 
consumed was collected. The emission factor used sourced 
from the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural 
Affairs, 2021 (DEFRA-2021).
∑Total reams purchased x weight per ream x Emission factor 
(CO2e) = Total emissions
Business travel air & rail emissions- The total distance 
traveled from the air and rail (both international and 
national) was captured and used for emission calculation. 
The emission factors used for respective travel modes were 
sourced from the UK Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs, 2021 (DEFRA-2021) and India GHG protocol 
2015.
∑Total distance travelled (in Kms) x Emission factor (CO2e) = Total 
emissions
Business travel road emissions- The total amount 
claimed (covering both national and international travel) was 
captured and used for emission calculation. The emissions 
factor for diesel/petrol was sourced from the IPCC 5th 
Assessment Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. Similarly, The 
Global Warming Potentials (GWP) were be sourced from the 
IPCC 5th Assessment Report for CO2, CH4, and N2O. The 
annual average price of HSD or petrol per liter for 2021 was 
taken from individual country level prices from government 
databases.
∑Total Diesel or Petrol amount claimed (in INR) x Avg. INR to liter 
of diesel or Petrol in 2021
x Liter to kg conversion x Net Calorific Value x Emission factor 
(CO2 CH4 and N2O)
= Total emissions
Hotels stay- The number of nights stayed in the hotel for the 
year were captured and used to calculate the emissions due 
to stay in the hotel. The emission factor used for respective 
travel modes was sourced from the UK Department for 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2021 (DEFRA-2021).
∑Total number of nights stayed (in days) x Emission factor (CO2e) 
= Total emissions
Work from Home emissions: In order to properly account 
for home working emissions, energy use and natural gas 
consumption, which would not have occurred in an office-
working scenario has been accounted for. We have used a 
no survey approach based on the white paper by Anthesis 
Group1 which uses two parameters: number of remote 
1   Whitepaper: Estimating Energy Consumption & GHG Emissions for Re-
mote Workers: available at <https//www.anthesisgroup.com/whitepaper-es-
timating-energy-consumption-ghg-emissions-for-remote-workers/>
workers and recommended regional energy intensities (i.e., 
energy consumed per person per day) for estimating the 
amount of electricity and natural gas consumed. Further 
to this, the energy consumption is then multiplied by 
appropriate emission factors to calculate the GHG footprint 
of remote workers.
To obtain the energy intensity (i.e., energy consumed per 
person per day), we have used two relevant data categories,
l	 “Baseline Energy Intensity”: which refers to the 
energy consumption measured in a household before 
the pandemic period when some household members 
might have been home during the day while others were 
working outside of the home. These are derived by dividing 
the energy consumption data from International Energy 
Agency (IEA) by the corresponding country’s population 
data.
l “Incremental Energy Intensity”: which refers to 
the incremental energy consumption measured in a 
household, in which some household members have 
transitioned to working from home, causing an increase in 
residential energy use. The incremental energy intensities 
are an average of select countries covered by the various 
studies on remote work.
The value for these two categories has been taken from the 
estimates provided in the discussed white paper. These 
values are region specific, hence the values specific to 
region under our consideration are obtained. These regions 
are North, Central and South America (AMER), Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia pacific (APAC). The 
energy intensity is then calculated as provided in below 
equation which is then multiplied with the emission factor to 
obtain the work from home emission.
Energy use per day (kWh/person/day) 
Baseline energy intensity (kWh) × Ratio of incremental to baseline
Where,
Ratio of incremental to baseline is the ratio of incremental 
energy intensity and baseline energy intensity.
Emission from Work from home (tCO2e)= Number of employees 
working from home x Energy Intensity
Purchased goods and services emissions: The total 
amount spend on purchased goods have been collected. 
Trucost’s environmentally extended input-output (EEIO) 
method has been used to calculate the total emission. The 
emission factor combines industry-specific environmental 
impact data with quantitative macroeconomic data on the 
flow of goods and services between different sectors in the 
economy. The scope of calculation covers the annual spent 
on Advertising and related services, Business support 
services, Employment services, Facilities support services, 
Insurance carriers, Management, scientific, and technical 
consulting services, Other computer related services, 
including facilities management, Software publishers, 
Telecom and Printing.
Capital goods emissions: The total amount spend on 
capital goods have been collected. Trucost’s environmentally 
extended input-output (EEIO) has been used to calculate the 
total emission. The scope of capital goods emissions covers 
office equipment and other hardware.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 147
146 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
(Prepared in accordance with SEBI Circular no. CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 2021. This report should be read together with ESG 
Report and ESG Databook)
I .Details of the listed entity
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L67120MH1987PLC042363
Name of the Listed Entity
CRISIL Limited
Year of incorporation
1987
Registered office address
CRISIL House, Central Avenue
Hiranandani Business Park, Powai
Mumbai 400 076
Corporate address
Same as above
E-mail
investors@crisil.com
Telephone
+91 22 33423 701
+91 22 33423 000
Website
http://www.crisil.com/
Financial year for which reporting is being done
January 1 - December 31, 2021
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
Equity shares of CRISIL Limited are listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Ltd (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange 
Ltd (BSE)
Paid-up Capital
Rs. 7,28,68,446
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Mr. Sanjay Chakravarti
Designation: Chief Financial Officer
Telephone: +91 22 3342 3000
Email Id: investors@crisil.com
Reporting boundary
Please refer to “Reporting boundaries” on pg. no. 97 of the 
ESG Report.
II. Products/services
Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the 
turnover)
Please refer to Table No. 2 on pg. no.134 of the ESG 
Databook.
Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of 
the entity’s Turnover)
Please refer to Table No. 2 on pg. no.134 of the ESG 
Databook.
III. Operations
Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices 
of the entity are situated
Please refer to Table no. 1 on pg. no.134 of the ESG Databook 
and pg. no. 94 & 95 of the ESG Report.
Markets served by the entity:
Number of locations
We have presence in 11 countries. For detailed information 
please refer to Table no. 1 on pg.no.134 of the ESG Databook 
and pg. no. 94 & 95 of the ESG Report.
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the 
total turnover of the entity?
81%
A brief on types of customers
Please refer to “Customer orientation” on pg. no. 119 of the 
ESG Report.
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
IV. Employees
Details as at the end of Financial Year
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
Please refer to Table No. 11(a) on pg. no.137 of the ESG 
Databook. For details refer to “Our global workforce” on pg. 
no. 112 of the ESG Report.
Differently abled Employees and workers
Please refer to Table No. 11(b) on pg. no.137 of the ESG 
Databook.
Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Please refer to Table No. 5 on pg. no.135 of the ESG 
Databook. For details please refer to “Women colleagues 
drive diversity” on pg. no.112 & “CRISIL Board Highlights” on 
pg. no.101 of the ESG Report.
Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers 
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Please refer to Table No.23 on pg. no. 140 of the ESG 
Databook.
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies /  
joint ventures
Please refer to Table No. 4 on pg. no.134 & 135 of the ESG 
Databook.
VI. CSR Details
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies 
Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
Yes
a) Turnover (in Rs.)*
Rs. 1052.91 crore
b) Net worth (in Rs.)*
Rs. 971.41 crore
*on standalone basis
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 
to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct
Please refer to Table No.21 on pg. no.140 of the ESG 
Databook.
Overview of the entity’s material responsible business 
conduct issues
Please refer to Table No.8 on pg. no.136 of the ESG 
Databook. For details refer to “Materiality and Strategy” on 
pg. no.98 of the ESG Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 149
148 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your 
entity’s policy/ 
policies cover each 
principle and its 
core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
l	Code of Ethics
l	Code of 
Conduct 
for Board & 
Senior Mgt
l	Whistle-
blower Policy
l	Tax Policy
l	Policy for 
determining 
Materiality for 
Disclosures
l	Code of 
Practices and 
Procedures 
for Fair 
Disclosure of 
UPSI
l	Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Policy
l	Gift Policy
l	Confidentiality 
Policy
l	Supplier Code 
of Conduct
l	Policy on 
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
& Countering 
Terrorist 
Financing
Y
l	Strategic 
framework 
on ESG 
offerings
l	Supplier 
Diversity 
Policy
l	Supplier 
Code of 
conduct
Y
l	Policy on redressal 
of Workplace 
Harassment
l	Policy on redressal 
of Sexual 
Harassment
l	Equal Opportunity 
Environment Policy
l	Health & Safety 
Policy
l	Policy on Maternity 
& Day Care Benefits
l	Internal Mobility 
Policy
l	Corporate 
framework 
on Rewards & 
Recognition
l	Leave Policy
l	Policy on Working 
Hours and 
attendance
l	Transfer and 
Relocation Policy
l	Education 
assistance Policy
l	Policy on Paid 
sabbatical leave
l	Short term loan 
Policy
l	Guidelines on 
Flexible Work 
Timing
l	Guidelines on 
Mediclaim
Y
l	Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Policy
l	Code of Ethics
l	Equal 
Opportunity 
Environment 
Policy
l	Supplier 
Diversity Policy
Y
l	Policy on 
Modern 
Slavery
l	Code of 
Ethics
l	Whistle-
blower Policy
l	Supplier Code 
of Conduct
l	Policy on 
redressal 
of Sexual 
Harassment
Y
l	Environment 
Policy
l	Supplier 
Code of 
Conduct
Y
l	Framework 
for 
Responsible 
Public 
Engagement
l	Policy on 
Social Media
Y
l	Policy on 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility
Y
l	Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Policy
l	Confidentiality 
Policy
l	Corporate 
Privacy Policy
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
b. Has the policy been 
approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
First 7 polices 
are Board 
approved. Rest 
have been 
approved by 
Management
Approved 
at various 
levels of 
Management
Approved at 
various levels of 
Management
First 2 polices 
are Board 
approved. Rest 
have been 
approved by 
Management
First 3 policies 
are Board 
approved. Rest 
have been 
approved by 
Management
Approved by 
Management
First policy 
is Board 
approved. 
Second 
has  been 
approved by 
Management
Approved by 
Board
First policy 
is Board 
approved. 
Balance two 
have  been 
approved by 
Management
c. Web Link of the 
Policies, if available
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html 
Available on 
Company 
internal 
network/ 
intranet.  
Available on 
Company internal 
network/ intranet
https://www.
crisil.com/en/
home/investors/
corporate-
governance.html
Last 2 available 
on Company 
internal 
network/ 
intranet
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html
Last policy 
available on 
Company 
internal 
network/ 
intranet
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html
Last one 
available on 
Company 
internal 
network/ 
intranet
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html
https://www.
crisil.com/
en/home/
investors/
corporate-
governance.
html
2. Whether the entity 
has translated 
the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / 
No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. Do the enlisted 
policies extend to 
your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Y. Supplier Code 
of Conduct 
extends to value 
chain partners
Y. Supplier 
Code of 
Conduct 
and Supplier 
Diversity 
Policy extends 
to value chain 
partners
No
No
Y. Modern 
Slavery 
Policy and 
Supplier Code 
of Conduct 
extends to 
value chain 
partners
Y. Supplier 
Code of 
Conduct 
extends to 
value chain 
partners
No
No
No
4. Name of the national 
and international 
codes/ certifications/ 
labels/standards 
(e.g. Forest 
Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustea) 
standards (e.g.SA 
8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your 
entity and mapped to 
each principle
None
ISO 27001 for 
Information 
Security
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 151
150 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
5.	Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined timelines, if any. 
Please refer to “Our ESG goalpost” on pg. no. 97 of the ESG Report.
6.	Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same 
are not met.
Please refer to the following KPIs and initiatives on ESG performance:
i)	
“Reduced GHG Emissions” on pg. no. 127 of the ESG Report.
ii)	
“Diversity and Inclusion” on pg. no. 111 of the ESG Report.
iii)	 “Women colleague drive diversity” on pg. no. 112 of the ESG Report.
iv)	 “Employee engagement” on pg. no. 115 of the ESG Report.
v)	
“Supplier Diversity” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG Report.
vi)	 “Supply chain sustainability assessment” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG Report.
vii)	 ”Corporate Governance on pg. no. 65 of the Annual Report”
7.	Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements
Please refer to “Message from MD & CEO” on pg. no. 92 & 93 of the ESG Report
Governance, leadership and oversight
8.	Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility  
policy (ies).
The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of CRISIL Limited is responsible for implementation and oversight of 
the Business Responsibility policy(ies)
9.	Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
Yes.
CRISIL Limited has formed a Management level Steering Committee. The MD & CEO of the Company is a part of the 
Committee. The Committee meets at regular intervals to evaluate the environmental, social and economic performance 
of the Company and continues to strengthen the efforts on ESG. During the year 2021, total 9 Committee meetings were 
held to review new policies introduced during 2021 for ESG, monitoring key metrics, reviewing progress on key initiatives 
to enhance ESG performance and reporting updates.
10.	Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Review by
Board 
Committee
Board
Board/ 
Board 
Committee
Board/ 
Board 
Committee
Board 
Committee
Board/ 
Board 
Committee
Board Board 
Committee
Board
Frequency
Quarterly
Need 
basis
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
Half-yearly
Need 
basis
Half-yearly
Quarterly
Compliance with statutory 
requirements & rectification  
of any non-compliances
Status of compliance with all applicable statutory requirements is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the 
CRISIL Board. 
11.	Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
No
12.	If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all  
Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:  
Not applicable
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with 
integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Percentage coverage by training and awareness 
programmes on any of the Principles during the financial 
year.
Please refer to Table No.6 on pg. no.135 of the ESG Databook.
2.	Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ 
compounding 
fees/ 
settlement 
amount 
paid 
in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) 
with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions, in the financial year
No fines/penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding 
fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity 
or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year.
3.	Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of 
the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed
Not Applicable
4.	Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery 
policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
No, CRISIL currently does not have anti-corruption or anti-
bribery policy. However, CRISIL’s Code of Ethics, inter-alia, 
covers prohibition of bribery and corruption.
CRISIL’s Code of Ethics is available at https://www.crisil.
com/content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-governance/
code-of-ethics.pdf
5.	Number 
of 
Directors/KMPs/employees/workers 
against whom disciplinary action was taken by any 
law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ 
corruption
No such instances of bribery/corruption took place during 
the year.
6.	Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
No complaints with regard to conflict of interest were 
received during the year.
7.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or 
underway on issues related to fines /penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of 
interest
Not applicable as there were no such instances.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Awareness programmes conducted for value chain 
partners on any of the Principles during the financial 
year
During 2021, an aggregate of 5018.89 hours of training was 
imparted to contract staff covering topics such as prevention 
of sexual harassment, code of ethics, information & cyber 
security, data privacy and personal trading.
Please refer to Table No.9 on pg. no.137 of the ESG Databook.
2.	Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage 
conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes.
CRISIL has in place a comprehensive “Code of Conduct for 
Directors and Senior Management” available at https://
www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/investors/corporate-
governance/code-directors-sr-management.pdf. Every Board 
member discloses the names of the entities or arrangements 
in which they are interested which is brought to the attention 
of the Board.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 153
152 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that 
is sustainable and safe.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) 
investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and 
processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
ESG is a strategic and important agenda for CRISIL, and we 
integrate ESG factors in our offerings. Considering that we 
are in the services sector, our offerings rely on niche data, 
practical deep insights and cutting edge analysis and as such 
are not capital intensive in nature. Capex is predominantly 
in the form of IT investment as we invest regularly in our IT 
infrastructure for improving our customer interface and 
meet security and data privacy needs.
2.	a) Does the entity have procedures in place for 
sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
Yes. For details please refer to “Sustainable Supply Chain” on 
pg. no. 118 of the ESG Report.
	 b) If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced 
sustainably?
170 suppliers covering 52% of our spend were assessed for 
ESG practices.
For details, please refer to “Supply Chain Sustainability 
Assessment” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG Report.
3.	Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your 
products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste 
(c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Not Applicable.
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant.
4.	Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is 
applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken 
to address the same.
Not Applicable.
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service 
industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?-
Not Applicable.
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant
2.	If there are any significant social or environmental 
concerns and/or risks arising from production or 
disposal of your products / services, as identified in the 
Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through 
any other means, briefly describe the same along-with 
action taken to mitigate the same.
Not Applicable. 
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant.
3.	Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total 
material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry)
As CRISIL is in the services business we do not have large 
spends on input material (input material is 0.37% of total 
spends), offering opportunity for reuse or recycling. However, 
we have taken specific initiatives wherever possible, to 
optimize resources and recycle, which are outlined under 
“Water conservation” and “Waste Management” on pg. 
no.127 and table no. 27(b) on pg. no. 143 of the ESG Databook.
4.	Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life 
of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed
Not Applicable.
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant.
5.	Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as 
percentage of products sold) for each product category
Not Applicable.
CRISIL is in the service business; it does not have 
manufactured products. Hence these issues are not relevant.
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their value chains
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	a) Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Please refer to Table no. 14 on pg. no.138 of the ESG Databook.
For details please refer to “Promoting health and wellness” 
on pg. no. 115 of the ESG report.
	 b) Details of measures for the well-being of workers
CRISIL does not have any workers.
2.	Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and 
Previous Financial Year
Please refer to Table no. 13 on pg. no.138 of the ESG Databook.
3.	Accessibility of workplaces
	 Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to 
differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
Our offices are accessible with ramps at applicable locations. 
At large office locations like Mumbai, Gurugram & Pune 
washrooms are enabled for wheel chair access. For details, 
please refer “Initiatives for differently abled colleagues” on 
pg. no. 113 of the ESG Report.
4.	Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
CRISIL has adopted “Equal Opportunity Environment Policy” 
and the same is available on Company’s intranet for internal 
stakeholders.
For more details please refer “Equal opportunities and 
treatment” on pg. no. 113 of the ESG Report.
5.	Return to work and Retention rates of permanent 
employees and workers that took parental leave.
Please refer to Table no. 16 on pg. no. 138 of the ESG Databook.
6.	Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress 
grievances for employees and workers? If yes, give 
details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes, employee can reach out to their managers and HR 
business partners to redress their grievances in terms of 
the “Policy on redressal of work place harassment”. The 
mechanism is also applicable to vendors and contractual 
staff working on CRISIL premises.
7.	Membership of employees and worker in association(s) 
or Unions recognized by the listed entity
CRISIL recognizes the right to freedom of association in 
accordance with the laws of the land. However, we do not 
have a recognized employee association.
8.	Details of training given to employees and workers
Please refer to Table no. 17 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook. 
For details refer to “Talent development and training” on pg. 
no. 114 of the ESG Report.
9.	Details of performance and career development reviews 
of employees and worker
Please refer to Table no. 15 on pg. no. 138 of the ESG Databook.
10. Health and safety management system:
a) Whether an occupational health and safety management 
system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If 
yes, the coverage of such system?
Yes. CRISIL has implemented a “Health and Safety Policy” 
at its workplaces. Details on the policy and the other 
initiatives taken towards health and safety considerations 
are mentioned under “Promoting health and wellness” on pg. 
no. 115 of the ESG report.
b) What are the processes used to identify work-related 
hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
Being in the financial services sector, our workplace and 
processes are inherently non-hazardous and safe in nature. 
For details on Health and safety assessments, please refer 
to “Promoting health and wellness” on pg. no. 115 of the ESG 
Report.
c) Whether you have processes for workers to report the 
work related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N)
Yes. For details please refer to “Promoting health and 
wellness” on pg. no. 115 of the ESG Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 155
154 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
d) Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to 
non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
Yes. Please refer to “Care during pandemic” on pg. no. 116 & 
117 of the ESG Report and table no 14 on pg. no. 138 of the 
ESG Databook.
11. Details of safety related incidents
There were no safety related incidents during the current and 
the previous financial year.
12.	Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a 
safe and healthy work place.
Measure are described under “Promoting health and 
wellness” on pg. no. 115 of the ESG Report.
13.	Number of Complaints made by employees and workers
Please refer to Table no. 22 on pg. no.140 of the ESG Databook.
14.	Assessments of plants and offices on health and safety 
practices, working conditions, etc. for the year
Please refer to Table no. 20 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook.
15.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or 
underway to address safety-related incidents (if 
any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health & safety practices and working 
conditions.
There were no safety related incidents reported during 2021.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Does the entity extend any life insurance or any 
compensatory package in the event of death of:
(A) Employees (Y/N)
Yes. CRISIL extends life insurance/ compensatory packages 
in the event of death of employee.
(B) Workers (Y/N)
Not applicable as CRISIL does not have any workers
2.	Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure 
that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
We contractually bind our major suppliers of IT support, 
staffing solutions partners, facility management and 
security services that employ people from the more 
vulnerable sections with lower literacy levels, to comply with 
labour standards such as minimum wages, gratuity, bonus, 
leave, employees’ state insurance and other employment 
laws.
3.	Provide the number of employees / workers having 
suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-
health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential 
Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
None of the employees from CRISIL suffered high 
consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
during 2021. Hence, not applicable.
4.	Does 
the 
entity 
provide 
transition 
assistance 
programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement 
or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
We provide retirement planning assistance for employees 
who are in the retirement stage which includes coverage 
of financial planning, investment opportunities evaluation, 
and corpus protection. For role closures, we align the 
employees to a well-known placement consultancy. We had 
also launched “ReBoot with CRISIL” programme which was 
exclusively for women who were on a career break. Flexible 
working hours option was extended to them for their smooth 
return to work and re-start of their career. 
5.	Details on assessment of value chain partners
Please refer to Table no. 19 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook. 
For details please refer to “Supply Chain Sustainability 
Assessment” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG Report.
6.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or 
underway to address significant risks /concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and 
working conditions of value chain partners.
CRISIL has commenced assessment of its value chain 
partners on various parameters including the health & safety 
practices and working conditions. Based on current year 
assessment, no gaps have been identified necessitating 
corrective actions.
PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to 
all its stakeholders
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder 
groups of the entity.
CRISIL has in place “Stakeholder Engagement Policy” 
accessible at https://www.crisil.com/content/dam/crisil/
investors/corporate-governance/CRISIL-Stakeholder-
Engagement-Policy.pdf
In terms of this policy, CRISIL identifies stakeholders as those 
individuals, groups of individuals or organizations that affect 
and/or could be affected by, or could impact the Company’s 
activities, products or services and associated performance.
The process of identification of stakeholders includes the 
basis of engagement and is guided by:
• Direct or indirect dependence on the Company’s activities, 
products or services and associated performance
• Groups or individuals engaged with the Company with 
regard to financial, economic, social or environmental 
issues
• Groups or individuals who can have an impact on the 
Company’s strategic or operational decision-making
• Groups or individuals with whom the Company has, or 
may have in future, legal, commercial or operational 
responsibilities
2.	List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity 
and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group
Refer to the tables on employee engagement, supplier 
engagement and listening to customers on pg. no. 115, 
pg. no. 119, pg. no. 120 of the ESG Report and “means of 
communication” on pg. no. 75 of the Corporate Governance 
Report. 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Provide the processes for consultation between 
stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how 
is feedback from such consultations provided to the 
Board.
CRISIL believes that proactive and continuous engagement 
with key stakeholders is key to success of a business 
enterprise. At CRISIL, feedback gathered in the course of 
engagement with stakeholders is considered and, after due 
evaluation, incorporated to improve business processes. 
Significant learnings may also help shape CRISIL’s strategic 
initiatives and growth levers. Stakeholders are encouraged 
to put forth any concerns relating to their engagement with 
CRISIL and to reach out to senior management, if necessary. 
The engagement scores, complaints and other feedback from 
stakeholders are monitored at various levels of management, 
and also receive the highest attention from the Board/Board 
Committee in its reporting processes.
2.	Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the 
identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances 
as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of 
the entity.
At CRISIL, consultation with the stakeholders is important for 
management of the ESG attributes in the areas of diversity & 
inclusion, stakeholder engagement and ESG offerings. Such 
feedback is an important input while devising goals and 
plans in these areas.
3.	Provide details of instances of engagement with, and 
actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
Annual engagement surveys are conducted for assessing 
expectations of stakeholder groups.
Please refer to tables on pg. no. 115, pg. no. 119, pg. no. 120 of 
the ESG Report on the outcomes of these surveys
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 157
156 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Employees and workers who have been provided training 
on human rights issues and policy (ies) of the entity
Please refer to table no. 18 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook.
2.	Details of minimum wages paid to employees and 
workers
Please refer to table no. 12 on pg. no.137 of the ESG Databook.
3.	Details of remuneration/salary/wages
Please refer to table no. 7 on pg. no.135 of the ESG Databook.
4.	Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) 
responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/
No)
Yes.
Please refer to “Grievance Redressal” on pg. no. 105 of the 
ESG Report.
5.	Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress 
grievances related to human rights issues.
Please refer to “Grievance Redressal” on pg. no. 105 of the 
ESG Report.
6.	Number 
of 
Complaints 
on 
Sexual 
Harassment, 
Discrimination at workplace, Child Labour, Forced 
Labour/Involuntary Labour, etc. made by employees and 
workers
Please refer to Table no. 22 on pg. no.140 of the ESG Databook.
7.	Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the 
complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
CRISIL has in place “Policy on redressal of work place 
harassment” which specifies the detailed procedure to 
report and redress harassment cases. In terms of the policy, 
retaliation, in any form, against an employee or applicant for 
employment who exercises his/her right to make a complaint, 
in good faith is strictly prohibited. Also “Whistleblower Policy” 
of CRISIL protects complainant from any form of reprisal for 
reporting complaints under the policy.
8.	Do human rights requirements form part of your business 
agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
We contractually bind our major suppliers of IT support, 
staffing solutions partners, facility management and 
security services that employ people from the more 
vulnerable sections with lower literacy levels, to comply with 
human rights requirements.
9.	Assessments of office on human rights for the year
Please refer to Table no. 20 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook.
For further details please refer to “Respect for Human rights” 
on pg. no. 117 of the ESG Report.
10.Provide details of any corrective actions taken or 
underway to address significant risks /concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above.
Based on current year assessment, no gaps have been 
identified necessitating corrective actions.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Details of a business process being modified / introduced 
as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
CRISIL has not received any complaint in respect of child 
labour or forced labour. CRISIL upholds the basic principles 
of human rights in all its dealings and is committed to acting 
ethically and with integrity in its business dealings. Slavery 
and human trafficking are severest forms of human rights 
abuse and to prevent and combat this we have published 
the Modern Slavery Statement. CRISIL regularly sensitises 
its employees on appropriate behaviours respecting human 
rights through various training programmes.
2.	Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights 
due-diligence conducted.
Please refer to Table no. 20 on pg. no.139 of the ESG Databook.
For further details please refer to “Respect for Human rights” 
on pg. no. 117 of the ESG Report.
3.	Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to 
differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Our offices are accessible with ramps at applicable locations. 
At large office locations like Mumbai, Gurugram & Pune 
washrooms are enabled for wheel chair access. For details, 
please refer ‘Initiatives for differently abled colleagues’ on 
pg. no. 113 of the ESG Report.
4.	Details on assessment of value chain partners
Please refer to Table no. 19 on pg. no. 139 of the ESG Databook.
For more details, refer to “Supply Chain Sustainability 
Assessment” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG report.
5.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or 
underway to address significant risks /concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
Based on current year assessment, no gaps have been 
identified necessitating corrective actions.
PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and 
restore the environment
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or 
multiples) and energy intensity
Please refer to Table no. 25(a) on pg. no. 142 of the ESG 
Databook.
2.	Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as 
designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of 
India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have 
not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if 
any.
Not applicable since CRISIL’s operations do not relate to the 
designated consumers specified under the PAT scheme of 
the Government of India.
3.	Provide details related to water
Please refer to Table no. 25(b) on pg. no. 142 of the ESG 
Databook on water consumption in our operations. Currently 
we do not have the mechanism to measure the water discharge 
from our operations. However, recognizing the importance of 
optimal usage of resources, CRISIL strives to conserve water. 
For details, please refer to “Water conservation” on pg. no. 
127 of the ESG Report.
4.	Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid 
Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
No, currently we do not have a mechanism for Zero Liquid 
Discharge.
For other details, please refer to “Water conservation” on pg. 
no. 127 of the ESG Report.
5.	Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG 
emissions) by the entity
Please refer to Table no. 28 on pg. no. 143 of the ESG 
Databook.
6.	Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Please refer to Table no. 29(a) on pg. no. 143 of the ESG 
Databook. For details refer to “Reduced GHG Emissions” on 
pg. no. 127 of the ESG Report.
7.	Does the entity have any project related to reducing 
Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
For details refer to “Energy conservation” and “Reduced GHG 
Emissions” from pg. no. 126 & 127 of the ESG Report.
8.	Provide details related to waste management by the 
entity
Please refer to Table no. 27 (a, b & c) on pg. no. 143 of the ESG 
Databook. For details please refer to “Waste Management” 
on pg. no. 127 of the ESG Report.
9.	Briefly describe the waste management practices 
adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous 
and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and 
the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
Being in the financial services sector, our processes are 
inherently non-hazardous and safe in nature and does not 
involve usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals. For waste 
management practices adopted by CRISIL, please refer to 
“Waste Management” on pg. no. 127 of the ESG Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 159
158 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
12.	If 
the 
entity 
has 
operations/offices 
in/around 
ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, 
wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, 
biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones 
etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are 
required
We do not have operations/offices in/around ecologically 
sensitive areas.
13.	Details of environmental impact assessments of 
projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year
Not applicable. Environmental impact assessment is 
applicable for companies operating in infrastructure 
development and not relevant for CRISIL’s operations.
14.	 Is 
the 
entity 
compliant 
with 
the 
applicable 
environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; 
such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). 
If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
Yes.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in 
Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable 
sources
Energy consumption from renewable sources is Nil. Overall 
energy consumption for the year 2021 has been reported 
under “Energy consumption” on pg. no. 126 of the ESG Report.
2.	Provide details related to water discharged
Currently we do not have the mechanism to measure the 
water discharge from our operations. However, recognizing 
the importance of optimal usage of resources, CRISIL 
strives to conserve water. For details, please refer to “Water 
conservation” on pg. no. 127 of the ESG Report.
3.	Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas 
of water stress (in kilolitres):
1.	For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, 
provide the following information:
CRISIL offices are not located in areas which are water 
stressed. We do not use groundwater. Water supplied to 
CRISIL offices is from the city municipal supply.
(i) Name of the area
(ii) Nature of operations
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge
4.	Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its 
intensity
Please refer to Table no. 29(b) on pg. no. 143 of the ESG 
Databook.
5.	With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported 
at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity 
on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities.
Not applicable as we do have operations/offices in/around 
ecologically sensitive areas.
6.	If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or 
used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions 
/ effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives.
Please refer to “Reduced GHG Emission” on pg. no. 127 of 
the ESG Report and Table no. 26 on pg. no. 142 of the ESG 
Databook.
7.	Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster 
management plan? Give details in100 words/ web link
Please refer to “Business continuity and disaster recovery” 
on pg. no. 121 of the ESG Report.
8.	Disclose any significant adverse impact to the 
environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. 
What mitigation or adaptation measures have been 
taken by the entity in this regard?
CRISIL has conducted the assessment of its suppliers, 
including environmental impact. This assessment covered 
52% of our procurement spend (excluding employee and 
associate costs, rental, utilities and bank charges). Based on 
this assessment, no corrective action has been necessitated 
on the aforesaid parameters.
9.	Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry 
chambers/ associations.
Please refer to Table no.10 on pg. no.137 of the ESG Databook.
 b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to
2.	Provide details of corrective action taken or underway 
on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory 
authorities.
There are no instances of adverse orders from regulatory 
authorities for anti-competitive conduct.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
Please refer to “Knowledge Organisation” on pg. no. 103 & 
104 of the ESG Report.
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects 
undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year
Not 
Applicable. 
However, 
CRISIL 
undertakes 
impact 
assessment of the CSR Projects undertaken by it. Refer to 
table no. 24(a) on page 141 of ESG Databook.
2.	Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing 
Rehabilitation 
and 
Resettlement(R&R) 
is 
being 
undertaken by your entity
Not Applicable.
3.	Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress 
grievances of the community.
In areas where CRISIL Foundation is undertaking long term 
CSR Projects, an on-ground field team is available at the 
community level to address and respond to any grievances 
from the community. This is carried out either face-to-face 
within the office premises, or over telephonic call - gauging 
the level of the grievance. In addition, each programme 
has a designated Manager from CRISIL Foundation who 
periodically monitors and interacts with the teams and 
beneficiaries to receive feedback and address their queries/
concerns if any.
4.	Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by 
value) sourced from suppliers
Please refer to table no. 24 on pg. no. 141 of the ESG Databook.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any 
negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential 
Indicators above
Not Applicable.
2.	Provide information on CSR projects undertaken by your 
entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies
Please refer to table no. 24(b) on pg. no. 141 of the ESG 
Databook.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 161
160 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
3.	a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy 
where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
CRISIL has in place “Suppliers Diversity Policy”.
For more details, please refer to “Supplier diversity” on pg. 
no. 118 of the ESG Report.
	 b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you 
procure?
Please refer to “Supplier diversity” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG 
Report.
	 c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does 
it constitute?
Please refer to “Supplier diversity” on pg. no. 118 of the ESG 
Report.
4.	Details of the benefits derived and shared from the 
intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional 
knowledge
CRISIL’s services do not require use of intellectual properties 
from communities or use of traditional knowledge.
5.	Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based 
on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is 
involved
CRISIL services do not require use of intellectual properties 
from communities or use of traditional knowledge.
6.	Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Please refer to table no. 24(c) on pg. no.141 of the ESG 
Databook.
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 
consumers in a responsible manner
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and 
respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
Please refer to “Listening to customers” on pg. no. 120 of the 
ESG Report.
2.	Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of 
turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about social and environmental parameters, safe and 
responsible usage, recycling and safe disposal.
Not applicable considering the nature of CRISIL’s business.
3.	Number of consumer complaints in respect of data 
privacy, 
advertising, 
cyber-security, 
unfair 
trade 
practices, etc.
During the year, no consumer complaints were received in 
respect of data privacy, advertising, cyber-security, unfair 
trade practices, etc.
4.	Details of instances of product recalls on account of 
safety issues
Not applicable considering the nature of CRISIL’s business.
5.	Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber 
security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy
Please refer to “Data leakage protection & protection from 
cyber risks” on pg. no. 121 and “Data privacy” on pg. no. 122 
of the ESG Report.
Additionally, CRISIL also has adopted “CRISIL Global 
Corporate Privacy policy “which can be accessed at https://
www.crisil.com/en/home/crisil-privacy-notice.html.
6.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or 
underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy 
of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities 
on safety of products / services.
There were no penalty/action taken by the regulatory 
authorities in respect of safety of products or services. 
Aspects such as product recalls and delivery of essential 
services are not applicable to CRISIL. CRISIL has taken a 
number of measures to enhance cyber and information 
security infrastructure. For details refer to “Data leakage 
protection & protection from cyber risks” on pg. no. 121 and 
“Data privacy” on pg. no. 122 of the ESG Report.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	Channels / platforms where information on products and 
services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, 
if available).
Details on products and services offered by CRISIL is 
available at https://www.crisil.com/en/home/our-product.
html.
2.	Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about 
safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Not applicable considering the nature of CRISIL’s business.
3.	Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of 
disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
Not applicable considering the nature of CRISIL’s business.
4.	Does the entity display product information on the 
product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in 
brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / 
services of the entity, significant locations of operation 
of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Please refer to “Engagement practices” on pg. no. 120 of the 
ESG Report.
162 | CRISIL | ANNUAL REPORT T WENT Y T WENT Y ONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPOR ATE OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILIT Y
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT | 163
Statement
This statement is published by CRISIL Ltd about and to 
enable its subsidiaries that are subject to the Act, including 
in particular CRISIL Irevna UK Ltd and Coalition UK Ltd 
(subsidiaries). CRISIL and its subsidiaries are together 
referred to as CRISIL entities.
Forced, bonded or compulsory labour, human trafficking 
and other kinds of slavery signify some of the severest forms 
of human rights abuse. We are committed to improving our 
practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
Organisational structure
CRISIL Ltd provides ratings, research, and risk and policy 
advisory services in the knowledge process and business 
process outsourcing sector. S&P Global Inc is the parent 
company. CRISIL has its registered office in Mumbai, India. 
We operate in India, China, Singapore, England, Poland, 
Argentina, Australia and the United States of America, and 
have about 4,000 employees worldwide.
Our global annual turnover is in excess of £36 million.
Our supply chains
Our supply chains include consultants, advisors, IT (hardware 
and software) and other office equipment suppliers, 
professional services from our lawyers, accountants and 
other advisers, security, catering, office cleaning and other 
office facilities services, staffing companies, etc.
We require all of our suppliers to conduct business in a lawful 
and ethical manner as part of our supplier on-boarding 
process, and accept our trading terms and conditions.
Our policies on slavery and human 
trafficking
We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery 
or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of 
our business. Our Modern Slavery Act, 2015, policy reflects 
our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all 
our business relationships, and implementing and enforcing 
effective systems and controls, to ensure no slavery and 
human trafficking takes place in our supply chains.
Due-diligence processes for slavery and 
human trafficking
As part of our initiative to identify and mitigate risk, we have 
in place systems to:
l	 Identify and assess potential risk areas in our supply 
chains
l	 Mitigate the risk of slavery and human trafficking in our 
supply chains
l	 Protect whistle blowers
l	 Monitor potential risk areas in our supply chains
l	 Where possible, build long-standing relationships with 
local suppliers and make clear our expectations of 
business behaviour
Supplier adherence to our values
We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. To 
ensure all those in our supply chain and contractors comply 
with our values and ethics.
Training
We provide training to our staff to ensure a high level of 
understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in our supply chains and our business.
Our effectiveness in combating slavery and 
human trafficking
The Act is relatively new and very few companies, including 
CRISIL entities, have experience of seeking out, let alone 
detecting, slavery or trafficking among their own staff 
or among their suppliers. To date, CRISIL entities are yet 
to detect or suspect that any CRISIL entities or suppliers 
employ persons who may be enslaved or trafficked. 
Therefore, key performance indicators can be set only in 
respect of reasonable due diligence efforts once experience 
of the initial outputs of such exercises are collated and 
analysed.
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the 
Modern Slavery Act, 2015, and constitutes our slavery and 
human trafficking statement.
Modern Slavery Act, 2015
