108
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
BUSINESS  RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
Jaiprakash Associates Limited is the flagship company 
of the Jaypee Group, which is a diversified infrastructure 
conglomerate with business interests including Engineering 
& Construction, Power, Cement, Real Estate, Hospitality, 
Fertilizers, Sports, Aviation and Education (not-for-profit).
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
L14106UP1995PLC019017
Name of the Company
Jaiprakash Associates Limited
Registered Office Address
Sector - 128, Noida- 201304, U.P.
Website
www.jalindia.com
E-mail id
jal.investor@jalindia.co.in
Financial Year reported
2021-22
Sectors that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity 
code-wise)1: 
Activity
National Industrial Classification
Section
Division 
(Group)
Description
Engineering, 
Construction 
and Real 
Estate 
development
F - Construction
41
42
43
Construction of 
buildings Civil 
Engineering 
Specialized 
construction 
activities
Manufacture 
of cement
C – Manufacturing
23 (239)
Manufacture of 
cement, lime 
and plaster
Hotels
I - Accommodation 
55 (551)
Hotels and 
Motels
Sports, 
Operation of 
Golf and Spa 
Resort
R – Arts, 
Entertainment and 
Recreation
93 (931)
 (932)
Sports 
activities Other 
amusement 
and recreation 
activities
Energy from 
Municipal 
Solid Waste
E – Waste 
Management 
Activities
38 (382)
Waste treatment 
and disposal
1As per National Industrial Classification (2008), Ministry of Statistics 
and Program Implementation, GoI
Key Products & Services:
The major products and services that Jaiprakash Associates 
Limited 
provides 
are 
Engineering 
and 
Construction, 
Manufacture and marketing of Cement, Hotels and Hospitality, 
Real Estate and Sports.
Total number of locations where business activity is 
undertaken by the Company  
As on 31st March 2022, the diversified businesses of the 
Company were operating in 31 national locations in various 
States/Union Territories across the country including Delhi, 
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra 
Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, 
Telangana and Sikkim and 4 international locations in 
Bhutan & Nepal as per details given below.
(A)	
National Locations (31)
The Integrated Engineering and Construction division of the 
Company operates at the locations of its clients. The Company 
is also engaged in the business of manufacture and marketing 
of Cement, primarily in M.P. & U.P. 
In addition, the Company owns 5 ‘five-star hotels’ in New Delhi, 
Mussoorie, Agra and Greater Noida and two golf courses with 
associated recreational and residential facilities in Greater 
Noida & Noida as part of its Real Estate business. 
It also has an International Sports Division in Gautam Buddh 
Nagar, U.P. In addition to these, the Company has its sales 
offices and dealership networks in different states of the 
country, especially in the States of Rajasthan, Punjab, 
Maharashtra, Bihar and Chandigarh (U.T.).
(B)	
International Locations (four)
The Company is currently operating in four international 
locations as under:
(i)	
Mangdechhu, in Trongsa District, Bhutan: Construction 
of 720 MW Hydro Electric Project by the Royal 
Government of Bhutan and the Government of India;
(ii)	
Punatsangchhu - II, Bhutan: Construction of 990 MW 
joint implementation of Hydro Electric Project by the 
Royal Government of Bhutan and the Government of 
India;
(iii)	
Rahughat Hydro Electric Project, Myagdi District, 
Nepal: Construction of 40 MW Hydro Electric Project of 
Nepal Electricity Authority.
(iv)	
Arun-3 Hydro Electric Project, Sankhwasabha 
District, Nepal: Construction of 900 MW Hydro Electric 
Project of SJVN Arun-3 Power Development Company 
Private Limited (SAPDC).
(v)	
Kurichhu Hydro-power Plant : Repair of Spillway 
Glacis and Stilling Basin of Kurichhu Hydro-power Plant.
Markets served by the Company
The primary focus of the Company’s products and services 
has been the national market. However, the Company is also 
doing construction business in Bhutan and Nepal. While the 
Company is making efforts to explore and develop existing as 
well as new export markets for its products, there is no specific 
export plan for the same. 
SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY FOR 
FY 2021-22
Paid up Capital (as on 31.03.22)
Rs. 4,909,191,280
Total Turnover
Rs. 4629.22 crores
Total Profit after Tax (PAT)
Rs. (-)1231.88 crores
Total Comprehensive Income
Rs. (-) 1230.18 crores
Total 
spending 
on 
Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) as 
percentage of Profit after Tax
N.A. 
The Company, however, spent 
Rs. 3.02 crore on CSR. 
As per CSR Rules, 2014, the 
requirement to spend was 
‘NIL’  [because the average net 
profit of last 3 years as per CSR 
Rules is negative.]
109
Activities in which CSR expenditure as above has been 
incurred
The Company has spent CSR expenditure primarily on 
promotion of education.
The Company funds social projects at each of the different 
project sites that the Company operates in, that are specific to 
the needs of that location, as detailed in Principle 8 of Section E. 
The major activities, the Company focuses on, are imparting 
education, and rural infrastructure development through 
contributing to the building of roads, community centres, 
education – from primary to higher education, and healthcare, 
etc. 
In addition, the Company provides financial support towards 
relief and reconstruction after national catastrophes such as 
earthquakes and other natural calamities (e.g. land slide in 
Uttrakhand in June 2013, Covid 19 pandemic in 2020 & 2021).
SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS
The details about subsidiaries of the Company are given in 
para no. 9 of the Directors Report.
The subsidiaries are engaged in various business activities, 
including cement manufacturing, infrastructure development, 
Real Estate, Expressways, sports, fertilizers, aviation, Agri 
related and Healthcare. 
The details about the subsidiaries are given in Directors 
Report.
While many of these subsidiaries, as well as other entities 
that the Company does business with, carry out activities 
related to business responsibility under their own initiatives, 
these are not covered under this report. 
SECTION D: 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION
1.	
Details of Director responsible for Business 
Responsibility 
	
a)	
Details of the Director responsible for implementation 
of the Business Responsibility policy
	
The following two Directors are severally responsible for 
this purpose, (in that order):
DIN Number
00008480
Name
Shri Manoj Gaur
Designation
Executive Chairman & CEO
Telephone number
0120-4609000
e-mail id
manoj.gaur@jalindia.co.in
DIN Number
00008125
Name
Shri Sunil Kumar Sharma
Designation
Executive Vice Chairman
Telephone number
0120-4609000
e-mail id
sunil.sharma@jalindia.co.in
b)	
Details of the Business Responsibility head:
	
The two Directors, as mentioned above, are severally 
responsible for this purpose (in that order).
2.	
Principle-wise (as per National Voluntary Guidelines) 
Business Responsibility Policy/policies
Questions
Principles
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
Do you have a 
policy for each of 
the nine principles  
Yes
2
Has the policy 
been formulated 
in consultation 
with the relevant 
stakeholders?
The policy has been formulated 
taking into account the needs 
of 
the 
Company’s 
various 
stakeholders.
3
Does the policy 
conform to 
any national /
international 
standards? If yes, 
specify
Yes, 
the 
policy 
has 
been 
formulated in line with the National 
Voluntary Guidelines for Social, 
Environmental 
and 
Economic 
Responsibilities 
of 
Business 
released 
by 
the 
Ministry 
of 
Corporate Affairs in July, 2011 and 
also Section 135 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.  
4
Has the policy 
been approved by 
the Board?
If yes, has it been 
signed by MD/
owner/CEO/
appropriate Board 
Director?
The Policy has been approved by 
the Management and signed by 
the Executive Chairman
5
Does the company 
have a specified 
committee of the 
Board/ Director/
Official to oversee 
the implementation 
of the policy?
Yes.
The 
Company 
has 
a 
“CSR 
Committee” of the Board of 
Directors, formed in line with 
provisions of Section 135 of 
the Companies Act, 2013. This 
Committee, inter alia, oversees the 
implementation of the policy. 
6
Indicate the link 
for the policy to be 
viewed online
The Sustainable Development 
Policy is at the following link: 
h t t p : / / w w w. j a l i n d i a . c o m /
attachment/Sustainable%20
Development%20Policy.pdf
(please 
visit 
www.jalindia.
com> 
Investor> 
Shareholder 
Information> Disclosures Under 
LODR> 
Policies> 
Sustainable 
Development Policy)
7
Has the policy 
been formally 
communicated to 
all relevant internal 
and external 
stakeholders?
Yes. 
The 
Policy 
has 
been 
made 
available 
to 
all 
internal 
and 
external stakeholders through the 
Company’s website: www.jalindia.
com
110
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
Questions
Principles
8
Does the company 
have an in-house 
structure to 
implement the 
policy/policies?
Yes.
The Company has defined a 
governance structure from the 
Corporate level to the individual 
locations in order to implement 
and monitor the policy. Details 
for the governance structure are 
provided at the following link:
http://www.jalindia.com/
communication/2021/Business_
Responsibility_Report.pdf
(please 
visit 
www.jalindia.
com> 
Investor> 
Shareholder 
Information> Disclosures Under 
LODR> Business Responsibility 
Report
9
Does the Company 
have a grievance 
redressal 
mechanism related 
to the policy/
policies to address 
stakeholders’ 
grievances related 
to the policy/
policies? 
Yes.
All stakeholders’ grievances are 
promptly addressed.
10 Has the Company 
carried out 
independent 
audit/evaluation 
of the working of 
this policy by an 
internal or external 
agency?
The 
Company 
is 
doing 
the 
evaluation internally through the 
CSR Committee of the Board 
as well as through the Executive 
Management of the Company.
3.	
Governance related to BR (Business Responsibility)
	
The CSR Committee endeavours to meet from time to 
time, at least once in a year, in order to assess the BR 
(Business Responsibility) performance of the Company. 
The Board also notes and assesses the BR performance 
accordingly. 
	
This is the 10th year that the Company is publishing its 
Business Responsibility Report, and plans to continue 
to publish the same every year.
	
The Business Responsibility Report can be viewed 
online at the following link:
	
http://www.jalindia.com/communication/2021/
Business_Responsibility_Report.pdf  
	
(please visit www.jalindia.com> Investor> Shareholder 
Information> Disclosures Under LODR> Business 
Responsibility Report).
SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE
PRINCIPLE 1 – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with 
Ethics, Transparency and Accountability
Jaiprakash Associates Limited is committed to the highest 
standards of ethical conduct in all that it does. It is the 
Company’s deeply-held belief that “integrity in our actions 
engenders trust in our stakeholders, which is the 
cornerstone of our business.” The Company has created a 
comprehensive Sustainable Development Policy that codifies 
its approach to ensuring that its business practices remain 
sustainable in the long-term.
The Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance aims at 
attaining the highest level of transparency and accountability 
towards its stakeholders – including, among others, 
shareholders, employees, the Government and lenders – and 
at maximizing returns to shareholders through creation of 
wealth on a sustainable basis. 
The Company strives to be a responsible corporate citizen, 
abiding by the letter and spirit of all applicable national and 
state laws, and also encourages the entities it does business 
with, to do the same. The Company is compliant with the 
Corporate Governance norms laid down in SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
and the Listing Agreement. 
The Directors and Senior Management of the Company are 
guided by the Code of Conduct that details their responsibilities 
towards shareholders, society and the country.
The Company has also framed various policies required under 
the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations & 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the same 
are duly complied with. These include, amongst others, the 
Insider Trading Code, Related Party Transactions Policy, 
Whistle Blower Policy, Remuneration Policy, Dividend 
Distribution Policy, etc. for ensuring transparency and trust in 
the organization.
The Company is extremely responsive to any complaints 
received from stakeholders. There was no complaint to be 
resolved as on 31st March 2021. The Company received 
59 complaints from Shareholders during the Financial Year 
2021-22 regarding issues such as transfer/non-receipt of 
shares, dividend warrants not received, loss of shares, demat 
complaints, etc., all of which were resolved before the close 
of the financial year. Thus, there was no complaint to be 
resolved as on 31st March 2022.
PRINCIPLE 2 – PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe 
and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle
At Jaiprakash Associates Limited, we have made sustainable 
development a cornerstone of our business strategy to achieve 
sustainable and profitable growth. Company has prioritized 
key issues after collective deliberation of management and 
key stake holders. These key issues include Health & Safety, 
Corporate Governance & Transparency, Energy Security, 
Social Responsibility, Product Responsibility, Climate Change 
and Waste Management.
Our Business Responsibility report draws on our proven 
technology and risk management framework. The Company 
places significant emphasis on Research and Development 
focused on optimizing engineering techniques and creating 
new methods in order to achieve higher efficiencies.
Over almost five decades, the Company has executed some 
111
of the most noteworthy projects in the country that creates 
significant long term improvement in the lives of the people, 
both near and far.  
Company’s 
major 
divisions 
include 
Engineering 
and 
construction, Cement, Real Estate & Hospitality. Details of 
initiatives taken under these divisions are furnished hereunder:
1.	
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION:
A.	
Hydro-power projects:
	
The Company has been a leader in the construction 
of river valley and hydropower on turnkey basis for 
more than four decades, and holds the distinction of 
participation in 54% of new hydropower projects under 
Tenth Five year plan.
	
The Company is currently executing various projects in 
hydropower and irrigation, and holds the distinction of 
simultaneously executing 13 hydropower projects over 
6 Indian states and Bhutan, for generating 10290 MW of 
power.
	
Advantages of hydro power projects:
	
•	
Does not generate pollution or wastes
	
•	
Does not generate greenhouse gases 
	
•	
Saves natural resources
	
•	
Dependable, controllable and predictable source 
of renewable energy
	
•	
Dams are built to create reservoirs for flood 
moderation, hydropower generation and irrigation 
in the command area.
	
•	
Most suitable to cater for peaking power 
requirements.
	
•	
Flexibility in operation, as per the need.
Major Hydropower Plants under execution
I.	
BHUTAN
(a)	
Punatsangchhu-II Hydroelectric Project (PHEP-II);
	
1020 MW PHEP-II Hydroelectric Project is being set-up 
under bilateral agreements between the Govt. of India 
and the Royal Govt. of Bhutan, to achieve an important 
milestone of generating 10,000 MW of hydropower.
	
Jaiprakash Associates Limited (JAL) is executing Dam 
and Power House Complex works and part of HRT for 
PHEP-II Project.
	
The Dam and Power House Complex works of PHEP-II 
Project have been progressing satisfactorily. 
(b)	
Kurichhu Hydropower Plant
	
JAL is executing the repair of Spillway Glacis and Stilling 
Basin of Kurichhu Hydropower Plant. The Works are in 
progress.
(c)	
Kholongchhu Hydroelectric Project (KHP)
	
Following works of KHP have been awarded to JAL:
	
•	
Construction of River Diversion Works, Dam, 
Intake, Desilting Arrangement and HRT from RD 
0.00m to RD 2,303.00m including Construction 
Adit-1 (Contract Package –KC1). LoA has been 
issued by the Employer and Contract Agreement is 
yet to be signed. 
	
•	
Construction of Head Race Tunnel from RD 
14,091.07m 
to 
RD 
15,762.80m 
including 
Construction Adit VI, Surge Shaft, Butterfly Valve 
Chamber, Pressure Shafts, Power House Complex 
and Tail Race Tunnel (Contract Package –KC3). 
LoA has been issued by the Employer and Contract 
Agreement is yet to be signed 
II.	
NEPAL
(a)	
Arun 3 Hydroelectric Project (900 MW) in Nepal.
	
JAL has been awarded item rate Civil Contract for Dam 
Complex and part of HRT in North East part of Nepal. 
This project is implemented by SJVN Arun-3 Power 
Development Company (P) Limited - a subsidiary 
Company of SJVN Limited (A Govt. of India Undertaking) 
as a BOOT project in accordance with Hydro Power 
Policy of Govt. of Nepal. 
	
The work has commenced on various fronts. The Works 
are progressing satisfactorily.
(b)	
Rahughat Hydroelectric Project (40 MW) in Nepal.
	
JAL has also been awarded all Civil & Hydro-Mechanical 
Works of another Project in Nepal on EPC basis by 
the Project Authority i.e. Raghuganga Hydropower 
Limited. The works include execution of Barrage, HRT, 
Power House and Hydro-Mechanical Works. Works are 
progressing satisfactorily.
III. 	
INDIA
(a)	
Naitwar Mori Hydroelectric Project (60 MW) in 
Uttarakhand 
	
JAL is executing civil works of 60 MW Naitwar Mori 
Hydroelectric Project in Uttarakhand, awarded by SJVN 
Limited (A Govt. of India Undertaking). Works are in 
progress.
(b)	
Pakal Dul Hydroelectric Project (1000 MW) in J&K 
	
JAL has been awarded the works of Dam Package of 
the Project, which envisages construction of Concrete 
Face Rock Fill Dam Complex and part of HRT. Works are 
in progress.
	
JAL in a Joint Venture with AFCONS has also been 
awarded the Contract for Power House Complex and a 
part of HRT of the same Project in J&K by Chenab Valley 
Power Projects (Pvt) Limited. 
	
In this Joint Venture, JAL’s Share is 30% and the balance 
70% is with AFCONS. Works are in progress.
(c)	
Teesta-VI H.E. Proiect, Sikkim
	
JAL has been awarded the construction of Balance 
Civil Works under Package: Lot-I for Barrage, Desilting 
Basins, SFT, Intake Structure, Part of HRT-I & HRT-II and 
other associated Structures etc. of Teesta-Vl HE Proiect, 
Sikkim. Works at various fronts have started and are 
progressing. 
B.	
Expressways:
	
The Company has developed 165 kilometer long 
Yamuna 
Expressway 
along 
the 
Yamuna 
River 
connecting Noida and Agra. The principal objective of 
112
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
this expressway is to minimize travel time from Delhi 
to Agra, facilitate faster uninterrupted movement of 
passengers and freight traffic, connect the main existing 
and proposed townships and commercial centers 
on the eastern side of the Yamuna river, relieve traffic 
congestion on the National Highway-2 and Old Grand 
Trunk Road (National Highway-91) and generally 
enhance development in the region.
	
The Company has also commissioned the four lane 
Zirakpur-Parwanoo Section of NH-22, Himalayan 
Expressway from km 39.96 to km 67.55 which has RIFD 
Technology based Electronic Toll Collection Plaza in the 
States of Punjab, Haryana & Himachal Pradesh.
	
The Company has also completed works of Package-
III (from Km 46+500 to 71+000) of Eastern Peripheral 
Expressway in Uttar Pradesh in May, 2018. The 
Maintenance period is in progress.
	
The Company has also completed works of Biju Para- 
Kuru Section (from Km. 34.000 to Km. 55.000) of NH-
75 (Package-II) in the State of Jharkhand where land 
was made available by the Employer and completion 
certificate for the said reach was issued in September, 
2019. Maintenance of the said stretch is in progress. 
Works in the balance reach has also been started in 
October, 2021.
	
Some of the major advantages of these accessed 
controlled high speed expressways are as follows:-
	
•	
These 
expressways 
provide 
fast 
and 
safe 
connectivity resulting in saving of fuel, time and 
cost of transportation to the society, 
	
•	
Yamuna Expressway is managed by advanced 
Highway Traffic Management System (HTMS). 
Multiple Fiber Optic Ducts have been deployed for 
captive requirements like video surveillance, traffics 
management system & crime control. Further 
subletting of these ducts to telecom operators shall 
avoid digging of highway and thus additional cost 
in future.
	
•	
Liberal plantation and landscaping for aesthetic 
appeal, reducing air/noise pollution, wind impact, 
and very comfortable ride to Agra has positively 
impacted foreign tourism to Taj Mahal, Vrindavan 
Temple and Mathura.
	
•	
Yamuna Expressway has played a major role in 
planning of NCR & western U.P region, as numbers 
of SEZs have been planned along the Expressway, 
which has given a boost to social and economic 
development of masses in this region.
	
•	
It has created a major potential for inclusive growth 
opportunities for local industries, agriculture, 
medical and educational services and thus mass 
job opportunities.
	
•	
Himalyan Expressway has immensely helped fast 
movement of armed forces to the northern border of 
our country including tourism in Himachal Pradesh 
by facilitating more comfortable and higher traffic 
volume.
	
In addition to the above, JAL has been awarded/
executing 
the 
following 
contract packages of 
Expressways/Highways, 
Bridge 
and 
Navigation 
Channel etc. on EPC/Item Rate basis:
	
(i)	
Varanasi Gorakhpur section of NH-29 (Package-III) 
in Uttar Pradesh at Contract Price of Rs. 840 crore 
and
	
(ii)	 Varanasi Gorakhpur section of NH-29 (Package-IV) in 
Uttar Pradesh at Contract Price of Rs. 1030 crore.
	
	
The works of Package-III and Package-IV of 
Varanasi Gorakhpur section are in progress.
	
(iii)	 Construction of New High Level Bridge on River 
Narmada in Gujarat was awarded at Contract 
Price of Rs. 142.20 Crore. The Bridge has been 
completed. Some additional works have been 
added to this Contract and the same are in 
progress. The estimated completion cost of the 
contract is Rs. 171.48 crore.
	
(iv)	 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of all Hydro 
Mechanical, Electrical Equipments and Civil work 
of Sardar Sarovar Dam for Two (2) years at a 
Contract Price of Rs. 21.74 crores. The completion 
period was extended to 28.03.2022; it has been 
extended further till finalization of new contract for 
the said work.
	
(v)	 Five (5) years contract for operation and 
maintenance (O & M) of all hydro mechanical, 
electrical equipment’s and civil work of Sardar 
Sarovar Dam, Kevadia for the year 2022-27. JAL is 
the lowest Bidder at a quoted price of Rs. 53.45 
crore.
C.	
Irrigation:
	
JAL has been awarded/executing the following contract 
packages of Water Supply/Irrigation Projects, on EPC/
Item Rate basis:
	
(i)	
Turnkey execution of Srisailam Left Bank Canal 
Tunnel Scheme including Head Regulator etc. 
of Alimineti Madhava Reddy Project in Telangana 
State at a Contract Price of Rs.2,018.56 crore. The 
Works are in progress.
	
(ii)	 Works of Palamuru Rangareddy Lift Irrigation 
Scheme- PRLIS- (Package No.4)- Earth work 
Excavation & Construction of Twin Tunnels  in 
between Anjanagiri Reservoir at Narlapur (V) and 
Veeranjaneya Reservoir at Yedula (V) from Km 
8.325 to Km 23.325 in Mahabubnagar District 
with Contract Price of Rs. 1621.92 crore are being 
executed by JAL - VARKS – NECL JV with JAL as 
Lead Partner having 51% share. The Works are in 
progress.
	
(iii)	 Naigarhi Micro Irrigation Project (Part-I) on 
Turnkey basis in Madhya Pradesh. Works are in 
progress.
	
(iv)	 Naigarhi Micro Irrigation Project (Part-II) on 
Turnkey basis in Madhya Pradesh. Works are in 
progress.
	
(v)	 Ram Nagar Micro Irrigation Project Package on 
Turnkey basis in Madhya Pradesh. Works are in 
progress.
113
	
Besides, Automated Piped Irrigation for delivery of water 
at the micro level in the command area is the need of the 
present day in India to minimize the water losses due to 
seepage and evaporation etc. Accordingly, the Govt. of 
India and various State Governments are giving higher 
emphasis to switch over to this system to optimize 
the water utilization considering the shortage of water 
availability. 
2.	
CEMENT DIVISION
	
The Company has made a committed effort to ensure 
proper utilization of resources in cement manufacturing 
processes. To keep pace with modern days’ trend, 
the Company has upgraded its technology wherever 
required. The state-of-the-art technology starting from 
mines to the packing house has improved operational 
efficiency.
	
Some examples of the technologies and processes 
used are:
	
•	
New HT Capacitors were procured and installed to 
improve overall efficiency of electrical distribution 
system.  
	
•	
Advanced Distributed Process Control System 
(DCS) is used for monitoring and control of plant 
operation. The total operations of cement & power 
plants are automatically controlled from a single 
location i.e. Central Control Room making the 
whole operation cost-effective and efficient. 
	
•	
Duoflex burners are installed in all kilns which emit 
low NOx in the stack gases and are highly fuel-
efficient.
	
•	
Captive Power Plants located at the cement sites 
use high-efficiency boilers and ESPs which ensure 
stack emissions within statutory limits.
	
•	
New generation Energy Meters,  Satec- make, 
Model PM130 + EH were installed by replacing old 
model energy meters for enhanced features, better 
accuracy and improved connectivity.
	
•	
The quality control department has all modern 
advanced technology e.g. XRF, XRD, Bomb 
Calorimeter, Cross Belt analyser and various other 
measuring and testing equipments to control 
product quality.
	
•	
A separate petcoke fine coal bin with DCS 
controlled flow system has been installed in Unit-2 
to enhance petcoke consumption in Kiln.
	
•	
Unit-2 GCT (Gas Conditioning Tower) water 
spray system has been modified to control gas 
temperature, resulting substantial reduction in 
power consumption absorbed (0.4 kwh/t clinker).
	
•	
Unit-1 cooler exhaust gas water spray nozzle 
modified to reduce cooler exhaust gas temperature 
and cooler ESP fan power consumption (0.2 kcal/t).
	
•	
Unit-2 Raw mill classifier sealing arrangement 
modified to increase the mill output. Raw mill 
specific power consumption reduced by 0.3 kWh/
MT raw meal.
	
•	
Cement mill-1 OSEPA separator classifier upgraded 
by efficient and dynamic separator by LNVT to 
get required residue at @ 45µ <15% resulting 
significant improvement in one day strength of PPC 
& OPC observed.
3.	
REAL ESTATE DIVISION 
	
The Company has been developing some of the 
finest integrated townships in the country; wherein 
everything is nearby & at walking distance; whether it is 
shopping, office, hospital, school/ colleges, sports or a 
game of golf. The Company offers Residential Projects 
at Noida, Greater Noida & Agra.
	
The Company believes that harmony between the man 
and environment is the prime essence of healthy life 
and living. The sustenance of our ecological balance 
is, therefore, of paramount importance. Efforts are made 
to conserve ecological balance without any harm done 
to the local flora and fauna. 
	
The Company has also taken green initiatives, 
afforestation drives, resources conservation, water 
conservation, air quality control and noise pollution 
control and has created a “green oasis’’.
	
Some of the major initiatives taken in the field of Real 
Estate are as follows:
	
•	
Use of CLC Block which provide better insulation 
from heat/cold that reduces the need of air 
conditioning/heating 
arrangement 
and 
hence 
saves electricity.
	
•	
Usage of advanced technology such as Fiber 
to 
the 
Home 
(FTTH), 
promotes 
economic 
development, reliability, security, higher bandwidth 
at nominal cost to meet the consumer demand of 
the next decade. 
	
•	
Use of renewable energy: Company’s integrated 
township, is equipped with renewable source of 
energy i.e. solar lighting and solar hot water 
systems. This will result in significant reductions 
in electricity consumption over the lifetime of 
township.
	
•	
Rain Water harvesting system and plantation of 
trees support environmental growth and equitable 
development.
	
•	
Implementation of SAP in real estate industry that 
optimizes the resource, reduces the use of paper, 
promotes internal control system, stream lines flow 
of information, saves time & money.
4.	
HOSPITALITY DIVISION
	
The Company has core philosophy & policy to keep 
the guests ‘Healthy & Safe’, including from various 
types of water borne diseases. The bacterial growth 
namely legionella and gram negative bacteria in water 
sources was, once, widely prevalent in the country. 
The Company has an established Bacteria Control 
Management System in all the hotels to provide clean 
and healthy environment. 
	
The Company has also constituted the board in all 
hotels to address the concerns pertaining to “Women 
Safety”. All working ladies are being provided at night 
doorstep dropping with armed security guards by 
114
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
the vehicles of the hotel. Besides this, all hotels have 
designated specific rooms for single lady guest staying 
in the hotel and ensures that services are rendered by 
the lady staff only.
	
The Company’s hotels are committed to render services 
that provide “Safe Tourism” to in-bound and domestic 
customers. The Company has special rooms for 
handicaps with special toilets and wide vestibule. The 
robust security system is in place to ensure safety & 
security by installing X-Ray baggage scanners, close 
circuit cameras in & around the hotel premises and by 
deploying efficient & trained security personnel.
5.	
SPORTS DIVISION
	
In the International Sports Division also (which came 
into the ambit of Company pursuant to merger of 
erstwhile Jaypee Sports International Limited into JAL, 
effective on 16th October 2015 from the appointed date 
1st April 2014), the Company is making every effort to 
promote safety, transparency, energy conservation, 
resource conservation, security, social responsibility & 
sustainability, environmental & climate protection and 
waste management. 
	
The Company is placing significant emphasis on 
research & development focused on optimizing 
engineering techniques and creating new systems, 
procedures & processes to achieve higher efficiencies. 
Efforts are also made to conserve ecological balance 
without any harm done to the local flora and fauna. 
The Company has taken green initiatives, afforestation 
drives, air quality control and noise pollution control.
SUSTAINABLE SOURCING AND LOCAL PROCUREMENT 
ASPECTS
The Company has developed and institutionalized internal 
processes to ensure that the sources and means of 
transportation of the raw materials and components which are 
input to the different projects are sustainable in the long-term. 
The Company evaluates its major suppliers and contractors to 
ensure that they are in compliance with legal and environmental 
norms in their business activities. 
The Engineering and Construction Division of the Company 
primarily 
undertakes 
large-scale 
projects 
that 
require 
specialized machinery and equipment, many of which are 
imported in order to meet the stringent quality parameters 
that are adhered to. The raw materials such as cement, steel 
and construction chemicals, etc. that go into the construction 
projects are also sourced from reputed national firms. 
Wherever possible, and with all other factors remaining equal, 
the Company prefers to procure raw materials and spare parts 
from vendors and dealers that are nearest to the project sites. 
Local markets are continuously explored and encouraged to 
arrange for material suitable for construction. 
At many of the Company’s ongoing project sites – Gujarat, Uttar 
Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana 
State, Bhutan and Nepal – the Company endeavours to hire 
the manpower locally, as far as possible. 
In the Cement Division, majority of the total stores & spares 
procured are from local suppliers. The Company undertakes 
Annual Rate Contract agreements with suppliers in order to 
provide them with certainty regarding the volumes required, 
and to avoid recurring tendering for regularly procured 
materials.
In the Hospitality Division, during the year 100% of our 
procured materials are sourced from local suppliers.
‘REDUCE, REUSE AND RECYCLE’
The Company has always followed the philosophy of ‘Reduce, 
Reuse and Recycle’, wherever practically feasible. 
In Cement Division, for example, fly ash, which was earlier 
considered as industrial waste, is now being recycled and 
used as a process material in the cement plants. Around 
30% of fly ash used in PPC grade is either generated from 
the captive power plants, or purchased from the market. This 
reduces the clinker requirement by about 30%.
Within the Engineering and Construction Division, due to the 
nature of the business, there is limited scope for the recycling 
of products. However, all the Company’s project offices make 
use of a significant level of reusability – the camps and work-
shops that are erected at each of the sites are made almost 
entirely of dismantled materials and components taken from 
earlier project sites. The individual elements like doors and 
window frames are designed in such a way as to be sturdy, 
and also be easily reusable. Excavated materials, stones and 
boulders are reused for the back-fill and construction activity, 
and any steel scrap is disposed off to agencies for re-rolling. 
Collection of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) at Chandigarh. 
This initiative aims to serve the twin purpose of keeping the 
city clean and to conserve the energy resources available in 
the form of producing fuel called refused derived fuel (RDF). At 
present MSW is under litigation.
Commitment
Last but not the least, as a Company we remain committed 
to strategic business development in infrastructure, as it is 
key to nation building in the 21st century. We aim for perfection 
in everything we undertake and we have a commitment to 
excel. It is the determination to transform every challenge into 
opportunity; to seize every opportunity to ensure growth and 
grow with human face to provide sustainable growth for our 
generations to come.
PRINCIPLE 3 – EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIPS
Businesses should promote the well-being of all 
employees
Since its inception, the Company has fostered a work culture 
based on values of trust, mutual respect and dialogue. The 
management and employees across the various divisions 
and units endeavour to create and maintain positive individual 
and collective relationships, and are expected to do so as an 
integral part of their job.
The Company is committed to providing a work environment 
in which every employee is treated fairly, has the opportunity 
to contribute to business success and also to realize their full 
potential as individuals. The Company strives for proactive 
improvement of its relationships with all its employees, and 
accomplishes this through organized structures and programs 
by the Human Resources department at both Corporate and 
unit levels.
115
Employee Demographics
In the FY 2021-22, the Company employed 7,826 employees, 
the break-up of which is as follows:
Category
Total 
Permanent employees
5,893
Temporary/contract/casual workforce
1,933
Total
7,826
Permanent employees who are female
147
Permanent employees with disabilities
17
Employee Unions
While the Company respects the right of employees to join 
organizations of their choice and engage in constructive 
negotiations, the Company’s management have always 
maintained a harmonious working relationship with the 
employees characterized by trust and open dialogue; none 
of the employees of the Company have formed or become 
members of an employee associations or unions while they 
were employed at the Company. 
Employee engagement programmes
The Company has become one of largest and most reputed 
infrastructure conglomerates because of the dedication and 
perseverance of its employees. 
The Company strives to create a stimulating work environment 
through its HR practices, with the aim of attracting and 
retaining the best people, regardless of their background, 
beliefs or social culture
Complaints and Grievance-handling mechanisms
Category
Complaints 
filed
Complaints 
pending
Child/forced/involuntary 
labour
Nil
Nil
Sexual harassment
Nil
Nil
Discriminatory employment
Nil
Nil
The Company has not denied any personnel access to the 
Management or the Audit Committee on any issue.
The Company has adopted an explicit Whistle-blower Policy 
as well as Anti Sexual Harassment Policy. However, there 
was no case of reporting under any of the two, during the 
financial year 2020-22.
Safety of Workers & Employees
The Company places considerable emphasis on health and 
safety throughout its operations and displays commitment to 
ensure that high standards are maintained in compliance with 
all applicable laws and regulations. The Company’s Safety 
Policy comprises a statement of the Organization’s objectives 
regarding Safety of Man and Equipment in operation at work 
sites. The Management’s endeavour is to establish a risk-free 
and “Zero Accident” work environment.
Safety training is imparted to employees to make them aware 
of the procedures that need to be followed while working. The 
Company has won multiple national awards over the past 
years for its safety performance.  
Training & Development
Category
Percentage of 
employees who 
underwent training
Permanent Employees
35.28%
Permanent Women Employees
39.47%
Casual/Temporary/Contractual 
Employees
65.27%
Employees with Disabilities
46.47%
The Company is well-known for developing talents from 
among its employees. The Company endeavours to attract, 
support, retain and motivate the best people in the field, and 
its training programs are designed to enhance the capabilities 
of its individuals, provide opportunities to develop skills 
and increase knowledge in order to maintain a competitive 
advantage.
Training programs
The Company provides various opportunities to employees of 
all levels to upgrade their skills: 
•	
Structured Training Plan: It is an in-house training 
program which focuses on the technical aspects of 
various engineering disciplines.
•	
Computer Literacy Campaign: Different aspects of 
computer operations are covered in order to keep 
employees at the cutting edge of technology and latest 
trends.
•	
Periodically, user trainings are also conducted to help 
employees upgrade their skills with respect to softwares 
such as SAP, etc.
•	
Employees are also trained in areas such as Integrated 
Management System (IMS) which covers Quality 
Management 
Systems 
(QMS) 
(ISO 
9001:2015), 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) (ISO 
14001:2015), Occupational Health & Safety (OHSAS) 
(ISO 45001:2018). Imparting of training is aimed at 
continual improvement in working standards and 
effectiveness of Quality, Environment, and Health & 
Safety Management systems. Employees are also 
exposed to improve the skills and be aware on Fire 
Safety, Risk assessment, Hazard Identification and 
control etc.
•	
Apart from this, customized training programs are 
also conducted from time to time, in house as well as 
by outside institutions, covering different aspects of 
Company’s businesses. Management Development 
Programmes are also conducted on regular intervals 
by external institutions. Our employees have actively 
participated and meaningfully gained from these 
programmes such as Finance for Non-Finance 
executives, General Managerial Skills, Dashboard – A 
tool for effective Management etc.
116
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
•	
External Training Programs for Senior Executives: In 
order to keep pace with the changing times and to spot 
opportunities and perceive possible threats, existing 
skills need to be continually updated. Senior executives 
within the organization are continually upgrading their 
competencies through various programs/courses of 
short duration.
PRINCIPLE 4 – STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS
Businesses should respect the interests of, and be 
responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those 
who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized
Stakeholder mapping and engagement
The Company has identified its stakeholders and takes steps 
to engage with them through various formal and informal 
processes. 
The major stakeholders have been identified and classified as: 
•	
Employees
•	
Customers
•	
Shareholders/Investors/Lenders
•	
Communities
•	
Business Partners/Contractors/Vendors
•	
Contract workers
•	
Government Bodies
•	
Government Bodies
Engaging with the Disadvantaged, Vulnerable and 
Marginalized Stakeholders
The Company’s relationship with its employees, customers, 
business partners and suppliers are governed by more formal 
processes than that with some other stakeholder groupings. 
Nevertheless, the Company ensures that all stakeholder 
concerns, including those of the most disadvantaged and 
vulnerable, are incorporated into the Company’s strategic 
thinking and decision-making. 
The Company takes all practical steps to ensure that all 
communication with stakeholders is clear, transparent, timely 
and complete, and respects their right to be informed, so that 
everyone can make decisions and act in a knowledgeable 
fashion. Dialogue, review and feedback are also encouraged 
wherever 
possible. 
While 
the 
management 
has 
the 
accountability for stakeholder strategy and engagement, the 
Company believes that every employee in the Company has 
a responsibility towards ensuring satisfactory stakeholder 
relationships.
Some of the initiatives and channels used in the process of 
engaging with stakeholders include face-to-face meetings, both 
individual and group (including the shareholders’ meetings); 
media and stock exchange announcements; presentations; 
conference calls; formal grievance mechanisms; financial 
reports; newsletters, circulars and e-mail updates; regular 
customer, business partner and supplier meetings; formal 
consultations and audit processes; and updates on the 
JAL website – www.jalindia.com.
PRINCIPLE 5 – HUMAN RIGHTS 
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Human Rights of our Stakeholders
The Company has always been committed to developing an 
organizational culture that supports internationally recognized 
human rights, as well as the human rights enumerated in the 
Constitution. 
The Company takes steps to ensure that human rights 
principles are upheld within its workplaces. The Jaypee Group 
as a whole is committed to its cherished value ‘Growth with a 
Humane Face’ while dealing with people, whether internal or 
external to the organization.
There have been no complaints regarding violation of human 
rights from stakeholders in the past financial years.
PRINCIPLE 6 – ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Business should respect, protect and make efforts to 
restore the environment
The Company believes that harmony between man and his 
environment is the essence of healthy life and living, and the 
sustenance of ecological balance is, therefore, of paramount 
importance. The Company is cognizant of its responsibilities 
as a diversified engineering, construction and manufacturing 
conglomerate and as a global corporate citizen; sustaining an 
equitable balance between economic growth and environment 
preservation has always been of paramount importance for 
the Company. Its environment management approach has 
led to efficient and optimum utilization of available resources, 
minimization of waste, which is carried out through the 
adoption of the latest technology. 
Recognizing its responsibility to protect and preserve the 
environment, the Company has undertaken afforestation 
drives in different parts of the country. This has resulted in 
significant resource conservation, water conservation, air 
quality improvement and noise pollution control, and created a 
“green oasis” amidst the limestone belt at its cement complex 
in Rewa. Similar initiatives have also been taken on other 
projects/ construction sites of the Company. 
EXTERNAL
INTERNAL
Employees
Promoters
Management
Government/
regulatory
agencies
General
public/Local
communities
Investors
(shareholders/depositors
Banks/Financial
institutions
Customers
117
Company’s vision about environment has following 
objectives:
•	
Efficient & optimum utilization of available resources
•	
Minimization of waste
•	
Maximization of waste materials’ utilization
•	
Providing and maintaining of green belts all around 
projects/ production zone
•	
To comprehensively merge with the local society 
to support & care for their socio-economic 
development. 
Corporate Environment & Energy Policy:
The Company follows the following Corporate Environment & 
Energy Policy:
•	
Setup and operate industrial plans and infrastructure 
Projects adopting modern technology, keeping in 
view efficency of operations, prevention of pollution, 
conservation of energy which shall have impact on 
carbon emissions, on continual basis.
•	
Adopt and comprehensively adhere to meet rules 
and norms set by Ministry of Environment & Forests, 
Government of India, Central Pollution Control Board 
and State Pollution Control Board or any other statutory 
body.
•	
Develop Green Belts in its Plants/Units and Mines with 
local species having long life, nurture them to make a 
lively environment besides creating buffer to habitat 
around the area.
•	
Make use of renew able energy to the extent it is 
possible and make tailor-made schemes to adopt such 
features suitable to respective projects.
•	
Work on philosophy of ‘Zero Discharge’ from the Units.
•	
Use waste materials to utilize available heat value and as 
additives in manufacture of cement to support Federal 
Government to make environment cleaner.
•	
Conserve precious water, adopt Rain Water harvesting 
for ground water recharging and develop water 
reservoirs, reducing its dependency on ground water 
and other natural resources for water supply to the 
units.
•	
Conserve Biodiversity with least amount of impact on 
the environment.
•	
Compliance 
to 
various 
conditions 
stipulated 
in 
Environmental Clearance accorded by Ministry of 
Environment & Forests and other conditions as imposed 
by State Pollution Control Boards in Consents granted 
for Establishing the unit and operations. 
•	
Contribute effectively in Socio-economic development 
of habitat around the project sites, through its CSR 
activities, giving significant emphasis to Education, 
Health, Vocational training for jobs creation within and 
outside the Projects.
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT
Institutionalizing this Green Initiative, the Company has 
constituted Project Groups at the project, regional and 
corporate level to carry out specific environmental related 
functions. These groups initiate and sustain measures 
to mitigate, monitor and control the impact of project 
implementation on the environment.
RESOURCE CONSERVATION
The Company as well as Jaypee Group continually looks for 
innovative and cost-effective solutions to reduce wastes and 
preserve natural resources. Some of these measures include 
reduction in new land acquisition by optimal utilization of 
existing ones; capacity addition to existing resources including 
land, machinery, infrastructure and human resource; reduction 
in water and fuel consumption by recycling and endorsing 
of more efficient combustion methods and state of the art 
technology.
To prevent potential adverse impact of Municipal Solid Waste 
on human health and also to promote Swacch Bharat Mission 
of Govt. of India Company has used Refused Derived Fuel 
(RDF) & polythene waste in combination with coal to reduce 
fuel cost and also conserve natural resource.
As per plastic waste rule, the EPR target of plastic waste is 25% 
of generated plastic quantity for FY 2021-22. The company 
incinerated 56% plastic waste in respect of 25% for FY 2021-22.
AIR POLLUTION AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION
The Company is one of the leading producers of cement in 
Central & Eastern India, which is considered to be a polluting 
industrial sector.
The Company has always proactively attempted to go beyond 
compliance with respect to the regulations relating to the 
emissions. The cement business has undertaken major 
initiatives to reduce dust emissions including adoption of new 
technologies. The cement division has established a state-
of-the-art Environment Management Cell which hosts a fully 
functional laboratory with modern testing and monitoring 
equipment to ensure that all emissions and dust that is 
generated is within permissible limits. The Captive Power 
Plants use high efficiency boilers and ESPs which ensure 
Stack emissions at lower level than the statutory limits of 50 
mg/Nm3.
Regular environmental audits are conducted at the Company’s 
cement plants and stack/ambient emission monitoring is 
carried out on a regular basis.
The Company has installed Continuous ambient air quality 
monitoring system CAAQMS at Regional Office, Madhya 
Pradesh Pollution Control Board, Rewa for measurements of 
Air Quality Index (AQI) of Rewa city.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
The Company ensures that all possible measures are taken 
to conserve energy including identification of potential areas 
118
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
of saving energy, installation of energy efficient equipments 
such as capacitor control panels to improve power factor, use 
of energy efficient lamps and compact florescent/ LED lamps, 
wherever possible.
The Company’s cement plants have installed high efficiency 
pollution control equipments which consume relatively less 
energy.
Some of the specific energy conservation measures 
taken at the different plants/ sites are mentioned in detail in 
Annexure-6 to the Directors Report.  
WATER CONSERVATION
The Company has undertaken active water conservation and 
rain water harvesting measures. The Company has created 
reservoirs with huge surface area and storage capacity. 
Four reservoirs with an aggregate surface area of 46.70 
hectares with a total storage capacity of 3 million m3 have 
been created in the mined out areas for collection of rain water 
and stored water is being used for cement manufacturing 
process and cooling purpose. These interlinked water 
bodies provide the entire water supply for the manufacturing 
process, eliminating the use of precious surface and ground 
water resources completely. These reservoirs have recharged 
the ground water across all the surrounding villages, improving 
not just crop yields, but the overall quality of life. The Company 
and the Group have also undertaken active water conservation 
and rain water harvesting measures. 
Water management system has been implemented at cement 
plants to ensure minimal use of water in the process, recycling 
and recharging of waste water and Zero discharge.
As per new guideline of Central Ground Water Authority 
(CGWA), the Company has planned to replace all old 
Mechanical water flow meter with new telemetry water flow 
meter for accurate measurement. Also piezometer system will 
be installed for monitor ground water level.
The Company has conducted rain water harvesting study 
by expert agency for further enhancement of ground water 
recharge.
Waste Water treatment in Cement Division
Thermal power (captive) and cement plants are equipped with 
secondary and tertiary treatment facilities for waste water, so 
that most of the water can be recycled, making these units 
practically ‘zero discharge’ units. 
Waste reduction and recycling in Cement Division
The Company utilizes 100% fly ash generated from coal fired 
boilers as Pozzolanic material in cement manufacturing, 
ensuring no solid waste from captive power plants. 
Electronic wastes are disposed off through authorized vendors. 
Biodegradable wastes from Annapurna mess, canteens, guest 
houses, residential quarters etc. are utilized for generating 
biogas. 
Besides leaf litter is converted to compost through vermi 
composting, 
subsequently 
used 
for 
horticulture 
and 
plantation as natural manure, thus preserving the health of the 
environment.
AFFORESTATION DRIVE AND IMPACT ON BIODIVERSITY
Afforestation drives across all over campuses and project sites 
the Company operates, are other examples of our practical 
approach to environment conservation. No project is begun 
unless extensive soil tests confirm the quality, alkalinity and 
porosity of the soil. Only local plant species or those with a 
high likelihood of survival are selected by our Green Team, 
staffed by qualified and highly experienced professionals, for 
plantation and its upkeep. 
Green Belt Development and Biodiversity Mapping surveys at 
various projects helped in analyzing the importance of sites 
from the biodiversity point of view and conservation measures 
to be implemented.
Green belts have been designed keeping in mind utility as 
well as ecological aspects. The focus has been on conserving 
indigenous species, retaining and enhancing surrounding 
landscape, creating habitat for birds and insects, planting 
a mix of species that are a part of rural, urban and native 
landscapes and also raising environmental awareness. 
Functional Green Belts created with native species have 
resulted in practical conservation of flora and fauna of the 
region. This scientific approach has ensured around 85% 
survival rate across different locations and climatic conditions 
where the Company has carried out the plantation drives 
across various project locations. 
In addition, to support conservation of indigenous flora and 
fauna and creating wildlife friendly habitats, nest boxes and 
bird feeders have been installed at select sites for conservation 
of house sparrow. 
IN HOSPITALITY/HOTELS DIVISION
The Company hotels have made arrangements and systems to 
recycle water, and to reuse wastes. The Hotels have scrubbers 
for equipments operated on fossil fuel and conversion of fuel 
from High Speed Diesel to Piped Natural Gas which have 
resulted in reduction of CFC release by 30% and consequent 
reduced contribution to ozone depletion and global warming. 
The hotels of the Company are equipped with lush landscaped 
garden, water bodies, walk ways and complied with waste 
management, water consumption reduction & harvesting 
techniques, and biodiversity norms that provide great luxury 
with complete sense of responsibility toward society.
Air Pollution and Emissions Reduction in Hotels Division
The Hotels Division of the Company has installed Scrubber 
Systems in all the hotels for treatment of emissions which 
are in good working operation.  All emissions are passed 
through the scrubbers for treatment, before throwing up in the 
environment.
Energy Conservation in Hotels Division
The Hotels Division ensures all possible measures to conserve 
energy by identifying potential areas of energy saving, few 
119
initiatives taken for energy conservation are
•	
replacement of low energy efficient pumps with energy 
efficient pumps,
•	
fixing of capacitors on individual load along with up-
gradation of capacitor panel, 
•	
stoppage of chilled water circulation system by providing 
standalone energy efficient water cooler at Annapurna & 
other statutory locations.
•	
installing standalone electric steam press installed in 
laundry to reduce steam boiler operation,
•	
provision of motion sensors in public wash rooms, 
•	
energy efficient enhancement of drives, replacement of 
ice cube machine with energy efficient machine 
•	
Replacement of energy efficient LED in guest rooms & 
public areas.
Renewable Energy in Hotels Division
The Hotels Division possesses, in all hotels of the Company, 
the solar water heating system to provide 33 KLD hot water to 
the guest, laundry and the swimming pool. This has reduced 
the energy consumption and cost substantially.
Waste water management in Hotels Division
The Company’s hotels have installed Sewage Treatment 
Plant (STP) and Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) to treat the 
waste water to discharge as raw water. The STPs are already 
operating at Jaypee Vasant Continental, Jaypee Siddharth, 
Jaypee Palace Hotel, Agra, Jaypee Greens Golf & Spa Resort, 
Greater Noida & Jaypee Residency Manor, Mussoorie. 
Similarly, the water rejected from R.O. system is being recycled 
to be used as raw water for horticulture.
The waste water from kitchen and laundry is being discharged 
as clean water after conducting the biological treatment.
Jaypee Vasant Continental Hotel, New Delhi is providing 100 
KLD (i.e. 1.00 Lac litre per day) of treated STP water free of 
cost for irrigation and horticulture in DDA parks maintained by 
SDMC in the surrounding areas from the last couple of years. 
Water Consumption Reduction in Hotels Division
The measures are taken for water conservation by using 
condensate recovered water in cooling tower, replacement 
of concealed flush valve from dual flush cistern, removal of 
bathtub and providing shower cubicles, air scoring system 
incorporated in all the vessels which need backwashing, need 
based regeneration of softener has been done to reduce water 
requirement regeneration process, installation of area wise 
water meter to monitor daily water consumption.
The hotels use water efficient fixtures which reduce portable 
water consumption by 44% compared to the baseline 
suggested by International Plumbing Code. 
Installation & operation of STP at all hotels of the Company 
has also contributed a lot in water conservation as the 
treated water is being utilized in cooling tower and taken for 
horticulture use. There is a huge recovery of water from waste 
water management.
Rain Water Harvesting in Hotels Division
The Present status of rain water harvesting pits is as under:
i.	
Jaypee Vasant Continental - 2 Nos. (using dried bore 
well)
ii.	
Jaypee Siddharth – 2 Nos. (using dried bore well)
iii.	
Jaypee Palace Hotel, Agra - 5 Nos. (low laying catchment 
lakes)
iv.	
Jaypee Greens Golf & Spa Resort, Greater Noida - 5 
Nos.
v.	
Jaypee Residency Manor, Mussoorie - 2 Nos.
	
Total - 16 Nos.
Eco-friendly Environment of Hotels of the Company
The hotels of the Company undertake all possible measures 
to minimize pollution from plant rooms and the back of the 
house areas. 
The Hotels have garbage segregation system i.e. dry and 
wet garbage. The garbage is stored in controlled isolated 
environment and is removed systematically for re-cycling. 
Organic waste convertors are existing at Jaypee Vasant 
Continental and Jaypee Siddharth which consume 500 kg of 
food waste each to provide organic manure which is being 
used for horticulture. The policies are in place for disposal of 
other waste, electronic waste, battery and dry cells. Authorized 
vendors are being engaged for disposal of these hazardous 
waste.
Jaypee Greens Golf Course, Greater Noida was conferred 
with SATTE Awards 2018 “Excellence in Environmental 
Sustainability-Hotel”. 
All hotels of the Company are accredited with ISO 9001 
for Quality Management System (QMS), ISO 14001 for 
Environment Management System (EMS), ISO 22000 for Food 
Safety Management System (FSMS) and Hazard Analysis 
and Critical Control Point (HACCP), and Jaypee Vasant 
Continental has also been accredited with ISO 50001 for 
Energy Management System.
Indian Green Building Council has conferred LEED certificate in 
“Gold Category” to the Jaypee Residency Manor, Mussoorie 
and “Platinum Category” to Jaypee Vasant Continental, New 
Delhi; and Jaypee Palace Hotel & Convention Centre, Agra 
has been presented with the “Gold Category” for energy & 
environmental design of the building.
GREEN INITIATIVE IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company fully supports the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs’ initiative to minimize the use of paper for ‘all official 
communication’. In line with this, the Company sends all notices 
and documents, including the Annual Report, to shareholders 
who have registered for the same, by e-mail. This has led to a 
significant reduction in paper consumption annually.
120
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
COMPLIANCE
The Company complies with all applicable environmental 
norms regarding wastes, effluents or emissions, as prescribed 
by the Central and State Pollution Control Boards for the 
sectors in which the Company operates. 
PRINCIPLE 7 – POLICY ADVOCACY
Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and 
regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner
The Company believes that it is the Company’s responsibility 
to work with policy makers and other relevant stakeholders, 
and to communicate its views ethically and transparently.
Government policies on major issues, as well as national 
and state programs for infrastructure development, may 
directly affect the Company’s business. The Company tries to 
inform these debates in an appropriate manner, based on the 
Company’s in-depth understanding of the sector, of market 
needs and of potential risks and challenges.
Membership in Trade Chambers and Associations
The Company is a member of various industry and trade 
chambers and associations. The Company is proud to be 
associated with these groups because they represent the 
construction sector in various forums, and help the industry 
reach consensus on relevant issues.
The following are the major trade chambers and associations 
that the Company is a member of:
•	
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
•	
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry (FICCI)
•	
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of 
India (ASSOCHAM)
•	
PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI)
•	
Cement Manufacturers Association (CMA)
Priority advocacy areas for the Company
In 2021-22, the top issues for which the Company lobbied at 
the national level were:
•	
Economic reforms
•	
Inclusive development policies
•	
Energy security
•	
Sustainable Business principles
•	
Environmental policy including health security
PRINCIPLE 8 – SOCIETAL COMMITMENT
Businesses should support inclusive growth and 
equitable development
Jaypee Group, an Indian Infrastructure conglomerate, is 
governed by the corporate philosophy- “Growth with a 
Humane Face”. The Group integrates its business values 
with the goal of overall welfare of the society with special 
emphasis on uplifting the rural communities across the 
country.  Construction of iconic projects across India has 
enabled the Group to transform human existence of millions 
by creating new employment opportunities in and around their 
project sites.
The Group has always prioritized the safety of its employees. 
Accordingly, 
necessary 
steps 
and 
precautions 
were 
undertaken at all the offices in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Salient activities were added/ modified which included regular 
sanitization of the office premises, discontinuing the use of 
biometric scanners, installation of thermal scanners, releasing 
regular communication updates, restricting staff movements 
in common areas and prohibiting large gatherings for any 
purpose whatsoever. The Group also adhered to   government 
directives and issued travel and health advisories to its 
employees to ensure safety as well as business continuity in 
these testing times of the pandemic.
Jaypee Group discharged their social obligations during the 
Covid induced lockdown in April 2020 & 2021 by preventing 
migration of daily wagers by providing free food packets 
everyday to all the needy laborers and truck drivers at Rewa, 
Maihar, Sadva and Chunar. 
Further, the company provided free essential items to last-mile 
workers (and their families) in the vicinity of all of their project 
locations during the pandemic. Ration kits containing rice, 
flour, lentils, oil and other essential items were also distributed 
by the company to many workers around the company’s 
project locations in Noida, Greater Noida and Kanpur. 
Jaypee Healthcare Limited (a Jaypee Group company) 
committed itself to extend support to this noble cause to fight 
against COVID-19. The Group handed over its Hospitals in 
Chitta, Bulandshahr and Anoopshahr to the District Magistrate 
for the welfare and treatment of Covid -19 patients. 
With an aim to help the Government and Administration 
during the pandemic crisis, the Group provided necessary 
help and made shelter homes for workers at Jaypee’s Buddha 
International Circuit and Jaypee Atlantis at Greater Noida. 
The Jaypee Group continuously contributes to the socio-
economic development of our country and ensures a positive 
impact of our existence on the quality of life of our entire 
workforce and their families. Our socio-economic goals for 
carrying out sustainable development in the fields of health, 
education and employment are also amplified by our CSR 
initiatives across the country which are carried out through 
JAIPRAKASH SEWA SANSTHAN (JSS), a ‘not for profit 
trust’ set up in 1993 and promoted by our Founder Chairman, 
Shri Jaiprakash Gaur ji. The trust firmly believes and functions 
on the principle of ‘corporate growth with a humane face’.
The trust puts the communities at the top and also reflects 
the wisdom of our founders who have always focused on 
pro-environment business practices and staying connected 
with common people of our society who are indeed, the most 
prominent stakeholder in our scheme of things. 
The trust puts the communities at the top and also reflects 
the wisdom of our founders who have always focused on 
pro-environment business practices and staying connected 
121
with common people of our society who are indeed, the most 
prominent stakeholder in our scheme of things. 
The Sansthan (JSS) supports various sections of the 
society through several initiatives for overall socio-economic 
development of the communities in which we operate. JSS has 
been engaged in comprehensive rural development programs 
that empower rural communities.
The CRDP (Comprehensive Rural Development Program) 
that began in 1993 in 28 villages surrounding Jaypeenagar, 
Rewa and Satna in Madhya Pradesh, has expanded over 
the years to project sites in the states of Andhra Pradesh, 
Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Jammu & 
Kashmir. Today, these programs in totality reach out to cover a 
population of over 10 lakhs around all the project sites. 
The Sansthan engages with the stakeholders through various 
platforms and aims to enhance the quality of life in the 
community through focus on:
1)	
Education
2)	
Skill Development & Employability 
3)	
Women Empowerment
4)	
Medical Services 
5)	
Rural Infrastructure Development & Upgradation
6)	
Animal Husbandry
Education
Jaypee Group has always given emphasis on expanding 
access to education to meet aspirations of students as well as 
communities at large. Consequentially, Sardar Patel Uchattar 
Madhyamik Vidyalayas, have been set up to provide 
quality education to the children of economically backward 
classes of the society. Children of parents (non-employees) 
with less than 4 acres of land and/or monthly income below 
Rs.6000/- per month are only eligible for admission in these 
schools.  Therefore, children of employees of Jaypee Group or 
Government employees are not eligible for admission to these 
Schools. 
Today, a total of 25 Sardar Patel Vidyalayas, Jaypee Vidya 
Mandirs, Jay Jyoti Schools are providing education from 
primary upto Plus 2 levels (Class 12) in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya 
Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The Sardar 
Patel Vidyalayas provide free education, free mid-day meal, 
free school uniforms to enable the poor families to send 
their children to school without any financial burden. School 
bus services are provided to ferry children from the villages. 
Scholarships are provided to meritorious students from Class 
9 to Class 11. The Group also promotes higher education to 
meritorious students from the weaker sections of society by 
providing free admission in Jaypee University of Engineering 
& Technology, Guna, Madhya Pradesh to the first three rank 
holders of class 12th of Sardar Patel Schools. 
The aforesaid schools of Jaypee Group attach great importance 
to activities outside the ordinary class routine in order to 
provide a holistic development of the students. Accordingly, 
Physical training, Games, Yoga and Athletics have been built 
into the curriculum to promote physical fitness and a healthy 
spirit of competition. The students also receive exposure to 
the principles of meditation for achieving a higher level of 
concentration. In addition, the students are encouraged to 
participate not only in literary and dramatics activities but are 
also made to indulge in the field of Performing Arts in order to 
shape up their complete personality. 
Our aforesaid educational institutions have well equipped 
libraries and provide ICT (Information and Communication 
Technologies) based learning. The schools also take the 
much needed initiative for preparing the students for various 
competitive entrance exams such as for NDA, IIT etc., and also 
have career guidance cells with dedicated councilors. 
Staff development programmes and capacity building of 
teachers is also undertaken on a regular basis in our schools. 
Further, overall development of each school is monitored by a 
School Management Committee that has representations from 
all concerned- the teachers, the parents and the Management.
Over the years, our schools have not only witnessed increased 
enrolment but have also succeeded to retain a greater number 
of girl students. During the year 2021-22, around 15,000 
students were imparted school education of which around 
one-third were girl students.
Besides, we also run Adult literacy classes that are designed 
to impart a range of practical skills. We also initiate village 
children into the learning atmosphere through ‘Balwadis’ 
(Play Schools) which deploy interesting and creative learning 
methodologies. Play schools at select sites have also been set 
up in order to cater to children from the villages and township.
Skill Development and Employability 
The Group has always laid focus on enhancing the skills 
of the youth in order to make them market ready and 
employable. Over the years, JSS has been successful in 
enhancing livelihood opportunities for the village youth. 
Consequently, several trained students have either found 
employment with Corporates or have become entrepreneurs 
after getting trained in our Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). 
During the year, students received training through four ITIs. 
These institutes also have an Institute Managing Committee 
which reviews infrastructure requirements and curriculum 
among others for overall development. The ITIs impart free 
training to Partial Land Losers (PLL) and to students of nearby 
project areas on nominal chargeable basis. ITIs have a well 
laid out complex that includes Trade related Workshops, 
IT Lab and Library. In addition, sports equipment and play 
grounds are also provided for sports & recreation of the 
trainees. The ITIs provide quality vocational training to the 
students of neighboring villages and thereby enhance their 
overall knowledge and personality. We ensure a healthy and 
stress free environment for trainees such that they receive 
vocational training and become competent.
The trades covered include computer operator and 
programming assistant, fitter, electrician, instrument mechanic, 
mechanic diesel, mechanic refrigeration and AC, surveyor, 
122
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
turner, welder, embroidery, and cutting & sewing. All the 
workshops/Labs for the above Trades are fully equipped with 
advanced machines, tools and tackles. The trainees therefore 
get adequate exposure to modern technology. Industrial visits 
are also conducted regularly for the students to make them 
work-ready. The quality of training therefore ensures enhanced 
employability in reputed companies through on-campus 
drives. 
Four ITIs, a Post Graduate College, a B.Ed. College and 
four Universities collectively provided educational and 
vocational training to around 12,500 students during the 
year. The efforts have resulted in uplifting the socio-economic 
standards of the region with higher levels of education and 
employment opportunities. 
The faculty comprises of a strong group of highly qualified, 
diversified, motivated, intellectual community of distinguished 
and dedicated professionals who are committed to provide 
quality education to the socially marginalized groups as per 
the goals of the JSS..
Women Empowerment
JSS firmly believes that women empowerment leads to socio-
economic benefits for not only one family but for the entire 
society and nation at large. As a matter of fact, empowering 
50% of the population undoubtedly has the potential to turn 
around the fate of the entire country.  
Our rural employability initiatives empower women by teaching 
simple life transforming skills and thereby encourage them 
to develop entrepreneurial skills. Over the last two decades, 
sewing courses conducted by our trainers have produced 
hundreds of empowered women who have therefore 
successfully become economically independent.
The sweeping success of this initiative is now being duplicated 
across multiple locations. We have therefore started teaching 
women with lesser means other income generating skills such 
as making papads/vadis and producing washing powder, 
incense stick, candles etc. Women are also being made to 
receive training in worm composting- a skill that they can 
gainfully deploy in their farms and increase their produce and 
hence enhance their family earnings. Economic empowerment 
of women has brought betterment of their family. Many local 
women were hired and were provided training at Jaypee Rewa 
Cement Plant, which will help their families lead their life with a 
sense of pride and honor.
In addition, an attempt was made to create a new source of 
income by forming several SHGs (Self Help Groups) that 
undertook minor infrastructure projects in the villages. These 
SHGs thus became instrumental in instilling the habit of saving 
and increasing the family income.
Medical Services
We believe that access to quality healthcare is a vital aspect 
of development. We, therefore, cater to the under-served 
through our medical services to ensure that timely healthcare 
services reach the rural communities in the remotest of areas. 
Medicine, Dental Care, Audiometric and Spirometric Facility, 
OPD, Testing  Laboratory and X - Ray Facility, Nebulizer, 
Diathermy etc. are being provided through the hospitals and 
dispensaries we have set up at our project sites.
Multi -specialty health camps for general health check-up, eye 
care, dental care, etc. are organised in the villages at frequent 
intervals. Mobile vans with doctors and health facilitators 
periodically visit villages to bring healthcare services to their 
doorstep. Advance Intensive Care Life Support Ambulances 
are provided for remote areas. These ambulances are 
equipped with state-of-the-art life support equipment designed 
to provide fast and direct response to the needy.  
The medical services are supported by highly qualified medical 
practitioners – physicians, gynecologists, surgeons, dentists, 
eye specialists, etc. 
All school children undergo a comprehensive annual 
health checkup, reports of which are then shared with their 
parents along with treatment advice. Projects are also run in 
collaboration with State Government on treating malnourished 
children. 
The Company has set up a 16-bed hospital at the cement 
complex which benefits over 80,000 villagers annually.
Village women also receive training in basic healthcare 
through awareness sessions and act as health facilitators 
within their community. Village personnel are also hired as 
auxiliary staff. Infant mortality and life expectancy rate in the 
surrounding areas of the project sites have therefore shown 
a marked improvement on account of the access to quality 
healthcare that is being provided by our Group.
In addition, our hospitals have always been in the forefront 
in providing emergency medical services in the local region 
during any calamity/emergency including road accidents, 
landslides, rock falls, avalanches and other traumas.
Rural Infrastructure Development and Upgradation
The Jaiprakash Sewa Sansthan (JSS) has undertaken several 
activities in the rural areas for promoting rural infrastructure 
development. Lakhs of villagers in areas around our various 
project locations benefit from safe drinking water plants, huge 
water reservoirs, renovated roads and bridges, and irrigation 
facilities that include community amenities such as toilets, rain 
shelters, playgrounds and youth clubs. The Trust provides 
Fire safety services to the villagers and also helps in times 
of natural catastrophe by successfully reaching the affected 
communities in distress.
We encourage communities to judiciously use water resources 
by making them participate in awareness sessions that focus 
on optimizing water utilization and raising consciousness 
levels towards water storage and decreasing wastage.
JSS has self initiated a project as part of the Swachh Bharat 
Abhiyaan to contribute towards a cleaner India. The Sansthan 
has taken up the task of   rejuvenation of Holy River Ganga 
at Anoopshar, U.P. and development of its surrounding areas 
by promoting sanitation and providing facilities of toilets, 
changing rooms, drinking water etc. JSS has also undertaken 
123
a project of construction of ‘Crematorium’ and ‘Ghat’ on the 
river bank. The Trust has therefore succeeded to prevent the 
undesirable human waste from flowing into the holy river by 
providing improved sanitation and clean and safe environment 
to the devotees.  Consequently, the ‘Kartik Mela’ (wherein 
over 5 lac devotees visit for ‘Ganga Snan’) that is organized 
at this location every year has become a very neat and clean 
affair.
In addition, the Trust boosts local employment by awarding 
contracts for transport of raw material/finished products, civil 
work and material handling to local inhabitants.
Animal Husbandry 
In addition to generating gainful employment opportunities 
and self-employment opportunities to the rural population, 
Animal Husbandry initiatives supplement the income of small, 
marginal farmers and landless labourers.
The Trust also provides Veterinary health care to improve the 
genetic production potential of livestock and poultry reared 
in the adopted villages. The Trust organizes camps for the 
villagers to allow them to freely interact with the Vets and obtain 
medicines, immunization, check-ups and artificial insemination 
for their cattle. The Trust also provides Interactive audio-visual 
training sessions to demonstrate progressive approaches to 
animal rearing including breed up-gradation through artificial 
insemination, vaccination of animals and veterinary services.
Impact Assessment of programmes
Money is spent without positive outcomes and without making 
a difference to people’s lives if we do not first assess needs 
of the community and then measure whether those needs 
have been sufficiently addressed. Stakeholder consultations 
are therefore made to understand local issues and address 
them holistically. Periodic assessments are then conducted 
to ensure that the implementation standards are being met. 
Regular feedback from the beneficiaries is collated to ensure 
that the initiatives are sustainable. The aim of the projects is to 
provide a tangible, measurable & a long lasting improvement 
in the lives of the project participants and create a balance 
between social, economic and environmental benefits. 
JSS under the guidance of its founders will continue to play 
a defining role in the nation’s development through its CSR 
activities across more states in the future too. Jaypee Group 
will also continue to fund JSS initiatives through its pro-people 
and environment friendly business models in order to continue 
to keep community’s welfare at the center of its corporate 
governance.
PRINCIPLE 9 – CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
Businesses should engage with and provide value to 
their customers and consumers in a responsible manner
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT AND SATISFACTION
The Company is committed to delivering a consistent standard 
of product quality and service, as well as a high level of 
customer engagement in order to best serve its customers’ 
needs and concerns.
In Cement Division:
Dealer Satisfaction survey was conducted in the area of 
operation covering all the dumps with the objective of feed-
back from actual consumer/dealer to get the picture of 
satisfaction of the customers. The Parameters covered for the 
study were:
 1)  Overall Satisfaction,
 2)  Satisfaction with product Quality,
 3)  Quality of Sales Service,
 4)  Quality of Technical Service,
 5)  Profitability and Commercial Terms,
 6)  Price Management and Brand Image.
The overall Dealer Satisfaction was found to be as under:
No. of 
respondents 
In %age 
terms
Satisfied and Delighted
55
28.0%
Satisfied                                                           
136
69.0%
Satisfied but not completely        
5
2.5%
Dissatisfied                                                         
1
0.5%
Completely Dissatisfied                  
0
0.0%
Total Sample of 
Respondents               
197
100.0%
It was observed that 97% of the dealers were satisfied or 
delighted with the Company.
In Real Estate:
Jaypee Greens, the real estate arm of the Jaypee Group 
(being developed by the Company alongwith Jaypee Infratech 
Limited) started its operations in 2002. Over a period of approx. 
19 years, the customer base has increased which is now more 
than 42,000 across following locations viz. Jaypee Greens-
124
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22
Greater Noida; Wishtown-Noida; Jaypee Greens Sports City-
Jaypee International Sports & Jaypee Greens Sports City-
Mirzapur; and Wishtown-Agra. 
As an initiative to achieve higher customer satisfaction, the 
Customer Response Cell (CRC) was set up to handle various 
requests, complaints and queries raised by customers. This 
cell works in co-ordination with various departments of the 
Company: Sales, Commercial, Legal and Construction - and 
facilitates the relationship between the customer and the 
Company. The basic purpose of CRC is to deal with queries 
and complaints of customers on a day-to-day basis, which are 
received via mail, telephone or personal visits to the office. 
To gauge customer satisfaction, we also arrange independent 
surveys on a periodic basis using questionnaires and personal 
interviews with the customers. The results of the survey are 
taken as feedback to improve the products, systems and 
business processes. The findings of the survey help in 
planning to serve the customers in better ways.
In order to facilitate smooth handover of possession to 
customers for units that are ready for occupation and to 
address any issues faced by the customer post occupation, 
the Company has also set up a Facility Management Group 
(FMG) with a dedicated help desk to receive and address 
customer queries. 
In Hospitality/Hotels Division:
The Company has put in place robust mechanisms i.e. 
Mobicon International Services for data management and 
Real Time Guest Comments Management to disseminate 
the feedback forms obtained from the guests, for follow up 
with the concerned department on regular basis for corrective 
action as and when required. 
The hotels have implemented Guest Feedback System 
called E-Survey to ensure “zero defect services”. The hotels 
obtained the valuable suggestions from the guests of the 
Hotels Division during the year 2021-22 as under:
1
Excellent services
85%
2
Good services
10% 
3
Average services
5%
Total
100%
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
There are a few consumer cases, including by/before the 
Competition Commission of India, filed against the Company 
in the past financial year and the Company is committed to 
resolving them at the earliest. 
In the Cement division, there was no complaint pending 
from the previous financial year; 3 customer complaints were 
received during the financial year under report and all 3 were 
addressed and resolved satisfactorily before the end of the 
year. 
In the Engineering & Construction and Sports division, 
the Company has received positive feedback from the 
overwhelming majority of its clients and customers over the 
years, indicating high levels of satisfaction with the products, 
projects and services delivered to them. 
The Hotels Division of the Company possesses the strong 
complaint management system i.e. Triton to resolve the 
service related matters immediately to achieve high customer 
satisfaction and delight.
PRODUCT LABELING AND COMMUNICATION
The Company ensures that all product and service-related 
communication is timely and accurate. Cement is one of 
the major product that the Company manufactures, for 
which product labeling is done in compliance with labeling 
requirements regarding brand name, weight, grade, name and 
address of the manufacturer, etc.
MANOJ GAUR
Place: Anoopshahr	 	
Executive Chairman and CEO
Date : 29th May, 2022	
DIN:00008480
