 
 
 
The Listing Department,                       
BSE Limited, 
Phiroje Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
25th Floor, Dalal Street, 
Mumbai – 400001. 
The Listing Department, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited,    
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, 
Plot No.: C / 1, ‘G’ Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai – 400051. 
CC/S&B/SK/2022/329  
 
 
 
 
 
14.08.2022 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
 
Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report – FY 2021 - 22 
 
Pursuant to the relevant provisions of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and the 
relevant Exchange Circulars issued with regard to the filing of the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2021 – 22 in XBRL 
format, we are herewith submitting the same in XBRL and PDF formats. 
 
Please take the above information on record and arrange for dissemination. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
(Sham K.) 
Asst. General Manager (Compliance & Company Secretary) 
 
 
osBl
M
(Sham K.)
Asst. General Manager (compliance & company secretary)
oTr{dq €d fiD
.Tlrdq q*frfi.
STATE BANKOF INDIA
Dept,
The Listing Department,
National Stock Exchange of lndia Limited,
Exchange Plaza, Sth Floor,
Plot No.: C I 1, 'G' Block,
Bandra Kurla Gomplex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400051.
@ bank.sbi
g +91 22 2274O84L1 49
q +912222741476t74t31
\, +9L2222742842
A +91 22 22855348
A +91 22 22740527
*qY onFr d-€ fur.r.
oridte itq,
ra-eiild. l}e to.rac,
qrsrq 6Hr its,
:iir$ - 8oooQ9, slri(
Shares & Bonds Dept,
Corporate Centre,
14th Floor, State Bank Bhavan,
MadameCama Road,
Mumbai- 4@O21, lndia
The Listing Department,
BSE Limited,
Phiroje Jeejeebhoy Towers,
25th Floor, Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400001.
cc/s&B/sKt2022t318 
06.08.2022
Madam / Dear Sir,
sub: Business Responsibility and sustainability Report - Fy 2021 - 22
Pursuant to the relevant provisions of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and the
relevant Exchange Circulars issued with regard to the filing of the Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the Financial Year ZOZI - 22 in XBRL
format, we are herewith submitting the same.
Please take the above information on record and arrange for dissemination.
Yours faithfully,
*{i \ti dt{s fuFr,
frTqTie b-d,
l4irr qrdl, de io qrqq,
qrqlq olqr t-s,
!a-{ - uoooli, q-q6
frT{ q{
stq fqql'l
Shares & Bonds
Powered by Purpose  |  1
2  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  3
1. Sustainability Highlights
10. Human Capital Management
9. Natural Capital Management
11. Social and Relationship Capital 
Management
12. Intellectual Capital 
Management
13. Awards and Recognition
15. Annexures
14. Assurance Statement
2. Message from the Leadership
3. About this Report
4. Approach to Shared Value  
    Creation
5. Commitment to 
    Responsible Conduct
6. Financing for Impact
7. Stakeholder Engagement and 
    Materiality Assessment
8. Financial Capital Management
Table of Content
04
06
11
12
16
26
34
42
52
64
82
98
104
107
110
4  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  5
Sustainability Highlights
₹31,676 crores
>6.45 lakh
₹204.10 crores
>8 lakh
₹29.91 crores
1.41 crore
3,000+
>46 crores
18
95.5%
>9.4 lakh
68.19
26.55%
>2.05 lakh
>35 MWp
Net Profit 
in FY 2021-22
Trees planted 
During FY 2021-22
CSR Spend 
During FY 2021-22
Beneficiaries of Financial 
Literacy Camps 
During FY 2021-22
National Donations 
Under CSR 
During FY 2021-22
Farmers Catered to 
by SBI in FY 2021-22
Solar-Powered ATMs 
as on 31st March 2022
Customer Base 
as on 31st March 2022
Green Building 
Certifications 
as on 31st March 2022
Share of 
Transactions 
through Alternate 
Channels
Youth Trained 
Through RSETIs 
as on 31st March 
2022
Average Training 
Hours Per Full-
Time Employee 
During FY 2021-22
Women in the 
Workforce 
as on 31st March 
2022
Employees Trained 
During FY 2021-22
Captive RE Capacity 
as on 31st March 2022
Figures mentioned in the Report are in lakhs and crores, as per the Indian system, the conversion of which is as under: 
• 1 crore = 10 millions 
• 10 lakhs = 1 million
6  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  7
Dear Stakeholders,
As the world embarks on the journey of recovery 
and rebuilding from the impacts of COVID-19, 
it is evident that environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors will play a key role in 
ushering in sustainable and inclusive growth. It is 
heartening to note that India is taking its rightful 
place on the global stage, as economic activity 
continues to show an upward trajectory. However, 
we must strive to ensure that a strong economic 
performance also translates into environmental 
preservation, social inclusion and cohesion, and 
resilient communities.
SBI’s core values have always guided its 
employees to place emphasis on simple acts 
of service to strengthen connections with 
stakeholders. It, therefore, remains in relentless 
pursuit of customer satisfaction, financial 
inclusion, innovation, robust governance, risk 
management, and resource conservation.
As India’s largest public sector bank, SBI has the 
privilege and responsibility of not only driving 
sustainability in its own operations, but also 
through its investments. Sustainable finance is 
the need of the hour, and SBI is committed to 
taking action on this front. The Bank’s varied 
offerings include products directed at social 
development, gender equality, livelihood 
creation, clean energy and climate action. In line 
with the country’s ambitious target to scale up 
renewable energy capacity, special emphasis 
has been placed on strengthening financing 
arrangements for the same. This year, the Bank 
launched a new loan product, Surya Shakti 
Solar Finance, to provide finance to existing 
and prospective SME units with solar rooftop or 
ground-mounted capacity up to 1 MW for captive 
use. With the Government of India’s increased 
focus on newer technologies in the green energy 
sector, SBI is also exploring dedicated green 
lines of credit from multilateral and bilateral 
development banks. These will support projects 
related to battery energy storage systems, electric 
vehicles and charging infrastructure, and rooftop 
solar projects for residential buildings, amongst 
others. 
This year also saw the dual listing of SBI’s 
green bonds worth $650 million on the India 
International Exchange and the Luxembourg 
Stock Exchange. Through this listing, the 
Bank endeavours to open up new avenues 
for market development and fundraising 
opportunities in the green bond space. Within 
its own operations, too, the Bank continues 
to emphasise the importance of resource 
conservation and efficiency. As part of its journey 
towards environmental sustainability, SBI has 
been carrying out a number of initiatives at its 
branches and other establishments including, 
but not limited to, setting up of rainwater 
harvesting and waste management sites, 
installation of sewage treatment plants, phasing 
out of single-use plastic, and the plantation of 
more than six lakh trees in the reporting period. 
Energy efficient equipment is also utilised across 
facilities, in addition to a concerted effort to 
increase the share of renewable energy in the 
Bank’s energy mix. These efforts have culminated 
in eighteen of SBI’s establishments being 
certified Green Buildings by the Indian Green 
Building Council. 
In addition to the Bank’s climate change 
mitigation efforts, environmental considerations 
are also being increasingly considered to adapt to 
the changing climate. Towards this end, SBI has 
formulated a Climate Change Risk Management 
Policy, which is expected to serve as a guiding 
light in the Bank’s journey towards a low-carbon 
and climate-resilient future.
Digitisation, too, has been integral in helping 
the Bank manage its environmental footprint by 
reducing paper consumption across branches 
and offices. The Bank has also included 
customers in its sustainability journey through 
offerings like green reward points, which can 
be redeemed to fund sustainable activities and 
COVID-19 relief measures. All this is in addition 
to digitisation’s role in helping the Bank improve 
customer experience, foster financial inclusion 
and ensure uninterrupted services during the 
pandemic. 
SBI’s personnel, too, have contributed greatly 
to business continuity and resilience during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. The workforce’s 
tireless effort to serve customers, despite the 
restrictions posed by the outbreak has been a 
key differentiating factor for the organisation. 
Owing to the nature of the banking sector, SBI’s 
employees were at inherent risk of COVID-19. The 
Bank has, therefore, undertaken an extensive 
vaccination drive for all its employees and their 
families to ensure their health and well-being, 
and a seamless experience for customers. The 
Bank shall continue to support its employees 
by providing them a safe, healthy and engaging 
work environment that is conducive to their 
personal and professional growth.
Additionally, employees have had access to a 
number of learning and development initiatives, 
including Samarthya, a programme aimed 
at educating young employees on the Bank’s 
ethical and professional standards. Learning 
interventions have also been introduced in 
the areas of work ethic and sustainability, 
in addition to job-specific trainings, to drive 
holistic development. The Bank’s digital training 
initiatives have garnered it recognition in the 
form of the prestigious ET Human Capital Award 
for Excellence in creating a culture of continuous 
learning and upskilling.
It gives me great pride to note that the Bank’s 
employees have embodied the organisational 
ethos of service and nation-building. On the 
Bank’s 66th Foundation Day, around 2.5 lakh 
employees came forward to donate over ₹60 
crores to the PM CARES Fund. This marks the 
second consecutive year that SBI’s employees 
have lent their support to the greater good.
This year, SBI continued to address 
socioeconomic issues that have arisen in the 
aftermath of COVID-19, through its CSR efforts. 
SBI Foundation, the Bank’s CSR implementation 
arm, has supported the setting up of ICUs, 
COVID-19 care centres, oxygen plants and 
community-based testing sites. Meanwhile, the 
Bank also continued to support the National 
Foundation for Communal Harmony, Armed 
Forces Flag Day Fund, National Culture Fund, 
Clean Ganga Fund, and initiatives aimed at 
empowering the differently abled, promoting 
health, education and sports, livelihood 
generation, women’s empowerment and 
sustainability. 
These efforts, geared at the growth of our 
stakeholders and organisation, are built upon 
a foundation of regulatory compliance, ethical 
conduct, robust risk management systems and 
a total commitment for the right practices. This 
report, entitled ‘Powered by Purpose’, showcases 
some of the measures taken in FY 2021-22 to 
ensure a strong performance on the triple 
bottom line of people, planet and profit. The 
Bank endeavours to strengthen its performance 
on these pillars and welcomes inputs on how it 
can enhance its value creation. 
Thank you for your continued trust in SBI and 
allowing us the opportunity to serve you.
Dinesh Khara 
Chairman, State Bank of India
From the Chairman's Desk
Message from the Leadership
GRI 102-14
GRI 102-14
8  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  9
8  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Message from the 
Managing Directors
Creating shared value by imbibing sustainability and ushering in prosperity 
for all stakeholders has been a focus area for SBI over the years. The role 
of innovation in fulfilling these goals, and ensuring the Bank’s continued 
success, cannot be overstated. 
The Bank’s digital offerings have been a key tenet of its financial inclusion 
initiatives, allowing it to extend essential banking facilities to people in remote 
and rural areas. SBI remains resolutely committed to driving an inclusive 
and sustainable economy by adopting the right practices and reaching out 
to the last mile and supporting them.  These right practices combined with 
a dedication for innovation have also been instrumental to SBI’s resilience, 
helping the Bank keep up with evolving customer needs and enhance the 
ease of doing business. Additionally, the role of digital offerings has been 
more important than ever in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, reducing 
footfall at branches, and safeguarding the health and safety of customers, 
employees and communities. As we travel on the path of recovery and 
rebuilding from the pandemic, encouraging innovation at all levels of the 
organisation will continue to lie at the heart of SBI’s strategy. 
Challa Sreenivasulu Setty 
Managing Director, Retail & Digital Banking
The COVID-19 pandemic has made it increasingly evident that collective 
action must be taken to achieve the common goals of peace, prosperity and 
environmental preservation. SBI has always recognised the importance of 
collaboration, which has underpinned all its activities, particularly when it 
comes to working with other institutions and organisations. 
SBI, therefore, ensures its dealings and investments are guided by a sense 
of purpose, and its key values of service, transparency, ethics, politeness and 
sustainability. It is also committed to partnering with various enterprises, 
communities and governments to nurture a business landscape that rewards 
social responsibility, environmental preservation, robust governance and 
consequently, shared value creation. The Bank is, therefore, incorporating ESG 
considerations in its investment decisions, and prioritising businesses and 
industries that are addressing the most pressing social and environmental 
concerns facing the world. By doing this, SBI hopes to make a positive 
impact not only through its own operations, but also through the entities it is 
investing in.
Ashwani Bhatia 
Managing Director, Corporate Banking & Global Markets
There is a growing emphasis on transparency and sound governance 
practices, particularly when it comes to financial institutions. The Bank 
is cognizant of their importance, not just to comply with regulatory 
requirements, but to future-proof the organisation and maintain the trust of 
its internal and external stakeholders. Going forward, adopting responsible 
business practices and making related disclosures will be crucial for thriving 
in a competitive business landscape.
Over the years, the Bank has fostered an agile and robust governance system 
through regular risk assessment, monitoring and management. This has 
helped SBI ensure progress on its primary focus areas of continued value 
creation for all stakeholders and social and environmental responsibility. 
SBI began its international journey in 1864 and has continued to expand its 
global footprint ever since. Recognising the different and evolving needs 
of customers in each of the geographies where it operates, the Bank has 
stressed the importance of continuously tailoring and enhancing its offerings, 
not only through its banking operations but also through its subsidiaries.
In each of these markets and through all its subsidiaries, the Bank is 
continuously working to foster an ecosystem of accountability, responsibility 
and shared success, while minimising the environmental impacts of its 
operations. SBI’s flagship mobile application-YONO, other digital offerings 
and continuous integration of technology in its internal operations have 
Working towards strengthening its performance, SBI is continuing to identify and 
manage material ESG risks. These efforts, coupled with a commitment towards ethical 
conduct, are helping the Bank enhance the resilience of its own business as well as that 
of its stakeholders on an ongoing basis.
Swaminathan J. 
Managing Director, Risk, Compliance & Stressed Assets Resolution Group
positively impacted resource and energy efficiency, thereby driving the carbon neutrality 
agenda of the Bank.  An instrumental part of these efforts is the close collaboration 
it undertakes with governments, organisations and communities in different parts of 
the world. These partnerships have helped the Bank drive progress on the fronts of 
innovation, community-building, environmental protection and profitability, even in the 
new normal. SBI remains committed to ensuring that all these triumphs translate into 
the wellbeing of all its stakeholders-domestic as well as global.  
Ashwini Kumar Tewari 
Managing Director, International Banking, Technology & Subsidiaries
10  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  11
Message from the 
Chief Sustainability Officer
The call to take action on sustainability issues is growing louder, as the social 
and environmental impacts of economic growth begin to manifest. SBI has 
always believed that profitability can co-exist with social and environmental 
responsibility and endeavoured to strike the right balance to create shared 
value for its stakeholders.
As India’s largest public sector bank, SBI humbly recognises that it has the 
influence and reach to create significant positive impact across the value 
chain. The Bank has been consciously striving to factor environmental, 
social and governance considerations in its functioning, thereby scaling 
up its responsible business conduct. This is in addition to existing efforts to 
prioritise sectors like livelihood creation, healthcare, women’s empowerment, 
education and climate action, which have come to the fore as the most 
pressing concerns facing society. 
The Bank’s people practices, meanwhile, remain focussed on ensuring health, 
safety, diversity, inclusion and growth of its personnel. The HR policies and 
practices of the Bank have been increasingly aimed at fostering the right 
ambience for a participative work culture meeting employee expectations 
and aspirations.  All this is built upon a foundation of compliance, good 
governance and robust risk management, which help SBI cater to all its 
stakeholders. The reporting period also witnessed the COVID-19 pandemic 
wreaking its havoc. Banking being an essential service, our employees 
demonstrated immense courage and unparalleled maturity in dealing with 
the unprecedented crisis. Bank proactively took up intensive vaccination 
drives PAN-India for all its employees and their family members. Such 
measures not only ensured seamless banking operations but also helped 
keeping employees motivated in handling crisis with extraordinary resilience.  
A sense of purpose, powered by its vision, mission and values drives SBI to 
go above and beyond in serving people and caring for the planet, without 
compromising on its profitability. This report offers a snapshot of initiatives, 
measures, policies and processes that have helped the Bank deliver on its 
commitment to an inclusive and sustainable growth.
Om Prakash Mishra 
DMD (HR) & Corporate Development Officer
10  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
About this Report
This sustainability report, centered on the theme 
‘Powered by Purpose’, details SBI’s efforts to 
create value for its stakeholders by ensuring 
ethical conduct, customer satisfaction and 
social and environmental responsibility. The 
Bank’s seventh consecutive sustainability report 
presents an overview of its performance in the 
Financial Year (FY) 2021-22, from 1st April 2021 to 
31st March 2022. 
The Bank has instituted a materiality framework, 
which is reviewed annually, after engagement 
with its stakeholders. This framework, and the 
priority areas identified using it, are used to 
define the content of this report.
SBI’s most recent sustainability report 
summarises its performance in FY 2021-22, 
available along with all past reports on the 
Bank’s website. This report does not feature any 
restatements from last year.
Reporting Guidelines
This report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option. The disclosures 
herein are also aligned with the National 
Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental 
and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG-
SEE), Integrated Reporting (<IR>) framework of 
the International Integrated Reporting Council 
(IIRC), and standards defined by the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB). The report 
content also draws from the recommendations 
of the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and reports on initiatives 
intended to drive progress on the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 
report also strives to incorporate information on 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR) disclosures, prescribed by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India.
Scope and Boundary
The scope and boundary of the Report pertain 
to SBI’s domestic and international operations, 
which include the Corporate Centre office in 
Mumbai, other Corporate Centre establishments, 
17 circles across the country and foreign 
branches* of SBI. There were no significant changes 
to our organisation or supply chain during the year.
Advisory Statement
The report contains forward-looking statements 
that define SBI’s plans and expectations, based on 
rational assumptions and previous performance. 
These are dependent on developments in 
the industry, changes in geographical market 
conditions, government regulations, laws and 
other incidental factors. These statements must 
not be used as an assurance of the Bank’s future 
performance, as the underlying assumptions may 
change significantly.
Precautionary Principle
The Bank has in place proper mechanisms 
to identify and manage significant risks. 
Precautionary approach is communicated through 
information on internal controls and practices at 
SBI. Additionally, the Bank’s approach to mitigating 
risk and managing the economic, environmental 
and social performance is communicated to its key 
stakeholders. SBI has a robust policy framework, 
including its  Sustainability and Business 
Responsibility (BR) Policy, which guides its overall 
ESG performance.
*The scope of the environmental information covered is limited to the domestic operations of the Bank.
GRI 102-10, GRI 102-11, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-51,  
GRI 102-52, GRI 102-54
12  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  13
Approach to 
Shared Value Creation 
S
tate Bank of India is the largest and oldest commercial bank in 
India, serving a varied customer base. Headquartered in Mumbai, 
the government-owned, multinational, public sector banking 
and financial services company has gained the faith and loyalty of 
millions of customers across the social spectrum.
SBI provides several products and services covering retail banking, 
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), wealth management services, 
corporate banking, general insurance, life insurance, merchant 
banking, mutual funds, securities trading and primary dealership to 
name a few. The details of the Bank’s subsidiaries and joint ventures 
can be found online at: https://www.sbi.co.in/web/affiliates.
Powered by technological innovation to adapt to changing customer 
preferences, SBI has been transforming its retail banking landscape, 
moving over 95% of its transactions to alternate channels. As on 
31st March 2022, SBI’s flagship application YONO has 48.35 million 
registered users, up from 37.10 million in March 2021.
SBI has ingrained its values of service, transparency, ethics, politeness 
and sustainability across its operations and value creation model. In 
this regard, the Bank has revamped its process, re-evaluated its risks, 
enhanced its systems and customer experience, and introduced 
several IT initiatives.
As of 31st March 2022, 
the Bank managed 
22,266 branches, 65,030 
Automated Teller 
Machines (ATMs) and 
Automated Deposit and 
Withdrawal Machines 
(ADWMs), while 
employing over 2.42 lakh 
people and a customer 
base exceeding 46 crore.
SBI has leveraged its digital offerings 
by launching YONO in various new 
geographies, improving penetration and 
increasing the reach of its service to a 
wider population through contactless 
offerings. The Bank offers a wide range of 
products and services to SMEs, corporates 
and government departments and 
financial institutions.
Further, the Bank interacts with various 
industry associations on matters of policy 
development, and is associated with 
reputed organisations, such as:
	 Indian Banks’ Association (IBA)
	 Indian Institute of Banking and 
Finance (IIBF)
Market opening to celebrate the centenary year of SBI's 
UK operations and silver jubilee of SBI's listing on the 
London Stock Exchange.
	 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
	 Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
	 The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
	 Progress, Harmony and Development Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI)
	 United Nations Global Compact Network India (UNGCNI)
The Bank collaborates with these organisations on banking, ESG and various industry-specific issues.
Be the Bank of Choice for a Transforming India
Service | Transparency | Ethics | Politeness | Sustainability
VISION
VALUES
Committed to Providing Simple, Responsive and 
Innovative Financial Solutions
MISSION
GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-3, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7, 
GRI 102-45
GRI 102-13, GRI 102-16
14  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  15
Guided by the overarching principles of supporting global Indian corporates, SBI’s international 
operations have established a significant global presence. In addition to the Bank’s focus on the Indian 
market, SBI is also expanding its reach in other markets, claiming its position as an international bank.
SBI’s presence spans across the globe, with a footprint in 30 countries, and has stationed itself as a 
pioneer of international banking among Indian public sector banks. 
Global Footprint
Overseas Offices
Foreign Branches*
Branches/Other  
Offices of  
8 Subsidiaries
JVs/Investments 
/Managed  
Exchange Cos.
*Considered for the report boundary
Representative  
Offices
Other Offices
227
As on 31st March 2022
TOTAL
05
35
161
06
20
GRI 102-6
16  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  17
Commitment to  
Responsible Conduct
E
nsuring robust sustainability governance is an integral part of 
the Bank’s efforts to create shared value for its stakeholders. 
Towards this end, the Bank’s Corporate Centre Sustainability 
Committee (CCSC) undertakes the execution of the Sustainability 
and Business Responsibility (BR) Policy. This policy helps align 
the Bank’s sustainability strategy with its business strategy and 
identifies the key environmental and social areas. Further, it 
outlines SBI’s approach to managing economic, environmental and 
social performance in an integrated manner. 
The committee has representation from several functions, and 
is headed by the Deputy Managing Director (HR) and Corporate 
Development Officer (CDO). The Bank also has a separate Board-
level Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which undertakes 
periodic review of the Bank’s CSR activities.
A survey titled Darpan 
was conceived and 
designed to gauge the 
level of awareness 
about culture of risks 
and ethics. The initiative 
sensitised employees on 
the importance of being 
vigilant and enhanced 
usage of whistle blower 
mechanism for reporting 
on frauds and unethical 
practices.
Sustainability Governance
SBI has in place a Staff Accountability Policy to promote a healthy environment of compliance with 
applicable norms and regulations. Additionally, the Bank’s daily email broadcast series also covers 
various aspects related to ethical conduct at the workplace, to encourage the right behaviour across the 
organisation. 
Ethical Conduct at SBI
SBI has been committed to ensuring ethical business practices and transparency throughout its 
operations. To strengthen its commitment towards upholding the highest standards of integrity and 
conduct, the Bank has instituted an Ethics and Business Conduct function.
Centered around the Bank’s core values is the Code of Ethics, which applies to all its employees, suppliers, 
service providers and subsidiaries. Effective implementation of the Code is ensured through various 
mechanisms that include defined responsibilities, accountabilities, and reporting lines in each division. 
Additionally, there are dedicated helpdesks, focal points, hotlines, an ombudsman, and disciplinary 
measures. There is a robust whistle blower mechanism, that forms a part of the Code and allows 
employees to voice their concerns with confidentiality and anonymity.
There were no reported breaches of the Code of Ethics during the year. Samarthya, an innovative online 
training initiative has been designed catering to young employees of the Bank. The two-day programme 
aims to impart Bank's values and ethics culture through interactive sessions, insightful leadership 
messages and interactive smart classrooms. Darpan survey was conducted to assess the awareness levels 
of employees on four aspects of ethics, frauds, whistle blower mechanism and general HR matters. The 
survey's objective was to encourage employees to report issues related to wrongdoings and unethical 
practices, thereby improving fraud detection and prevention.
The Bank also has a Board-approved Code of Conduct applicable to its Directors and senior 
management. The aim of this Code is to ensure the highest quality of disclosures, confidentiality and 
fairness in dealings, good corporate governance practices, optimum use of the Bank’s resources, and 
elimination of any conflicts of interest. 
Further, SBI has a Conflict of Interest Policy that serves as a mitigating and sensitising measure 
for helping manage situations, which may involve serious ethical risks or have legal and regulatory 
consequences. 
Additionally, the Bank is constantly working towards creating an inclusive, secure and safe environment 
for its employees. Hence, it has instituted the portal Garima, which allows employees to lodge complaints 
related to sexual harassment at the workplace. It is among the key elements of SBI’s commitment to 
nurturing an inclusive and secure workplace for its women employees. During the year, SBI also launched 
a mentoring programme for recently joined women employees on the Bank’s culture, ethics and values. 
Board-Approved 
Sustainability and BR Policy
Corporate Centre  
Sustainability Committee 
Products and Services  
Sub-committee
Social and Governance  
Sub-committee
Environmental  
Sub-committee
Launch of Hindi translated version of  
Garima booklet on Women's Day
Circle-Level Sustainability 
Committee
GRI 102-18, GRI 102-19, GRI 102-20
GRI 102-17
18  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  19
In an attempt to strengthen its governance mechanism, SBI has in place a number of frameworks and 
policies, some of which are:  
During the year, Vigilance Awareness Week 
was observed, with the theme 'Independent 
India @ 75: Self Reliance with Integrity'. As 
a part of observance of Vigilance Awareness 
Week, an integrity pledge was administered. 
Various channels - ranging from the intranet 
to social media platforms - were used to raise 
awareness among employees and the public 
on the theme of Vigilance Awareness Week. 
The vigilance function of the Bank undertakes 
the enforcement of the Code of Ethics. 
Additionally, to ensure utmost compliance, 
the Bank has designed and hosted a digital 
online certification module on the Code of 
Ethics. The Bank conducted over 200 preventive 
vigilance programs along with several trainings. 
72 webinars and 28 classroom sessions on 
relevant topics were also conducted to inculcate 
awareness on vigilance and preventive vigilance.
Awareness around corruption was also created 
through dissemination of information about 
Public Interest Disclosure of Protection of 
Informers (PIDPI), ensuring confidentiality, 
whenever any complaints are lodged.
Climate Change Risk 
Management Policy 
Equal Employment 
Opportunity for PwDs
Code of Conduct for the 
Board of Directors and 
Management 
Business Continuity and 
Operational Resilience Policy
Commitments to Customers 
(BCSBI Code)
Arm's Length Policy
Policy on Doorstep Banking
Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption Policy
Policy on Materiality of 
Related Party Transactions
    Cyber Security Policy  
and Standards 
Sustainability and Business 
Responsibility Policy
Policy on KYC Standards, AML 
and CFT Measures
Renewable Energy  
Policy
Code of Ethics
Customer Rights, 
Grievance Redressal and 
Compensation Policy
Fair Lending Practices  
Code
Corporate Social 
Responsibility  Policy
Code of Conduct- Expressing 
views in Internet or Social Media
Codes and Policies to Support Sustainability Governance
Vigilance
The Bank conducted several 
webinars and classroom 
sessions to further inculcate 
awareness around vigilance 
and preventive vigilance 
among staff. Additionally, 
online quizzes and 
competitions were held for the 
employees on vigilance-related 
matters.
During the year, identified 
officials of the Bank were 
trained on the role of vigilance, 
relevant laws, SBI's vigilance 
structure and much more.
Powered by Purpose  |  19
Whistle Blower Policy
Risk Management Policy 
Conflict of Interest Policy
GRI 102-17
20  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  21
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of SBI is headed by the Chairman, and is comprised of Managing Directors, 
Shareholder Directors and Directors nominated by the Government of India. As on 31st March 2022, 
the Central Board comprised of 13 members of which 5 were Executive Directors and the remaining 
were Non-Executive Directors. As on 31st March 2022, the average tenure of the board members was 
approximately 23 months. All the Non-Executive Directors are eminent professionals with experience in 
fields like technology, accountancy, finance, economics and academia. The Board at SBI is responsible for: 
	 Overseeing the Bank’s risk profile 
	 Monitoring the integrity of the Bank’s business and control mechanisms 
	 Ensuring expert management 
	 Protecting the interests of the shareholders. 
The financial returns and relative financial metrics used for determining the variable compensation of 
Executive Directors are defined by the Government of India.
Board Strategy Meet
A strategy workshop was organised during the year, with the objective of keeping the Board members 
and the Senior Management of SBI up to date with the latest trends in the banking industry. The 
workshop helped deliberate on the strategy in the face of disruptive technologies and challenges posed 
in the post-COVID-19 era.
Board-Level Committees:
 Executive Committee of the Central Board 
(ECCB) 
	 Audit Committee of the Board (ACB) 
	 Risk Management Committee of the Board 
(RMCB) 
	 Stakeholder Relationship Committee (SRC) 
cum Customer Service Committee of the 
Board (CSCB) 
	 Special Committee of the Board for 
Monitoring of Large Value Frauds (SCBMF)
	 IT Strategy Committee of the Board (ITSC) 
	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(CSRC) 
	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
of the Board (NRC) 
	 Board Committee to Monitor Recovery 
(BCMR) 
	 Review Committee for Identification 
of Wilful Defaulters/Non-Co-operative 
Borrowers
Risk Governance
The four key pillars of SBI’s Risk Management approach are: 
RISK 
IDENTIFICATION
RISK  
ASSESSMENT
RISK 
MEASUREMENT
RISK  
MITIGATION
01
02
03
04
The Executive-Level Committees and Risk Management Committee of the Board are responsible for 
monitoring and reviewing various risks identified by the Bank. With an aim to minimise the impacts of 
the risks, SBI has identified and prioritised credit risks, market risks, liquidity risk, IT risks and operational 
risks. Further, the Bank has developed policies and procedures to measure, assess and monitor them 
across the portfolio. SBI is in adherence with Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Basel III Capital norms, which 
seeks to protect the sector from any shocks arising out of financial or economic stress. 
The Bank has an independent risk governance structure which helps ensure the independence of risk 
measurement, monitoring and control functions. One of the key drivers of this framework is technology, 
which enables the identification and management of risks at the place of origination.
CENTRAL BOARD
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 
OF THE BOARD (RMCB)
DMD & CRO
MD (R, C & SARG)
CGM (RM)
CGM (RM-II)
GM (CRMD)
GM (EGRMD)
DGM (RARR)
DGM (EGRMD)
DGM (Ind Study)
DGM (BASEL & HR)
DGM (IS-II)
DGM (MRMD)
DGM (PM)
GM (ORMD)
DGM (ORMExe)
DGM (FPMD-I)
DGM (FPMD-II)
DGM (FPMD-III)
GM (FPMD)
GM (Dy-CISO)
DGM (ISO)
DGM (SOC)
DGM (CS)
DGM (PRM)
CGM (CISO)
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE (CRMC)
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE (MRMC)
OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE (ORMC)
ENTERPRISE & GROUP RISK 
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (EGRMC)
Risk Governance Structure
GRI 102-18
22  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  23
Risk Management Conclave
ESG Risk Management
Inauguration of the risk management conclave
Credit Risk Mitigation Measures
SBI has an industry concentration limit framework that is monitored quarterly. This robust framework 
captures business opportunities arising from various developments in the business landscape, including 
those related to ESG.
SBI uses internal credit risk assessment models for assessing borrowers' credit risk. They are reviewed 
through cycles of comprehensive validation and backtesting frameworks. Considering the ESG risks, Bank 
has put in place a model that assigns ratings to specified borrowers on various ESG criteria.
The Bank has adopted an IT platform for credit appraisal processes through a Loan Origination Software/ 
Loan Lifecycle Management system (LOS/LLMS). Moreover, there is a digital framework for Risk-
Adjusted Return on Capital (RAROC) and the customer-level RAROC calculation. Behavioural models for 
monitoring and scoring retail borrower performance have also been developed. 
SBI conducts stress tests on a half-yearly basis on its credit portfolio. Stress scenarios are updated 
regularly in line with the RBI guidelines. 
Compliance Risk Management
Compliance Risk Management Committee includes senior executives from various business verticals and 
is responsible for ensuring that all the activities of the Bank are in line with regulatory requirements. The 
committee members are required to maintain oversight on all compliance-related issues and ensure that 
the actions of the Bank and its employees are in line with ‘zero tolerance’ for non-compliance. SBI also 
regularly carries out compliance testing of RBI’s regulations and remediation of gaps.
Additionally, the Bank has in place an Arm’s Length Policy, ensuring transactions between SBI and its 
subsidiaries comply with the laws relating to related party transactions, transfer pricing regulations, RBI’s 
guidelines and corporate governance-related requirements.
The Bank carries out risk-return analysis of critical portfolios at periodical intervals to assess the adequacy 
of return vis-à-vis the risk associated with exposure. The Bank has also initiated measures for objective 
and sustained assessment of evolving risk of corporate exposures. SBI has devised a framework for 
integration of dynamic review of internal rating with early warning signal triggers, and has completed the 
IT implementation of the framework.
SBI takes various non-financial factors into consideration while developing its risk management 
framework. These include - but are not limited to - climate change mitigation and adaption, health and 
safety, respect for human rights, environmental impact, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption. This helps 
the Bank understand and limit its exposure to these risks, by devising management mechanisms and 
laying the groundwork for better accountability and transparency. As part of its endeavour to continually 
strengthen ESG risk management processes, the Bank is also looking to assess the financial implications 
of these risks and opportunities.
SBI has identified ESG risks relevant to its business, and devised mitigation plans for the same. Some of 
them are outlined below:
Sr. 
No.
Risk 
Identified
Rationale for Identification
Adaptation or Mitigation Approach
1
ESG risks 
associated 
with the 
borrowers
ESG and climate change risks may 
impact business operations and 
cash flows of Bank’s borrowers and 
their debt- servicing capability. 
Hence, it needs to be integrated 
into risk assessment framework 
for identification and timely 
mitigation.
Bank has devised ‘ESG risk rating model’ to assess 
the ESG risks of corporate borrowers, which 
includes assessment of the corporates practices 
and strategies to address ESG concerns arising 
out of their operations or business.
2
Climate 
change risk
Climate change risks may also 
translate into other material risks 
for the Bank, such as credit risks, 
operational risks, market risks, 
reputational risks and liquidity risks.
Bank has identified climate 
change- related risks as emerging 
risks.
Bank has formulated a climate change risk 
management policy to address these risks.
3
Operational 
risks arising 
due to 
extreme 
climate 
events/ 
natural 
disasters
Disruptions caused due to natural 
disasters may interrupt the 
operations of the Bank, resulting in 
losses.
In order to ensure continuity of Bank’s operations 
in event of disruptions including natural calami-
ties, the Bank has a Business Continuity and Op-
erational Resilience Policy and Manual in place.
All branches and offices are required to maintain 
their plan, duly approved by Controllers, after 
identifying and documenting the dependen-
cies and challenges in delivering critical services 
and further detailing the mechanism to restore 
business in the event of disruptions, along with 
alternate arrangements, in case the facility has to 
be closed down.
The Bank hosted a two-day conclave to discuss views around topical issues of risk management and to 
develop a way forward. The conclave provided an open forum to discuss the best practices adopted across 
the industry along with the challenges being faced at the ground level.
Audit Framework
The Bank’s Internal Audit function works in close coordination with the 
Risk Management and Compliance departments and undertakes risk-
based audits of the operating units in line with regulatory guidelines. The 
Bank has several technological interventions for enhancing the efficiency 
and effectiveness of these audits, some of which include: 
	 Web-based, online Risk-Focused Internal Audit (RFIA) 
	 Analytics-based, continuous assessment of compliable controls 
through remote evaluation of big data 
	 System-driven, analytics-based offsite monitoring of transactions 
	 Concurrent audit of business units to ensure ongoing scrutiny of 
compliances 
	 Early review of sanctions to assess quality of loans of ₹1 crore and 
above 
	 Online self-audit by branches for self-assessment
During the year, 
programmes were 
conducted for officials 
working in the Internal 
Audit Department 
covering aspects related 
to fraud prevention 
and detection, and 
monitoring.
GRI 102-15
GRI 102-15
24  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  25
Branch Audits
A total of 10,614 units of domestic branches and Central Processing Centres were audited in FY 2021-22. 
Further, for branches identified for trigger-based audits, evidence-based compliance testing is under 
process.
Details of other audits - such as credit audit, legal audit, information security audit and management 
audit, among others – can be found in the Bank’s Annual Report.
Anti-Money Laundering and Combatting Financing of Terrorism (AML-CFT)
The Bank has an undertaken a number of measures, including training, to combat money laundering 
and terrorism financing. During the year, several seminars, webinars, workshops and visits were 
conducted towards this end. An AML-CFT quiz was also conducted by the Bank to gauge the 
understanding of its employees on the topic.
The Bank has three lines of defence mechanism for AML-CFT, which is as follows: 
Additionally, the AML-CFT Cell has undertaken initiatives such as sharing typologies with employees, 
uploading circulars for operating units and disseminating case studies through training programmes.
This year, the Bank faced penalties worth ₹ 2.50 crores by the regulator for delays and inaccuracies in 
reporting. The dues have been paid to the regulator, and the Bank has formulated guidelines and formed 
teams to address the underlying issues. Additionally, in FY 2021-22, the Bank has not undertaken any 
spending towards political campaigns, political organisations, lobbyists or lobbying organisations.
AML-CFT
Branches, Operating 
Units, Business Units 
of the Corporate 
Centre
Internal Audit 
Department
Bank’s  
AML-CFT Cell 
An oath-taking ceremony was conducted on Anti-Terrorism Day to raise awareness 
amongst employees.
Oath taking during the Vigilance awareness week
26  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  27
Financing for  
Impact
A
s the largest public sector bank in India, SBI realises the impact 
its actions as a lending institution can illustrate. The Bank 
has always worked towards creating positive environmental 
impacts, both directly and indirectly, and has taken actions to 
mitigate any negative impacts of its operations. SBI takes into 
consideration various environmental, social and governance-related 
criteria while making any lending decisions, which helps ensure that 
the right institutions are being funded. SBI has a framework to rate 
borrowers on ESG criteria, which lays emphasis on mandatory rating 
of ESG criteria for the specified borrowers. This includes existing 
borrowers and prospective borrowers in India, with an exposure 
of over ₹100 crores (for listed borrowers) and over ₹500 crores (for 
unlisted borrowers) at the time of CRA rating.
As a responsible lender, the Bank also does its part to combat money 
laundering and the financing of terrorism. SBI adheres to RBI’s KYC 
norms under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Further, 
the Bank ensures regular stress-testing of its credit portfolio, along 
with robust risk management and responsible lending. 
SBI has developed a 
framework that lays 
emphasis on ESG criteria 
and rates specified 
borrowers on ESG 
parameters.
To fight climate change, SBI has devised several products and services. Some of these include:
Incentivising Sustainability
Sustainability-
Linked Loans
Green Bonds 
and Green Loan
 SBI's foreign branches have 
been extending ESG-related 
loans and sustainability grid- 
linked pricing
 Incentive of 4 to 6 bps is 
provided to borrowers for 
achievement of sustainability-
linked KRAs, along with a 
penalty for non-achievement
 This helps encourage the 
borrowers in achieving the KRAs
 The portfolio of such loans is 
approximately US$1 billion
 Bonds worth US$800 
million have been issued 
since FY 2018-19
  
Listed green bonds worth 
US$650 million on INX and 
Luxemborg Stock Exchange
 Proceeds are earmarked 
for projects with a positive 
environmental impact
 The Bank also raised a green 
loan worth €50 million in FY 
2020-21
In November 2021, SBI listed US$650 million green bonds on India International Exchange (India INX) 
and Luxembourg Stock Exchange. This dual listing was in line with the topic for World Investor Week- 
‘Sustainable Finance’, as per International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA).
The Bank's leadership at India-INX exchange  
during the listing ceremony of  
SBI's first Formosa bond issuance.
Listing ceremony of the Bank's Green Bond 
amounting to US$650 million
GRI 302-5, GRI 305-5
28  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  29
SBI has a strong commitment towards financing renewable energy. The Bank has raised proceeds from 
several green bonds, as well as through various lines of credit. The Renewable Energy Policy of the Bank 
covers various segments of renewable energy such as ground-mounted solar power, wind energy, grid-
connected rooftop solar power, small hydro (up to 25 MW) and waste-to-energy.
Various concessions are offered, including but not limited to concessions on card rate, waivers of 
premium, increased tenure, and moratoriums. These enablers have helped earn the Bank a leadership 
position in the RE financing space.
Project Finance
The Bank has stepped up investment in the infrastructure sector across various government initiatives, 
reforms and incentives. These include the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), National Monetisation 
Pipeline (NMP), Performance-Linked Schemes, sustainable lending and PM Gati Shakti scheme, to name a 
few. As a result, there has been an inflow of new projects, particularly in sectors such as city gas distribution, 
road, power, renewables, metro rail and green hydrogen, which are also furthering the sustainability 
agenda. 
Impetus for Renewable Energy
Impact of SBI's Green Bonds and Green Loan
Amount Sanctioned* for Renewable Energy Projects as on 31st March 2022
Encouraging Investments in Renewable Energy
During the reporting period, the Bank launched a dedicated centralised processing cell ‘Surya Shakti 
Cell’ that processes all the loan applications for solar projects having a capacity of up to 1 MW. To 
increase investments in renewable energy, SBI has entered into an MOU with Tata Power Solar Systems 
and has also launched the new loan product 'Surya Shakti – Solar Finance'. This offering is aimed at 
encouraging SMEs and business enterprises to install solar rooftop, ground-mounted grid-connected 
systems of up to 1 MW capacity for captive use.
₹ 19,766 crore
₹ 7,601 crore
₹ 2 crore
₹ 28 crore
Solar Power (rooftop and  
ground-mounted)
Small Hydro/ Hydro
Biomass
Waste-to-energy
As a part of its capacity-building, SBI has imparted trainings to 465 of its employees on handling solar 
project proposals under the SUPRABHA programme jointly run by Ministry of New and Renewable 
Energy, GoI and the World Bank.
The Bank also launches 'Solar Financing Bonanza' campaigns at regular intervals to motivate the 
operating staff for accelerated RE financing. Attractive incentives are offered to employees for promoting 
solar project financing. 
As on 31st March 2022, SBI has deployed over ₹32,000 crores for various solar, wind, biomass, waste-to-
energy and hydro projects. During the year, projects funded by the Bank added an incremental capacity 
of over 6,900 MW.
The Bank is associated with various industry associations and organisations to drive the renewable 
energy agenda. These include: 
	 International Solar Alliance, which was jointly 
launched by India and France to address 
the energy needs of member countries by 
harnessing solar power
	 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry (FICCI)
	 Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)
	 Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
	 Science and Technology for Society (STS) 
Forum, Japan, which explores opportunities 
arising from science and technology to solve 
the problems facing humankind
	 Indo-UK Joint Working Group on Green 
Finance
	 BRICS Business Council Taskforce on Green 
Financing
₹ 5,077 crore
Wind
03
01
04
02
Source: 1Grid emission factors from CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guide Version 15.0. 
2Plant Load Factors have been taken from the Ministry of Power, Government of India (https://powermin.gov.in/en/content/
power-sector-glance-all-India)
Projected annual renewable 
power generation of more 
than 38,00,000 MWh/year
Emission reduction 
potential of over 
5.5 Mn. tCO2/year
Wind and solar energy 
projects totaling over 
3,500 MW capacity
Renewable energy 
projects spanning in 
over 10 states
GRI 302-5, GRI 305-5
GRI 102-12
* For accounts in Bank's books as on 31st March 2022
30  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  31
PARTNERING FOR PURPOSE
SBI has undertaken various partnerships with international agencies and banks to promote its 
responsible finance activities. The Bank uses the lines of credit provided by these institutions for funding 
projects that help create a positive environmental and social impact.
Forged in 2016, this partnership is aimed at 
enhancing clean energy generation in India. 
Loans have been extended for installation of 
rooftop solar panels, that enable consumers 
to meet their energy needs from renewable 
sources. Over 400 rooftop solar projects have 
been sanctioned under this programme.
This line of credit was signed in 2015 and 
facilitates funding to projects in priority 
sectors identified by the RBI. SBI has extended 
credit to agriculture and allied activities, 
small businesses, small-scale industries and 
renewable energy, among others.  
US$ 625 million from 
the World Bank 
US$ 300 million 
from KfW German 
Development Bank
Started in 2019, this line of credit works towards 
incentivising builders and home loan borrowers 
for energy efficient alternatives, and has been 
encouraging sustainability in the real estate 
sector. 
The line of credit was availed by SBI in 2017 to 
help reduce fossil fuel dependency. Under this 
project, four greenfield solar plants with an 
aggregate capacity of 493 MW were provided 
concessional finance.
In line with the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, 
this line of credit, signed in 2016, helps SBI 
promote affordable housing and support 
borrowers in this space.
This line of credit leverages the combined reach 
and expertise of the Indo-German Solar Energy 
Partnership to provide funding for renewable 
energy projects. It was extended in 2018, with 
the aim of promoting the proliferation of 
renewable energy in India. Three solar projects 
with an aggregate capacity of 555 MW have 
been financed.
US$ 277 million 
from KfW German 
Development Bank 
US$ 214.3 million 
from European 
Investment Bank 
US$ 274 million 
from KfW German 
Development Bank 
US$ 177.3 million 
from KfW German 
Development Bank
As a responsible organisation, SBI recognises its role in helping India achieve the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development laid down by the UN. Towards this end, the Bank has come up with several 
products and services that can help support India’s commitments. 
The Insta Plus Savings Account is a video-based customer identification 
process, which brings in complete digitalisation and significant reduction in 
paper usage. 
1. Insta Plus Savings Account
SBI has come up with a loan for corporates 
that are interested in replacing the existing 
feedstock coal or other fossil fuels with 
biomass. The Bank helps meet the capital 
expenditure requirements through this loan.
For enhancing the healthcare infrastructure 
in the country, SBI has introduced a loan 
product to cater to the units engaged in 
manufacturing of liquid oxygen, oxygen 
cylinders and to existing hospitals setting up 
oxygen plants.
2. Finance for Biofuel Projects
3. Sanjeevani - SME Loan for  
    Healthcare Sector
SBI's Contribution to
32  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  33
SBI’s e-Mudra extends digital term loans up 
to ₹50,000 to help microentrepreneurs meet 
key requirements related to their business 
and enhance employment generation 
potential. Over ₹934 crores have been 
sanctioned towards the same as on 31st 
March 2022.
SBI provides loans for CBG plants under the 
Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable 
Transportation (SATAT) scheme. This scheme 
creates large-scale employment along with 
sustainable industrialisation.
7. SBI e-Mudra
8. Compressed Biogas (CBG)  
    under SATAT Scheme
A pre-approved and hassle-free credit facility 
on the YONO platform to help meet the 
dairy farming needs of farmers, through 
partnerships with corporates.
This product helps individuals enhance 
their skills and improve their livelihood. It 
promotes opportunities for all, and ensures 
inclusive and equitable quality education.
4. Stree Shakti Enterpreneur Loan
5. YONO Krishi Safal Dairy Loan
6. Skill Loan Scheme
In partnership with World Bank and UN Women, SBI has designed a new loan 
product to provide access to institutional credit at affordable interest rates 
to women entrepreneurs. Particular emphasis is given to those graduating 
from self-help groups (SHG) or who are part of the supply chain in business 
enterprises in the manufacturing, trading and services sector, including allied 
agricultural activities. The World Bank and UN Women will be associated for 
providing technical assistance and training to identified borrowers.
Bank promotes cleaner mobility through the 
Green Car Loan scheme by offering a longer 
repayment period of up to eight years and 
a concession of 20 basis points (bps) on the 
interest rate, compared to a regular car loan.
SBI provides SHGs with the funds for 
generating sustainable livelihoods. Majority 
of SHGs are comprised of women, helping 
the bank contribute towards ensuring 
gender equality.
To facilitate access to better healthcare for 
residents of smaller cities and villages, SBI 
has sanctioned healthcare business loans 
worth ₹39.67 crores to customers as on 31st 
March 2022.
SBI helps people achieve the dream of 
owning their house through its home loans. 
58.19% of the home loans provided are 
affordable housing loans. 
SBI has sanctioned ₹12.06 crores towards 
e-rickshaws, to promote the usage of cleaner 
fuel and ensure a boost in environment 
friendly practices.
To drive progress on the goals of zero hunger, 
good health and well-being, sustainable 
consumption and production, and climate 
action, SBI is financing polyhouse farming 
projects to enhance yields. 
SBI helps fund the purchase of solar water 
pumping systems in alignment with the 
PM KUSUM Yojana, to provide a sustainable 
livelihood for farmers and reduce the 
environmental footprint. 
Popularising RE in commercial institutions 
and industrial buildings with smaller roofs, 
SBI has sanctioned, ₹1,089.52 crores for 
rooftop solar PV projects as on 31st March 
2022. 
9. Green Car Loan
10. SHG Financing
14. Healthcare Business Loan
15. Home Loan
16. E-Rickshaw Scheme
11. Financing Polyhouse
12. Financing Solar Photovoltaic  
      Pump Sets
13. Grid-Connected Rooftop  
     Solar PV Projects
34  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  35
Stakeholder  
Engagement and   
Materiality Assessment 
In order to maintain strong, long-term relationships with its stakeholders, SBI ensures regular and 
transparent communication with them. The Bank’s activities impact and are impacted by various 
stakeholders, such as its employees, investors, customers, regulatory bodies, industry associations, 
vendors, suppliers, NGO partners and community members. 
Identification
The Bank identifies 
its stakeholders 
through discussion 
and deliberation with 
the Corporate Centre 
Sustainability Committee.
Engagement
The Bank connects with 
stakeholders through various 
channels for determining the 
material topics.
Prioritisation
The Bank prioritises its 
stakeholders based on 
the level of influence they 
have on SBI’s decisions 
and activities.
Managing Expectations
The Bank enhances its 
stakeholder relationships by 
managing their concerns and 
expectations.
Stakeholder Engagement Process
Refine 
existing 
procedures
Enhance performance in areas 
such as employee engagement, 
customer experience, 
environmental performance 
and community engagement
Improve communication with 
each stakeholder group and 
society at large
Inputs from stakeholders are used to:
17.7 million+
223 million+  
2.3 million+
2.1 million+
4.4 million+
400,000+ 
582 million+  
Facebook 
followers 
Quora content 
views, since 
inception 
LinkedIn 
followers
Instagram 
followers
Twitter 
followers
YouTube video 
views, since 
inception
YouTube 
Subscribers 
Staying Connected to Stakeholders
SBI actively uses social media to connect with its customers, having the highest global fanbase on 
Facebook and the highest number of followers on Twitter across all banks in the world. It also stands at 
the highest number of followers on Instagram and LinkedIn among banks in India.
INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS
	 Webcasts and 
audio calls
	 Investor 
conferences
	 Declaration of 
dividend
	 Claim-related 
concerns
Recurring 
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Financial Capital 
Management
GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44
36  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  37
CUSTOMERS
NGOs AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 
INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 
	 Online and 
offline feedback 
mechanisms
	 Digital inclusion 
initiatives
	 Customer 
satisfaction surveys
	 Project assessment 
reviews 
	 Joint execution of 
projects
	 Community welfare 
programmes
	 Meetings with 
community leaders
	 Participation and 
discussion during 
trade and industry 
events
	 Partnership 
with industry 
associations for 
events
	 Regular interaction 
with industry and 
association heads
	 Enhanced customer 
service
	 Reduced turnaround 
time 
	 Engage with 
customers to create 
product awareness 
	 Financial literacy 
camps
	 Increased awareness 
about digital banking
	 New areas of 
intervention 
	 Increased employee 
participation
	 Collaboration for 
policy advocacy
Recurring 
Recurring 
Recurring 
REGULATORY BODIES
VENDORS AND SUPPLIERS 
	 Meetings to discuss 
mandates or 
regulations
	 Vendor meets
	 Grievance redressal
	 Consultation and 
feedback for public 
policy development
	 On-time payments 
	 Standardised 
procurement 
processes
Recurring 
Recurring 
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
Mode(s) of 
Engagement 
Frequency of 
Engagement
Topic(s) of  
Discussion 
SBI’s Response 
Covered in
EMPLOYEES
	 Regular meetings 
with management
	 Appraisal process
	 Online surveys
	 Career progression
	 Prospects for 
professional 
development
	 Employee welfare 
schemes
	 Training and 
workshops
Human Capital 
Management
Recurring 
Social and 
Relationship Capital 
Management
Commitment to 
Ethical Conduct
Approach to Shared 
Value Creation
Social and 
Relationship Capital 
Management
Approach to Shared 
Value Creation, 
Social and 
Relationship Capital 
Management
The Bank takes measures to ensure the welfare of stakeholders that are vulnerable and marginalised 
owing to their gender, age, descent, occupation or ability.
GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44
GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44
38  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  39
8th Banking and Economics Conclave 2021 
The 8th edition of the SBI Banking and Economics Conclave had the theme ‘Contours of Economic 
Recovery in the post-COVID World’. The two-day conclave saw addresses from policymakers, regulators 
and other luminaries, and discussions by the esteemed panelists.
SBI-PHDCCI Industry Roundtable Meet 
SBI organised an outreach programme in Amritsar to help Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) 
affected by COVID-19 pandemic. The SBI-PHDCCI Industry Roundtable Meet was attended by various key 
policymakers to ideate the way forward for strengthening the business ecosystem.
Engagement to Enhance Customer Satisfaction
In FY 2021-22, SBI also held two virtual panel discussions on 'Customer Centricity - Achieving the Strategic 
Advantage' and 'Institutionalisation of Customer Service Excellence' to understand diverse perspectives 
on customer service. The major learnings and findings were shared with the relevant operating 
functionaries of the Bank, in line with the Bank's quest for continuous improvement. 
Materiality Assessment 
A materiality assessment is undertaken to identify material issues and define priorities for the Bank in 
an unbiased and impartial manner. The identified material topics are reflected in the content of this 
report, in accordance with GRI Standards. The material topics have been reviewed by the CCSC for their 
continued relevance during the reporting period. No new additions or amendments have been made in 
the reporting year.
1. Identification: Pinpointing 
relevant issues using internal 
and external sources, peer 
benchmarks, GRI Standards 
and research on global risks 
and opportunities
2. Assessment: Shortlisting 
material issues based on feedback 
gathered through the Bank’s 
primary stakeholder engagement, 
following a comprehensive 
methodology developed to rank 
the material topics
3. Prioritisation: 
The top-ranking 
material topics 
were evaluated 
and approved by 
the CCSC
Prioritised Material Topics
Customer Satisfaction
Stakeholder Awareness on 
Sustainability 
Sustainable Business Strategy
Ethical Business Practices
Employee Engagement 
Natural Resource Management
Employee Health and Well-Being 
Innovative Products and Services
Products with Positive 
Environmental and Social Impact
Data Security and Customer Privacy
Brand and Reputation Management 
Non-GRI Topic
103
External
Non-GRI Topic
103
Internal and External
Strategy, Governance
102-14, 102-15, 102-26
Internal and External
Ethics and Integrity 
103
Internal
Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Non-discrimination 
103, 404-1, 404-2, 405-1, 406-1
Internal
Energy
103. 302-1, 302-2, 302-4, 302-5
Internal and External
Occupational Health and Safety
103, 403-8
Internal
Economic Performance, Indirect 
Economic Impacts, Energy
103, 201-1, 203-2, 302-5
Internal and External
Energy
103, 302-5
External
Customer Privacy 
103, 418-1
Internal and External
Ethics and Integrity, Economic 
Performance, Indirect Economic 
Impacts, Local Communities  
103, 102-16, 102-17, 201-1. 203-2. 413-1
Internal
1
7
3
6
11
5
2
8
10
4
9
GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-49, GRI 103-1 (All material topics)  
GRI 103-3 (All material topics)
40  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  41
To mark the 75th year of India’s independence, SBI partook in Azadi ka Amrit 
Mahotsav (AKAM), a celebration of the illustrious history of the nation’s 
people, culture and achievements. To commemorate this milestone, the 
Bank has undertaken a number of initiatives and activities in conjunction 
with its stakeholders to pay homage to the individuals shaping India 2.0, an 
Aatmanirbhar Bharat.
SBI has been conducting several activities like customer meets, employee 
engagement events, cleanliness drives and CSR initiatives, as part of 
the AKAM celebrations. All the initiatives undertaken by the Bank saw 
participation in large numbers, fostering a sense of national unity amongst 
the Bank’s stakeholders.
Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM)
42  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  43
Financial Capital 
Management 
R
ealising the impact of its operations and activities on the environment and society, SBI has a clear 
and consistent strategy to create value for society and to ensure sustainable development. The 
Bank strives to deliver economic value in a way that is responsible, and inclusive.
SBI seeks to align its products with consumer expectations, catering to an ever-increasing number 
of people entering the formal financial sector. Together with the Bank’s push for socioeconomic 
development, such efforts have resulted in the improvement of the Bank’s overall performance over time.
SBI’s domestic and foreign deposits reflect promising growth in the reporting period, recording a growth 
of 9.8% and 18.20%, respectively, driven by post-COVID recovery as well as the Bank's customer-centric 
initiatives. 
Advances are given in exchange for the future repayment of the loan with a certain amount of interest. 
SBI gives out several kinds of loans and offerings, providing various repayment options to its customers.
 20,65,484
3,57,360
21,82,516
3,56,877
24,06,761
4,11,910
Our Offerings 
Deposits 
Advances 
SBI’s Economic Performance (in ` Crores)
 FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Economic value generated
Total income 
3,16,021
3,08,647
3,02,545
Economic value distributed 
Operating costs (other than employee wages and 
benefits)
35,836
31,716
29,459
Employee wages and benefits 
50,144
50,936
45,715
Payments to capital providers
6,336
3,570
NIL
Payments to government (Net cash outgo on 
account of corporate income tax)
3,529
151
12,086
Community investment 
204
145
28
Total economic value distributed 
96,049
86,518
87,288
Total economic value retained 
2,19,972
2,22,129
2,15,257
Three-Year Trend in Domestic Advances
Three-Year Trend in Foreign Office Advances
Amount (in ₹ crores)
Amount (in ₹ crores)
Amount (in ₹ crores)
Amount (in ₹ crores)
FY20
FY20
FY21
FY21
FY22
FY22
Three-Year Trend in Domestic Deposits
Three-Year Trend in Foreign Office Deposits
FY20
31,24,616
FY20
1,17,005
35,70,165
FY21
1,11,112
FY21
39,20,201
FY22
1,31,333
FY22
GRI 102-7, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Economic Performance), GRI 201-1
44  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  45
The Bank’s loan disbursement process is based on a fair and transparent review of the proposals it 
receives. It strives to improve customer experience by developing offerings that are tailored to the 
changing demands and requirements of its customers. 
Auto Loans
During the reporting period, SBI’s market share increased to 19.46% in the auto loan segment.
The Bank also offers the Green Car Loan scheme, encouraging customers to switch to electric vehicles by 
means of offering lower interest rates and longer repayment periods of up to eight years.
Education Loans
Funding education can power a community with productive and resourceful human capital, along 
with driving progress on the Sustainable Development Goal of Quality Education. Recognising the 
significance of access to high quality education for human capital development and economic growth, 
SBI believes that the lack of financial capital should not stand in the way of empowering the youth with 
the necessary education. This year, the Bank has helped 76,301 students fulfill their dreams of pursuing 
quality education by providing financial assistance worth ₹10,291 crores.
Personal Loans
In FY 2021-22, SBI extended personal loans (Xpress 
credit and pension loans) worth ₹1,60,689 crores 
to over 33.69 lakh customers, bringing its personal 
loan portfolio to ₹2,85,998 crores. The Bank has 
leveraged its digital platform, YONO, to extend 
personal loans to its customers, with loans over 
₹20,000 crore being disbursed in the current 
reporting period. 
In order to assist the country in tackling the 
COVID-19 pandemic, SBI launched the KAVACH 
Personal Loan in FY 2020-21 to facilitate access to 
medical treatment for COVID-19. 
SBI’s car loan market share has increased to 
19.46%, as opposed to 16.5% recorded in 
FY 2020-21.
Key Loan Offerings 
72,662
22,883
1,96,189
76,322
23,504
2,23,329
79,148
26,357
2,85,998
Three-Year Performance of Auto Loans
Three-Year Performance of Education Loans
Three-Year Performance of Personal Loans
Education Loan Recipients
Total Value of Loans Provided 
in FY 2021-22 (in ₹ crores)
Number of Beneficiaries in FY 
2021-22
Girl Students
3,834
30,515
Scheduled Castes (SCs)
148
1,548
Scheduled Tribes (STs)
47
498
Other Backward Classes 
(OBCs)
511
5,606
Minorities
1,174
9,004
Amount (in ₹ crores)
Amount (in ₹ crores)
Amount (in ₹ crores)
FY20
FY20
FY20
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY22
FY22
FY22
Real Estate and Housing Loans
In-house contactless digital platforms have been 
promoted extensively among customers to 
provide access to affordable housing schemes, 
and expand SBI’s market share in the home loan 
business. 58.19% of the home loans provided are 
affordable housing loans.
Three-Year Performance of Real Estate and 
Home Loans
Amount (in ₹ crores)
4,55,865
FY20
5,03,779
FY21
5,61,651
FY22
46  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  47
Support for SMEs
SMEs are playing an important role in furthering India’s manufacturing, employment generation and 
exports, making them a prime area for the Bank to support. SBI has developed the e-Mudra application 
to streamline and enhance the loan for SME advances. This application facilitates appraisal, sanction and 
disbursal of loans up to ₹50,000 in compliance with all the norms of the Mudra loan (Shishu category).
Encouraging Entrepreneurship
SBI is funding start-ups covering areas aligned with the RBI's guidelines on priority sector lending. This 
supports the Government of India’s Start-up Action Plan (SAP), addressing issues such as unemployment 
and encouraging first-generation entrepreneurs, and providing funding to MSMEs, agriculture and its 
allied activities.  
2,67,614
2,78,949
3,05,517
Three-Year Performance of SME Advances
Amount (in ₹ crores)
FY20
FY21
FY22
During the reporting 
period, a total 
of 1,24,763 loans 
amounting to ₹562 
crores have been 
disbursed under the 
e-Mudra scheme 
for financing micro- 
enterprises.
Rural Banking and Financial Inclusion 
Rural Banking
Rural upliftment and empowerment is crucial for the country’s progress and development. SBI has nearly 
8,000 rural branches across the country, along with an extensive network of 14 Regional Rural Banks 
(RRBs). Spread across 217 districts of the country, these RRBs have given the Bank a powerful competitive 
edge due to their presence and user base in rural areas.
(in ₹ crores)
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Total Agri Advances
2,28,229
2,14,151
2,06,067
YoY Growth
14,078
8,084
3,386
% YoY Growth
6.57
3.92
1.67
The Bank's Roopantar conclave was a forum to formulate transformative strategies that drive 
growth in the agriculture business.
SBI officials observed World Soil Day in collaboration with the students of College of Agriculture, Hyderabad
Agri Business
SBI has supported farmers in years hit by the COVID-19 pandemic 
by extending borrowers additional credit lines to fulfil emergency 
demands, recognising the necessity of providing credit support 
to the agriculture industry. To help the sector, the Bank issued an 
interest deferment facility and extended moratoriums on EMIs and 
term loan instalments.
Agri Advances
Stand-up India
SBI has aligned with the Government 
of India’s Stand-up India initiative to 
foster an ecosystem that is conducive to 
entrepreneurship by marginalised groups 
like women and those belonging to 
scheduled casts and tribes.
Additionally, SBI has been observing World Soil Day and Kisan Diwas with the farming community 
and creates awareness on measures to enhance agricultural productivity. In the reporting period, it 
onboarded 44 Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs) to extend support to sustainable farming practices. 
48  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  49
Financial Inclusion and Contribution to Government Schemes
Giving underprivileged people access to formal credit and financial services protects them from 
exploitation, allowing them to break free from the cycle of poverty. SBI is promoting inclusive growth and 
social harmony by uplifting society’s most vulnerable populations, helping them enter the mainstream. 
SBI’s “PM SVANidhi Loans” have supported the livelihoods of many street vendors during the pandemic. 
In FY 2021-22, the Bank has disbursed 3,48,041 loans, amounting to ₹406 crores to street vendors.
The Bank also undertakes a series of Financial Inclusion (FI) Initiatives, embodying its ethos of inclusive 
growth and customer outreach across different segments of society. It also plays an active part in the 
implementation of national schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), PM Kisan 
Samman Nidhi Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Atal Pension Yojana 
(APY), among others.
Contribution to Government Schemes (in crores)
As on 31st March 2022
PMJDY Accounts
13.32
PMJDY Deposits 
₹43,222
PMJJBY Enrolments 
2.87
PMSBY Enrolment 
7.73
APY Enrolments
0.88
During the year, SBI conducted a financial inclusion conclave called Uttolan. The event discussed areas 
of improvement in the existing products and the introduction of new products to enhance financial 
inclusion.
Customer Service Points
SBI has a vast network of Business 
Correspondents (BCs) and Customer 
Service Points (CSPs), through which it 
provides banking facilities to those in 
remote and underserved areas of the 
country. As of 31st March 2022, SBI has 
68,016 CSPs, providing access to over 26 
products and services. Over 58.78 crore 
transactions amounting to ₹2,52,470 
crores were recorded from the BCs and 
CSPs during FY 2021-22, averaging to 
around 25 lakh transactions per day.
Financial Literacy
In order to create awareness to lift people out of poverty and usher in prosperity, SBI has set up 341 
financial literacy centres, through which 17,869 literacy camps benefitting over 8.11 lakh participants were 
conducted in FY 2021-22. SBI has 230 Centres for Financial Literacy (CFLs) at the block level.
Micro Credit (SHG-Bank Linkage)
SBI collaborated with the National and State Rural Livelihoods Missions to give credit and loans to SHGs, 
allowing members to generate incomes and fulfil basic requirements such as housing and education. 
SBI continues to have the highest market share in SHG-credit linkage in the banking sector, catering to 
8.71 lakh groups as of 31st March 2022. 85 lakh of these groups' members were women entrepreneurs, 
further driving their inclusion.
RSETIs are tasked with the empowerment of rural youth through skill development and training, thereby 
creating means for sustainable livelihoods. As on 31st March 2022, SBI has sponsored 152 RSETIs in 29 
states and union territories. Of these, 53 are in aspirational districts across India. In the reporting period, 
the RSETIs have achieved 105% of the annual training targets set by the Ministry of Rural Development, 
GoI.
India has a sizeable young population, enhancing the employability of which is instrumental to the 
country's economic development. The Bank, through 152 RSETIs across the country, works towards 
improving employability among rural poor to help build capability for access to better opportunities. 
In the reporting period, SBI has allocated an amount of ₹27.86 crores to improve and upgrade the 
infrastructure at 29 of these institutes.
Rural Self-Employment Training Institutes (RSETIs)
Impact of SBI's RSETIs
FY 2021-22
Cumulative as on 31st 
March 2022
No. of Training Programmes Conducted
2,834
35,377
No. of Candidates Trained
76,520
9,46,059
No. of Female Candidates Trained
62,799
6,31,842
No. of Candidates Settled
62,997
6,81,160
With the objective of enhancing 
customer service, a capsule 
training program was created 
for branch functionaries. 
Comprehensive knowledge 
of CSP account features was 
provided to frontline staff 
across the country.
SBI was adjudged the Best Performing Banks in SHG Bank Linkage  
by Ministry of Rural Development, GoI.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Indirect Economic Impacts), GRI 203-2
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Indirect Economic Impacts), GRI 203-2
50  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  51
RSETI Success Stories
With no poultry farms available in his area, 
Saurabh enrolled in a poultry farming training 
programme and started a farm in the area. He 
availed financial aid of ₹5,00,000 from SBI's 
Rudraprayag branch. He commenced his 
business with 650 chicks and has a present 
earning of ₹40,000 per month. 
C Narendrakumari learned of training 
programmes at the RSETI and enrolled herself. 
After availing financial assistance of ₹1,00,000 
from the SBI Eturnagaram branch, she is 
now able to earn nearly ₹40,000 through her 
paintings and has employed two people in her 
business.
Viji started her business 'Dream Star Snacks 
and Bakers' in Mylapra. With monthly sales 
reaching ₹6,00,000, she earns a profit of 
₹50,000 per month and also been awarded 
the Best Entrepreneur Award by the District 
Magistrate of Pathanamthitta.
Name of Trainee	 :	
Saurabh Negi
RSETI	
:	
Rudraprayag, Delhi Circle 
Name of Trainee	 :	
C Narendrakumari
RSETI	
:	
Hasanparthy, Hyderabad Circle 
Name of Trainee	 :	
Viji Joy 
RSETI	
:	
Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram Circle
Poultry Farm
Embroidery and Fabric Painting 
Fast Food
Felicitating the trainees of the RSETI programmes
52  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  53
Natural Capital  
Management 
T
he impacts of climate change are becoming more 
evident than ever before, bringing environmental risks 
to the fore. The Global Risks Report 2022, put forth by 
the World Economic Forum, found that climate action failure, 
extreme weather events and biodiversity loss are projected 
to be the most severe risks facing businesses over the next 
decade. 
Preservation of the natural environment has always been a 
priority for SBI, which is also reflected in sustainability being 
one of the Bank's core values. However, the manifestation 
of climate-related risks and opportunities has given further 
impetus to the Bank’s efforts to strengthen and formalise its 
natural capital management. 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
The need to transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient 
future has become increasingly apparent, making corporate 
action imperative. Taking cognizance of the urgency for 
climate action, the Bank has instituted its Climate Change 
Risk Management Policy in FY 2021-22. This policy statement 
is intended to address climate-related concerns by identifying 
key risks and opportunities, integrating their considerations 
into SBI's operations, and helping enhance future-readiness 
and stakeholder relations.
In order to facilitate effective climate risk management, 
the Bank has defined a clear governance structure and 
monitoring mechanism as part of the policy. Its exposure to 
The Bank is increasingly 
enhancing its existing 
resource conservation 
efforts by strengthening 
the digital offerings 
and managing climate-
related risks, in addition 
to the efforts to be a 
responsible investor.
identified climate-related risks, the associated exposure of its major portfolios and progress in managing 
them from an adaptation and mitigation perspective shall be routinely presented to SBI's senior 
management and  the Board. 
SBI shall work to identify physical risks that may arise due to extreme weather events and long-term 
changes in climatic patterns. Similarly, the identification and development of mitigation strategies shall 
also be conducted for transition risks, which may occur as the business landscape shifts to a low-carbon 
economy.
This will prove helpful in devising risk management strategies, while also aiding in the identification of 
key sectors where further lending will align with the Bank’s purpose for a better planet. Understanding 
the impacts of these risks and opportunities on the Bank’s financial performance and position shall help 
the Bank enhance its climate change risk management strategy in the future.
Recognising the uncertainty associated with the timings and the magnitude of impacts of climate 
change, the Bank shall also explore leveraging tools like scenario analysis and stress testing in the future. 
Metrics shall also be developed to assess these risks and opportunities in line with the Bank’s strategy 
and risk management processes, in addition to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data outlined later 
in this chapter. 
 Windmills installed in Andhra Pradesh by a SBI financed group.
54  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  55
Managing SBI’s Environmental Impact
The importance of managing the environmental impact of its investments cannot be understated for 
any financial institution. However, it is equally important to manage the efficiency of owned facilities, 
especially for a Bank of SBI’s scale. Taking cognizance of this, the Bank has directed significant efforts 
towards ensuring energy efficiency, resource conservation and efficient management at all its buildings. 
SBI is proud to note that these have culminated in 18 of the Bank’s establishments being certified Green 
Buildings by the Indian Green Building Council.
View of a few Renewable Energy Projects financed by the Bank
56  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  57
This year also saw the continuation of SBI’s energy conservation initiatives. This includes the branch server 
consolidation efforts undertaken by the Bank, and saw the migration of physical servers to a centralised, 
secure and virtual location. This has allowed the Bank to reduce energy used for cooling of over 24,800+ 
servers as of 31st March 2022. Moreover, SBI continues to use IPM+, an intelligent power management 
utility software, which has helped the Bank save 24.97 GWh of energy, 9,858.21 MT of GHG emissions and 
9,36,511.47 m3 of water during the reporting period.
Waste Management
Responsible disposal of waste is an important aspect 
of SBI’s efforts to reduce its environmental footprint. 
In line with this endeavour, the Bank continues to 
enhance its policies and practices on this front. The 
Bank has introduced an Electronic Waste (e-Waste) 
Management Policy, which is also applicable to its 
foreign offices. During the year, the Bank inaugurated 
15 food waste composting plants. Additionally, there 
are 22 Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) till date. The 
Bank has put in place measures to start monitoring 
the waste generated through its operations, from 
October 2021. In FY 2021-22, over 219.14 MT of waste was 
generated from the Corporate Center, 17 LHOs and six 
ATIs. 10.55 MT of this can be attributed to paper waste, 
e-waste accounted for 84.39 MT and the remaining was 
other non-hazardous waste. 64.62 MT of total waste was 
recycled during the year.
SBI observed the week-long 'Swachhata Pakhwada' 
in January 2022 across its offices in India. The initiative 
urged staff members and customers to contribute 
towards making the country cleaner and safer. 
This week was held under the aegis of the central 
Swachh Bharat Mission and Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav 
celebrations marking the 75th Independence Day for 
India.
Source
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Diesel
8,04,365
7,90,806
8,75,022
Grid 
Electricity 
52,16,088
50,70,995
46,25,287
Total
60,20,453
58,61,801
55,00,309
Source
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Scope 1
547
553
390
Scope 2
11,44,641
11,69,146
10,66,386
Scope 3
1,40,044
1,35,811
1,92,459
Total
12,83,216
13,05,510
12,59,236
Source
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Scope 1
0.002
0.002
0.002
Scope 2
4.69
4.76
4.27
Scope 3
0.57
0.55
0.77
Total
5.26
5.31
5.05
Source
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
FY 2019-20
Diesel
59,799
58,791
65,052
Grid 
Electricity 
11,44,641
11,69,146
10,66,386
Total
12,04,440
12,27,937
11,31,438
Energy Consumption (GJ)
GHG Emissions by Scope (tCO­2e)
Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/FTE)
Total Emissions by Source (tCO2e)
Compost pit and machine installed for the recycling of waste at SBIL, Kolkata
Energy Management
Energy conservation and transitioning to clean energy is a key 
pillar of SBI’s efforts to reduce its environmental footprint. It 
is not only integral to the Bank’s commitment to becoming 
carbon neutral by 2030, but is also helping reduce dependency 
on fossil fuels, driving business resilience and cost efficiency. 
The Bank has steadily increased the share of renewable sources 
in its energy mix, harnessing solar or wind power at various 
premises, including the Corporate Centre and Global IT Centre 
in Mumbai and the 17 Local Head Offices. Meanwhile, diesel 
generator sets are also being replaced with solar energy-backed 
uninterruptible power supply systems at rural and semi-
urban branches. This has come with the added advantage of 
prolonging the lifespan of electronic devices, thus reducing 
e-waste generation.
In FY 2021-22, SBI spent ₹1,317.86 crore towards energy 
consumption, ₹203 crore of which was spent on diesel 
consumption. These expenses have been considered in addition 
to the average cost of diesel in FY 2021-22, in four metro cities to 
compute the energy and emissions data outlined below.
During the year, the Bank's Corporate Centre office 
and LHO Mumbai transitioned to 100% RE. 
This initiative will help avoid around 52 tCO2e from 
the Corporate Centre alone every year.
The Bank's captive RE 
capacity is >35 MWp 
on 31st March 2022.
SBI encourages its employees 
to join its sustainability journey 
through frequent communication 
and various initiatives.
Inauguration of the Sewage Treatment Plant 
(STP) at SBIHRD, Indore
Note: Scope 3 emissions are estimated considering work-related travel via rental car, bus, rail and air, third-party 
diesel generators and paper consumption.
State Bank Institute of Leadership (SBIL) in Kolkata encourages waste segregation and all 
residents of the campus strictly adhere to the norms prescribed for waste segregation at source. 
Dry waste and wet waste bins have been placed across the campus. The campus also has a waste 
composting machine that further contributes to its responsible waste management efforts.
Waste segregation efforts at SBIL, Kolkata
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Energy, Emissions), GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3, GRI 302-4, 
GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI-305-4, GRI 305-5
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Indirect Economic Impacts), GRI 203-2
The energy intensity from grid electricity in FY 2021-22 was 21.36 GJ/FTE.
58  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  59
Water Management
Understanding the importance of preserving water as a shared resource, the Bank has always 
encouraged responsible consumption across its facilities. Rainwater harvesting systems have been 
set up at SBI’s facilities to maximise water efficiency. During the year, a total of 5,37,096 KL of water 
was consumed at six ATIs, Corporate Center and 17 LHOs. This includes 4,55,101 KL of surface water 
consumption, 53,497 KL of groundwater and 28,498 KL of third-party water consumption. Further, 8,687 
liters of waste water was recycled through the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at the Corporate Center.
The Bank tied up with a Mumbai-based NGO to undertake EcoBricks Collection Drive by collecting 
non-recyclable plastic waste in plastic bottles. These stuffed bottles are the EcoBricks and are 
collected at a common drop-off point. This initiative of the Bank not only helps reduce waste-to-
landfill or ocean, but also helps reduce harmful environmental impacts of plastic. Till date, over 
75,000 PET bottles with plastic waste have been collected and are being used for sustainable 
building projects.
In addition to rainwater harvesting systems, State Bank Institute of Rural Banking, Hyderabad, one 
of the Bank’s training institutes leverages drains to channel excess rainwater from the campus and 
surrounding areas into an old well and a small tank. This system provides water for the facility’s 
horticulture needs, which is also tended to with a 50 KL sewage treatment plant. Drip and sprinkler 
irrigation methods are extensively used to reduce wastage. Additionally, water monitors are installed 
at different blocks to calibrate water consumption, efficient plumbing is installed, and most taps are 
fixed with low-flow water fixtures.
SBIL, Kolkata has two lily pools and a natural pond within the campus to conserve water. These 
water bodies cater to the requirements of the flora and fauna, while also adding to the beauty of 
the campus. Additional rainwater harvesting systems are being installed to store and recharge the 
groundwater by collecting and filtering rainwater from various buildings of the campus.
EcoBricks: Way Forward to Stop Plastic Pollution
Imbibing Sustainability at SBIRB, Hyderabad
Natural Harvesting of Rainwater at SBIL, Kolkata
SBI encouraged locals and residents in Meduru village, in Andhra Pradesh, to adopt digital banking 
services and products through the 'SBI YONO Green Village' initiative. YONO products and services 
like YONO KCC, YONO Krishi Gold Loans, YONO Cash and YONO Shopping were introduced to the 
community. For ease, YONO direction boards have been placed in public places. Additionally, 300 
fruit-bearing saplings were planted along the main road of the village. 
YONO Green Village in Meduru
60  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  61
Paper savings due to YONO alone are estimated to have reduced water consumption by 3,78,541 m3, 
avoided over 2,503.83 MT of paper waste and 38,237.81 tCO2e of GHG emissions.
1.4 crore sheets saved
25,000 sheets saved	
1.1 crore sheets saved
2.4 crore sheets saved
83,000 sheets saved
1.3 crore sheets saved
Savings account opening
Pre-approved two-wheeler loans
YONO Krishi KCC review
Pre-approved personal loans
Insta home top-up loans
YONO Agri Gold Loan account opening
Green Channel Counters (GCC)
GCCs facilitate services like cash withdrawal, cash deposit, internal funds transfer, balance enquiry, Green 
PIN generation and change, and mini-statement generation at retail branches across the Bank’s India 
operations digitally.
Over 27,81,30,000 transactions were undertaken through GCC saving over 445 MT of paper and 39,746.81 
m3 of water, in addition to 4,000 tCO2e of GHG emissions. 
E-registers
In the second phase of digitisation, SBI rolled out 31 e-registers, of which 26 are newly developed and 
five were revamped for use internally, to reduce the manual recording and storage of data across the 
Bank. These e-registers follow a system of checks and balances to ensure the authenticity and veracity 
of data, along with strict privacy boundaries on the access to the databases, balancing sustainability and 
digitisation with data security.
Green Remit Cards (GRCs)
GRCs allow customers to deposit cash using GCCs, CDMs or ADWMs to a beneficiary’s SBI account, using 
a magstripe-based card. Through GRCs there is cash deposit facility available 24*7 at CDMs and ADWMs. 
There is a monthly cap of `1,00,000 on the transactions.
Green PIN
Green PINs provide customers with a hassle-free and environmentally sound way to generate their ATM 
PINs without having to visit a branch. This year, 6,41,06,135 green PINs were generated, helping reduce 
paper consumption by 307.71 MT and consequently, water consumption by 27,482.08 m3 and carbon 
emissions by around 2,766.91 tCO2e.
Fraud Angle Examination Workflow
This application ensures a reduction in workflow process time and paper usage for tracking fraud loan 
accounts and non-performing assets.
Easy Approval 
In addition to paper savings, the Easy Approval application helps enhance the productivity of the Bank’s 
processes when it comes to online approval of notes. This year, 62,389 notes were approved through this 
application.
LITMAS
To undertake the streamlining of litigation-related information, the Bank has introduced a litigation 
management system, which has also helped it save a substantial amount of paper.
Resource Management
Optimising operations to reduce and manage 
resource consumption is a constant endeavour 
of the Bank. Processes and technologies are 
constantly refined to ensure a reduction in SBI’s 
footprint and enhanced productivity. Paper 
consumption, in particular, is an area where the 
Bank has identified potential for improvement 
and upon which it is acting to drive reduction. 
Paper Savings Driven by YONO in FY 
2021-22
The Bank’s flagship mobile application has been 
a key driver of these efforts, leading to paper 
savings in various processes:
GRI 305-5
GRI 305-5
62  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  63
SBI's Environmental Initiatives
SBI's Bhopal circle conducted a cleanliness drive at Kaliasot Dam, Bhopal. A resolution was also 
taken by the staff to maintain the cleanliness of the area for the next three months, and an appeal 
was made to local visitors to keep the dam clean and green. Around 150-200 KGs of garbage was 
collected and responsibly disposed with the help of local authorities.
SBI’s Amravati circle undertook a mega drive to plant over 25,000 saplings. These saplings were 
planted in captive areas such as residential complexes, government offices, colleges, schools, and 
apartment buildings, to name a few. The event was held under the aegis of the Department of 
Financial Services and the Ministry of Finance, with the aim of promoting ecological conservation 
under the Bank’s larger sustainability initiatives. It also saw attendance from the Hon’ble Finance 
Minister, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman.
Mega Tree Plantation in Amravati Circle
Dam Cleaning Drive
SBI observed World Environment Day on 5th June 2021 and conducted tree plantation drives, which saw 
the participation of the Bank's leadership. Further, at the circle and branch level, multiple tree plantation 
drives were conducted, and over 6,45,000 trees were planted during the year.
Tree Plantation drive at Amravati Circle in the presence of Hon’ble Finance Minister, Smt. 
Nirmala Sitharaman
Ayurvedic Vatika at the Bank's Corporate Centre  Office Campus
64  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  65
Human Capital   
Management 
S
BI’s workforce is its strongest and most valued asset, 
playing an integral role in the Bank's efforts to create 
shared value for society. In the face of technological 
evolution and changing customer requirements, employees 
are playing a pivotal role in SBI’s journey to become a 
powerful institution tasked with serving the country. 
The Bank’s employees are a key stakeholder group, whose 
skills and expertise are crucial for the Bank’s present 
and future. For this reason, SBI is constantly designing 
and implementing effective HR policies, procedures and 
programmes to develop and manage knowledge, skills and 
talent, while laying emphasis on the strategic utilisation of 
employees and measurable impact of their performance 
on business. The Bank regularly revamps and aligns its HR 
strategies in line with the ever-changing aspirations of its 
employees to promote a participative work culture and instill 
pride and productivity amongst its personnel.
The Bank regularly 
revamps and aligns its HR 
strategies in line with the 
ever-changing aspirations 
of its employees to 
promote a participative 
work culture and instill 
pride and productivity 
amongst its personnel.
Officers
1,11,549
99,259
33,442
Associates 
(clerical staff)
Subordinate 
staff and others
Fostering Diversity, Equal Opportunities and Inclusion
SBI makes an effort to create a work environment that is fair, secure and conducive to productivity by 
ensuring that there is no form of discrimination or harassment internally or externally. Committed to 
fostering a strong culture of inclusivity and diversity, the Bank is an equal opportunity employer and 
maintains transparency in its processes of hiring, performance evaluation and compensation. 
In FY 2021-22, SBI has introduced a Board-approved Equal Opportunity Policy for Persons with 
Disabilities, which is aligned with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016.
Certain initiatives adopted in this direction are:
 Training to visually impaired and hearing-impaired employees: visually impaired recruits are trained 
in the use of Job Access With Speech (JAWS), while hearing-impaired employees are trained in the 
use of sign language.
 Train the Trainer programme: This training programme is conducted for faculty to enable them to 
support differently abled employees during regular training programmes.
 Creating a barrier-free environment: The Bank’s JAWS license is scalable and is renewed or upgraded 
as and when required. Additionally, ramps have been installed for wheelchair users and braille script 
boards are available at most SBILDs to enhance the ease of access for differently abled employees.
As on 31st March 2022, SBI’s workforce comprised of 26.55% women.
Further, all employees of the Bank were paid more than minimum wage.
Category
Male 
Female
Officers
82,268
23,625
Associates (clerical staff)
62,278
36,981
Subordinate staff and others
30,301
3,141
Category
Officers
Associates (Clerical Staff)
Sub-Staff and Others
SCs
20,366
15,750
8,101
STs
9,419
7,686
2,164
OBCs
25,764
25,987
8,662
EWS
246
696
0
DAPs
2,415
2,475
206
Category
Senior Management and Top Executive Grade
2,100
Middle Management 
15,012
Junior Management
6,513
Workforce Breakdown by Identified Group
Workforce Breakdown by Gender and Category
Women's Representation in Management Positions
Total Workforce: 2,44,250*
*This includes permanent employees, contractual staff as well as officers posted at foreign locations.
GRI 102-8, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 
(Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Non-discrimination), GRI 405-1
GRI 102-7, GRI 102-8, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 
(Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity)
66  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  67
Category
Male
Female
Number
Median Remuneration  
(in ₹)
Number
Median Remuneration 
(in ₹)
All permanent  
employees
1,74,847
97,647.60
63,747
86,367.25
Category
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Permanent employees (D)
4981
3924
78.78
1057
21.22
Other than permanent employees (E)
115
91
79.13
24
20.87
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
5096
4015
78.79
1081
21.21
Differently Abled Employees
Median Remuneration
Garima - Prevention of Sexual Harassment
SBI is committed to imbibing a strong respect for human rights, which are reflected in all its business 
practices being compliant with its values. It takes a zero-tolerance approach towards any kind of 
workplace human rights violations, including discrimination and sexual harassment. 
During the reporting year, 43 grievances were raised on the Garima helpline. As of 31st March 2022, 38 of 
these have been resolved, with the others in various stages of resolution.
Samya from SBICB – Promoting Gender Equality
Samya is an initiative adopted by SBI to promote gender 
equity within the Bank. As part of this initiative, online 
caselets are routinely circulated among staff members, 
educating them on subtle behaviours and expressions 
reflective of gender biases. These caselets aim to enable 
employees to recognise and eliminate their subconscious 
biases. Following this, there is a two-part webinar for 
senior officials on topics such as gender sensitivity, 
prevention and redressal mechanisms.
An annual publication was launched in FY 2021-22, 
where women officers shared their experiences at the 
Bank to inspire their counterparts at various levels in 
the organisation. It also features messages from the 
management on gender sensitivity issues and articles on 
pioneering women in various walks of life.
	 Caselets depicting subtle behaviours or expressions 
which were reflective of gender bias to enable 
people to ponder over the content and root out the 
prejudices and biases in their mind.
	 Webinar discussions about gender sensitivity and 
prevention and redressal of grievances.
	 Inauguration of the the compendium consisting 
of articles authored by women officials about the 
experiences of their journey in the Bank, with 
messages intended to encourage women to seek 
better career opportunities within and outside 
SBI.
	 ePanel discussion – where several retired women 
Dy Managing Directors of the Bank were invited 
to deliberate upon their experiences in the Bank, 
attended by employees around the country.
Training programmes on gender sensitivity and POSH are regularly conducted at SBI, with 1,313 officers 
attending in the reporting year. In FY 2021-22, 24.55% employees were provided trainings on human rights 
and related issues., that is  59,871 employees out of the total 2,43,796 employees.
SBI also launched 'Maitreyi', a 
mentoring programme designed 
for in-house preparation 
of identified mentors to 
guide younger women in the 
organisation and help resolve 
any challenges faced by them.
Women’s Day Celebration
SBI hosted an event to celebrate Women’s Day, recognising the contribution of women in the Bank’s 
success.
GRI 405-1
68  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  69
Swavlambini, a virtual panel for discussion on women empowerment was conducted by SBIL, Kolkata to 
discuss 'Working Women and Glass Ceilings' and 'Work-Life Integration'.
Additionally, the Bank marked Women's Day by introducing several new initiatives for women employees 
and staff:
Enhanced ceilings of the 
scholarship amount for girl 
students, who are children 
of the Bank's employees, by 
25%.
Increased incentives for 
girl children of the Bank's 
employees for pursuing 
professional courses.
Started a new initiative for 
the welfare of pregnant 
employees. The Bank 
is providing nutrition 
allowances to these 
employees that can be 
availed once during two 
pregnancies.
Talent Retention and Management 
The identification, development and retention of high-potential employees is key to ensuring consistency 
in the Bank’s services and products. Development of skills, provision of career opportunities, proactive 
and qualitative personnel planning as well as promotion and retention of employees encourage a 
sustained business model at the Bank.
In order to meet the demand of ever-changing business needs and regulatory landscapes, SBI is 
constantly recruiting talent on a lateral and contractual basis in various business functions such as IT, 
wealth management, information security, risk and credit, among others. For entry-level positions, the 
Bank has selected 2,057 probationary officers and 5,246 junior associates in the reporting period. 1,126 
candidates were recruited on a lateral basis, while 14,041 internal candidates were promoted to executive 
and managerial positions during FY 2021-22. 
By leveraging digital and online platforms, the Bank has been able to reach out to a wider pool of 
candidates for recruitment purposes. Advertisements are published across various job portals and social 
media, enabling SBI to reach out to tech-savvy job aspirants. The Bank has also tied up with professional 
bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to widen its recruitment pool in 
specialised positions. 
Employee Training and Development 
Operating in a knowledge-oriented sector, SBI’s competitive advantage lies in the skills competencies 
of its employees. The Bank’s workforce holds testimony of a resilient training system, set to achieve the 
long-term business goals of the organisation. Given the remote and socially distanced norm in the years 
proceeding the COVID-19 pandemic, SBI has adapted to an online model of learning, resulting in fewer 
disruptions, more flexibility and health and safety. 
Trainings conducted during the reporting period have focussed on powering the Bank with a new 
purpose and motivation to revamp its business model to attain sustainable value creation. With a team 
of over 475 in-house educators and banking experts at six ATIs and 50 regional institutes of L&D, SBI 
wishes to lead its workforce into a new model of purposeful growth, fostering learner interest and talent 
retention through videos, pre-reads, case studies, quizzes, and interactive and recorded webinars. 
The Bank continues to develop its in-
house automated centralised training 
calendar management system, enhancing 
interface between employees and faculty. 
This year, 31,605 webinar-based trainings 
were conducted under 15,578 online 
programmes. Additionally, 1,800 classroom 
trainings were imparted to attendees in FY 
2021-22.
Average Training 
Hours per Full-
Time Employee
Average Training Hours 
per Female Employees
Average Training Hours 
per Male Employees
68.19
74.73
65.85
Category
Employees Trained
Officers (Generalist Cadre)
97,789
Officers (Specialist Cadre)
6,870
Associates 
96,026
Sub-staff
4,448
Contractual and Other 
277
Total
2,05,410
Employee Participation in Training Programmes
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Training and Education), GRI 404-1
70  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  71
Aspirational Courses
SBI offers ten aspirational courses to its employees, based on the following agendas:
Aspirational 
Courses
Career prospects and new 
joinees in SBI
Digital empowerment for 
effective management of work
Data analysis and 
interpretation
SME credit  
simple credit 
Invest smart for 
financial well-being 
Joy of creating 
livelihoods 
NRI business and 
compliance 
International  
banking 
Fundamentals of 
marketing 
Personal development 
and soft skills 
Category
FY 2021-22
Total 
Employees* 
(A)
Employees trained on health 
and safety measures
Employees trained on skill 
upgradation
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
No. (C)
%  
(C /A)
Employees
Male
1,78,939
2,709
1.51%
1,47,129
82.2%
Female
64,857
1,070
1.64%
58,281
89.8%
Total
2,43,796
3,779
1.55%
2,05,410
84.2%
Samunnati - Participative Coaching Intervention for Branches 
A coaching intervention based on the action research model, Samunnati is conducted to support the 
branches in becoming more goal-driven and competitive. As part of this initiative, faculty members of 
regional learning and development institutes have adopted one branch each, to extend guidance for 
viable growth models and case studies post-completion. Faculty members of SBILDs have adopted 
691 circle-identified branches PAN-India, to extend guidance to, based on the customised action plan 
designed for each branch through meaningful interactions.
Anweshan - Facilitating Sharing of Research Findings 
SBI launched Anweshan, an e-publication for disseminating best practices uncovered during various 
in-house operational studies for informed decision-making and improved business outcomes across the 
Bank.
Leadership Lessons
The Bank organised a series of interactive, virtual talks between newly promoted GMs and DGMs with top 
Management and eminent external luminaries. The programme aimed at grooming and strengthening 
leadership skills of the newly promoted officials through experience-sharing with senior officials.
Astitva - Online Quiz on Sustainability 
To encourage sustainability throughout the organisation, SBI launched Astitva, an online quiz to sensitise 
staff on current sustainability issues, UN SDGs and sustainability measures prevalent at the Bank.
Role-Based Certification (RBC) for Employees
SBI has formulated an e-RBC technology initiative for online role-based certification programmes for 
more than 2 lakh employees at the Bank. The programme has been modified to include 42 certifications 
hosted online and on the mobile platform for anywhere, anytime accessibility. During the reporting year, 
98% officers and 97% associate staff have cleared their RBCs via online training and assessment. 
SBI launched Samarthya, an engagement programme for all its employees aged 35 or below. 
The objective of the programme is to impart to young employees, a clearer picture of the ethical 
and professional standards expected of them, together with a positive service orientation. The 
programme has been designed for blended learning through a radical new channel – 'Smart 
Classroom'. Both officers and clerical staff attend the programme as a group, promoting a rich 
cross- pollination of perspectives and ideas. Over 67,000 employees shall be trained under the 
programme, 72% of whom have been covered in the reporting year.
Samarthya - Engagement Programme for Young Employees
*Excluding officials posted at foreign locations
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Stakeholder Awareness on Sustainability), GRI 404-2
GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2
72  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  73
This infrastructure, installed at the administrative, regional and local head offices of the Bank, 
has opened up new training capacities for the Bank. Currently, there are more than 400 Smart 
Classrooms imparting trainings to over 2,000 employees per day. 
Smart Classrooms
Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan Training
To contribute towards the Government of India’s mission of making the country self-reliant, SBI 
formulated 31 circle-specific training programmes that were conducted for 1,786 participants. These were 
aimed at raising awareness, enhancing confidence in operation staff, and motivating personnel to actively 
market schemes aligned with the national goal.
Audio Learning
Podcast-based learning through SBICB-on-Air podcasts, with over 50 episodes, has attracted more than 
15,000 listeners whereas Gurukul Vani - which covers topics related to credit, risk and NPA has reached 
more than 54,000 listens.
Theme-Based Fridays
Theme-based webinars are conducted by the domain ATIs on a weekly basis. The themes have been 
designed to best suit the requirements of the operating staff, with respect to the present banking 
environment. 
Leadership and Succession Planning
SBI’s Career Development System, under Project Saksham, has provided data-backed performance 
evaluations of its employees. The system uses a detailed annual competency mapping framework to 
ensure strong accountability, performance visibility and greater alignment between individual and 
organisational goals. 
There were a total of 14,041 employees that received a promotion in FY 2021-22, bringing the percentage 
of positions filled by internal candidates to 92.4%.
The Bank also has a pre-defined policy on succession planning for senior leadership positions which 
ensures a smooth and organised transition into new roles. Key outcomes of succession planning are used 
to prepare and update training programmes at the Bank.
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Performance Management and Reward System
Category
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Total 
Employees (A)
Performance 
Reviewed (B)
% (B / 
A)
Total 
Employees (C)
Performance 
Reviewed (D)
% (D 
/ C)
Male
1,79,393
1,35,608
75.59%
1,81,968
1,39,720
76.78%
Female
64,857
56,907
87.74%
63,684
54,142
85.00%
Total
2,44,250
1,92,515
78.84%
2,45,652
1,93,862
78.91%
Rewards and Recognition
Chairman’s Club Awards 
    Chairman’s Club awards for extraordinary efforts were awarded during the year to several members 
and achievers. 
SBIL, Kolkata renewed its ISO 9001:2015 
Certificate during the year
GRI 404-2
74  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  75
MD's club awards to recognise employees’ remarkable performance.
Managing Director’s Club Awards
Building Inclusiveness
Certain collaborative webinars have been conducted for employees to ensure that the employees remain 
engaged with the Bank during times of remote working. Sensitisation workshops for HR managers, 
trainers, IT officers have been conducted on special needs and supporting of PwD employees in light of 
COVID-19-triggered mental distress.
Yes I Can Bring Change
Success stories of SBI's employees can inspire other employees to find innovative and practical solutions 
to new issues. An annual success story campaign 'Yes I Can Bring Change' has been rolled out in FY 2021-
22 to gather inspiring stories of transformation from amongst SBI’s employees.
Employee Engagement 
SBI strives to ensure proactive engagement for its employees in order to inculcate a shared value system 
among its workforce as well as enhance productivity, creativity and satisfaction. 
SBI Wizards – Fostering Positivity and Emotional Well-Being 
An online quiz event 'SBI Wizards' was rolled out during the COVID-19 pandemic. The quiz continues to 
be an exciting initiative at SBI, wherein participants can include one family member in their team.
Inter-Circle Sports Tournament 
To promote fitness as well as awaken friendly yet competitive sportsman’s spirit among its employees, 
SBI organised inter-circle sports tournaments that witnessed presence and participation from various 
senior functionaries. 
Promoting Financial Literacy 
SBI has partnered with NSE Academy to promote financial literacy as a necessary life skill. Learners 
began enrolment into the programme in FY 2021-22 for five Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) of 
SBI on the NSE Knowledge Hub platform.
The five  
MOOCs  
offered are
Banking 
Fundamentals
MSME  
Lending in  
a Nutshell
Electronic 
Payment 
System in 
India
NRI 
Business & 
Compliance
Priority 
Sector 
Lending 
Norms
76  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  77
Employee Essay Competition
Since 1994, SBI has been organising an essay competition for its employees as part of State Bank Day 
celebrations. Winners of the competition are awarded cash prizes, with submissions accepted in English 
or Hindi. The topics for this year were:
	 For officers of all grades: Ethics for use of social media by bank employees
	 For associates: Future of banking for millennials
World Environment Day Poster-Making Competition
To observe World Environment Day on 5th June 2021, SBI conducted a poster-making competition for its 
employees on the theme of 'Ecosystem Restoration and Bringing Degraded Ecosystems back to Life'.
Few award-winning posters made by SBI employees
Employee Health and Well-Being    
SBI devotes great resources towards strengthening of policies, systems and processes to ensure the 
safety and well-being of its employees, keeping in mind the occurrence of unprecedented events. 
Even though the risk of major health and safety incidents is negligible in the BFSI sector, the Bank is 
committed to minimising the risk of any such occurrences to ensure zero work-related injuries and 
fatalities. 
In addition to work-related hazards such as fires, electrical shocks and other safety-related issues, the 
Bank recognises ergonomic stress, lifestyle diseases and mental health problems as legible occupational 
health and safety risks to its employees. SBI conducts awareness programmes for various issues that 
its employees may face at work or home, providing effective methods to tackle the problem. It also 
works closely with employees and management to strengthen the occupational health and safety 
management system, which is aligned with required legal standards and covers all permanent 
employees of the organisation. During the year, no Bank employee was injured and further, there were 
no cases of fatalities as well.
Parental Leave - Return to Work and Retention Rates of Permanent Employees 
as on 31st March 2022
Gender
Return to Work Rate (%)
Retention Rate (%)
Male
99.94
100
Female
99.96
100
All permanent employees of the Bank have the access to healthcare facilities, maternity and paternity 
benefits, which further helps ensure the well-being of all the employees at the Bank.
COVID-19 Vaccination Drive for SBI Employees
Details of Retirement Benefits
Category
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
% of Employees 
Covered
Whether Deducted 
and Deposited
% of Employees 
Covered
Whether Deducted 
and Deposited
PF
100 %
Yes
99.33%
Yes
Gratuity
100 %
Yes
100 %
Yes
ESI
NA
NA
NA
NA
NPS
54.92%
Yes
50.28%
Yes
GRI 403-6, GRI 403-7, GRI 403-8
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Occupational Health and Safety) 
GRI 403-1, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-3, GRI 403-4
78  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  79
Yoga Day Celebration
SBI ran an online weekly webinar series called Yogakshema on well-being, health and safety on topics of 
health, pranayama, yoga and stress management. Further, employees were encouraged to observe Yoga 
Day on 21st June 2022.
Fit India Movement at SBI
Cycling and Running Campaign
As a part of the Fit India, campaign, SBI has conducted events such as cycling and running to promote a 
healthy and active lifestyle among its employees and their families. 
Safety and Security
Safety and security are of prime importance at SBI. The Bank has put in place various measures to ensure 
the security of its employees, officers and resources. This year, the Bank introduced a new quarterly 
security newsletter emailed to all staff members. Suraksha Sandesh aims to raise awareness about 
essential security risks and to inform personnel of the security measures taken at the Bank.
Activities are conducted to motivate, train and guide security officers to perform their function more 
effectively and diligently. In the reporting period, SBI organised webinars and video calls with security 
officers on topics such as locking arrangements in the office, security equipment use and much more. 
Security Week was celebrated at the Bank from 18th to 22nd January 2022.
The CSO Annual Conference was organised at SBILD, Ranchi to discuss various issues pertaining to security 
policy, guidelines and processes.
SBI regularly 
conducts training 
programmes 
for its security 
officers. This year, 
a conference was 
arranged on internal 
security, role of the 
Bank and staff in 
times of internal 
emergencies.
GRI 403-6
80  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  81
Employee Grievances 
SBI has instituted a set of internal policies to ensure a respectful work environment. Employee grievances 
are gathered through the Sanjeevani web portal helpline, and include those from retired employees. The 
helpline also offers counsellor support in order to boost employee morale and provide them with the 
required assistance. During the reporting year, 8,156  grievances were raised on the Sanjeevani helpline. 
As of 31st March 2022, 8,014 of these have been resolved, while the other 142 are in various stages of 
resolution. 
Category
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Filed 
During The 
Year
Pending 
Resolution 
At The 
End of Year
Remarks
Filed During 
The Year
Pending 
Resolution 
At The 
End of Year
Remarks
Sexual  
Harassment
 43 
       05 
The five 
pending 
cases were 
in various 
stages of 
resolution 
as on 31st 
March 2022
45 
06 
All pending 
cases at the 
end of FY 
2020-2021 
have been 
closed in the 
current FY 
2021-2022 
Discrimination at 
workplace
Nil
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Child Labour
 Nil
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Forced Labour/ In-
voluntary Labour
Nil
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Wages
 Nil
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Freedom of Association 
SBI recognises and respects the right to freedom of association that allows employees to communicate 
their needs and requirements with the management.
Category
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Employees 
(A)
Total 
Employees 
Represented 
by Union or 
Association 
(B)
% (B / A)
Employees 
(C)
Total 
Employees 
Represented 
by Union or 
Association 
(D)
% (D / C)
Male
1,74,847
1,62,967
93.21
1,78,640
1,65,188
92.47%
Female
63,747
58833
92.29
63,497
57,353
90.32%
Total 
Permanent 
Employees
2,38,594*
2,21,800
92.96
2,42,137
2,22,541
91.91%
Care and Support for Retired Employees 
ePharmacy
SBI launched a scheme called e-Pharmacy for providing healthcare facilities to retirees, through the 
URWORLD application. In conjunction with a leading insurance provider, the Bank provides pharmacy 
services to members who commit to an annual payment plan. Through this, members can purchase 
medicines via URWORLD by uploading a valid prescription issued by a registered medical practitioner.
MyHRMS
MyHRMS is an application used by retired SBI employees to keep track of their pensions. The application 
maintains a record of the pension payments credited to their account and provides this information 
to the retired employee. It also enables them to submit their life certificate through video-based 
identification without visiting the branch.
*Excluding contractual employees and officers posted at foreign locations
GRI 403-6
GRI 102-41, GRI 406-1
82  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  83
Social and  
Relationship Capital 
Management  
T
he Bank ensures the success of its stakeholders and keeps their interests at the heart of its actions. 
SBI works towards ensuring value creation and the greater good for its customers, partners and 
communities that have stood by the Bank, providing it with a loyal customer base and diversified 
talent pool, helping SBI prosper despite a rapidly evolving business landscape.
Customer Centricity
SBI's success is built on the trust and loyalty of its customers, necessitating it for the Bank to ensure its 
offerings keep evolving to ensure customer satisfaction. The Bank has taken efforts towards this end, 
in the form of staff training and development, innovation, product development and financial literacy 
campaigns.
During the year, Project Utkarsh 
was launched to create mass 
awareness for branches to 
address customers’ pain points. 
This was an initiative, geared at 
bridging the gap in employee 
knowledge and enhancing the 
customer experience. 11,840 
branches and 54,578 employees 
were trained as part of this 
project.
To ensure proper communication with customers, SBI uses various platforms, such as – customer 
service surveys, mega customer meets and customer town hall meetings, to name a few. SBI’s Customer 
Experience Excellence Project is the cornerstone of its efforts to enhance  the banking experience and, 
it simplifies the queue management system, by prioritising senior citizens and other customers most in 
need. The Bank has also undertaken several campaigns on social media platforms to enhance customer 
service. The Branch Performance Tracking System, meanwhile, is used to monitor and manage the 
performance of different branches, avoid crowding and enhance service quality. A Customer Service 
Feedback Survey is undertaken biennially at branches to help assess the project’s effectiveness, and 
enhance its efficiency.
Customers also have the option of raising grievances through channels such as the contact centre, 
website, SMS, email, and branches or offices. The Bank’s contact centres operate round the clock, and 
offer their services in 10 regional languages, along with Hindi and English.
This year, SBI launched an initiative to send SMS alerts in 13 different local Indian languages, to enhance 
customer service and satisfaction. This is in addition to the Bank's existing toll-free numbers and 
registered mobile number-based services.
In the reporting period, 34,52,782 complaints 
were raised, by customers. The Bank resolved a 
total of 32,70,570 of these during the year, with 
1,82,212 complaints in the process of resolution 
as of 31st March 2022. 
95 % of customer complaints received 
during the year were resolved as on 
31st March 2022.
The Bank has a Compensation Policy in place 
to compensate its customer for the loss or 
inconvenience due to a deficiency in service on 
the part of the Bank. This policy is applicable in 
India and covers a number of incidents, such as 
the issue of ATM and debit cards, collection of 
cheques payable in India, and delay in pension 
payment.
Value Chain Management
SBI works with several partners in its value chain for technology and infrastructure development, digital 
services, stationery and utility supplies, and to acquire human capital. The Bank’s partners help ensure 
wider outreach of its products and services to a larger customer base. Additionally, the Bank’s knowledge 
partners help enhance its offerings through innovation and the use of business best practices. 5,977 
vendors were registered at the SBI Corporate Centre as on 31st March 2022.
SBI strives to ensure a culture of compliance, transparency and responsibility throughout the value chain. 
The Bank abides by the government-accepted selection processes when onboarding all its vendors. 
Regular audits are also conducted for outsourced activities such as those by non-IT vendors providing 
services like ATMs, chequebook printing, recovery and resolution, document archival and collateral 
management, among others. During the year, audits of 36,196 BCs and CSPs, and 639 vendors for 
outsourced work were carried out.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Customer Satisfaction)
GRI 102-9
84  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  85
Building Resilient Communities
Working towards the greater good and social responsibility form a part 
of SBI’s culture. Being a responsible corporate citizen, SBI recognises its 
vast geographical footprint and responsibility towards the communities it 
operates in. The Bank undertakes CSR activities across all of its locations 
and consequently, creates impacts on millions of lives across India. 
₹204.10 crores were allocated for FY 2021-22, of which ₹102.56 crores were 
given to the Bank’s CSR arm, SBI Foundation. The remaining ₹101.54 
crores were utilised for other direct activities, including capex expenditure 
of RSETIs.
This year, enhancing the resilience of beneficiaries was a key action 
item for the Bank, which directed its CSR efforts towards healthcare, 
education, skill development, livelihood, and environmental sustainability. 
Special emphasis was also given to uplifting and empowering 
entrepreneurs, women and youth.
Healthcare and 
S
Improving
Better
anitation 
19.84%
8.81%
3.91%
5.62%
10.19%
15.85%
3.99%
30.78%
1.00%
Education
Sector-Wise 
CSR spend
Empowerment of Women 
and Senior Citizens
Environmental Preservation
Protection of National Heritage
War Veterans
Promotion
of Sports
Welfare of
Rural and Skill
Development
Miscellaneous
Support to National Projects
During the year, SBI also showcased its support through sizeable grants towards national 
projects, which include:
1.	
Clean Ganga Fund: 
The Bank assisted 
with the development 
of Karanwas Ghat, 
Bulandshahar, and 
allocated ₹3.21 crores 
towards the same.
2. 	 National Culture Fund: 
SBI allocated ₹10 crores 
for the development 
of Atmanirbhar Bharat 
Design Center, Red Fort. 
This fund is being used 
for encouraging Indian 
handicrafts and artisans.
3. 	 National Foundation for 
Communal Harmony: The 
Bank set aside ₹2 crores 
to support the children 
who lost their parents 
due to the communal 
riots and violence, in their 
education.
Support for Armed Forces
SBI has continued to support the defence forces of the nation and a number of projects 
were undertaken during the year towards this end. These included, but were not limited 
to, the following: 
Educational Grants: A total 
of ₹10 crores were given to 
the wards of ex-servicemen 
and dependents of war 
veterans through the 
Kendriya Sainik Board.
Centre for Differently Abled: In March 2022, the 
Bank donated funds to National Security Guard 
(NSG) Manesar for equipping Prerna Development 
Centre with rehabilitation equipment for differently 
abled children. 
Donation of Sports and Technological Equipment: 
SBI donated sports and technological equipment, 
including cycles, computers and projectors to 
Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Mumbai. 
This contribution was made in line with the Fit India 
Movement, and was aimed at enhancing the digital 
skills of the CISF personnel.
Specialised Equipment Donation: The Bank 
donated a battery-operated vehicle and specialised 
equipment for differently abled children at MEG 
Centre, Bengaluru.
Facilities for Paraplegic Soldiers: The Bank 
donated ₹4.70 crores to the Army Central Welfare 
Fund, which was used to set up a centre for 
paraplegic defence personnel in Mohali.
Infrastructure Support: 
During the year, SBI 
assisted the Indian Army’s 
veterans by creating an Ex-
Servicemen Contributory 
Health Scheme (ECHS) 
shelter shed, helping easy 
access to medical facilities. 
In addition, the Bank also 
presented the Indian Army 
with the infrastructure of a 
Canteen Stores Department 
(CSD), under its CSR 
programme for continued 
support towards the defence 
forces.
This year, the Bank 
spent ₹ 204.10 
crores on its CSR 
efforts. 
 
SBI touched the 
lives of 1,97,550 
beneficiaries in 3,886 
villages through 380 
CSR activities in FY 
2021-22.
Support to Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Mumbai
Donation to Armed Forces Flag Day:  
Rs 10 crore
GRI 413-1
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Indirect Economic Impacts, Local Communities), GRI 413-1
86  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  87
Healthcare
Healthcare is the backbone of every strong and resilient economy. In its efforts to create 
a stronger healthcare system in India, the Bank has taken several initiatives such as 
providing the requisite infrastructure to hospitals, NGOs and trusts working in this sector.
During the year, some of the key initiatives of SBI in this area included:
	 Supported Sri Sathya Sai Heart Hospital, in the procurement of five neonatal 
ventilators, paediatric-adult ventilators and one anaesthesia machine.
	 Support to Govel Trust, Chennai for the purchase of medical equipment. Govel trust 
runs the Aravind Eye Hospitals chain, which provides large volume, high quality and 
affordable eye care.
	 Assisted Sparsh Hospice, Centre of Palliative Care, Hyderabad, through donations for terminally ill 
cancer patients.
	 Supported various trusts like Dhanvantari Charitable Hospital - Bengaluru, Shanmukhapriya Trust 
- Mumbai, Shanmukhananda Trust - Mumbai, Prasanthi Medical Services and Research Foundation - 
Ahmedabad, in the procurement of various medical instruments required for the hospital and health 
centres run by them.
Education
Education plays a significant and remedial role in balancing the socioeconomic fabric of 
the nation and helps in creating a self-sufficient life. With that aim, SBI undertakes efforts 
to support the education of socially weaker groups, including those in underdeveloped 
and remote areas.
During the year, SBI assisted in the following areas: 
	 Supported Tata Steel Foundation – Mumbai in setting up digital-based classrooms for 
children in remote and tribal areas of Odisha and Jharkhand.
	 Donated laptops to the underprivileged students in Thiruvananthapuram under the 
scheme “Vidyakiranam”.
	 Supported Matrubhan Society, Bhubaneshwar in building mobile science and math 
lab. The mobile lab will be utilised for the students of Sri Aurobindo Centers in the 
villages and tribal areas of Odisha.
	 Support for setting up of Smart Classrooms in various Kasturba Schools for girl children in Uttar 
Pradesh.
	 Donated to Self-Reliance Endower for Education Research and Charitable Trust towards procurement 
of a school bus, which will be utilised for transporting students from villages located in the borders of 
Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to college.
	 Donated new clothes and stationery to over 100 underprivileged school children. Staff members of 
SBI also contributed voluntarily to this noble cause.
Donation to Prashanti Medical Service and 
Research Foundation, Ahmedabad
Ambulance donation by the Bank's 
Thiruvanathapuram circle
Medical van donated to Indian Association of Blood Cancer and Allied diseases
Support to Kasturba Girls School in Uttar Pradesh towards setting up of smart classrooms
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
88  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  89
Women’s Empowerment 
In an effort to empower its communities, SBI works towards imparting vocational skills 
through trainings that can help women become financially independent. During the 
year, the Bank undertook the following initiatives: 
	 Donated `1.70 crores for setting of Bharosa Centre at Karimnagar, Telangana. 
Bharosa is a registered society set up by Telangana State Police for providing 
integrated support and assistance to women and children affected by violence. The 
centre facilitates immediate access to a range of services including medical, legal, 
psychological, and counselling support. Over 10,000 victims have been supported 
since inception of Bharosa Centers through the various programmes.
	 Supported NGOs such as Sachhi Saheli, Samaj Shakti Society and Silver Lining on 
various aspects that include health and sanitation, empowerment, livelihood and 
education, to name a few.
	 Provided nutritional kits and medical items to women and children of marginalised 
households in Dharamshala, Rait and Nagrota in Himachal Pradesh.
SBI's Patna circle donated 50 sanitary pad vending machines to Netarhat Old Boys Association, Global 
Social Responsibility (NOBA GSR).
School bus donation to Lakshya Sadhna Society for the cause of mentally challenged children
SBI's Hyderabad circle made donations for setting of Bharosa Centre (women support cell)  
in Telangana State
Promotion of Sports 
Welfare of Persons with Disabilities
SBI assisted the Inspire Institute of 
Sports, Bengaluru in the procurement 
of judo mats, strength and conditioning 
equipment, and four multipurpose 
vehicles. 
The Bank donated to Project Mumbai for 
procuring specially designed wheelchairs 
for the differently abled sportspersons to 
enable them to participate in wheelchair 
basketball competitions. This initiative 
aims at providing competitive trainings 
and promoting tournaments that 
encourage willing players and support 
their dreams of national representation.
The Bank has been actively working towards ensuring the betterment of persons with 
disabilities. Some of the initiatives undertaken during the year by SBI in this space include: 
	 Supported Lakshya Sadhna Society in procurement of a school bus for mentally 
challenged children.
	 Helped provide Rajasthan Mahila Kalyan Mandal, Ajmer with a 25-seater bus for 
providing conveyance facility to mentally challenged children for attending school. 
	 Donated to Astha, Kalkaji, Delhi for the purchase of various fixtures, furniture, 
computers and one van for six centres run for differently abled and underprivileged 
children. 
Donation of wheelchair for differently abled 
students
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
90  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  91
Swachh Bharat, Environmental Sustainability and Sanitation 
The Bank has been committed to ensuring that everyone has access to a safe, healthy 
and clean environment. One such effort by the Bank towards this is the provision of 
sanitary napkin vending machines and bins. Further, the Bank has also assisted with the 
construction and renovation of accessible toilets at the Leprosy Mission Trust.
Major initiatives in this space include:
	 Support for setting up and installation of solar water heating systems in various 
orphanages located in Thiruvananthapuram.
	 Donations to Delhi Council for Child Welfare for the installation of three solar power 
plants, intended for the vocational training centres set up by the welfare trust. 
	 Support to Sugam Jagriti, Patna towards installation of 240 stainless steel waste bins 
in and around the city. 
	 Support for the procurement and installation of high mast solar lights in the 27 
gram panchayats of Khurda district, Odisha.
	 Support to World Wide Fund (WWF) for setting up solar-based deep well pumping 
systems to provide water to wildlife in Nallamalla Forest (Nagarjuna Sagar Srisailam 
Tiger Reserve).
 SBI also donated plastic recycling machines at multiple locations this year. 
Animal Welfare
SBI has taken steps to ensure animal welfare, some of which include the adoption of tigers and other 
endangered animals for a year through various zoological parks and animal shelters. The Bank has also 
made donations to Help In Suffering (HIS), Jaipur, for an animal ambulance, that can provide medical 
facilities to stray animals, amongst other initiatives. 
SBI Children’s Welfare Fund
Joy of Giving
The Bank established SBI Children’s Welfare Fund in 1983, using voluntary contributions from 
its staff. The interest amount on the corpus is used to support institutions working towards the 
welfare of underprivileged and orphaned children. In FY 2021-22, SBI contributed over ₹65.81 lakhs 
through this fund to seven institutions across the country. This included donations being made 
to foundations such as Prerona Pratibandhi Sishu Bikash Kendra, Jyoti Sarup Kanya Asra Society, 
Parichay Foundation and Panini Kanya Mahavidyalaya, among others.
SBI observed Joy of Giving Week from 2nd October 2021 to 
8th October 2021. Employees voluntarily donated clothes, 
groceries, stationery and other usable items, which were 
then donated to various NGOs. The event saw participation 
from employees across all circles and branch offices.
Collections being flagged off at the Corporate Centre
Donation to World Wide Fund (WWF) for Nature, India ₹15 lakhs
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
92  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  93
CSR Activities by Foreign Offices
SBI supported Pratham UK, as part of their centenary celebration, through donations towards 
educational needs of around 3,000 children in India. Additionally, the Bank’s UK operations also raised 
£2,000 towards a global charity, Save the Children.
On the occasion of International Women’s Day, SBI UK donated cheque of £1,500 to Sakoon, a support 
network for women who are undergoing treatment for breast cancer and organised a breast cancer 
awareness talk for employees. 
The UK operations of the Bank, as part of the centenary celebrations, encouraged employees to support 
the local council’s tree plantation drive by planting 100 trees.
SBI’s Shanghai operations donated a sum of RMB 5,000 to Shanghai Soong Ching Ling Foundation 
towards fostering a more inclusive learning, educational and societal environment for children with 
special needs.
The Australia operations of SBI sponsored annual journal of The Police Association of New South 
Wales (NSW) representing 22,000 serving & retired NSW Police Officers. Further, it sponsored an event 
conducted by the Australia India Business and Trade Foundation (AIBTF) supporting India in the fight 
against COVID-19. The Sydney office of SBI sponsored a programme conducted by Tamil Valarachi 
Manaram, a Sydney-based not-for-profit group, working towards women's empowerment and skill 
development. 
SBI’s Bangladesh operations allotted BDT 1.01 crore as a special CSR fund during the year, and conducted 
CSR activities at different places in Bangladesh to distribute food items, health protection items and 
medical equipment in urban and rural COVID-affected areas of Bangladesh.
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
94  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  95
SBI FOUNDATION
SBI Foundation was established in 2015 as a Section VIII company, with the aim of streamlining the 
Bank and its subsidiaries’ CSR initiatives. The Foundation runs on the Bank’s ethos of “service beyond 
banking”, and works towards creating an inclusive environment. The Foundation works across the 
country to deliver value through strategic partnerships with impact-making entities in the social and 
developmental sectors. 
Project Gift Hope, Gift Life
SBI Foundation, in partnership with Mohan Foundation and with support from SBI Card, launched 
a digital platform for organ donation registration in India. The Bank organised a national awareness 
campaign on organ donation for all SBI circles from December 2021 to February 2022. A series of 
workshops were undertaken to sensitise and encourage SBI’s staff members and their families, 
friends and relatives. 
Funding Pandemic Prevention
Enhancing Safety of Blood Transfusions
SBI inaugurated the ‘SBI Foundation Centre 
of Excellence for Genomics-Guided Pandemic 
Prevention’ in partnership with CSIR-Centre for 
Cellular and Molecular Biology and provided a 
grant of ₹9.94 crores for the project.
SBI, in partnership with Tata Memorial Centre 
and support from Discount and Finance House of 
India (DFHI) launched project NAT (Nucleic-Acid 
Amplification Test). It is aimed at making blood 
transfusions safer by detecting infections early on 
in treatment. This project is expected to positively 
impact the lives of 50,000 cancer patients.
Promoting Innovation and Technology
SBI Foundation, launched the Techtonic Innovations 
in Assistive Technology challenge by SBI Foundation in 
partnership with Social Alpha. Under this initiative, SBI 
supported innovators and entrepreneurs working on 
products and services that address the difficulties faced 
by people with disabilities. It aims to support early-stage 
Assistive Technology start-ups through a grant that will 
enable ideating, prototyping and growth.
This is a 13-month fellowship that 
provides a framework for India's 
bright young minds to connect 
and work towards the upliftment 
of rural communities. Shortlisted 
candidates get the chance to work 
with 12 partner NGOs on challenging 
development projects. This creates 
a platform for the youth to become 
aware of the ground realities, while 
also giving them the opportunity to contribute towards building resilient communities. The alumni base 
for YFI consists of over 452 passionate changemakers of which 70% continue to be associated with the 
developmental sector post the fellowship. The ninth cohort of the fellowship with 80 fellows is serving 
communities at 45 diverse geographic locations in 15 states.
Gram Seva, a flagship programme of the Bank, was 
launched in 2017 to facilitate inclusive rural  
development and lower income inequalities. This initiative 
seeks to improve the quality of life in villages through 
digitisation, infrastructure improvement and access to 
primary health services, promotion of sustainable livelihood 
practices, and empowerment of rural women and youth. 
 
SBI Gram Seva has been implemented in around 100 
villages, and has partnerships with several NGOs across the 
country.
FLAGSHIP PROGRAMMES
Youth for India (YFI)
Gram Seva
In FY 2021-22, impact assessments of the programme were conducted, with Gram Seva 
being rated high in terms of a comprehensive strategy, effective implementation, social 
return on investment, and sustainability. Gram Seva has also garnered appreciation and 
awards from various platforms, since its inception.
Over the last three years, SBI Foundation has been able to make a commendable impact 
in the villages, touching the lives of 20,322 households and 1,13,010 beneficiaries across 16 
states.
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
96  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  97
The Centre of Excellence (CoE) aims 
to empower Persons with Disabilities 
by enhancing their skills and making 
measurable improvements to their lives 
by optimising their cognitive, physical, 
social and vocational functioning. During 
the financial year, the CoE has collectively 
conducted 29 training programmes for 712 
employees with disabilities in PSBs and 
RRBs, six webinars for 168 participants from 
PSBs, and four sensitisation programmes for 
HR officials of PSBs. 
 
Other programmes funded by the Bank 
through SBI Foundation to promote 
inclusion and empowerment of PwDs 
include:
Centre of Excellence for Persons with Disabilities
The Vriddhi Training-cum-Production Centre 
at Bhubaneshwar, Odisha: Persons with 
intellectual disabilities making soaps and 
incense sticks
	 Denial to Empowerment by AMBA:  
SBI Foundation and AMBA joined hands to train and employ 1,200 persons with intellectual 
disabilities through alternative learning methods for two years. The support will be utilised for setting 
up 10 new ACPCs (AMBA Certified Partner Centres) and recurring expenditure for restarting 50 
existing ACPCs.
	 SBI Foundation Techtonic - Grand Challenge for Assistive Technology Start-ups:  
In partnership with the Foundation for Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship (FISE), SBI Foundation 
is supporting four early-stage assistive technology innovations, that are working on disability areas 
like locomotor disability, speech, and hearing, visual impairment, and developmental disorders. This is 
expected to benefit 200 PwDs immediately and 2,000 PwDs over the period of three years.
 Vriddhi Training-cum-Production Centre: 
SBI Foundation supported Gram Vikas to establish the Vriddhi production-cum-training centre. The 
Centre will be used to provide trainings to PwDs and give them access to work opportunities at the 
in-house manufacturing centre.
	 Rehabilitation of PwDs:  
An initiative to support rehabilitation services to 2,000 PwDs suffering from traumatic brain and 
spinal injuries through 7,000 rehabilitation sessions, one-on-one consultation sessions with medical 
experts, and awareness programs to educate the masses about the scourge of traumatic brain injury.
	 Upgradation of Clinical Services of Dr. S.R.Chandrasekhar Institute of Speech and Hearing: SBI 
Foundation has partnered with the Bangalore Speech and Hearing Trust to enable the institute to 
provide enhanced services to persons with speech, hearing, language and communication disorders. 
The project will benefit more than 4,700 beneficiaries from economically backward and rural areas of 
the Bengaluru urban area.
	 School for Potential Advancement and Restoration of Confidence (SPARC):  
SBIF has partnered with SPARC India to ensure inclusive education in government primary schools 
in Lucknow. The program aims to develop 20 primary schools into inclusive schools for children with 
disabilities, build capacity, undertake advocacy and sensitise relevant stakeholders for a period of two 
years.
The Foundation, as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, launched a new flagship 
healthcare programme that aims to forge partnerships with like-minded organisations to 
ensure a healthier future for all. During FY 2021-22, the Foundation sanctioned 14 projects 
to support various initiatives like organ donation, setting up of mobile medical units and 
nucleic acid amplification testing. In addition to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
This year, a special initiative was undertaken to reintegrate survivors of trafficking and violence into 
society by providing them with relevant training, education, and sustainable livelihood opportunities in 
Thane district, Maharashtra.
Additionally, the Foundation supported two projects helping thirteen athletes, in partnership with the 
Abhinav Bindra Foundation Trust and Karnam Malleshwari Foundation. Support was extended to 30 
para-athletes who can be medal prospects at international multi-sport events.
The Foundation also sanctioned two projects for ₹1 crore to plant fruit-bearing trees and for securing 
a vital tiger corridor between Melghat and Satpura Tiger reserve. During the year, an initiative was also 
launched to support and strengthen the conservation of red panda species in the Sikkim and Darjeeling-
Kalimpong region of the Khangchendzonga National Park.
Healthcare Flagship Programme
Other Projects
India Health Alliance is working to promote innovative finance as well as innovations and cutting-edge 
technologies that can strengthen healthcare systems in the country. 
₹71 crores were allotted towards COVID-19 relief activities. The initiatives undertaken include setting up of 
beds in COVID-19 care centres and ICU facilities, provision of ventilators and health equipment, PPE kits 
and the distribution of over six lakh meals during the pandemic.
Through STEAM scholarships (Abhinav Bindra 
Foundation), various athletes have full access 
to sports science facilities and customised 
sports-specific routines based on their goals in 
consultation with their coaches.
SBI Foundation and the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance (IIBF) partnered with Kshamata NGO 
for reintegrating 40 survivors of trafficking and 
violence into society.
GRI 413-1
GRI 413-1
98  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  99
Intellectual  
Capital Management
S
BI’s approach to managing intellectual capital aims to revolutionise offerings to its customers, in 
a secure manner. The adoption of advanced technology and innovation across the BFSI sector 
has helped SBI be at the forefront and has allowed the Bank to keep pace with the continuously 
evolving business landscape.
Data Privacy
of its data assets. As a part of their RFIAs, the branches undergo Information System (IS) audits to assess 
IT-related risks. The centralised IT establishments also undergo an IS audit by a team of qualified officials, 
comprising of auditors appointed through a lateral recruitment process. Furthermore, the Bank’s 
Cybersecurity Policy necessitates a cybersecurity audit on an annual basis.
SBSOC and ISD
The Bank has set up the State Bank Security Operations Centre (SBSOC) for real-time monitoring, 
analysis, correlation and incident management. It can detect virus infections on systems, incorrect login 
attempts and other unauthorised activities. Internal audits are conducted at regular intervals to improve 
IT security.
The Bank’s Information Security Department is headed by the Chief General Manager and Group CISO. 
This function prevents unauthorised access, disclosure, disruption, modification, inspection, recording 
or destruction of information. For effective functioning, the department is segregated into three distinct 
segments:
	 Information Security Operations is the “toll-gate” for all IT activities, and oversees the perception,  
assessment and mitigation of potential risks and their impacts.
	 Security Operations Centre is ISO 27001:2013 certified and helps to detect, analyse, defend, 
investigate and report cybersecurity incidents through robust processes and technological solutions.
	 Cyber Security Wing undertakes internal ethical hacking and red teaming exercises.
To combat cybercrimes, the Ministry of Home Affairs has rolled out a cybercrime reporting portal. To 
ensure Bank’s support for this new initiative, cybercrime cells have been set up in 17 circles. These work  
round the clock, attending to customer complaints on cyber frauds. As of 31st March 2022, a total of 89,871 
complaints have been attended to.
Awareness sessions around IS for the Bank’s employees, group entities and vendor partners are 
conducted at regular intervals. During the year, some of the activities undertaken included various 
webinars, hacking demos and knowledge-sharing sessions.
The Bank has a Board-approved Information and Cyber Security Policy and Standards, detailing its 
escalation processes in case of any observed security disruptions or concerns about the same. There is 
a strong business stability and contingency plan and incident response method at the Bank, which is 
verified periodically. Additionally, SBI’s IT Strategy Committee organises a quarterly Integrated Business 
Continuity Exercise to mitigate the unfavourable consequences of business interruption and system 
breakdown. 
The growth in the volume of data handled by the Bank makes storage and processing a critical concern. 
This, in addition to the current macroeconomic landscape, calls for a well-equipped data management 
system, which has become a key driver of digital transformation and business innovation. 
Data management also carries several security risks that have become very significant in recent times. 
Several investor groups have examined SBI on data privacy and security risks, compliance and legal 
issues, due to its operations in a highly regulated sector. SBI has established a strong data privacy and 
security strategy to capitalise on  benefits and mitigate risks. As a pioneer in the Indian BFSI sector, it has 
established a robust data governance structure, and set up a Data Management Office, headed by the 
Chief Data Management Officer. An Apex-Level Data Governance Council (ADGC) drives the framework 
for data governance, with support from the Data Governance Council (DGC). Through this approach, 
the Bank is able to reduce complexity, ensure data quality and security, and improve overall utilisation 
On 28th January 2022, SBI observed Data Privacy Day, to 
commemorate which, the employees took a privacy pledge. They 
also participated in a fortnight-long, online quiz on data privacy and 
GDPR. This was done with the objective of increasing staff-wide 
awareness on the need for data protection measures and existing 
laws and regulations on data privacy.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Customer Privacy), GRI 418-1
100  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  101
Privacy Governance
The Bank’s cybersecurity framework aims  to conduct ethical hacking on internet applications. The 
Bank has an approved Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for ethical hacking, and encourages its staff 
members to attempt it on the Bank’s infrastructure.
The Chairman of the IT Sub-Committee of the Board is engaged in the cybersecurity strategy process, 
alongside the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) from the executive management team.
At present, a Proactive Risk Management (PRM) solution  combats  phishing, credit card frauds, internet 
banking frauds, mobile banking frauds, and others. PRM is laced with robust data analytics, AI and ML. It 
can detect and alert fraud, suspicious account and transaction activity, while facilitating effective 
countermeasures. Cybersecurity risk monitoring using cognitive computing is being used to identify 
potential security threats through cognitive computing-based adaptive security tools and continuous 
cyber risk monitoring software.
The Bank is fully compliant with all the 21 mandatory controls and 10 advisory controls prescribed by the 
SWIFT. Further, the business continuity management system of the IT risk management department 
adheres to the obligations laid down by ISO 22301:2012. 
A quarterly vulnerability assessment and reporting exercise is conducted, following which an interim 
report is issued recommending mitigative and preventive actions  to enhance security within the Bank.
In FY 2021-22, SBI recorded a total of 8 information security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents, 3 
of which involved customers’ personally identifiable information. No fines or penalties were to be paid in 
relation to these incidents.
Innovating for Customer Experience
Digital Banking
The Bank offers a range of technology-centric innovations for its customers in the digital banking 
domain. A multi-channel delivery model offers multiple channels – digital, mobile, ATM, internet, social 
media and branch offices – to customers to carry out transactions.
The Bank’s flagship mobile banking and lifestyle app, YONO, is a one-stop shop offering financial services, 
along with a gamut of other banking solutions. Additionally, the Bank has YONO Krishi for its agricultural 
segment and YONO Quick Pay for enhancing customer accessibility. YONO has 110.74 million downloads, 
and over 48.35  million registrations as on 31st March 2022.
ATMS and AWDMs
With 65,030 ATMs and AWDMs, SBI has one of the largest ATM networks in the world, as on 31st March 
2022. The Bank has introduced a 24x7 OTP-based cash withdrawal facility for transactions above 
₹10,000/. This was done to strengthen ATM security against skimming, cloning and card thefts, ensuring 
accessibility and safe banking for its customer base.
The Bank has enhanced e-Surveillance 
to cover around 46,182 ATMs as on 31st 
March 2022 and will expand its coverage 
to all ATMs in the coming year.
The President’s Estate branch was 
inaugurated by the Hon'ble President of 
India Shri Ram Nath Kovind along with 
the first lady Smt. Savita Kovind, in the 
presence of Hon'ble Finance Minister 
Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman.
The Bank is providing ATM services at the Dal 
Lake and Khardungla Pass, enhancing access to 
financial services.
Inauguration of President’s estate branch by the Hon'ble President of India.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Customer Satisfaction), GRI 203-2 
GRI 418-1
102  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  103
Internet Banking
SBI has 918 lakh retail internet banking users and 31.37 lakh corporate internet banking users. To provide 
them with a seamless and secure experience, a number of new services were rolled out these include, 
but are not limited to, login OTPs, positive pay systems, real-time multiple demand loan for e-commerce 
transactions and enhancements to the SARAL transaction limit. As on 31st March 2022, a total of 68,714  
sub-merchants were integrated with Payment Gateway.
SWAYAMs
As of 31st March 2022, SBI has installed 19,500  SWAYAMs (barcode-based, self-passbook printing kiosks) 
across 16,927 branches. These include 9,139 kiosks in ATM rooms or e-lobbies and 1,601 kiosks are deployed 
as “Through the Walls” available outside branch banking halls for extended hours. An estimated 4.17 crore 
passbooks are printed through these SWAYAM kiosks on a monthly basis.
CKYC for Non-Individuals and CKYC for FI-Legacy
In August 2021, SBI launched CKYC Document Classification and Upload (CDCU), an improved AI-based 
scanning solution. SBI has covered individual, non-individual and FI under CKYC. This was done in view of 
the increased volume of digitisation as an alternative for the scanning.
Pension Seva Portal
The Bank has revamped its Pension Seva Portal, and has added features such as Video Life Certificate 
(LC) enabled for regular pensioners with Aadhar seeded accounts and login through OTP on Aadhar-
linked mobile numbers. Additionally, this portal is also mobile responsive and available at the user's 
convenience.
Fxout
Fxout is a centralised platform for retail remittances, 
which is accessible to customers 24*7 and does not 
require any forex expertise. The Bank has also released 
an Fxout handbook, which is available in the public 
domain. 
SBI FASTag
SBI has completed the integration of FASTAG 
application with BillDesk for recharge through 
PhonePe. Customers can now recharge their SBI 
FASTags directly from the application by just entering 
their vehicle number in the FASTAG recharge option.
Easycollect
Easycollect application has been rolled out in 
integration with Edelweiss Tokio Life Insurance Co. Ltd. 
policyholders can now remit renewal premium through SBI branches by making use of this application.
SBI Unipay
SBI has developed a Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS) application named SBI Unipay, for bill payments, 
which has gone live in July 2021. 
Payment Aggregator and Payment Gateway (e-Pay and PG)
SBI works both as a payment aggregator and payment gateway, which is a unique PCIDSS-certified 
secured platform for facilitating seamless e-Commerce transactions between merchants, customers and 
financial institutions. The platform is provided through the payment aggregator (SBI e-Pay) and payment 
gateway (SBIPG) applications by integrating thousands of merchants on the one end and payment 
channels on the other. As on 31st March 2022, SBI e-Pay has onboarded 343 new merchants including 
prestigious merchants such as Central Power Research Institute, High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar 
Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation and Kanpur Metro and a total of 1,502 merchants were integrated with SBI 
e-Pay.
WhatsApp Banking
WhatsApp Banking services offer the convenience of accessing personal banking accounts and services 
from the comfort of home. The Bank also offers a virtual chatbot to perform functions like balance 
enquiry, mini statement and many others.
Innovation in Our Processes
Retail Loans 
Use of advanced technology was done in the IT-retail loans to source, process, underwrite and disburse 
loans through SBI’s Loan Originating System (LOS), Personal Banking, LOS (Agri) and Retails Loan 
Management System. During the year, the Bank rolled out Loan Account Management System (LAMS) 
for loan collection. 
Enhancing Access to FI&GS
In the Financial Inclusion and Government Schemes (FI&GS) space, SBI processed 2.45 crore and 
2.50 crore transactions respectively as the destination bank in a single day under the ninth and tenth 
installments of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi.
Data Warehouse
The Bank has a vision of best-in-class data architecture through next-gen data warehouse. This will help 
accommodate the growing volume of data, making it a single source of truth for all data purposes. 
Loans worth `21,898 crores were 
issued digitally through analytics-
based products during the year.
Analytics
SBI is enhancing its analytics capabilities by using 
AI/ML for enhanced efficiency, reduced risks and 
growing business. Some of the projects undertaken 
in the year using analytics were end-to-end digital 
loans and adoption of cost-to-income ratio tool 
analytics for enhancing operational efficiency. 
Additionally, Bank’s new infrastructure aims to fulfill the gaps of the previous setup. The new infra aims to 
improve utilisation of unstructured data in its state-of-the-art implementations and for audio/video /text 
analytics.
Innovating for Our Employees
Online Assessment Centre
This was developed with the aim of assessing and evaluating senior leaders’ competencies vis-à-vis 
organisational competency framework. This is followed by sharing Individual Developmental Plans (IDPs) 
and a guided development journey. The development journey consists of an exciting array of stories, views, 
reading extracts and case studies for apprising each participant of the areas of development and strength, 
thus facilitating personal and professional growth. 2,233 assessments were completed, in FY 2021-22. 
askSBI
askSBI is the in-house search engine used by branches of the Bank. 
GRI 203-2, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Customer Satisfaction)
GRI 203-2, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 (Customer Satisfaction)
104  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  105
Awards and  
Recognition
Best Airport Financing Bank Award 2021 
SBI received the Best Airport Financing Award 
2021 at the 13th International Conference-cum-
Awards on Civil Aviation and Cargo Ceremony 
held on 28th February 2022.
DIGIXX 2022 Award 
The Bank received gold in the category 
of Marketing Excellence During COVID-19 
Lockdown (BFSI).
Outstanding PSU of the Year 2021 
SBI was adjugated 
the Outstanding 
PSU of the Year 
2021 Award at the 
11th Managing 
India Awards 
hosted by the All 
India Management 
Association.
SBI won Gold in the ET 
Human Capital Awards under 
the category ‘Excellence 
in Creating a Culture of 
Continuous Learning and 
Upskilling’.
SBI was awarded ‘Australia 
India Impact Award 2021 
(Organisation)’ at the India 
Australia Business and 
Community Awards Gala 2021.
SBI Wealth has been chosen as 
one of the Best Brands of 2021 
by the Economic Times.
SBI was awarded the Certificate 
of Commitment by the Central 
Vigilance Commission for its 
commitment to upholding the 
highest standards of integrity 
and good governance.
SBI won the Economic Times 
‘Iconic Brands of India’ award, 
in recognition of the Bank’s 
resilience during COVID-19 
and providing uninterrupted 
banking services.
The Bank was awarded the 
FICCI Special Category – Fight 
against COVID-19 Award. 
The Bank bagged a Silver 
in the Programmatic and 
Performance Marketing (BFSI) 
category for its lead generation 
campaign.
SBI was given the 'Marketer of 
the year' award by International 
Advertising Association, 
recognising its excellence in 
marketing.
The  
ET Human 
Capital  
Awards
Australia India 
Impact Award 
2021
Best Brands of 
2021
Certificate  
of 
Commitment 
Iconic Brand 
of India Award 
2021
FICCI CSR 
Award
DIGIXX 2022 
Award
Marketer 
of the Year 
Award
SBI received a gold in the 
category of 'Influencer Marketing 
Campaign (BFSI)' for its ICC T-20 
marketing.
DIGIXX 2022 
Award
Kirti Puraskar
SBI was awarded the Kirti Puraskar for excellent 
implementation of Hindi at the Hindi Divas 
Samaroh. 
106  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  107
SBI was conferred ‘India’s 
Leading Bank – Public’ award 
at the Dun & Bradstreet BFSI 
and FinTech Summit 2022.
YONO SBI was awarded the 
gold at the 7th edition of the 
Mobile Marketing Awards - 
#TheMaddies 2020 for People’s 
Choice Award.
SBI was recognised as the 'Best Cash 
Management in India' and 'Best 
Transaction Bank in India' by Asian 
Banker Magazine, Singapore, at the 
Transaction Finance Awards 2021.
SBI was awarded Green Tech/ 
Sustainability Award for providing a 
channel mix optimisation at branch 
level to reduce in-person visits.
SBI was awarded the “Best 
Performing Bank in SHG 
Linkage” for FY 2020-21 and FY 
2021-22 by the Ministry of Rural 
Development, Government of 
India.
SBI has been awarded 'The 
Best Trade Finance Provider 
(India) 2022' for the tenth 
consecutive year by Global 
Finance Magazine.
SBI was awarded the Data 
Intelligence Award for its 
pre-approved business loan 
product.
SBI was awarded silver in the, 
Best Use of Twitter, category 
and a bronze in the 'Social 
Media (BFSI & FinTech)' 
category for its 'Kindness is 
Cool' campaign.
India’s  
Leading Bank 
- Public
Gold in the 
People’s 
Choice Award
Transaction 
Finance 
Awards 2021
IDC Industry 
Innovation 
Award
Best 
Performing 
Bank in SHG 
Bank Linkage
The Best 
Trade Finance 
Provider
IDC Industry 
Innovation 
Award
IAMAI-India 
Digital Award 
and DIGIXX 
Award
The SBI Foundation won 
awards for 'CSR Foundation 
of the Year’ (Large) and 
appreciation for SBI’s Waste 
No More initiative under the 
Environment (Small) category.
SBI 
Foundation’s 
Contribution 
to Bank’s CSR 
Focus Areas
Assurance Statement
GRI 102-56
         
 
 
 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TÜV® 
 
 
Assurance Statement 
To the Directors and Management  
State Bank of India, 
Mumbai, India 
State Bank of India (hereafter 'SBI') commissioned TUV India Private Limited (TUVI) to conduct 
independent external assurance of non-financial information and key performance indicators (KPI) 
disclosed in SBI's Sustainability Report (hereinafter 'the Report') for the period April 1, 2021 to March 
31, 2022. The Report is based on the principles of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. This 
assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised) - "Limited Level". 
Management's Responsibility 
SBI developed the Report’s content. SBI management is responsible for identifying material topics and 
carrying out the collection, analysis, and disclosure of the information presented in the Report (web-
based and print), including website maintenance, integrity, and for ensuring its quality and accuracy in 
accordance with the applied criteria stated in the GRI standards: Core option, such that it’s free of 
intended or unintended material misstatements. 
Scope and Boundary  
The scope of work includes the assurance of the following non-financial performance / KPI disclosed in 
the Report. In particular, the assurance engagement included the following:  
• 
Review of the disclosures submitted by SBI; 
• 
Review of the quality of information; 
• 
Review of evidence (on a sample basis) for identified non-financial indicators 
TUVI has verified the below KPI’s disclosed in the Report 
Governance 
102-18, 102-20, 103-01 to 103-3 
GRI 302: Energy  
302-1, 302-3 to 302-5  
GRI 305: Emissions  
305-1 to 305-5 
GRI 404: Training and Education 
404-1 to 404-2  
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity  
405-1  
GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 
406-1  
GRI 413: Local Communities 
413-1  
Disclosure 418: Customer Privacy 
418-1 
The remote verification was conducted at SBI Corporate Team, during May 2022. The assurance 
activities were carried out together with a desk review as per reporting boundary. Applicable boundaries 
for disclosures are explained in the Report.  
Limitations 
TUVI did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information, such as targets, 
expectations, and ambitions, disclosed in the Report. Consequently, TUVI draws no conclusion on the 
prospective information. During the assurance process, TUVI did not come across any limitation to the 
agreed scope of the assurance engagement. TUVI expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility 
for any decision a person or entity would make based on this Assurance Statement.  
Our Responsibility 
TUVI's responsibility in relation to this engagement was to perform a limited level of assurance and to 
express a conclusion based on the work performed. This engagement did not include an assessment of 
the adequacy or the effectiveness of SBI's strategy, management of sustainability-related issues or the 
sufficiency of the Report against principles of GRI Standards: Core option, and ISAE 3000 (revised), 
Sustainability Assurance Service 
108  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  109
GRI 102-56
GRI 102-56
 
         
 
 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TÜV® 
 
other than those mentioned in the scope of the assurance. TUVI's responsibility regarding this 
verification is in accordance with the agreed scope of work which includes non-financial quantitative and 
qualitative information disclosed by SBI. This assurance engagement assumes that the data and 
information provided to us by SBI are complete and true. 
Verification Methodology 
During the assurance engagement, TUVI adopted a risk-based approach, focusing on verification efforts 
with respect to disclosures. TUVI has verified the disclosures and assessed the robustness of the 
underlying data management system, information flows, and controls. In doing so:  
• 
TUVI examined and reviewed the documents, data, and other information made available by 
SBI for non-financial KPI’s (non-financial disclosures);  
• 
TUVI conducted interviews with key representatives, including data owners and decision-
makers from different functions of SBI;  
• 
TUVI performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the sustainability-
related policies and data management (qualitative and qualitative);  
• 
TUVI reviewed the level of adherence to principles of GRI standards: Core option. 
Opportunities for Improvement 
The following are the opportunities for improvement reported to SBI. However, they are generally 
consistent with SBI management's objectives and programs.   
• 
SBI may develop online tool to evaluate the sustainability performance on monthly basis to 
monitor the energy, waste and water data to enable accurate disclosures during subsequent 
reporting;  
• 
SBI can evaluate SROI outcomes to prioritize the CSR projects; 
• 
SBI may strengthen the management system;  
• 
SBI can disclose all categories of indirect GHG emissions (refer to the Latest version of ISO 
14064-1) 
Our Conclusion  
In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the “disclosures on sustainability 
performance” and reference information provides a fair representation of the material topics, related 
strategies, and meets the general content and quality requirements of the GRI Standards: Core option.  
Disclosures: TUVI is of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the GRI Standards: 
Core option reporting requirements. SBI refers to general disclosure to Report contextual information 
about SBI, while the ‘Management Approach’ is discussed to Report the management approach for each 
material topic. Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’ 
Universal Standard: SBI followed GRI 101: Reporting Principles for defining report content and quality, 
GRI 102: General Disclosures were followed when reporting information about an Organization's profile, 
strategy, ethics and integrity, governance, stakeholder engagement practices, and reporting process. 
Furthermore, GRI 103 was selected for Management's Approach on reporting information about how an 
organization manages a material topic. TUVI is of the opinion that this report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
Topic Specific Standard: 200 series (Economic topics), 300 series (Environmental topics), and 400 
series (Social topics); These Topic-specific Standards were used to Report information on the 
organization's impacts related to environmental and social topics. TUVI is of the opinion that the reported 
material topics and Topic-specific Standards that SBI used to prepare its Report are appropriately 
identified and addressed.   
Limited Assurance Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed; nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement 
was not prepared in all material respects. TUVI found the sustainability information to be reliable in all 
material respects, with regards to the reporting criteria of the GRI Standards: Core option. 
 
 
Sustainability Assurance Service 
 
         
 
 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TÜV® 
 
In the context of Assurance, the following contemporary principles has been observed: 
Evaluation of the adherence to other contemporary Principles 
Inclusivity: Stakeholder identification and engagement is carried out by SBI on a periodic basis to 
bring out key stakeholder concerns as material topics of significant stakeholders. In our view, the 
Report meets the requirements. 
Materiality: The materiality assessment process has been carried out, based on the requirements of 
the GRI Standards, considering topics that are internal and external to the SBI range of businesses. 
The Report fairly brings out the aspects and topics and its respective boundaries of the diverse 
operations of SBI. In our view, the Report meets the requirements. 
Responsiveness: TUVI believes that the responses to the material aspects are fairly articulated in the 
report, i.e. disclosures on SBI policies and management systems including governance. In our view, 
the Report meets the requirements. 
Impact: SBI communicates its sustainability performance through regular, transparent internal and 
external reporting throughout the year, aligned with GRI, and its policy framework encompassing the 
Environmental, Social, Ethical and other policies. SBI reports on sustainability performance to the Top 
Management, who oversees and monitors the implementation and performance of objectives, as well 
as progress against goals and targets for addressing sustainability-related issues. 
This assurance statement has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. In 
accordance to the ISAE 3000 (revised) requirements  
Independence:   
TUVI follows IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants) Code which, adopts a 
threats and safeguards approach to independence.  It is confirmed that the assurance team is selected 
to avoid situations of self-interest, self-review, advocacy and familiarity. The assessment team was 
safeguarded from any type of intimidation. 
Quality control:   
The assurance team complies with the code of ethics for professional accountants issued by the IESBA, 
which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In 
accordance with International Standard on Quality Control, TUVI maintains a comprehensive system of 
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our Assurance Team and Independence 
TUVI is an independent, neutral third party providing sustainability services with qualified environmental 
and social specialists. TUVI states its independence and impartiality and confirms that there is "no 
conflict of interest" with regard to this assurance engagement. In the reporting year, TUVI did not work 
with SBI on any engagement that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our findings, 
conclusions, and recommendations. TUVI was not involved in the preparation of any content or data 
included in the Report, with the exception of this assurance statement. TUVI maintains complete 
impartiality towards any individuals interviewed during the assurance engagement. 
For and on behalf of TUV India Private Limited 
 
 
 
Manojkumar Borekar 
Project Manager and Reviewer 
Head – Sustainability Assurance Service 
 
 
 
Date: 31-05-2022  
Place: Mumbai, India 
Project Reference No: 8118941704  
     www.tuv-nord.com/in 
 
Sustainability Assurance Service 
 
110  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  111
GRI 
Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 101: Foundation 2016
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational profile
102-1
Name of the organization
12
102-2
Activities, brands, products, and services 
12
102-3
Location of headquarters
12
102-4
Location of operations 
12, 15
102-5
Ownership and legal form
12
102-6
Markets served
12, 15
102-7
Scale of the organization
12, 42
102-8
Information on employees and other workers 
65
102-9
Supply chain 
83
102-10
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 
11
102-11
Precautionary Principle or approach 
11
102-12
External initiatives 
29
102-13
Membership of associations
13
Strategy
102-14
Statement from senior decision-maker
6, 7
102-15
Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
22, 23
Ethics and integrity
102-16
Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
13
102-17
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
17
Governance
102-18
Governance structure
16, 20
102-19
Delegating authority
16
102-20
Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and 
social topics
16
Stakeholder engagement
102-40
List of stakeholder groups
35-37
102-41
Collective bargaining agreements
80
102-42
Identifying and selecting stakeholders
35
102-43
Approach to stakeholder engagement
35-37
102-44
Key topics and concerns raised
35-37
GRI Content  
Index
GRI 102-55
Reporting practice
102-45
Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
12
102-46
Defining report content and topic Boundaries
11
102-47
List of material topics
39
102-48
Restatements of information
11
102-49
Changes in reporting
39
102-50
Reporting period
11
102-51
Date of most recent report
11
102-52
Reporting cycle
11
102-53
Contact point for questions regarding the report
Back Cover
102-54
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
11
102-55
GRI content index
110-113
102-56
External assurance
107-109
Material Topics
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 42
103-2 The management approach and its components
42
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
42
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 48, 49
103-2 The management approach and its components
48, 49
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
48, 49
GRI 302: Energy 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 56
103-2 The management approach and its components
56
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
56
302-3 Energy intensity
56
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
56
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and services
27, 28
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 56
103-2 The management approach and its components
56
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 
Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 102-55
For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI 
content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures 
included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report.
112  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  113
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
39, 56
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
56
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
56
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
56
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
27, 28, 56, 60, 61
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 76
103-2 The management approach and its components
76
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
system
39, 76
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation
76
403-3 Occupational health services
76
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety
76
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safety
70
403-6 Promotion of worker health
77, 78, 81
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
77
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system
77
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 69
103-2 The management approach and its components
69
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
69
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs
70-72
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 65
103-2 The management approach and its components
65
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 
2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
65, 66
GRI 
Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 102-55
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 65
103-2 The management approach and its components
65
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 406: 
Nondiscrimination 
2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken
80
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 84
103-2 The management approach and its components
84
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs
84-97
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 99
103-2 The management approach and its components
99
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data
99,100
Non-GRI: Stakeholder Awareness on Sustainability
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 71
103-2 The management approach and its components
71
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
Non-GRI: Customer Satisfaction
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
39, 82
103-2 The management approach and its components
82
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
39
GRI 
Standard
Disclosure
Page Number/ 
Direct Response
GRI 102-55
114  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  115
BRR Mapping 
Group
Class
Description
641
6419
Monetary Intermediation – Other Monetary intermediation
CIN
Not Applicable
Address
State Bank of India, State Bank Bhavan, Corporate 
Centre, Madame Cama Road, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai - 400 021, India 
Website 
https://www.sbi.co.in, https://bank.sbi
Email Id
gm.snb@sbi.co.in
Financial Year Reported
FY 2021-22
Three services that the Company 
provides (as in the Balance Sheet)
Deposits, Loans and Advances, Remittances and 
Collections
Total number of locations where 
business activity is undertaken by the 
Company
National: 22,266 branches in India as on 31st March 
2022 
International: The Bank has operations in 30 
countries through  35 foreign branches, 5 JVs/
Investments/ Managed Cos., 20 other offices, 161 
branches of 8 subsidiaries and 6 representative 
offices.
Markets served by the Company
National and International
In conformance to the requirements of the clause (f) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 34  of Security 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI’s) Listing Regulations, the Sustainability Report for FY 2021-22 is aligned 
with the nine principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic 
Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. 
Section A: General information about SBI
The Bank’s activities are covered under “Group K: Financial and Insurance Activities of National Industrial 
Classification (All Economic Activities)-2008” published by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme 
Implementation. The Bank’s activities fall under the following industrial activity code:
Section B: Financial Details of the Company 
For the Bank’s financial performance for FY 2021-22, please refer to the section on economic performance 
in the Financial Capital Management chapter.
Sr. No.
Particulars
Details
1
DIN Number (if applicable)
08335249
2
Name
Shri Challa Sreenivasulu Setty
3
Designation
Managing Director (Retail and Digital Banking)
4
Telephonic Number 
022-22028713
5
Email ID 
md.rdb@sbi.co.in
Section C: Other Details 
Participation of subsidiaries and business partners in BR initiatives:
The details of the subsidiaries and joint ventures are provided in the Bank’s Annual Report FY 2021- 22, 
under the heading “Subsidiaries”. SBI's sustainability and business responsibility initiatives are actively 
supported by its subsidiaries. However, the initiatives and programmes on social and environmental issues 
are designed and executed by the independent Boards of the subsidiaries. With respect to its supply 
chain, SBI expects and encourages its suppliers, vendors and other business partners to conduct their 
business in a responsible manner.
Section D: Business Responsibility Information 
In accordance with the SEBI requirements, Business Responsibility (BR) report of the Bank is being 
published since FY 2012-13. This is the tenth report and has been integrated with SBI’s sustainability Report 
for FY 2021-22. The report can be accessed on the Bank’s website at https://www.sbi.co.in or https://bank.sbi
Details of Director/ Directors responsible for BR: 
A)	
Details of the Director/Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies 
	
DIN Number: 08335249 
	
Name: Shri Challa Sreenivasulu Setty 
B) 	
Details of the BR Head:
116  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  117
Principle-wise (as per NVG) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N)
Sr. 
no.
Questions
Principles P1 - P9
1
Does the Bank have a policy/policies for 
each of the 9 principles prescribed by 
SEBI
Yes
2
Has the policy been formulated 
in consultation with the relevant 
stakeholders?
Yes
3
Does the policy conform to any national 
/ international standards? If yes, specify? 
(50 words)
SBI’s Sustainability and Business Responsibility 
(BR) Policy is based on National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct, published by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of 
India, in 2019, and National Voluntary Guidelines 
on Social, Environmental and Economic 
Responsibilities of Business, as released by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of 
India, in 2011.
4
Has the policy been approved by the 
Central Board? If yes, has it been signed 
by MD/ owner/CEO/appropriate Board 
Director?
Yes, the Sustainability and Business 
Responsibility (BR) Policy of the Bank has been 
approved by the Central Board.
5
Does the company have a specified 
Committee of the Board/Director/Official 
to oversee the implementation of the 
policy?
The Policy mandates for a Corporate Centre 
Sustainability Committee (CCSC) to oversee the 
implementation of the policy. This committee is 
headed by a Deputy Managing Director, who is 
also designated as the Chief Sustainability Officer
6
Indicate the link for the policy to be 
viewed online?
https://www.sbi.co.in or https://bank.sbi under the 
link, Corporate Governance / Sustainability and 
BR Policy.
7
Has the policy been formally 
communicated to all relevant internal 
and external stakeholders?
Yes
8
Does the company have in-house 
structure to implement the policy/
policies?
Yes
9
Does the Company have a grievance 
redressal mechanism related to the 
policy/policies to address stakeholders’ 
grievances related to the policy/policies?
Yes
10
Has the company carried out 
independent audit/evaluation of the 
working of this policy by an internal or 
external agency?
The working of the Sustainability and Business 
Responsibility (BR) Policy is evaluated internally. 
Further, the Sustainability Report published 
for FY 2021-22 discloses information on the 
Bank’s economic, environmental and social 
performance for the reporting period and has 
been reviewed and collated in a comprehensive 
manner.
Principle
Description
Page Number
Principle 1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, 
and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
16-19, 24
Principle 2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
26-33
Principle 3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their value chains
74-78, 80, 81, 83
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all 
its stakeholders
34, 35, 80, 83, 84
Principle 5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
66, 80
Principle 6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore 
the environment
52-63
Principle 7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
13, 24
Principle 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development
46-49, 84-97
Principle 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 
consumers in a responsible manner
82, 83
National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) Mapping 
118  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  119
S. No
Particulars
Reply
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 
Listed Entity
Not Applicable
2
Name of the Listed Entity
State Bank of India
3
Year of incorporation
1955
4
Registered office address
State Bank of India, State Bank Bhavan, 
Corporate Centre, Madame Cama Road, Nariman 
Point, Mumbai - 400 021, India
5
Corporate address
State Bank of India, State Bank Bhavan, 
Corporate Centre, Madame Cama Road, Nariman 
Point, Mumbai - 400 021, India
6
E-mail
gm.snb@sbi.co.in
7
Telephone
022-22740840
8
Website
https://www.sbi.co.in, https://bank.sbi
9
Financial year for which reporting is 
being done
FY 2021-22
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where 
shares are listed
BSE Limited, Mumbai and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited, Mumbai.
11
Paid-up Capital
₹ 892.46 Crores as on 31st March 2022
12
Name and contact details (telephone, 
email address) of the person who may be 
contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Shri Rajeev Kumar Singhal, 
Dy. General Manager(CSR & Sustainability)
Phone Number: +91-22-22740977
Email id:  dgm.csr@sbi.co.in
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures 
under this report made on a standalone 
basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its 
consolidated financial statements, taken 
together).
Standalone Basis
BRSR Mapping 
Section A: General Disclosures
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s 
policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b. Has the policy been 
approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
c. Web Link of the 
Policies, if available
1)	 Sustainability and Business Responsibility Policy:  
15062021_Sustainability+&+Business+Responsibility+(BR)+Policy.pdf (sbi.co.in)
2)	 CSR Policy: https://sbi.co.in/documents/17826/9529227/130721-
SBI_CSR_Policy+21+Ver+5+Final.pdf/fee2b447-497d-2965-5c4a-
beedbaa00c3f?t=1626174712883#:~:text=SBI%20Foundation%20has%20its%20
own%20CSR%20policy%20approved,policy%20and%20reviews%20it%20from%20
time%20to%20time.
3)	 Code of Ethics: https://sbi.co.in/documents/17826/20624/181119-Cod
e+of+Ethics+in+Brief+%28in+English%29.pdf/74f49f78-f827-2b5d-a92b-
01c3efba2500?t=1574081702712
4)	 Customer Rights, Grievance redressal and Compensation Policy: https://sbi.
co.in/webfiles/uploads/files_2122/17112021-FINAL%20POLICY%20DOCUMENT.pdf
5)	 Equal Employment opportunity for PWDs: https://www.sbi.co.in/
documents/16012/25448726/130422-Equal+Opportunity+Policy+for+PWD.
pdf/0a7ed777-7565-4a4b-b07d-11a56b9ce5ca?t=1649827803872#:~:text=State%20
Bank%20of%20India%20is%20committed%20to%20provide%20equal%20opportunitie-
s,with%20Disabilities%20Act%2C%202016%E2%80%9D.
6)	 Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy: https://sbi.co.in/
documents/16337/0/091221-SBI+Wolfsberg+CBDDQ+September+2021.pdf/eba15597-
0a8f-d0f1-e6bc-2a21b599e264?t=1639031319248
2. Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. Do the enlisted policies 
extend to your value 
chain partners? (Yes/No) 
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
The details of the employees are provided in the Bank’s Annual Report FY2021-22, under the heading 
“Consolidated Financials” and in the Sustainability Report FY 2021-22 under “About this report” and 
"Approach to Value Creation".
VI. CSR Details
The details of the CSR activities are mentioned in the Bank’s Annual Report FY 2021-22, under the 
heading “Corporate Social Responsibility” and in the Sustainability Report FY 2021-22 under “Social and 
Relationship Capital Management”.
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliance
The details are in the Sustainability Report FY 2021-22 under “Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 
Assessment”.
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies, and processes put in 
place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
I. Details of the listed entity
II. Products/services
The products and services offered by the Bank include deposits, loans and advances, remittances and 
collections.
III. Operations
The Bank has 22,266 branches in India as on 31st March 2022. Additionally, the Bank has operations in 30 
countries through  35 foreign branches, 5 JVs/Investments/ Managed Cos., 20 other offices, 161 branches 
of 8 subsidiaries and 6 representative offices.
IV. Employees
The details of the employees are provided in the Bank’s Annual Report FY 2021-22, under the heading 
“Resilience.People.Technology” and in the Sustainability Report FY 2021-22 under “Approach to Value 
Creation” and "Human Capital Management".
120  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  121
4. Name of the national 
and international codes/
certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g., Forest 
Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each 
principle
ISO
ISO
ISO
5. Specific commitments, 
goals, and targets set by 
the entity with defined 
timelines, if any 
N
N
N
N
N
Y
N
N
N
6. Performance of 
the entity against the 
specific commitments, 
goals, and targets along 
with reasons in case the 
same are not met 
N
N
N
N
N
Y
N
N
N
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. Statement by the director responsible for the business responsibility report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and achievements (listed entity has 
flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Page 6 and 7
8. Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
Shri Challa Sreenivasulu Setty, Managing Director (Retail and 
Digital Banking)
9. Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision-making on 
sustainability-related issues? (Yes / No). If 
yes, provide details.
Yes. The Board approved Sustainability and Business 
Responsibility (BR) policy  mandates for a Corporate Centre 
Sustainability Committee (CCSC) which is responsible for 
decision making on sustainability.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for 
Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
Performance 
against above 
policies and 
follow up 
action
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements 
of relevance 
to the 
principles, and 
rectification 
of any non-
compliances
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to 
be stated:
Principle
Description
Page Number
Principle 1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, 
and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent, and Accountable
18, 24
Principle 2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
26-33, 83
Principle 3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their value chains
65, 70, 73,  
76-78, 80
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all 
their stakeholders
35-37
Principle 5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
65-67, 80
Principle 6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore 
the environment
56-58
Principle 7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
13, 24
Principle 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development
84
Principle 9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers 
in a responsible manner
83, 98-100
Section C: Principle wise Performance Disclosure
Not Applicable
11. Has 
the entity 
carried out 
independent 
assessment/ 
evaluation of 
the working 
of its policies 
by an external 
agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, 
provide name 
of the agency
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
122  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  123
Topic
Accounting Metric
Page No.
Data Security
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving 
personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account 
holders affected
100
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data 
security risks
98-100
Financial Inclusion 
and Capacity-
Building
(1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified to 
programs designed to promote small business and community 
development
46-48
Number of no-cost retail checking accounts provided to 
previously unbanked or underbanked customers
48
Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for 
unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customers
49
Incorporation of 
Environmental, 
Social, and 
Governance Factors 
in Credit Analysis
Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysis
23, 26
Business Ethics
Description of whistleblower policies and procedures
17
Systemic Risk 
Management
Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by category
NA
Description of approach to incorporation of results of 
mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy 
planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business 
activities
26
SASB Mapping
Disclosure
Page No.
Governance
Disclose the 
organization’s 
governance around 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities.
a. Describe the organization’s governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities.
53
b. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
53
Strategy
Disclose the actual 
and potential 
impacts of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities on 
the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, 
and financial 
planning where 
such information is 
material
a. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long 
term.
23
b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and 
financial planning.
53
c. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including 
a 2°C or lower scenario.
53
Risk Management
Disclose how 
the organization 
identifies, assesses, 
and manages 
climate-related risks.
a. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.
23, 52, 53
b. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-
related risks.
23, 53
c. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.
23, 52, 53
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics 
and targets used to 
assess and manage 
relevant climate-
related risks and 
opportunities where 
such information is 
material.
a. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy 
and risk management process.
53
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.
56
c. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.
NA
TCFD Mapping
124  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  125
Glossary of Abbreviations
Abbreviation 
Full Form
ACB
Audit Committee of the Board
ACPC
AMBA Certified Partner Centres
ADGC
Apex-Level Data Governance Council
ADWM
Automated Deposit and Withdrawal Machines
AIBTF
Australia India Business & Trade Foundation
AKAM
Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav
AML-CFT
Anti-Money Laundering and Combatting Financing of Terrorism
APY
Atal Pension Yojana
ASSOCHAM
The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
ATI
Apex Training Institute
ATM
Automated Teller Machine
BBPS
Bharat Bill Payment System
BC
Business Correspondents 
BCDM
Business Conduct and Disciplinary Management
BCMR
Board Committee to Monitor Recovery
BCSBI
Banking Codes and Standards Board of India
BDT
Bangladesh Taka
BEE
Bureau of Energy Efficiency
BFSI
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
BoD
Board of Directors
Bps
basis points
BR
Business Responsibility
BRICS
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
BRSR 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
CBG
Compressed Biogas
CCSC
Corporate Centre Sustainability Committee
CDM
Cash Deposit Machines 
CDO
Corporate Development Officer
CFL
Centres for Financial Literacy
CGM
Chief General Manager
CII
Confederation of Indian Industries
CISF 
Central Industrial Security Force
CISO
Chief Information Security Officer
CKYC
Central Know Your Customer
CoE
Centre of Excellence
COMPRMC
Compliance Risk Management Committees
CRA 
Consumer Reporting Agency
Abbreviation 
Full Form
CRMC
Credit Risk Management Committees
CRMD
Credit Risk Management Department 
CRO
Chief Risk Officer 
CSCB
Customer Service Committee of the Board
CSD
Canteen Stores Department
CSO
Customer Service Officer 
CSP
Customer Service Points
CSR
Corporate Social Responsibility 
DAP
Differently Abled Persons
DG
Diesel Generator 
DGC
Data Governance Council
DGM
Deputy General Manager
DMD
Deputy Managing Director 
ECCB
Executive Committee of the Central Board
ECHS
Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme
EGRMC
Enterprise and Group Risk Management Committees
EGRMD
Enterprise and Group Risk Management Department
EMI
Equated Monthly Installment 
ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance 
ESI
Employees' State Insurance
ET
Economic Times 
EWS
Economically Weaker Sections
e-Waste
Electronic Waste 
FI
Financial Inclusion 
FI&GS
Financial Inclusion and Government Schemes
FICCI
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
FPC
Farmer Producer Company
FTE 
Full-time Equivalent 
FY
Financial Year
GCC
Green Channel Counters
GDPR
General Data Protection Regulation
GHG
Greenhouse Gases
GJ
Gigajoule 
GM
General Manager
GRC 
Green Remit Cards 
GRI
Global Reporting Initiative 
HIS
Help In Suffering
HO
Head Office 
HR
Human Resources 
IBA
Indian Banks’ Association
126  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Powered by Purpose  |  127
Abbreviation 
Full Form
ICAI
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
ICU 
Intensive Care Unit
IDP
Individual Developmental Plan
IFSCA
International Financial Services Centres Authority
IIBF
Indian Institute of Banking and Finance
IIBF
Indian Institute of Banking and Finance
IIRC 
International Integrated Reporting Council
INX 
India International Exchange
IR
Integrated Reporting 
IS
Information System 
IT 
Information Technology 
ITSC
IT Strategy Committee
JAWS
Job Access With Speech
JV 
Joint Venture
KCC
Kisan Credit Card
KfW
Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KG
Kilogram
KL
Kilolitre
KMP
Key Managerial Personnel
KYC
Know Your Customer 
L&D
Learning and Development 
LC
Video Life Certificate
LHO
Local Head Office 
LITMAS
Litigation Management System
LLMS
Loan Lifecycle Management System
LOS
Loan Origination Software
LOS
Loan Originating System
MD
Managing Director
MEG
Madras Engineer Group
MOOC
Massive Online Open Courses
MRMC
Market Risk Management Committees
MRMD
Market Risk Management Department 
MSME
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
MSSW
Madras School of Social Work
MT 
Megatonne
MW
Megawatt
MWac
Megawatt Alternating Curren
MWh
Megawatt Hour
NGO
Non-Governmental Organisation
Abbreviation 
Full Form
NIP
National Infrastructure Pipeline
NMP
National Monetisation Pipeline
NOBA GSR 
Netarhat Old Boys Association, Global Social Responsibility
NPA
Non-Performing Asset
NPS
National Pension Scheme
NRC
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
NRI
Non-Resident Indian
NSE 
National Stock Exchange of India
NSG 
National Security Guard
NSW
New South Wales
NVG - SEE
National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic 
Responsibilities of Business
OBC
Other Backward Classes
ORMC
Operational Risk Management Committees
ORMD
Operational Risk Management Department
OTP
One-time Password 
PCIDSS
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard
PET
Polyethylene Terephthalate
PF
Provident Fund 
PHDCCI
Progress Harmony and Development Chamber of Commerce and Industry
PIDPI
Public Interest Disclosure of Protection of Informers
PIN
Personal Identification Number 
PM
Prime Minister 
PMJDY
Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana
PMJJBY
Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana
PMSBY
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
POSH
Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
PPE
Personal Protective Equipments
PRM
Proactive Risk Management
PSB
Public Sector Bank
PSU
Public Sector Undertaking 
PV
Photovoltaic
PwD
Persons with Disabilities
R, C & SARG
Managing Director (Risk, Compliance and Stresses Assets Resolution Group)
RAROC
Risk-Adjusted Return on Capital
RARR
Risk Assessment and Risk Reporting
RBC
Role-Based Certification
RBI
Reserve Bank of India
RE
Renewable Energy 
RFIA
Risk-Focused Internal Audit
128  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
Abbreviation 
Full Form
RMB
Renminbi
RMCB
Risk Management Committee of the Board
RPwD
Rights of Persons with Disabilities
RRB
Regional Rural Bank
RSETI
Rural Self-Employment Training Institutes
SAP
Start-up Action Plan
SASB
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
SATAT
Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation
SBI
State Bank of India 
SBICB
State Bank Institute of Consumer Banking
SBIL
State Bank Institute of Leadership
SBILD
SBI Regional Institutes of Learning and Development 
SBIPG
SBI Payment Gateway
SBSOC
State Bank Security Operations Centre
SC
Scheduled Caste
SCBMF
Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring of Large Value Frauds
SDG
Sustainable Development Goals 
SHG
Self-Help Group
SME
Small and Medium-size Enterprise 
SMGS
Senior Management Grade Scale 
SOC
Security Operations Centre
SPARC
School for Potential Advancement and Restoration of Confidence
SRC
Stakeholder Relationship Committee
ST
Scheduled Tribe
STEAM
Science Technology Engineering Analytics Medicine
STP
Sewage Treatment Plant
STS
Science and Technology for Society
SWIFT
Society for Worldwide Inter-Bank Financial Telecommunication
TCFD
Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
tCO2e
Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
UK
United Kingdom
UN
United Nations
UNGCNI
United Nations Global Compact Network India
US$
United States Dollar 
WWF
World Wildlife Fund
YFI
Youth for India
YONO
You Only Need One 
130  |  Sustainability Report 2021-22
State Bank Bhavan, 
Madam Cama Road, 
Mumbai 400021
Contact person: 
Mr. R. K. Singhal 
+91 22-22740977
This Report is printed on environment-friendly paper
GRI 102-53
