BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
 
The Andhra Sugars Limited (“the Company”) is pleased to present this Business 
Responsibility Report for the Financial Year (F.Y.) 2021-22 in accordance with sub-
regulation (2) of Regulation-34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
and 
Circular 
No.CIR/CFD/CMD/10/2015 dated November 4, 2015, issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), to describe the initiatives taken by the Company  from 
an environmental, social and governance perspective.   
 
This Business Responsibility Statement encompassing Nine (9) Principles is viewed by 
the Company as of paramount importance in the context of ensuring Value Addition to all                   
Stakeholders namely Shareholders, Customers, Vendors, Employees, Fixed Deposit 
Holders and others associated with the Company. 
 
ABOUT US: 
The Andhra Sugars Limited came into existence at Tanuku at a time when there was no 
Electricity.   With the help of a Generator a Workshop was established and a small Sugar 
Unit of 600 M.T. of Sugar Cane was set up which became operational in the early 1950s. 
This Venture has blossomed over the years into a Multi-Product Conglomerate which 
largely helped transforming the very face of Tanuku. Beginning with the Fertiliser, 
Superphosphate, which was at that time required for the farmers of that Area, the 
Chemicals & Fertilisers Division at Kovvur came into operation and developed a 
Product Range there that was largely responsible for the Growth and Development of the 
now existing Pharmaceutical Hub at Hyderabad, beginning from the yester years of 
Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (IDPL).  Recognising the need to go in for 
expansion of capacity of Caustic Soda, the Company established a Chemical Complex at 
Saggonda in West Godavari.  The Plant at this Complex is highly energy efficient based 
on the latest technology of Membrane cell obtained from recognised International 
Supplier. 
 
 
 
Over the years from the By-product Molasses of the Sugar Industry, Industrial 
Alcohol and its Allied Products came out of Tanuku location, which today 
encompasses an US FDA approved Aspirin Unit and also the prestigious Liquid and 
Solid Propellants for the Space Programme of our Country which has put Tanuku on to 
the World Map. 
 
Added were other Divisions at Taduvai and Bhimadole to Sugar Production and the 
Cotton & Oil Products Division at Perecherla, Guntur.  Also promoted were the 
Companies JOCIL Limited and The Andhra Petrochemicals Limited (APL) at 
Dokiparru, Guntur and Visakhapatnam respectively making the foray into Fatty Acids & 
Toilet Soaps, and the only Unit in India making Oxo-Alcohols respectively. 
 
The Company’s major operations are power intensive.  Therefore recognising the need to 
be self-sufficient in meeting power requirement, the Company made entry into Power 
Sector by putting up Solar, Wind and Coal Based Power Plants.   
 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: 
Since its inception in 1947, the Company is dedicated to the betterment of the Rural 
Masses in the areas of its operations.  Way back in the 1950s, well before there was the 
thought of “Corporate Social Responsibility”, the Company took up these activities.  
Realising that Health and Education are vital for the improvement of the quality of human 
life, your Company helped build a Medical College at Kakinada to produce the Doctors 
needed for rural health care and followed this up with helping in setting up a modern 
Hospital at Tanuku providing Cardiac, Opthalmic, Orthopedic, Obstetrics, Gynaecological 
and Dental Care.  Your Company helped to provide education by helping in setting up two 
Schools and a Polytechnic and helped in setting up a modern Library and a Cultural 
Centre with a 1000 seat Indoor Auditorium and an Outdoor Auditorium.  The details of 
CSR Expenditure for the Year 2021-22 can be seen in the Annual Report.  
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
SECTION - A : 
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY : 
1. 
Corporate Identity Number(CIN) 
: 
L15420AP1947PLC000326 
2. 
Name of the Company 
: 
The Andhra Sugars Limited 
3. 
Year of Incorporation 
: 
1947 
4. 
Regd.Office Address 
: 
Venkatarayapuram,  
TANUKU – 534 215 
West Godavari District. 
Andhra Pradesh. 
5. 
Corporate Address 
: 
Same as above 
6. 
Website 
: 
www.theandhrasugars.com 
7. 
E-mail ID 
: 
info.tnk@theandhrasugars.com 
8. 
Telephone 
:  08819-224911 
9. 
Financial Year reported 
: 
2021-22 
10. Name of the Stock Exchange 
where shares are listed 
: 
National Stock Exchange (NSE) 
11. Sector(s) that the Company is 
engaged in / List of three key 
products / services that the 
Company manufactures/provides 
(as 
in 
the 
Balance 
Sheet, 
industry activity code wise) : 
 
 
: 
Sugar, Chlor Alkali 
Organic & Inorganic Chemicals 
Power Generation. 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Name and Description of 
Main Products 
National Industrial Classification (NIC) 
Code of the Product (as per NIC 2008) 
 
Sugar 
170111.09  (ITC Code) 
 
Caustic Soda 
281512.00  (ITC Code) 
 
Chlorine 
280110.00   (ITC Code) 
 
 
8.  Total Number of Locations where Business Activity is undertaken by the Company:  
Number of National Locations 
 
Tanuku, Taduvai, Bhimadole, Kovvur, 
Saggonda and Guntur. 
Number of International Locations 
NIL 
 
9.  Markets served by the Company (Local/State/National/International):   
The Company mainly caters to Indian Market only. 
SECTION - B : 
FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY : 
Financial Year (F.Y) 2021-22 
Amount 
Paid-up Capital (in Rs. In Crore) 
27.11 
Total Turnover (Rs. In Crore) 
1217.29 
Net Profit After Tax (Rs, in Crore) 
161.70 
Total Spending on Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR)  (Rs.in Crore) 
3.94 
 
SECTION - C 
OTHER DETAILS: 
 
1.   Subsidiary Companies: 
Our Company has Three Subsidiaries – JOCIL Limited, The Andhra Farm Chemical 
Corporation Ltd., and Hindustan Allied Chemicals Ltd., 
(i)   JOCIL Limited is located at Dokiparru in Guntur District.  This Company 
contributes to Soap Industry, Production of Fatty Acids, Glycerine and Toilet 
Soaps using Non-edible Oils. 
  
Further, it has a Stearic Acid Plant producing Stearic Acid – an Intermediary for 
Soap Manufacture as this Plant produces Toilet Soaps using Stearic Acid. 
(ii)   The Andhra Farm Chemicals Corporation Ltd., was established in the year 1968 
at Kovvur. This Company was once the largest manufacturer of Hydrazine 
Hydrate in India, using technology provided by RRL, Hyderabad which was 
improved upon by us. 
(iii) 
The 
Company 
also 
promoted The 
Andhra Petrochemicals 
Ltd., 
at 
Visakhapatnam which uses technology from Davy Mckee (London).  This Plant 
manufactures 2-Ethy Hexanol, n-Butanol, i-Butanol – ingredients for the Plastic 
Industry. 
SECTION - D  
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR): 
As required by the Provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Committee has been constituted by the Board of the Company with 
Sri P.Narendranath Chowdary, Chairman and Managing Director, Sri Mullapudi 
Thimmaraja, Joint Managing Director and Sri V.S. Raju, Independent Director as 
members of the Committee.   This Committee has formulated a CSR Policy which has 
been approved by the Board.  This Policy envisages CSR Activities to be taken up, 
amount of expenditure to be incurred and monitoring of CSR Activities from time to time. 
This Policy aims to achieve the CSR objectives by undertaking one or more of the 
activities to be in alignment with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 either by the 
Company on its own or through any Trust / Society or any other recognized Agency.   
As per the provisions of Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, company should 
spend in every Financial Year at least 2% of the average net profits of the company made 
during the three immediately preceding Financial Years. In pursuance of its Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy, the Company gives preference to the local area and areas 
around, where it operates or any other permissible location for spending the amount 
earmarked for Corporate Social Responsibility activities.  
Accordingly, for achieving its CSR objectives through implementation of meaningful and 
sustainable CSR programmes, your Company allocates at least 2% of its average Net 
Profits calculated as per Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, as its Annual CSR 
Budget in each Financial Year. 
From the Annual CSR Budget allocation, a provision is made towards the expenditure to 
be incurred on identified areas, for undertaking CSR activities on a year to year basis. 
Allocation of the Annual Budget for CSR activities in any given year would be as per the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder as amended from 
time to time.  
As required by Rule 8 of the Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2013, a Report on CSR 
Activities and the amount of expenditure incurred is annexured to this Report.  
(b)   Business Responsibility Head: 
 
        Name       
  
 :   Sri P. Narendranath Chowdary 
        Designation       
 :   Chairman & Managing Director 
        Telephone No.   
 :   08813 – 2321597 
        E-mail id           
 :   info.kvr@theandhrasugars com 
SECTION   E: 
PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE: 
The following are the updates for the Company on each of the Principles stated in the 
National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental & Economic Responsibilities of 
Business issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). 
 
PRINCIPLE - 1 
BUSINESS SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH ETHICS, 
TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY: 
The Andhra Sugars Limited was incorporated in the Year 1947.   Since Inception, 
Company’s emphasis has been on pursuing high standards of Ethics in its Business 
Process.   The Company strictly believes in maintaining high standards of Corporate 
Governance, Transparency in disclosures, regulatory compliance, good operational 
practices, strong internal controls, integrity with all its Stakeholders namely Shareholders, 
Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Farmers, Regulatory Authorities and Public at large.  
Company is of view that as a responsible corporate citizen, all re-regulatory disclosures 
are made in a transparency manner. 
 
Company’s Board of Directors is headed by Chairman and Managing Director, assisted 
by Four (4) Whole-time Directors.  Besides this, Board comprises of Five (5) Independent 
Directors, who provide guidance and support to the Management in laying down the 
Policies to be followed in pursuit of its goals. 
The Board has constituted following Committees. 
i) 
Audit Committee 
ii) 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
iii) 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
iv) 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
v) 
Risk Management Committee 
The above Committees perform as per the well defined Scope & Terms of reference and 
recommend to the Board the matters considered by them.  The Company has also 
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism in place.  This Policy envisages the right of any 
employee irrespective of his position in the Organisation hierarchy to report to the 
Management or Chairman of the Audit Committee any unethical practice, wrong doings 
prevailing in the Company.   This Policy provides adequate safeguard against 
victimisation against the person who is a Whistle Blower. 
Shareholders and other Stakeholders grievances are also addressed with utmost 
earnestness to resolve the grievance, if any, to their satisfaction. 
 
It is uppermost endeavour of the Company to encourage all the Stakeholders to maintain 
high ethical standards in dealing with the Company.  
PRINCIPLE - 2  
BUSINESS SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES THAT ARE SAFE AND 
CONTRIBUTE TO SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT THEIR LIFE CYCLE: 
The Company is in the manufacturing of Sugar and various Chemicals which go into the 
production of Pharma Products.  In this context, the Company’s focus has always been to 
provide Quality Products to end users.   Company effectively monitors the production 
process to bring about improvement in production quality by adopting new technology 
emerging from time to time.   Company highly values environmental sustainability.  Inspite 
of being in the manufacturing of Hazardous Chemicals, it ensures that the Chemical 
Plants are highly energy sustainable with lower emission of gasses.  Caustic Soda Plant 
is energy efficient. Pollution Control Board Norms are strictly adhered to in discharge of 
effluents.  Company strive to adopt latest technology to ensure the substancebility of 
environment.   
 
Company started its advent with the manufacture of Sugar at a place Tanuku, then a 
mofussil locality in the State of Andhra Pradesh.   Two more Sugar Units were added, one 
at Taduvai and another one at Bhimadole in West Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh.  
Due to unviability of operations, the Sugar Plants at Tanuku and Bhimadole  have been 
shut down.   Ever since the first Crushing Operations in the Year 1950 Sugarcane farming 
community has been very dear to the Company.   Farmers also place lot of confidence in 
the Company due to high ethical standard set and strictly adhering to the Norms of 
Statutory governing supply.  Payments are made within the statute due dates.   
Interaction with the Farmers are made with personal touch.  All efforts are being made to 
make farmers realise the benefits of Mechanisation through demonstration in the farmers’ 
fields. Company is also maintaining Agricultrual Research Farm to improve the quality of 
Cane Seed to improve yield per Acre.  
PRINCIPLE - 3 
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES: 
Management firmly believes and considers Employees of the Company as HUMAN 
ASSETS.  One of our Founders Dr. Mullapudi Harischandra Prasad, the then Chairman & 
Managing Director always used to address the employees at our internal gathering as 
“Family Members”.  Employee relationship has always been amicable.   We report with 
pride that since incorporation in the Year 1947 till date, there has been no instances of 
any Strike or Lockout.  This is testimony to the fact about the fruitful bondage between the 
Employer and Employees.  Constant and concerted effort is made to create an 
atmosphere of Employee Development from time to time taking into account the age and 
experience of an Employee.  In case a need arises, outside Consultants are called to 
impart in house training to the Employees to enable them to acquaint themselves with 
latest developments concerning their area of operations.  In certain cases, Employees are 
sponsored to attend Seminars and get Outside Training with a view to help to develop 
their skill and be better equipped to meet their organisational commitments.  Equally 
important for the Company is Health and Safety of the Employees, Staff and Workers 
have regular health check-up at Hospital supported by our Company, located in the 
vicinity of Plants located at Tanuku.   In respect of Safety of Employees, utmost care is 
taken to ensure that all required safety gadgets are provided to Workers on Plant.   Safety 
trainings are conducted periodically to emphasise the importance of safety awareness at 
work place.   As one of the important aspects of HR Policy, the Company does not 
discriminate against any Employee on the basis of Caste, Creed, Colour or gender etc. 
For the Company, Merit and Contribution are the only criteria to judge the upgradation of 
an Employee.  Management of the Company would like to place on record the sincere 
efforts and unstinted support of Employees at all levels for their valuable efforts put in 
which has been instrumental in making Company scale greater heights.  
           Given hereunder the Particulars: 
 
 
 
 
31.03.2022 
1. 
Total number of employees 
2035+675=2710 
2. 
Total number of employees hired on 
temporary/contractual /  Casual basis. 
675 
3. 
Number of permanent women employees. 
3 
4. 
Number of permanent employees with disabilities 
3 
5. 
Employee 
association 
that 
is 
recognized 
by 
management? 
Yes 
6. 
Percentage of your permanent employees is members 
of this recognized employee association? 
75% 
 
 
7. 
Number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, 
sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the 
financial year. 
Sl.No. 
Category 
No. of complaints 
filed during the 
financial year 
No of complaints 
pending as on end 
of the financial year 
1. 
 Child labour/forced 
labour/involuntary 
labour 
0 
NA 
2. 
 Sexual Harassment 
0 
NA 
3. 
 Discriminatory 
employment 
0 
NA 
 8.   Percentage of our under mentioned employees who were given safety& skill 
      Up-gradation training in the last year ? 
 
 
a) Permanent Employees 
b) Permanent Women Employees 
c) Casual/Temporary/Contractual 
Employees 
d) Employees with Disabilities 
 
 
75% 
80% 
80% 
 
100% 
 
 
PRINCIPLE - 4 
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF, AND BE RESPONSIVE, 
TOWARDS 
ALL 
STAKEHOLDERS, 
ESPECIALLY 
THOSE 
WHO 
ARE 
DISADVANTAGED, VULNERABLE AND MARGINALIZED. 
Company values every Stakeholder and there is a reciprocal relationship valuing and 
respecting each other’s sentiments.  Considering the fact that Company started its 
Business Venture with Sugar Business.  Company identifies Farming Community as a 
Key Stakeholder.  In the present difficult period, in which the Sugar Industry is passing 
through the Sugarcane Farming Community is unfavourably placed.  Our Company’s 
Focus is on to encourage the farmers to be in Sugarcane farming.  To this end, we have 
been paying Cane Price more than the Fair Remuneration Price fixed by the Central 
Government.  Apart from this, we provide Incentives in kind to ensure that the Sugarcane 
Farming Community comes out with best quality of Sugarcane.   In addition, with personal 
interaction, farmers are given demonstration of benefits of Mechanisation in their fields to 
overcome labour problem besides rendering Advisory Services as per their requirement.   
In general, the needs and concerns of every Stakeholder, be it Shareholder, Fixed 
Deposit holder, farmer, customer, employee and anyone connected with the Company in 
any manner whatsoever, are viewed in proper perspective to come out with solutions to 
the mutual satisfaction.  
PRINCIPLE - 5 
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS: 
Company strongly believes that respecting Human Rights is Corporate’s sacred duty.   It 
has always been the earnest endeavour of the Company to treat people with dignity in the 
course of dealings.  Company respects and promotes Human Rights and in this context, 
Company sincerely endeavours to give prime importance to aspects like diversity, anti-
discrimination, equal opportunities, compliance with regulatory matters with a highest 
integrity thus contributing to promotion of Human Rights.  Stern disciplinary action is 
taken against the employee who disregards the Human Rights in course of his 
employment.  
PRINCIPLE - 6 
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT, PROTECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO RESTORE 
THE ENVIRONMENT: 
The Policy covers the Company only. The company has taken up a few initiatives to 
address global environmental issues as outlined below: 
 Use of Solar Energy, wherever feasible (A 2.50 MW Solar Power Plant has 
been installed at Kovvur complex and solar water heating system for Boiler 
feed water at Tanuku complex). 
 
 Replacement of R-22 refrigerant gas with eco-friendly refrigerant gases (like R-
32 Refrigerant) in Air conditioning refrigeration systems. 
 
 
 Use of Wind Energy, wherever feasible (We installed wind mills with a total 
capacity of16.6MW in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu). 
 
Potential environmental risks in our operations are identified and appropriate 
measures are taken to mitigate the risks with a view to minimize the environmental 
impact.  Presently there is no Project related to Clean Development Mechanism. 
 
The Company has taken up some initiatives on clean technologies, energy 
efficiency and renewable energy which include: 
 
 Absorption of eco-friendly technologies like Membrane Cell Technology for the 
production of Caustic soda/ Chlorine, in place of Mercury cell electrolysers. 
 
 Process technology improvements in the process Plants with respect to 
reduction of waste generation, adopting ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ concepts 
(aimed at waste minimization and conservation of process water & cooling 
water) wherever possible and adopting the Zero Liquid Discharge systems as 
per the guidelines of Pollution Control Boards. 
 Replacement of old & less energy efficient electric motors with increased 
energy efficient electric motors as per IE-2 class and IE-3 class. 
 Use of Biogas (Non-conventional Energy) generated from Distillery Effluents in 
place of Coal for Steam generation. 
 
Emissions / waste generated by the Company is within the permissible limits given 
by CPCB/ SPCB and there are no Show-Cause Notices received from CPCB / 
SPCB. 
PRINCIPLE - 7 
BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGED IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY 
POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER: 
For any Policy advocacy Company recognises the importance of being extremely 
responsible & highly ethical while taking the matters with relevant Government bodies.  
The Company is Member of Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).  It is also Member of ISMA, SISMA, AMAI.   
As and when it is felt necessary, the Company makes representation to these relevant 
bodies to seek solutions to the problems faced by various sectors of business thus 
ensuring that the business operations are in right direction.   
PRINCIPLE - 8 
BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT INCLUSIVE GROWTH 
AND EQUITABLE 
DEVELOPMENT: 
Company was incorporated in the Year 1947 with its 1st Sugar Factory at Tanuku, then a 
Mofussil area.  Since then, Company strongly believed that benefits of Industrialisation 
should percolate to the community around. 
In this regard, our Commitment to Rural Development began way back in the early 1950.  
We founded various Educational Institutions and Medical Institutions of Excellence.  To 
this end: 
 Company helped to set up a Medical College in Kakinada in 1958 through the 
portals of which Doctors of Distinction passed out. 
 
 In view of Industrialisation in the Area and the need for qualified technical staff, 
Company helped to set up a well-equipped Polytechnic in 1958 with full-fledged 
labs including Operating Models of Aircraft Engines along with hostels & 
playground facilities. 
 
 In view of the need for providing the Rural Population with the much needed 
modern and specialized Medical Care that was available only in distant cities, we 
helped set up a Medical Centre at Tanuku in 1980. Subsequently, a 
Cardiovascular Centre and Eye Centre (first affiliate of LVPEI) were added to 
widen the Health Care base providing much needed Cardiac and Eye Care for the 
Rural Population. 
 
 To ensure that local lads do not lag behind in their education, we support High 
Schools at Tanuku and Dommeru, a small Village in West Godavari District, 
Andhra Pradesh. 
 
 Set up a modern Library and Cultural Center at Tanuku with a 850 Seater Air-
conditioned Auditorium to meet the cultural needs of the Community.   
 
 With concerted efforts, we could bring about social transformation of Rural Areas in 
our Region and economic prosperity, besides providing large-scale employment to 
the people of our Region and thereby helping in improving the standard of living. 
To this end, Company has been providing Direct Employment to the people in and 
around the local area and has also been supporting Sugarcane farmers by 
providing them field advisory services to improve the quality of Sugarcane crop.  
 
 Recognising the importance of providing protected drinking water to the Rural 
Population, Company supported Drinking Water Schemes of RVWS Programme of 
Andhra Pradesh Government.  In the past, Chlorine was supplied free of cost to 
Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam and Sree Satya Sai Organisations for Drinking 
Water Programmes in Rural Areas.  
 
 To facilitate better communication and more efficient agricultural operations not 
only for the farmers but also for the rural public at large Black-top Roads and 
Gravel Roads were developed under Sugarcane Development Schemes.  
PRINCIPLE - 9 
BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR 
CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER: 
 
The Company highly values the Customers’ loyalty.  To achieve this, Company focus has 
always been to ensure that the Company is committed to give its Customers Best 
Product, Best Price and committed Delivery Schedule.  Marketing Personnel work closely 
with the Customers and closely interact with them to understand their changing needs in 
respect of various attributes of the products.  R & D is committed to look into and work 
upon the change and successfully implement the same.  The products go through tight 
Quality Control Procedure before entering the Customers’ Godown.   Products are 
packed in the required Packing Containers and bear Labels as per the Regulatory 
Mandate.  The Company never indulge in any kind of misleading Advertisements. During 
the preceding Five Financial Years, one case is filed regarding anti-competitive trade 
practice.  National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Appeal filed has granted 
a Stay.  Final Judgment is yet to be pronounced.  
 
2. 
Business Responsibility Policies: 
 
 
Though the Company does not have Policies other than mandated by Statute, it 
has adopted and follow the best Business Policies with all Stakeholders interest 
uppermost in view.  Policies mandated by Statute are displayed on Company’s 
Website: www.theandhrasugars.com 
 
 
Reporting of Business Responsibility is a applicable to the Company for the first 
time from the Financial Year 2019-20,   The Chairman & Managing Director and 
other Four (4) Whole-time Directors monitor and review the matters relating to 
Business Responsibility periodically to ensure that the Business activities are 
monitor in Right Direction.   Every Business function is reviewed in detail and if 
required, corrective measures are taken by Statutory Auditors, Cost Auditors so as 
to ascertain that there are no financial irregularities.   Emphasis is placed on 
following best Corporate Governance.  
