 
 
 
 
August 16, 2022 
 
The Manager- Listing 
BSE Limited 
(BSE: 507685) 
 
 
The Manager- Listing 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, 
(NSE: WIPRO) 
 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for FY 2021-22 
 
Please find enclosed herewith the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR), which was submitted earlier as a part of our Integrated Annual Report for FY 
2021-22. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
For Wipro Limited              
 
                                                                                                                         
G Kothandaraman 
General Manager- Finance 
 
370
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 2021-22
Section A: General Disclosures
	 I.	 Details of the Listed Entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L32102KA1945PLC020800
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Wipro Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
1945
4.
Registered office address
Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru-560035, 
Karnataka, India
5.
Corporate address
Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru-560035, 
Karnataka, India
6.
E-mail
eco.eye@wipro.com
7.
Telephone
+91-80-28440011
8.
Website
https://www.wipro.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 (FY 2021-22)
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
India- National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE)
USA- New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
11.
Paid-up Capital
The paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as of March 31, 2022, stood at 
` 10,964 million consisting of 5,482,070,115 
equity shares of ` 2/- each
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who 
may be  contacted in case of any queries on the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) report
Narayan PS
Global Head - Sustainability and Social Initiatives
narayan.pan@wipro.com 
Telephone: +91-80-46827999 
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a 
standalone basis  (i.e., only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e., 
for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
The disclosures under this report are made 
on a consolidated basis, excluding Capco and 
its subsidiaries that were acquired during the 
year.
	 II.	 Products/Services
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover): 
	
Refer to page no. 48 of the Annual Report.
15.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
	
The Company’s IT and IT-enabled services including, technology consulting, IT consulting, business process services, 
among others, are the predominant services which accounts for more than 90% of the entity’s turnover. The NIC Code is 
62013 and 62020. 
	III.	 Operations
16.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of Offices + 
Data Centre
Total
National
NA
Offices – 36
Data Centre - 3
39
International
NA
Offices – 211
Data Centers – 5
Warehouses – 2
Storage – 2
220
371
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
17.	Markets served by the entity: 
a.	Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
 14
International (No. of Countries)
 66
b.	What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
97% contribution of exports.
c.	 A brief on types of customers. 
	
Our customers are from a range of diversified industry sectors from across the globe; we also work with the 
government sector in select markets. 
IV.	 Employees
18.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled): 
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.1 and 2.2 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://
www.wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/.
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers: 
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.2 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.
wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/.
19.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of Women 
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
9
2
22.22%
Key Management Personnel*#
4
0
0
	* Includes Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
	
# Our overall gender diversity stands at 36.1% and we heave nearly 20% women in our 200 senior-most leadership ranks.
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.4 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.
com/investors/annual-reports/.
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	 (a)	Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures:
	
	 	
	 Refer to Form AOC-1 provided at page nos. 293 to 298 of this Annual Report for information on holding/subsidiary/
associate companies/ joint ventures. 
VI.	 CSR Details
	
	 22.	 (i)	 Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 : Yes
	
	 	
(ii)	Turnover (` In Mn) :  ` 595,744
	
	 	
(iii)	 Net worth (` In Mn) :  ` 543,506
	VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
	
	 23.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National  Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC):
i)	 Employees may register their concerns through the dedicated e-mail address available (ombuds.person@wipro.com) 
or through the Company’s intranet portal. The Company encourages its employees to register their concerns/grievances 
through the Ombuds process and ensures that there is no discrimination, retaliation or harassment of any kind against 
any employee who reports under the vigil mechanism or participates in the investigation.
372
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
ii)	 Investors and shareholders may register their complaints/grievances through the grievance redressal mechanism 
implemented by the Company in coordination with KFin Technologies Limited, the Company’s Registrar and Transfer 
Agent. Details on Investor complaints received and resolved during the year are provided at page no. 125 of the Annual 
Report.
iii)	Suppliers may provide their feedback either through the Ombuds process, Helpline/Helpdesk or other forums like the 
Annual Supplier Meet. 
iv)	Customers may raise grievances through the respective account managers/client engagement managers, Customer 
Advocacy Group or through independently administered satisfaction surveys. We obtain ongoing, project based and 
annual feedbacks from our customers. 
We monitor and track the complaints/grievances received from different stakeholder groups on an ongoing basis. Refer 
to details provided in section 3.2 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
	
	 24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. 
	
	 	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications.
	
	 	
We have a detailed materiality determination process basis which we regularly review the most significant issues to our 
business. What is material to business is a function of which stakeholders we serve, what is the shared value proposition 
for each of the stakeholders, what risks and opportunities does this present for Wipro and the time-horizon (short, 
medium and long term). We also apply the concept of double materiality in arriving at the priority issues i.e. “The impacts 
on us” and the “The impacts due to us”. Further details of our materiality determination, risk and opportunity management 
can be found in the following sections 
	
	 	
Materiality Determination ( Refer to page no. 40 of the Annual Report)
	
	 	
Human Capital (Refer to page no. 59 of the Annual Report)
	
	 	
Social & Relationship Capital- Customers & Suppliers (Refer to page no. 65 for customers and page no. 69 for suppliers of 
the Annual Report)
	
	 	
Natural Capital (Refer to page no. 79 of the Annual Report)
	SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Policy & Management Processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
	
	
Yes
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
	
	
Yes
	
c.	 Web Link of the Policies:
P1 to P9: Code of Business Conduct, Ombuds Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct.
P2: Policy on ecological sustainability
P3 & P5: Human Rights Policy, Global Policy for Equal Employment Opportunity for Persons with Disabilities, Anti-slavery 
&\Human Trafficking
P4 & P8: CSR Policy
P6: Health & Safety Policy
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
	
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
	
Yes
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
373
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
	
P2: ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2019*, ISO 45001:2018 
	
P5: International Labour Organization (“ILO”) Declaration, Universal Declaration of Human Rights (“UNDHR”), UN Guiding 
Principles on Business & Human Rights, United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”)
	
P6: ISO 14001:2015, ISO 14064,  Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (“LEED”)              	
	
*Partial compliance (Few locations in India and 1 Centre in Germany)
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined timelines, if any & 6. Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals, and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
	
As part of the ESG strategy, we have articulated 15 ESG goals. The performance against each goal and targets have been 
provided in the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)  
	
Refer to page no. 19 and 23 of the Annual Report.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies) and 
specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues?
	
• Mr. Narayan PS, Global Head - Sustainability and Social Initiatives
	
• Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee (which also acts as Corporate Social Responsibility Committee)
9.		Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
	
a.	 Performance against the above policies and follow up action. 
	
	
The respective Committee of the Board reviews the performance, as needed from time to time. This is supplemented by 
leadership reviews e.g. Human capital and people related issues are reviewed regularly by our Chief Executive Officer 
(“CEO”), the Global Executive Council and the Human Resource (“HR”) leadership. Ecological sustainability related matters 
are reviewed by the Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee (“BGNC”), the CEO, the Heads of 
Sustainability, Finance, HR and Operations.
	
b.	 Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and rectification of any non-compliances.
	
	
The Board has approved a Global Statutory Compliance Policy providing guidance on broad categories of applicable 
laws and process for monitoring compliance. In furtherance to this, the Company has instituted an online compliance 
management system within the organization to monitor compliances and provide updates to the senior management and 
Board on a periodic basis. The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Board periodically monitor the status of 
compliances with applicable laws.
	
c.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency?  
	
	
Yes, we carry out assessments against P2 & P6, and our sustainability audit (by DNV GL) covering all the principles.
10.	 If the answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated.
	
Not Applicable
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.
At Wipro, we hold a strong commitment towards integrity outlined through our values of the “Spirit of Wipro”. Through effective 
sustainability risk monitoring, strong data privacy protection for stakeholders, a rigorous and fair Ombuds procedure and 
transparent disclosures, Wipro intends to establish and maintain the highest standards of ESG governance at the Board and 
Executive levels. The Corporate Governance at Wipro is implemented through four functional levels, namely- Governance by 
Shareholders, Governance by Board of Directors, Governance by Committees of Board of Directors and Governance by Management 
Process. Apart from this, Wipro also has an enterprise-wide Code of Business Conduct (applicable to our customers, suppliers, 
partners, competitors, employees, and other stakeholders) that outlines all ethical considerations that need to be adhered to for 
responsible and professional conduct. It also includes general principles aimed at guiding employees in making ethical decisions. 
Apart from this, Corporate Governance is articulated in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, Charters of various Committees 
374
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
and the Disclosure policy. Wipro has a compliance framework, with the goal of establishing suitable procedures and processes 
to ensure global compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as identifying and mitigating compliance risks. One 
of our tenets of transparency is the great emphasis we place on comprehensive ESG disclosures in the public domain i.e., apart 
from our Annual Report based on the principles of integrated reporting and BRSR, we also publish a detailed Sustainability Report. 
Further, our Chairman introduced the Five Habits essential to drive a Growth Mindset in early 2020, which are our values in action.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the financial year:
	
The Company conducts various programs for all employees (100%) covering various BRSR aspects which are as follows:
	
a.	 Code of Business Conduct (COBC): E-learning module for all employees along with an annual assessment. 
	
b.	 Prevention of Sexual Harassment (PSH): E-learning module for all employees along with annual assessment to maintain a 
workplace free from discrimination or harassment of any kind and to create awareness among employees.
	
c.	 Prohibition of Insider Trading (“PIT”) Program: E-learning module with a combination of quarterly sessions are conducted to 
create awareness among employees.
	
d.	 Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Training Program: E-learning module for employees to create awareness about Wipro’s 
policy and values on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption.
	
e.	 Five Habits Session: Sessions are conducted by the leadership team of the Company, focusing on core values of the 
organization as specified in the Corporate Governance Report.
	
 f.	 Health and Safety Program: Awareness sessions on healthy lifestyle and employee assistance or counselling programs 
are conducted by the Company to prevent workplace injuries and ill health and provide employees with a safe and healthy 
working environment by continuously evolving industry practices and societal standards of care.
	
	
Training programs listed in Sl. No a and b are mandatory training programs and remaining training programs are conducted 
for employees based upon applicability.
	
	
All Directors and Senior Management Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with Wipro’s Code of Business 
Conduct for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
2.	 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures based on materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website): 
	
Not Applicable
3.  Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary 
action has been appealed.
	
Not Applicable
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in  brief and if available, provide a web-link to 
the policy.
	
Yes. The Company has a Code of Business Conduct (“COBC”) which covers anti-corruption and anti-bribery. The COBC provides 
the ethical guidelines and expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliate 
companies. 
	
It applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Company. It also applies to individuals who serve the 
Company on contract, subcontract, retainer, consultant or any other such basis.
	
This Code has been displayed on the Company’s website at Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
5.	 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for 
the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2022
FY 2021
Directors
Nil
KMPs
Employees
6.	 Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest: 
	
NIL
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
375
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
7.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest: 
	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
 Total number of 
awareness programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered  
(by value of business done with such partners)  
under the awareness programmes
106*
Environment Health and Safety (EHS), Pandemic, 
Health related sessions, Ergonomic lifestyle, 
Supplier diversity, Anti-Bribery & Corruption and 
Modern Slavery
More than 80% of the value chain partners, who are 
manpower services related, are covered under the 
awareness programmes.
*Includes EHS and related-78, Supplier Diversity-21 & Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Modern Slavery-7
2.	 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If yes, 
provide details of the same.
	
Yes. The Company receives from the members of the Board, a list of entities in which they are interested, at the beginning of 
every financial year and as and when there is any change in such interest. 
		
Additionally, a self-declaration portal is designed for employees to identify and disclose any situation which may be 
perceived to be an actual or potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods & services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
With more than 30 sustainability-aligned services and offerings, our capabilities are comprehensive and customizable to our clients 
across several industries. These offerings draw from Wipro’s expertise in Cloud, Sustainable IT, Sustainable Design, Innovation and 
Experience (Designit), Sustainable Finance (CAPCO), Engineering, Cyber Security, and other lines of business to offer the type of 
unified transformation that clients need to achieve their sustainability and Net Zero goals.
Since 2017, Wipro’s IT hardware purchase standards have been in line with the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool 
(“EPEAT”) standard from the Green Electronic Council. As a result, we are the only IT services and consulting firm in the world to obtain 
the EPEAT purchaser award across four product categories. Engineering/design services, materials, and equipment procurement 
that comply with stringent environmental criteria, forms the basis for Wipro’s Green Building Program. During commissioning, 24 
of our current buildings across campuses were certified to the International LEED standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum), making 
us one of the early adopters of green building design. Environmental Management System (“EMS”) (ISO 14001:2015 standard) has 
been in place for two decades and forms the core of the implemented EMS. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2022
FY 2021
Details of improvements on environmental and social impacts
R&D
We at present do not separately track R&D spend on ESG. However, 
our IP and new solution offerings encompass a range of sustainability 
offerings across sectors.
Capex (In INR Million)
2,713
9,977
Investments in green buildings across locations.
2.	 a.	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? 
	
	
	
Yes
	
b.	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
		
	
We have green procurement guidelines across core areas of procurement, like the Facilities Management Group (FMG) 
where we ensure use of safe cleaning supplies and gardening materials, Civil & Infrastructure where we adhere to 
procurement of green building materials & IT Products where procurement of equipment is as per stringent environmental 
criteria validated by EPEAT.
3.	 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for (a) 
Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
		
Given that Wipro does not manufacture any products, this question is not applicable. However, Wipro has waste management 
strategies in place for its own operations, as mentioned in detail in page no. 84 of the Annual Report. 
376
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
4.	 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same. 
		
Not Applicable.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
		
Yes, we perform natural capital valuation for Wipro’s direct operations and upstream indirect impacts through an external 
agency. Natural Capital impact is 2.66% as a share of revenue of Wipro operations and 14.93% as a share of Earnings before 
Interest & Tax (“EBIT”) in FY 2021-22. We report the results in the Natural Capital section of the Annual Report. For more 
details, refer to section 1.6 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/investors/
annual-reports/.
2.	 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products/ 
services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
		
LCA is not applicable to Wipro since we are not in the product manufacturing segment. However, we conduct a Natural Capital 
Valuation Program, which is a rigorous framework that assesses and quantifies positive and negative impacts on nature or 
natural capital on account of a company’s operations and value chain. Natural Capital Impacts are calculated across six key 
performance indicators (KPIs) namely, GHG emissions, air pollution, water consumption, water and land pollution, waste 
generation and land use change. Please refer to Natural capital section of the Annual Report at page no. 86 for more details. 
3.	 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry). 
		
Not Applicable.
4.	 The products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed: 
		
The sanitary, bio-medical, hazardous, and inorganic tissue paper are incinerated. Other categories of waste are recycled and/
or managed appropriately. Please refer to details provided in section 1.4 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s 
website at https://www.wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/.
5.	 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category. 
		
Not Applicable.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Wipro is an inclusive organization in spirit and in practice. Our people strategies are focused on providing an exceptional employee 
experience through a variety of learning opportunities, rewarding careers, and a safe and healthy workplace. These include 
workplace health and safety programs, occupational medical and healthcare services programs on lifestyle diseases and mental 
well-being, in addition to comprehensive medical benefits programs. Wipro endeavours to follow the principles of diversity and 
fairness with all our value chain partners, in terms of human rights, employee welfare, health and safety, standards of minimum 
wages and maximum working hours. We also provide volunteering opportunities to employees in community work.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 a.	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees: 
	
	
With the ongoing pandemic, employee well-being has become an area of strategic focus for Wipro. Our employee wellness 
programs encompass the three areas of employee well-being, namely- physical, emotional, and financial. Please refer to 
the Human Capital section at page no. 57, for more details. 
	
b.	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers: 
	
	
Refer the response to 1.a. above. 
2.	 Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year. 
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.11 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/. 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
377
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3.	 Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard. 
	
Wipro complies with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and the premises are largely accessible as per the 
requirements. In 2021, we have conducted a detailed assessment of each of the premises and have developed a plan with 
the recommendations. We are in the process of implementing the identified gaps. This is incorporated within the Facilities 
Management for continued focus.
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with  Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, we have a Global policy for Equal Employment Opportunity as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
5.	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave. 
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.9 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/. 
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
	
Yes, we have an Ombuds Policy to redress the grievances. Refer to details provided in section 3.2 of the ESG Dashboard available 
on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/.
7.	 Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.10 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
8.	 Details of training given to employees and workers: 
	
Refer to details provided in section 2.8 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
9.	 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers: 
	      100% coverage for employees. 
10.	 Health and safety management system: 
	
	 a.	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been  implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage of such a system?
	
	 	
Yes, all our campuses conform to ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health & Safety management system) with 100% coverage 
and are certified by accredited third party agencies. Besides internal and third-party audits, EHS experts periodically 
assess every unit (at least once in six months), to ensure compliance to statutory norms and requirements.
	
	 b.	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity? 
	
	 	
We conduct a Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment annually or anytime there is a change in process, new equipment, or 
service, and build risk mitigation plans. 
	
	 	
The following steps are taken to assess risks and hazards: 
-	Break down the job into successive steps or tasks
-	Identify the hazards associated with each step and task
-	Identify controls in place for each hazard
-	Identify applicable legal obligations relating to risk assessment and implementation of necessary controls
-	Estimate the potential severity of an incident associated with each hazard from both safety and health aspects
-	Estimate the probability of an incident occurring for each hazard (given existing controls)
-	Calculate the risk 
-	Identify possible additional controls needed to eliminate these hazards
378
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
	
	 c.	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to  remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)
	
	 	
Yes 
	
	 d.	 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
	 	
Yes 
	11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Refer to details provided in section 2.12 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.
com/investors/annual-reports/.
	12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
Refer to page no. 57 of the Annual Report.
	13.	 Number of complaints about the following made by employees and workers: 
	
	 On working conditions and Health & Safety we reported 427 and 496 cases respectively.
	14.	 Assessments for the year:  
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and Safety Practices
100% coverage – For India As per 45001, 
For larger operations overseas, we follow similar guidelines.
Working Conditions
	15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks/ 
concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. 
	
	 An online tool is available on the employee intranet where employees can log an EHS incident. These recorded incidents 
are tracked up to closure. Employees can log work-related injuries or ill health and other EHS incidents, post which the 
functional lead performs an on-site incident investigation for all reported incidents. If required, the following people are a 
part of the on-site investigation: Incident Reporter, Witness and EHS Manager. The incident investigation team establishes 
the facts of circumstances leading up to the incident to determine EHS deficiencies and other factors that might be causing 
or contributing to the occurrence of incidents. Key personnel from the operations team are empowered to ensure that the 
resolution of these incidents is achieved at the earliest and recurrence is avoided. Review meetings are then conducted to 
gather key learning and establish processes to prevent occurrence of such nature in the future. All individual locations have a 
dedicated safety committee. The committee meets every quarter to discuss and review any EHS concerns existing, accident/
incident trends, status reports of previous meeting minutes, inspections, training, suggestions and recommendation from 
members. 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers 
(Y/N)? 
	
Yes, our benefits program follows an integrated approach and provides a range of options for better financial and social 
security, including efficient tax-management options, life and accident insurance, and medical packages. In India, we ensured 
insurance coverage for contract employees supporting short-term assignments during the COVID-19 pandemic.
2.	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners. 
	
Currently, our program covers 402 (manpower service providers) value chain partners in India, out of which 302 have been 
audited. The scope of audits also cover Labor Compliance asks such as:
Prohibition of Employment of Child Labor Statutory Compliance- Provident Fund (“PF”), Employee State Insurance Corporation 
(“ESIC”), Professional Tax (“PT”), Labor Welfare Fund (“LWF”) 
Availability of Labor License with vendor under Contract Labor (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970
Payment of minimum wages
Salary disbursement
Vendor to hold WC (“Workmen compensation”) policy/ GPA (“Group personal accident”) policy for employees not covered 
under ESIC Scheme.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
379
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment: 
	
We do have a program that supports such needs. As an example in the year, the spouses of 12 employees who lost their lives 
due to COVID-19 (across both core and non-core) were provided suitable employment in Wipro.
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) 
	
Yes, for more details refer to page no. 56 of the Annual Report
5.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% Of value chain partners (by value of business 
done  with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety Practices
100% coverage
Working Conditions
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions  of value chain partners.
	
Vendors who are associated with Wipro are internally trained for health & safety practices by in house EHS (Environmental, 
Health & Safety) team with 100% coverage. Wipro provides a workplace that is physically and emotionally safe for contractual 
staff, where they can focus on their job responsibilities and obtain fulfillment. Wipro provides a safe workplace, compensating 
workers fairly, and treating them with a sense of dignity and equality while respecting their privacy. Vendors partners undergo 
training on sexual harassment with 100% coverage.
	
Internal risk review mechanism is in place with all relevant functions to understand the requirements through fortnightly and 
monthly reviews with all the functions. Location Facility Management Group (“FMG”) leads are designated as single point 
of contacts to conduct and coordinate cross-functional efforts and third-party verification is being carried out on all the 
documents submitted by the vendor partner.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
Stakeholder involvement is essential for Wipro to promote responsible and sustainable business practises that benefit both the 
Company and its stakeholders. Engaging with stakeholders serves the larger goal of better understanding the risks and possibilities 
connected with the social, environmental, and economic framework within which the company operates. These characteristics 
aid in identifying stakeholders across the value chain who are important to the business, society and necessitate meaningful 
engagement. We have identified eight stakeholder groups based on these attributes: Employees, Customers, Investors, Suppliers, 
Education System, Communities & Civil Societies, Government and Policy Networks, and The Young Citizen and Future Generation. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
	
Identification of stakeholders is based on characteristics such as Impact, Influence, Interest, Legitimacy, Urgency, and Diversity 
Perspective. Please refer section on Stakeholder Identification provided in page no. 42 of the Sustainability Report FY 2020-21.
2.	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
	
Wipro has identified 8 key stakeholders based on certain parameters, and the engagements with each of them are provided 
in the Summary of Stakeholder Engagement in page no. 40 of the Annual Report. Wipro has quarterly engagements with its 
investors, and annual engagements with its employees and customers.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if 
consultation is delegated, how feedback from such consultations is provided to the Board. 
	
The consultation with the Board on key stakeholder concerns is largely mediated by different organizational functions which 
are responsible for the respective stakeholders. The setting for this are the periodic Board reviews held at least once a quarter, 
during which the Board holds extensive discussions with the CEO and other senior leaders representing these functions. For 
example, feedback on customer trends and issues is provided by the Heads of Businesses and Market Units, that on investors 
by the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) and his team, on employees by the Chief Human Resources Officer (“CHRO”) and his team, 
on sustainability issues by the Chief Sustainability Officer, etc. Please refer the table below for further information in this 
regard. 
380
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
Stakeholder
Responsible Function and Person
Employees
Human Resources, Chief Human Resources Officer
Investors
Finance, Chief Financial Officer
Customers
4 Strategic Market Units - CEOs
2 Global Business Lines - Managing Partners
Suppliers
Central Procurement Organization, Chief Procurement Officer
Communities and Civil Society
The Education System
The Young citizen and Future Generation
Sustainability and Community Programs, Chief Sustainability Officer
Government and Policy Networks
Government Affairs, General Counsel  
Sustainability and Community Programs, Chief Sustainability Officer
2.	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics 
(Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the input received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated 
into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, stakeholder engagement covers key material issues driven by strategic objectives through various modes of engagements. 
There is a primary internal custodian for each stakeholder group. For example, feedback from employees involves certain 
informed steps which are taken leading to enhanced communications and collaboration forums. Similarly, for suppliers, this 
has informed the ease of doing business across the order to payment cycle and ability to address environmental and social 
aspects. For additional details, please refer the Summary of Stakeholder Engagement in page no. 47 of the Sustainability 
Report FY 2020-21.
3.	 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups. 
	
Wipro engages with communities and civil society networks to work on systemic issues that can act as force multipliers for 
social transformation and sustainable development. Within this ambit, we deliberatively focus on disadvantaged groups 
in a significant majority of our social initiatives e.g. Children with Disability, the Urban Poor, Women from disadvantaged 
communities,  Suppliers from under-represented groups (e.g. Women owned enterprises) ,  Employees with disability or from 
LGBTQ+ groups. For additional details, please refer page no. 70 of this Annual Report and page no. 47 of the Sustainability Report 
FY 2020-21.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Wipro is committed to protecting and respecting human rights and remedying rights violations, in the instances they are identified, 
such as issues related to human trafficking, forced labour, child labour, freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, 
equal remuneration and discrimination. Providing equal employment opportunity, ensuring distributive, procedural, and interactional 
fairness in all what we do, creating a harassment-free, safe environment and respecting one’s fundamental rights are some of the 
ways in which we ensure the same. To monitor progress and formulate strategies to address human rights related issues, we have 
established committees and processes such as the Ombuds, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee, Employee Experience 
Survey, EHS, an Inclusion & Diversity Council and Culture Council, which are reviewed by the top management on a regular basis. 
Wipro has also put forth its commitment statement for human rights, which is available in the public domain. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
	 1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following 
format: 
	
	 Refer to details provided in section 2.8 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
	 2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format: 
	
	 The compensation and benefits offered for both full-time and part-time employees is well above the statutory minimum 
wage. The minimum wage criteria are met for workers as well. Please refer to section on Human capital (Financial Well-being) 
for more details. 
	 3.	 Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format: 
	
	 Please refer to page no. 98 to 99 of this Annual Report.
	 4.	 Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? 
	
	 Yes. Mr. Saurabh Govil, Chief Human Resource Officer, is responsible for addressing human rights issues.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
381
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
	 5.	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. 
	
	 Wipro’s Ombuds Policy has been established to allow workers and other individuals associated with the Company to voice 
their concerns pertaining to malpractice, impropriety, abuse, and deviant behaviour at an early stage through an appropriate 
channel, freely without fear of retaliation, victimization, or eventual discrimination or disadvantage at workplace. Please 
refer the section on Human Capital for more details on this. 
	 6.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
	
	 We have an Ombuds process for receiving complaints from different stakeholders and the number of complaints categorized 
based on allegation types are provided in section 3.2 of the ESG Dashboard, which is available at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
	 7.	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
	 Ombuds Policy assures all complainants protection and safeguards against perceived or actual victimization or retaliation 
for reporting a complaint. Moreover, if any complainant still feels or raises such concern of retaliation, they may approach the 
Chief Ombudsperson for a suitable remedy.
	 8.	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
	 Yes. Human Rights aspects are covered as part of the Wipro Supplier Code of Conduct, which is required for all contracts.
	 9.	 Assessments for the year 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
 (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labor
100
Forced/involuntary Labor
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at Workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
	10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 9 above. 
	
	 We conduct monthly audits to address risks and escalate in case of any issues. We ensure all statutory compliances regarding 
minimum wages and strictly prohibit employment of child labor. 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints. 
	
Please refer page no. 59 & 60 of this Annual Report.
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted. 
	
Please refer page no. 59 of this Annual Report.
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
	
Wipro complies with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and the premises are largely accessible as per the 
requirements. In 2021, we have conducted a detailed assessment of each of the premises and have developed a plan with 
the recommendations. We are in the process of implementing the identified gaps. This is incorporated within the Facilities 
Management for continued focus.
382
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of value chain partners (by value of business 
done with such partners) that were assessed*
Sexual Harassment
100
Discrimination at Workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
	
*All the vendors operating from Wipro campuses have been assessed on above risks & concerns
5.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 4 above.
	
Monthly audits are conducted to address risks and escalate in case of any issues. All statutory compliance regarding minimum 
wages and other benefits are ensured. Employment of child labor is strictly prohibited. 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Wipro has been working on these areas for over 15 years. The latest Global Risk Report by the World Economic Forum calls out 
several environmental risks such as climate action, biodiversity loss, and natural resource crises. Wipro is focused on managing 
these risks efficiently by identifying energy efficiency and Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) mitigation, water efficiency and responsible 
water management, pollution and waste management and campus biodiversity as the most material issues. Wipro has developed 
a portfolio of multiple initiatives to address these issues. These include our commitments to Net Zero GHG emissions by 2040, 
halving our water footprint by 2030, near 100% waste reuse & recycling and supporting larger community initiatives in these areas.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
	 1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity: 
	
	 Refer to details provided in section 1.2 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
	 2.	 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. 
In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
	
	 No.
	 3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water: 
	
	 Refer to details provided in section 1.3 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
	 4.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation. 
	
	 Wipro follows Zero Liquid Discharge across all locations except one location which was converted to a hospital during 
COVID-19. The latter exception was on instructions from the local municipal authority. For more details, please refer use of 
recycled water provided in the section on Natural Capital on page no. 83 in this Annual Report.
	 5.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity: 
	
	 We monitor SOx, NOx and Particulate matter data which can be referred to in section 1.5 of the ESG Dashboard available on 
the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/investors/annual-reports/. However, since we are a service industry, we do 
not monitor Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP), Volatile Organic compounds (VOC) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) data. 
	 6.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & their intensity: 
	
	 Refer to details provided in section 1.1 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.	
7.	 	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details. 
	
	 Yes, we have a detailed roadmap to become Net Zero on our value-chain GHG emissions by 2040 with firm interim goals till 
2030. Our plans envisage a multi pronged approach around energy efficiency, renewable energy, green buildings, and Scope 
3 emission reduction. For more details, please refer the details provided under the section on Natural capital in this Annual 
Report.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
383
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
	 8.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity: 
	
	 Refer to details provided in section 1.4 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.	
	 9.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes. 
	
	 Waste management is one of the material topics to Wipro and we have a comprehensive program covering all streams of 
waste. For a more detailed strategy, please refer the section on Natural capital provided on page no. 84 of this Annual Report.
	
	 Since we are a service industry, Hazardous Air Pollutants (“HAP”), Volatile Organic compounds (“VOC”) and Persistent Organic 
Pollutants (“POP”) data are not material for our sector. However, we monitor SOx, NOx and Particulate matter data from diesel 
generators used for backup power, which can be referred to in the ESG Dashboard. In addition, we also measure VOC’s in office 
spaces as part of our Indoor Air Quality Program.
	10.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / 
clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
	
	 Not Applicable.
	11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year: 
	
	 Not Applicable.
	12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances: 
	
	 Yes.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the 
following format: 
	
Refer to details provided in section 1.2 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
2.	 Provide the following details related to water discharge: - 
	
Refer to details provided in section 1.3 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
3.	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters): 
Refer to details provided in section 1.3 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
4.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity: 
	
Refer to details provided in section 1.1 of the ESG Dashboard available on the Company’s website at https://www.wipro.com/
investors/annual-reports/.
5.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities. 
	
Not Applicable.
384
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
6.	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or 
reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome 
of such initiatives, as per the following format:  
Sr. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if
any, may be provided along with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1.
Global Energy command 
center 
Aggregates Building Management System (BMS) 
inputs on a common platform
Optimize operational control and improve 
energy efficiency
2.
Indoor Air Quality                       
Continuous Air Quality monitoring system (PM 2.5. 
PM 10, TVOC, Co2, Temperature, RH) using certified 
sensors. Old campuses will also have improved air 
filtration and IAQ (Improved Air Quality) monitoring 
in place (phase wise execution plan based on RTW). 
Air quality audit & Implemented 2nd stage filter 
with > 99% Viral load reduction efficiency
Improved air quality monitoring and 
management for occupants
3.
UPS Capacitor 
replacement
Conversion of VRLA (Valve Regulated Lead Acid) 
batteries to Lithium Batteries (LIB) with monitoring 
system.
LIB’s have a longer life of more than 2 to 3 
times of VRLA (Valve Regulated Lead Acid) 
batteries. It helps in the reduction of UPS 
capacity requirement & backup related 
capacity optimization.
4.
Ultrafiltration and  
nano-filtration
6 of the Wipro owned locations have installed 
ultra-filtration where water from these locations 
is being treated completely. Membrane Bio reactor 
(MBR) is used in 2 of the campuses. And further 
installation in 2 more locations is being carried 
out. 
Nano filtration is used in 4 locations for treatment 
of fresh water 
Improved water recycling efficiency
7.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link. 
	
Wipro is aligned to ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) framework which is applicable across global 
locations, accounts, and service functions. Wipro’s VirtuaDeskTM Business Continuity Solution is designed to introduce desktop 
and application virtualization to the workplace in a quick and cost-effective manner. We also have a well developed Business 
Continuity Management Plan which helped us recover from COVID-19 pandemic. The details regarding Company’s Business 
Continuity Management Plan is available on the website. 
	
Our business continuity policy is used to plan for climate related disruptions which could impact business objectives. For more 
details, please refer the section on Natural capital provided on page no. 78 of this Annual Report.
8.	 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard? 
	
Please refer to GHG mitigation projects in section on Natural Capital in page no. 79 of this Annual Report.
9.	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts. 
	
The natural capital valuation program assesses the environmental impact of our value chain activities, including purchased 
goods and services. This is based on our spend data for each supplier and categories they belong to. Details of the same are 
provided in in ESG Dashboard.
	
Based on the above, this year, we are engaging with 57 suppliers, who contribute to 80% of carbon emissions impact through 
Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) Supply chain program.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible 
and transparent.
We are members of the industry and business forums in countries where we have significant presence. These associations are 
aimed at improving local competitiveness and worker rights advocacy in those countries. Additionally, our engagements with Indian 
forums like CII focus on a wide range of ecological sustainability issues and ESG. We chair the CII Greenco Bangalore chapter that 
seeks to catalyze companies across sectors to reduce their environmental footprint and develop sustainable products and services.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
385
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 a.	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
	
We are members of Industry and Business Forums in countries where we have significant operations. National Association 
of Software and Service Companies (“NASSCOM”), U.S. Chambers of Commerce (“USCC”) and BITKOM are the top three by 
financial contribution. The total contribution made to NASSCOM, USCC and BITKOM is $170,000 during FY 2021-22.
	
b.	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the entity 
is a member of/ affiliated to:
SL.
No.
Name of the trade and industry 
chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/National)
1.
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
International
2.
CII
International
3.
FICCI
National
4.
digitalswitzerland
International
5.
NASSCOM
International
6.
BiTKOM
International
7.
techUK
International
8.
IFCCI
National
2.	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities. 
	
None.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
	
The following public policies are available in public domain and are reviewed by the Board. The public policy positions advocated 
by the entity ranges from talent availability, human capital mobility, ESG, to future of work. Wipro’s top 8 trade & industry 
associations include U.S. Chamber of Commerce, FICCI, CII, NASSCOM, techUK, BITKOM, and digitalSwitzerland. Their public 
position on ESG broadly addresses the need for market-based solutions, capacity building and training, proactive participation 
by businesses, and digital technology to support aspects of sustainability and emission reduction. They have emphasized 
on the importance of hybrid work model as their position on future of work, and equipping people and businesses with the 
skills needed to take advantage of the modern working space of emerging technologies such as AI (Artificial Intelligence), and 
robotics. In terms of their policy position on human capital mobility, the associations have included advocacy for responsive 
immigration policy, partnerships with various organizations to build strong coalitions, and the need for skilled labour in the 
tech sector. 
PRINCIPLE 8: Business should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Wipro’s corporate citizenship and CSR efforts are implemented through various modes such as: ​
(i)	 Wipro Foundation, a public charitable trust 
(ii)	 Wipro Cares, a charitable trust that matches employee contributions and 
(iii)	Directly through Wipro Limited’s functions. 
Wipro’s key impact areas include education, children with disability, primary healthcare disaster response, and community ecology. 
We strive for inclusive growth and equitable development through initiatives such as the Digital skills program for students, and 
STEM education in the US. ​Additionally, Wipro also provides opportunities to its employees to engage in volunteering activities and 
community work. 
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 Details of Social Impact Assessments (“SIA”) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year. 
	
As per provisions governing CSR activities, none of our projects were SIA candidates in financial year 2021-22. However, we will 
conduct SIA’s during financial year 2022-23, wherever applicable.
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, 
in the following format 
	
Not Applicable.
386
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
In addition to Grievance Redressal, the community stakeholders also have the option of sharing their concerns with us via 
e-mail mentioned on our website. We have registers at all our locations which can be used by any stakeholder group to express 
their concerns. 
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2022
FY 2021
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
5%
3%
Sourced directly from within the district and  
neighboring districts
At present, we do not track this. Also this 
metric is not material for our sector
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS 
1.	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: 
Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
	
Not Applicable.
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by 
government bodies and provide details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects.
	
Please find below the details of the CSR projects undertaken by the Company in designated aspirational districts:
Sl. 
No.
CSR Project
State 
Aspirational 
District
No. of persons 
benefitted 
From  CSR Projects
% Of beneficiaries 
From vulnerable
 and marginalized groups
Amount Spent  
(In INR)
1
Education
Chhattisgarh
Sukma
5300
100 %
1,080,000
2
Education
Bihar
Jamui
415
360,000
3
Education
Bihar
Gaya
30
720,000
4
Education
Chhattisgarh
Korba
340
1,607,500
5
Education
Himachal 
Pradesh
Chamba
300
360,000
6
Education
Bihar
Gaya
2600
360,000
7
Education
Odisha
Rayagada
244
663,500
8
Education
Maharashtra
Jalgaon
330
1,080,000
9
Education
Jharkhand
Khunti
650
750,000
10
Community 
Healthcare- Project 
started in Jan 2022
Andhra Pradesh
Vizag
 1480
Around 40%
39,00,000
	
 
3.	 (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to      purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) 
	
	
Yes
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? 
	
Please refer page no. 69 of this Annual Report.
	
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Please refer page no. 69 of this Annual Report.
4.	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
	
Not Applicable. 
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved. 
	
Not Applicable. 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
387
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Wipro has a wide variety of clients ranging from multiple sectors including manufacturing and heavy Industry, banking financial 
services & insurance, electricity oil & gas, transportation & logistics, health care and life sciences, and consumer goods. ESG 
being one of the core areas looked at by customers, Wipro has focused on emerging issues which is a mix of sustainability, data 
privacy, open source, and gig workforce, while also exploring metaverse tools and frameworks. Wipro’s partnerships with many of 
the world’s largest enterprise software providers, cloud computing businesses, and technology organizations enable us to offer 
unique and holistic solutions for our clients.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Customers have multiple channels for raising grievances– account managers, client engagement managers, the customer 
advocacy group and through independently administered satisfaction surveys. There is ongoing, project-based, and annual 
feedback from our customers.
2.	 Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
	
Since we are not in B2C or product business, this is not applicable.
3.	 Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2022 
Remarks
FY 2021
Remarks
Received
 during the
year
Pending 
resolution
 at end of 
year
Received 
during the
 year
Pending 
resolution at
 end of year
Data privacy
0
0
0
0
Advertising
NA
NA
NA
NA
Cyber-security
0
0
0
0
Delivery of essential
services
0
0
3
1
The 1 pending 
resolution has been 
closed in FY 2021-22
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Unfair Trade Practices
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
	
Not Applicable. 
5.	 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy.
	
Yes. Wipro is committed towards protecting the data of customers and all its employees. The principles regarding data privacy 
are available on our website at https://www.wipro.com/privacy-statement/. We also have a business contingency plan for 
mitigation in case of cyber security issues or data breaches. For more details refer to the section covering Risk in this Annual 
Report. 
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; 
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory 
authorities on safety of products / services.
	
In case of Ransomware attack, we support the customers with our robust Ransomware recovery processes. Wipro also 
highlights potential vulnerabilities to customers and supports them with measures to protect themselves including mitigation 
advisory and strategies.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
	
https://www.wipro.com/ 
2.	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. 
	
Not Applicable. 
388
Wipro Limited | Ambitions Realized
3.	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. 
	
We have a dedicated team who work on major incidents or disruption of services. We have ISO 22301:2019 aligned Business 
Continuity Management System (BCMS) framework implemented across all global delivery locations covering customer 
accounts and service functions.
4.	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not 
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey regarding consumer satisfaction relating to the 
major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
	
Not Applicable. 
5.	 Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
	
a.	 Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact 
	
	
None
	
b.	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers 
	
None
DNV GL, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable 
business performance, has carried out an independent assessment of all the above indicators. The assurance statement from 
DNV GL is available on the Company’s website.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
