AIS 
<AIS > 
19" August, 2025 
Ref. No.: 102339/8/O/L-1/2025-26 
The Manager, 
The Manaper, 
Listing/Market Operation, 
Corporate Relationship Department, 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., 
BSE Limited, 
Exchange Plaza, Plot no. C/1, G Block, 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towets, 
Bandra — Kurla Complex, 
Dalal Street, 
Bandta (E), 
Mumbai — 400 001 
Mumbai — 400 051 
NSE Code — ASAHIINDIA 
BSE Code ~ 515030 
Sub: Annual Report for the Financial Yeas 2024-25 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
as 
amended 
from 
time 
to 
time 
(“Listing Regulations”), we ate enclosing herewith the Annual Report for the Financial Year 
2024-25 containing, inter-alia, the Notice convening 40" Annual General Meeting (AGM) to be 
held 
on 
10° September, 
2025, Board 
of Directors’ Report with 
the relevant enclosures, 
Audited 
Financial 
Statements 
(including 
Audited 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements), 
Report 
on 
Corporate 
Governance, 
Management 
Discussion 
and 
Analysis, 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Auditors’ Report, ete. 
The Notice of 40° AGM along with the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 is also 
being made available on the website of the Company at: www.aisglass.com. 
You ate tequested to kindly take the same on record. 
Thanking you, 
Yours truly, 
Fort Asahi India Glass Limited, 
Digitally signed by 
GOPAL 
 copar canatrA 
' 
Date: 2025.08.19 
GAN ATRA 23:41:38 +05'30' 
Gopal Ganatra 
Executive Director 
General Counsel & Company Secretary 
Membership No.: F 7090 
Encl.: As above 
Asahi India Glass Ltd. 
Corporate Office: Unit No. 301-308, 
1101-1104, 3tdand 21th Floor, Tower-D, 
Global Business Park, M. G. Road, 
Gurugram- 122002 Haryana (India) 
Tel: +91 124 4062212-19 
_ 
q 
2244, 
AO 
Fax: 494 i= hip 
oa 
Registered Office: A-2/10, 1st Floor, WHS DDA Marble Market, 
Corporate Identity Number: L26ap2B1 
1 B4Pt Cougs 42 
Kirti Nagar, New Delhi — 110015
40th Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate overview
02	
Chairman & Managing Director’s 
Message
04	
About AIS
08	
Competitive Strengths
10	
Business Segment Review
22	
Engagement Initiatives
26	
Digital Platforms
30	
Environment
33	
People and Communities
37	
Corporate Social Responsibility
43	
Performance Highlights
44	
Corporate Information
Statutory Reports
46	
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
58	
Report of the Directors
72	
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
112	 Report on 
Corporate Governance
129	 Auditors’ Certificate on 
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
131	 Independent Auditors’ Report 
(Standalone)
140	 AIS – Financials (Standalone)
183	 Statement Related to Subsidiaries / 
Associate Companies / Joint Ventures
184	 Independent Auditors’ Report 
(Consolidated)
192	 AIS – Financials (Consolidated)
231	 Notice to Shareholders
250	 Member’s Response Form
251	 Shareholders Reference
Key Highlights of FY 2024-25
H4,626.47 cr
Total Revenue
H798.12 cr
EBITDA
H371.27 cr
Profit After Tax
200%
Proposed Dividend Per Share
To view the report online, please visit
  www.aisglass.com
Caution regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, which may be identified 
by their use of words like ‘plan’, ‘expect’, ‘will’, ‘anticipate’, ‘belief’, ‘intend’, ‘project’, 
‘estimate’, or other words of similar meaning. All statements that address expectations 
or projections about the future, including but not limited to statements about the 
Company’s strategy for growth, product development, market position, expenditures 
and financial results are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of 
future events. The Company cannot guarantee that these assumptions and expectations 
are accurate or will be realised. The Company’s actual results, performances 
or achievements could thus differ materially from those projected in any such 
forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, 
modify or revise any forward-looking statements, on the basis of any subsequent 
developments, information or events. The Company has sourced the industry information 
from publicly available sources and has not verified that information independently.
Contents
Atmanirbhar Bharat is not just a national 
aspiration, it is a powerful mindset shift. 
It embodies the spirit of innovation, the 
drive for indigenous excellence, and the 
vision of a future shaped by homegrown 
capabilities. In this transformative 
journey, Asahi India Glass Ltd. (AIS) plays 
a pivotal role, contributing not only as 
a manufacturer, but as an enabler of 
India's self-sufficiency across critical 
sectors.
From automotive to architectural 
glass, AIS is deepening its commitment 
to localised manufacturing, design-led 
engineering and value chain integration. 
Every new investment, plant, product, 
and partnership is a step towards 
reducing dependency on imports, 
strengthening domestic capacity, and 
aligning with global benchmarks, while 
being rooted in Indian excellence.
Our glass solutions are crafted to 
meet the evolving needs of a modern, 
self-reliant India, designed for energy 
efficiency, safety, sustainability, 
and performance. We continue to 
collaborate with OEMs, real estate 
developers, architects & influencers, 
infrastructure creators, and innovators 
to co-build solutions that empower 
India’s industries and lifestyles.
This pursuit of self-reliance is not 
just economic, it is emotional and 
intellectual. It reflects confidence in 
our people, pride in our capabilities, 
and belief in a future where India sets 
the pace, not just follows it. At AIS, we 
are proud to be part of this evolution, 
helping shape a nation that builds from 
within and shines beyond.
AtmaNirbhar 
AIS
Message from Chairman & Managing Director (CMD)
growth and enviable macro-economic, political and social 
stability. Even the recent pressure of prohibitive tariffs has 
a feel of a sensible resolution before any severe damage 
is done.
The Automotive industry grew 4% to reach domestic 
production of PVs at 5.14 million. Moreover, the auto 
industry continued its march towards higher value addition 
in all its models. The real estate segment grew 9.5% as 
premium properties were in high demand through the 
year. Home buyers, in particular, became more conscious 
of the building materials used by the developer, creating 
a natural pull for quality building materials.
Auto Glass SBU posted sales of ` 2,990 crs with an EBIDTA 
of 16%, recording a growth of 13% in sales and 12% in 
EBIDTA from last year. While this is passable, we need to 
do better for a good ROCE in a capital-intensive business. 
Some improvement can be achieved by better operational 
excellence and the rest with scale effects as demand 
catches up with investments already made.
There were some notable achievements in our Auto 
business:
•	
Start of our float furnace in Soniyana. This is AIS’s 
largest single investment which suffered a few startup 
problems and is now fully on stream. This Auto 
quality float plant has multiple benefits of: vertical 
integration, localization, inventory optimization, 
scale economies and anti-fragility.
•	
Start of assembly operations at MSIL complex at 
Kharkhoda, Haryana. This is a state-of-the-art facility 
with an array of VR, AR, 4.0, ML, MES and full stack 
digitalization technologies employed.
•	
Continued brown field investments in Patan, 
Chennai and Bawal. After completion of Phase 2, 
Phase 3 is now under implementation in Patan and 
further Phase 4 finalized. At the end of this step by 
step, modular, attuned to market led optimization 
of capacity, demand, technology, productivity, AIS 
Patan will be one of largest auto glass factories in the 
world.
•	
We launched 3 key new products in Auto – Laminated 
door glass, illuminated sunroof and laminated 
sunroof, and we continue to work on several new 
value-added products.
•	
AIS continued to win numerous awards and 
appreciations from its customers like MSIL, Honda, 
KIA, Whirlpool, and from industry associations like 
ACMA and CII.
Dear Shareholders,
What was unthinkable just a smidgen of time ago is the new norm 
now. The last 12 months has witnessed: a worsening war in Europe, a 
horrible situation in the Middle East, the resounding return of Donald 
Trump, an upending of 80 years of norms and conventions by him, 
rise of populism in Europe, tension between USA and China, Tariff 
Terror, reversals of LPG (Liberalization, Privatization and Globalization), 
fighting between India and Pakistan (comprehensively dominated by 
India), Pakistan inexplicably in the good books of China and USA, and 
so many other norm busting, head scratching events that make you 
wonder whether anybody knows what is going on.
In this cauldron of volatility and uncertainty, stock markets have 
remained solid and positive, economic growth surprisingly resilient, 
money markets liquid and affordable, and inflation within bounds. 
India is the very picture of this “calm in a storm” with solid economic 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
02
Despite better operational performance, 
Architectural glass SBU was impacted by 
the downward price impulse emanating 
from China and Chinese owned float 
plants in SE Asia. It posted sales of ` 1,267 
crs with an EBIDTA of ` 245 crs, recording 
a sharp decline from last year. We can 
do much better. Many countries are 
responding to this imported deflation by 
adding additional duties to such imports. 
India too is walking a fine balance between 
open trade and protection from dumping 
by a measured, fact-based analysis, based 
on which anti-dumping duties are being 
levied on merit. We are hopeful the Indian 
Glass industry can face any competition 
which is fair and transparent. If not, we 
hope remedial measures will be taken as 
in the past.
Some notable achievements:
•	
Start of our third float glass plant at 
Soniyana
•	
Cold repair of F2 at Roorkee (from 
May 25) after 18 years of excellent 
performance.
•	
AIS successfully developed several 
new products / coatings like ‘Petal 
Delight’ and ‘Nova Craft’ under 
the OPAL Trendz category, and 
‘Ecosense Spectra’ and ‘Ecosense 
Spring Plus’ under the Ecosense 
brand series. These new products 
and coatings have been specifically 
designed and developed for Indian 
weather conditions and hence is well 
received by the market.
In an important development we have 
completed the merger of 3 of our 
subsidiaries (ADSL, AIA, GX) into AIS Glass 
Solutions Ltd. This arrangement brings 
many of our consumer brands in one 
company (AIS Windows, AIS Windshield 
Experts, AIS Glass Solutions etc) and 
further will lead to rationalization of many 
expenses. We are hopeful this new entity 
will create a sharp focus on D2C businesses 
and will be extremely value accretive.
We took considerable strides last year 
in our journey towards sustainability. 
Enhanced use of renewable power 
continued across our manufacturing 
plants. The green hydrogen supplies were 
successfully commissioned at our green 
field F3 plant at Soniyana. Conservation of 
power, water, and use of environmentally 
friendly practices of “Reduce, Reuse 
and Recycle” continued across plants. 
Our roadmap towards net-zero carbon 
emission is under works and I expect 
the same to complete during FY 25-26. 
At AIS, we firmly believe that “Green is 
Green” - sustainability leads to green for 
environment and green (profits) for the 
Company as well.
FY 25 was the year of the highest capex 
(` 1,268 crs) in the history of AIS’s 38 years 
of existence. Along with prior years higher 
capex, we have now spent about ` 2,500 
crs in the last 3 years up to FY 25. The fruits 
of this labour will now be harvested and 
the debt of ` 2,530 crs as on 31st March 
2025 will be easily managed, especially 
to adequately capitalise the Company 
with our plans through multiple means 
of raising funds including qualified 
institutional placement for which 
shareholders’ approval has already been 
taken.
During the year, we had the following 
changes at our Board –
a)	
On his retirement from MSIL / SMC 
and return back to Japan, Ishizuka 
san resigned from AIS Board after 
8 years. His contribution has been 
immense and valuable. We wish 
him a long, healthy and happy life 
post-retirement. Consequently, we 
welcomed Mr. Shashank Srivastava 
as Non-Executive Director on AIS 
Board. Shashank san has immense 
knowledge of Indian Auto industry 
and has been at the helm of MSIL’s 
Sales & Marketing for several years.
b)	
Upon completion of her maximum 
term as Independent Director, 
Ms. Shradha Suri resigned from AIS 
Board. Ms. Suri has been a pillar of 
strength and great advice to AIS. As 
a young entrepreneur, Ms. Suri gave 
many new ideas and thoughts to 
shape AIS’s business.
c)	
We were immensely fortunate to 
have Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla join AIS 
Board as an Independent Director. 
With over 40 years of stellar 
service at the Armed Forces, Gen 
Khosla brings a different and 
positive perspective to Board 
deliberations.
d)	
Most recently we had Ms. Avanti 
Birla join our Board as Independent 
Director. Being a young 
entrepreneur, Avanti brings rich 
experience from the consumer 
and hospitality industries. We 
welcome Avanti and look forward 
to her contribution to AIS’s growth 
strategy.
Based on the financial performance 
of AIS, the Board has recommended a 
dividend of ` 2 per share, which is about 
13% payout ratio.
With our unbelievable faith in the future 
of India, we are sensibly optimistic 
about our economy, the building and 
auto sectors, value addition, and the 
impact of rapid technological change. 
We are poised to capture the many 
opportunities without risking our basic 
health and survival.  We aim to:
•	
Vertically integrate and be 
Atmanirbhar
•	
Invest in R&D, D&D and NPD
•	
Develop talent in-house through 
excellent HR practices.
•	
Get closer to our customers
•	
Do extensive Value addition
•	
Develop scale to achieve QJCI – 
Quality of Japan at Cost of India
•	
Be Transparent and Honest – See 
More
•	
Delight our Customers and 
Shareholders.
With Regards,
Sanjay Labroo
Chairman &  Managing Director
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
03
The Clear Choice in Glass Solutions
Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) stands tall as one of India’s leading integrated glass 
and window solutions company, with an exceptional presence in both the automotive 
and architectural glass segments. With a legacy of over three decades, AIS has 
evolved from a single-plant, single-product and single-customer entity to a globally 
recognized glass powerhouse offering end-to-end solutions.
Started commercial operations in 1987 as a joint venture between the Labroo family, Asahi Glass Co. Ltd. (now 
AGC Inc.), and Maruti Udyog Limited (now MSIL), AIS has consistently pushed boundaries in technology, quality, 
and sustainability. Today, it is not just a glass manufacturer but a solution provider for a wide spectrum of 
applications. As a listed entity on both NSE and BSE, AIS commands a unique strategic position in the Indian 
market.
Vision
See More
•	 It describes AIS’s products and 
services which delight customers by 
helping them see more in comfort, 
safety and security
•	 It expresses AIS’s corporate culture of 
merit and transparency
•	 It defines the qualities of AIS’s people 
who want to see, learn and do more, 
in depth and detail.
To transcend the ordinary.
Mission
Execution for Excellence through PDCA
With major investments in place, the time 
is now to reap the benefits by execution 
for excellence through PDCA.
Guiding Principles
All actions of AIS are driven by the following 
guiding principles:
•	 Creation of Value for Shareholders
•	 Customer Satisfaction
•	 Respect for Environment
•	 Use of Facts
•	 Continuous Improvement
•	 Strengthening of Systems
•	 Upgradation of Human Potential through 
Education and Training
•	 Social Consciousness
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
04
Full-spectrum capabilities across the entire 
glass value chain from float and automotive 
glass manufacturing to processing, design, 
fabrication, and design & installation, of 
glass, doors, and windows.
A strong portfolio of services, including 
consultation, installation, and after-sales 
support, for both retail and institutional 
customers.
Trusted for delivering high-performance 
glass for energy-efficient buildings, 
modern architecture, and cutting-edge 
automotive solutions.
History of 38 years of doing business 
with highest standards of ethics and 
transparency, thereby creating symbiotic 
relationships with all stakeholders.
Philosophy for Responsible Growth
AIS remains committed to its core philosophy of SEQCDDM (Safety, Environment, Quality, 
Cost, Delivery, Discipline and Management) which forms the foundation of its operations 
and long-term value creation. With a sharp focus on sustainability, AIS continues to reduce 
its environmental footprint while driving innovation in energy-efficient building solutions 
and advanced automotive glass. Through research-led development and eco-conscious 
design, the Company is actively shaping a cleaner, greener and more responsible 
future. Anchored in robust governance and a culture of continuous improvement, the 
company aims to deliver lasting value for all – customers, employees, communities and 
shareholders alike.
Our Capacities
8.8 mn+ pcs
Laminated Capacity
7 mn+ car sets
Tempered Capacity
2,150 TPD
Float Glass Capacity
1.
2.
3.
4.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
05
Nation-wide Presence
With a robust pan-India presence, 
unmatched scale, widespread 
manufacturing footprint, and diverse 
product offerings, AIS is well-equipped 
to seize opportunities across the 
country, delivering meaningful 
value to its customers, partners, and 
stakeholders at every touchpoint.
Business Segments
The Company’s businesses stretch across the entire glass lifecycle, powering mobility, 
enhancing living spaces and enriching everyday experiences.
Automotive Glass
Architectural Glass
Consumer Glass
Page
10
Page
14
Page
18
06
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
Note: For detailed addresses and contact 
numbers of all AIS’s locations (including AIS 
offices), please refer to last page.
Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only.
1. Bawal   
  Auto
R  Delhi
 Registered Office
C  Gurugram
 Corporate Office
S  Noida
 Sales Office
2. Chennai   
  Auto
5. Taloja   
  Auto
  Float
  Architectural Processing
  Soft Coat
  Hard Coat
6. Soniyana   
  Float
7. Faridabad   
  Windows
  Architectural Processing
8. Bangalore  
  Auto
  Architectural Processing
  Windows
10. Pune   
  Auto
9. Anantapur   
  Auto
11. Kharkhoda   
  Auto
3. Patan   
  Auto
4. Roorkee   
  Auto
  Float
  Architectural Processing
  Fire Rated Glass
  Mirror
  Hard Coat
1
8
9
2
6
5
10
11
R
C S 4
3
7
  Auto
  Float
  Architectural Processing
  Windows
  Soft Coat
  Fire Rated Glass
  Mirror
  Hard Coat
  Plant
 Sub-Assembly 
Units cum Advance 
Warehouses
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
07
Competitive Strengths
A Strong Core for a Smarter Future
AIS’s sustained leadership is rooted in a powerful combination of strategic foresight, 
operational excellence and customer-centric innovation. With an integrated 
model, diverse offerings and a future-ready mindset, the Company continues to 
set new industry benchmarks. Each of its core strengths contributes to a solid 
foundation for long-term, responsible growth in India and beyond.  AIS combines 
deep domain strength with forward-looking technologies and sustainability, 
positioning itself as a vital cornerstone in India’s journey towards smarter, greener 
infrastructure and mobility.
Market Leadership
AIS is among the leading players in India’s glass 
industry, with a dominant presence across both the 
automotive and architectural segments. Its consistent 
performance, deep market penetration, and wide 
recognition by leading OEMs and developers have 
cemented its position as the go-to glass solutions 
provider. This leadership is further reinforced by its 
customer-centric approach, innovation, and product 
reliability.
75%
Market Share in Passenger Car Segments
Integrated Operations
One of AIS’s defining strengths lies in its fully integrated 
business model. The Company seamlessly manages 
the entire glass value chain from manufacturing float 
and automotive glass to processing, sub-assembly, 
and final installation. This integration ensures greater 
efficiency, quality control, and speed to market, 
while also enabling AIS to offer end-to-end solutions 
tailored to diverse customer needs.
Capacity Expansion
AIS continues to invest strategically in expanding its 
production capacity to meet growing market demand 
and emerging industry trends. New facilities, process 
automation, and advanced infrastructure have 
enhanced its ability to scale operations efficiently. 
These proactive capacity enhancements ensure the 
Company remains agile and responsive to customer 
requirements across regions and segments.
H 1,268 cr
Capital Expenditure FY 2024-25
Diverse Product Portfolio
With an extensive range of products, AIS caters 
to a variety of customer applications across the 
automotive, architectural, and consumer glass 
categories. From high-performance safety and 
acoustic glass for vehicles to energy-efficient, 
aesthetically designed glass for buildings, the 
Company’s offerings strike a balance between 
functionality, innovation, and design. This broad 
portfolio enables AIS to serve both premium and 
mass-market segments effectively.
Offering End-to-End Glass Solutions 
Across Diverse Industries
15
Manufacturing Plants
4
Sub-assembly Units
6
Advance 
Warehouses
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
08
 Technological Expertise 
and Innovation
AIS places innovation at the core 
of its business strategy. Leveraging 
deep technical know-how and 
robust R&D capabilities, the 
Company continually develops 
advanced glass solutions to stay 
ahead of market trends. Whether it’s 
smart glass, lightweight materials, or 
ADAS-compatible automotive glass, 
AIS remains committed to driving 
product innovation that aligns with 
the evolving needs of customers and 
industries.
50+
 R&D Engineers
Strategic Partnerships
AIS’s success is anchored in 
long-standing collaborations 
with global technology leaders, 
automotive 
manufacturers, 
and institutional clients. These 
partnerships enable knowledge 
exchange, 
co-development, 
and market expansion, while 
reinforcing AIS’s reputation for 
quality, transparency, and customer-
centricity. Through consistent 
service, technical support, and post-
installation care, AIS has established 
itself as a dependable, value-driven 
partner to the automotive and 
construction industries.
Operational Excellence
The Company anchored its progress 
on operational excellence using TQM 
and PDCA methods for disciplined 
execution. By integrating Indian 
engineering with global excellence 
and the ability to optimise 
production runs, AIS consistently 
delivered superior quality at Indian 
Cost. This focus not only enhanced 
reliability and cost efficiency but 
also strengthened value creation for 
customers and stakeholders.
Brand Reputation
Over the years, AIS has built a strong 
brand that symbolizes quality, trust, 
and excellence. Recognized for its 
integrity, technical leadership, and 
design sensibility, the brand enjoys 
high recall and preference across 
B2B and retail segments alike. This 
strong brand equity continues to 
support the Company’s growth and 
helps attract new customers and 
talent.
35+
Years of Building Trust
Sustainability 
Commitment
AIS has embedded sustainability into 
every aspect of its operations, from 
sourcing and production to product 
design and delivery. The Company 
actively adopts energy-efficient 
processes, circular practices, and 
green technologies to reduce its 
environmental footprint. Through 
its commitment to sustainable 
development, AIS aligns with global 
ESG goals and contributes to a 
cleaner and greener future.
Aligned with Global ESG 
Benchmarks
Financial Resilience
Supported by sound financial 
discipline and prudent capital 
management, AIS demonstrates 
consistent financial resilience. AIS’s 
stable earnings profile, robust 
balance sheet, and strong promoter 
backing enable it to invest in growth 
while maintaining operational 
efficiency. This financial strength 
provides the flexibility to navigate 
market cycles and sustain long-term 
value creation.
17.25%
EBITDA Margin
0.96
Debt-Equity Ratio
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
09
Business Segment Review
Driving Leadership in 
Automotive Glass
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
10
AIS has established itself as a leading force in India’s automotive glass 
industry, trusted by top automobile manufacturers for decades. With a 
commanding presence in the passenger car segment, AIS glass products 
are integrated into a vast majority of vehicles on Indian roads spanning 
hatchbacks, sedans, SUVs, and premium models. The Company’s 
comprehensive product suite includes laminated windshields, tempered 
side and rear glass, sunroof solutions, and a variety of sub-assemblies 
and advanced value-added glass offerings.
Built on a foundation of precision engineering and rigorous quality standards, 
AIS consistently delivers glass solutions that enhance vehicle safety, 
performance, and design appeal. The Company’s commitment to continuous 
improvement, innovation, and customer collaboration has made it a strategic 
partner driving forward India’s mobility ecosystem.
H2,989.72 cr
Revenue in FY 2024-25
5
Manufacturing Units
75%
Market share in the Indian Passenger Car Segment
4
Advance Warehouse cum Sub-Assembly Units
AIS is India’s leading glass manufacturer and among 
the few globally, with in-house capabilities to 
design, develop and automate its own auto glass 
manufacturing equipment. This technological edge 
ensures consistent quality, production efficiency, 
and innovation at scale. AIS is pioneering in 
UV-cut and IR-absorbing laminated side windows 
and defogger‑equipped rear windscreens, acoustic 
insulation glass, and head-up display (HUD) 
windshields.
AIS’s products meet the stringent quality standards of 
global and domestic OEMs, adhering to international 
certification norms. Backed by in-house design, 
tooling and development strengths, AIS delivers 
tailored, high-performance solutions across a wide 
range of segments: passenger and commercial 
vehicles, trucks, buses, railways, metros, tractors, 
off-highway vehicles, three-wheelers, and even white 
goods. This leadership strengthens its alignment with 
India’s broader industry vision—scaling domestic 
manufacturing, reducing imports, and building 
resilient supply chains and at the same time aligning 
with nation’s vision of  ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Viksit 
Bharat’.
Built on the principles of SEQCDDM (Safety, 
Environment, Quality, Cost, Delivery, Development, 
and Management), AIS combines advanced 
engineering with flexible manufacturing to deliver 
glass solutions that meet evolving market demands. 
Preferred by top automotive brands like Maruti Suzuki, 
Mahindra & Mahindra, Hyundai, Tata Motors, Toyota, 
KIA, Skoda Volkswagen, Honda, Renault-Nissan, 
Ashok Leyland, MG Motor, Daimler, JCB and others, 
AIS continues to lead through its focus on quality, 
cost-effectiveness, timely delivery and continuous 
innovation.
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
11
Business Segment Review
Certifications & Quality Standards
Key Products
White Goods
•	 Flat / bend glass for Washing Machine
•	 Refrigerator Shelf Glass
•	 Refrigerator Door Glass
Manufacturing Competence
AIS operates five state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facilities, equipped with 
advanced machinery and technologies 
to produce a wide range of high-quality 
automotive glass solutions that meet 
stringent international standards. 
Strategically located across key regions, 
these plants enable AIS to serve both 
domestic and global markets with agility 
and efficiency, reinforcing its leadership 
in the automotive glass industry. The 
manufacturing units are located at:
•	 Bawal, Haryana (North)
•	 Roorkee, Uttarakhand (North)
•	 Chennai, Tamil Nadu (South)
•	 Taloja, Maharashtra (West)
•	 Patan, Gujarat (West)
 See map on page 7
•	 IATF 16949: 2016 (Quality 
Management System)
•	 ISO 9001:2015 (Quality 
Management System)
•	 EMS 14001:2015 (Environment 
Management System)
•	 ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System)
•	 ISO 50001:2018 (Energy 
Management System)
•	 ISO / IEC 27001:2013 (Information 
Security Management System)
•	 Marking: ISI: BIS Part 1 and Part 2 
(Automotive / Architectural)
•	 E-mark – Europe
•	 CCC China
•	 SNI – Indonesia
•	 INMETRO - BRAZIL
•	 ANSI-DOT
•	 BGTVT-VR Vietnam
•	  VSCC- Taiwan
Windscreen
•	 Acoustic Windscreen
•	 IR Cut Windscreen
•	 IR Cut and Acoustic Windscreen
•	 Antenna Printed Windscreen
•	 Heated Windscreen
•	 HUD Windscreen
•	 AR-HUD Windscreen
•	 Windscreen with Rain Sensor
•	 Windscreen with ADAS
•	 Metro Windscreen
Sidelites
•	 Dark Green Glass
•	 UV Cut Glass
•	 Water Repellent Glass
•	 Plug in Window
•	 IGU for Metro and 
Railways
•	 Metro Sidewindows
•	 Metro Driver Cab 
Assembly Window
•	 Solar Control Glass
Sunroof
•	 Tilt and Slide
•	 Panoramic
•	 Fixed Laminated
•	 Illuminated
Backlite
•	 Backlite With Defogger
•	 Antenna Printed Backlite
•	 Backlite - Privacy Dark Grey Glass
•	 Backlite - Privacy Dark Green Glass
•	 Backlite - Solar Control Glass
•	 Privacy Glass
•	 Encapsulated Glass
•	 Sliding Window for 
Buses and Trucks
•	 Laminated Sidelites 
(Acoustic & Normal)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
12
Key Customers
OEM
Sunroof
Bus Segment
Appliances
Tractors
Off-Highway
Railways
3 Wheeler
New Launches
Mahindra XEV 9e
Mahindra 3XO
MG Windsor
Maruti Next Swift
Mahindra BE6
Kia Syros
Tata Curve
Maruti Next Dzire
Mahindra Thar Roxx
Skoda Kylaq
Honda Amaze
Mahindra Veero
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
13
Business Segment Review
Transforming Spaces with Smart 
Architectural Glass
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
14
AIS combines technical expertise with a wide range of innovative 
products to elevate architectural design. Its solutions offer the ideal 
mix of daylight optimization, energy efficiency, and visual comfort, 
supporting sustainable and green building practices. The portfolio spans 
annealed, coated, decorative, processed and value-added glass, crafted 
for both interior and exterior use. With a focus on safety, aesthetics and 
performance, AIS empowers architects and developers to create spaces 
that are functional, efficient, safe, and visually striking.
H1,266.55 cr
Revenue in FY 2024-25
27%
Domestic market share in value added glass
1,425+
Stockist across India
3
Manufacturing Units
AIS is not just manufacturing glass—it is transforming 
space. From performance-driven Ecosense coatings and 
design-rich Trendz and Decor variants to retrofit innovation 
with Renew and full-stack solutions powered by digital 
visualization tools, AIS is enabling green, functional, and 
expressive architecture across India.
AIS brings cutting-edge expertise in glass processing, 
enabling it to cater to the dynamic demands of today’s 
architects, developers, consultants, fabricators, interior 
designers, and consumers. The Company remains at the 
forefront of innovation, consistently expanding its range 
of holistic glass solutions. Its diverse portfolio spans 
clear and tinted glass, heat-reflective and back-painted 
variants, frosted glass, high-performance coated products, 
precision-processed glass, and premium mirrors—each 
engineered to redefine how glass is experienced and applied. 
With this extensive and evolving product suite, AIS 
equips its customers to strike the ideal balance between 
natural light, energy efficiency, and indoor comfort—both 
visual and thermal. These capabilities play a vital role in 
advancing sustainable architecture and accelerating the 
adoption of green buildings. As part of its fully integrated 
value chain, the architectural glass strategic business unit 
(SBU) occupies a pivotal position across several market 
segments, supporting the broader vision of a more 
sustainable built environment.
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
15
Manufacturing Competence
AIS’s advanced float glass manufacturing facilities are designed to 
produce a comprehensive range of high-quality glass products. 
The portfolio includes clear and tinted float glass, heat-reflective 
glass with superior coating technology, eco-friendly copper- and 
lead-free mirrors, as well as lacquered and frosted glass for stylish 
interior applications. These facilities are strategically located to 
ensure efficient distribution and service across key markets, 
supporting AIS’s commitment to quality, sustainability, and design 
excellence. AIS exhibits robust manufacturing excellence built on 
a distributed plant network, advanced process capabilities, strong 
integration with value added products and a comprehensive 
glass-value chain spanning production to service.
AIS is  supporting self-reliance and has built its third float glass plant 
in Soniyana, Rajasthan, to supply the automotive segment. AIS’s 
aim is to reduce the import dependence, strengthening in-house 
capabilities for the design, development, and commissioning of 
glass processing equipment and tooling.
•	 Roorkee (Uttarakhand)
•	 Taloja (Maharashtra)
•	 Soniyana (Rajasthan)
 See map on page 7
Redefining Modern Facades
The Natura Series from the Ecosense Edge range sets 
new standards in architectural glass with advanced solar 
control, superior thermal insulation, and optimal daylight 
management. Crafted for sustainable design, Natura 
seamlessly blends innovation and performance—delivering 
the perfect balance of natural illumination, indoor comfort, 
and environmental responsibility
Spaces with Colour, Clarity, and Comfort
Reimagine your spaces with the Chroma range from the 
AIS Ecosense Edge series—high-performance glass that 
delivers on every front. Designed with innovation at its core, 
Chroma offers the perfect blend of performance, aesthetics, 
and cost-efficiency—bringing vibrant design possibilities 
to life without compromising on comfort or sustainability.
Business Segment Review
Product Suite
Float Glass
•	 AIS Clear® - Clear Float Glass
•	 AIS Tinted - Heat Absorbing Glass
Super Speciality Glass
•	 AIS Swytchglas - Privacy Glass
•	 AIS Integrated Blinds
•	 AIS Pyrobel - Fire Resistant Glass
•	 Energy-Efficient Reflective Glass
Ecosense Nature and Chroma
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
16
Energy-efficient Glass
•	 AIS Opal® - Value for money Solar Control Glass
•	 AIS Opal Trendz - Patterned Reflective Glass
•	 AIS Sunshield®
•	 AIS Sunshield Trendz – Patterned Sunshield Range
•	 Ecosense® - High Performance and Energy-Efficient 
Reflective Glass
Value-added Glass
•	 AIS Stronglas® - Impact Resistance Glass
•	 AIS Securityglas® - Burglar Resistant Glass
•	 AIS Acoustincglas Shield - Sound Resistant Glass
•	 AIS Valuglas
•	 AIS Securityplus
•	 AIS Insulated-Glazed Unit
•	 AIS Heat-Strengthened Glass
AIS Windows
For Beautiful Ambience
•	 uPVC
•	 Aluminium
Designer Glass
•	 AIS Mirror® - Distortion-Free Mirrors
•	 AIS Décor® - Back Painted Glass in Vibrant Colors for Interiors
•	 AIS Krystal® - Only Branded Frosted Glass
•	 AIS Disegno
•	 AIS Mesh Laminated
•	 AIS Colored Laminated
•	 AIS Fabric Laminated Glass
•	 AIS Ceramic Frit
•	 AIS Printed Glass
•	 AIS Acid Etched Glass
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
17
Business Segment Review
Redefining Everyday Living with 
Consumer Glass
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
18
In response to the evolving aspirations of modern consumers, AIS 
has strategically expanded its presence in the consumer segment 
through the establishment of the Consumer Glass Strategic Business 
Unit (SBU). This focused vertical integrates the strengths of AIS’s 
diverse portfolio to deliver innovative, ready-to-use glass solutions 
directly to end-users.
71
Reach Across Indian Cities
124
Dealerships and Workshops
AIS Consumer Glass SBU is committed to enabling individuals to shape 
their ideal living and working spaces through innovative, high-quality glass 
solutions. With a comprehensive portfolio spanning both architectural and 
automotive applications, AIS helps consumers realise environments that are 
not only functional but also aesthetically aligned with their personal vision.
Modern consumers increasingly seek products that combine performance 
with style. Responding to this need, AIS Windows—a specialised business 
unit—offers fully integrated, end-to-end solutions. From design consultation 
and material selection to expert installation, every step is handled with 
precision and care, ensuring seamless execution and customer satisfaction.
The Company’s extensive range includes world-class products designed to 
optimise comfort, efficiency, and design appeal. Whether enhancing natural 
light, improving energy performance, or elevating visual impact, AIS glass 
solutions are engineered to deliver consistent, reliable outcomes tailored 
to specific needs.
At the heart of AIS’s approach is a commitment to innovation, sustainability, 
and customer-centric design. By blending advanced technology with 
contemporary aesthetics, AIS empowers individuals to transform their 
spaces—making them more efficient, expressive, and aligned with modern 
lifestyles.
Through a seamless integration of technical expertise and design sensibility, 
AIS continues to redefine how glass is used to enrich everyday experiences. 
The Consumer Glass SBU remains a trusted partner in shaping smarter, more 
sustainable spaces that reflect the evolving aspirations of today’s consumers.
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
19
Business Segment Review
AIS Windows
AIS Windows brings a new dimension to modern living with its 
comprehensive range of door and window solutions. Offering 
both aluminium and uPVC systems, each product is designed 
to deliver high performance with features like sound insulation, 
weather resistance, UV protection, and energy efficiency.
From personalized consultations to expert installation, AIS ensures 
a smooth, end-to-end experience. Enhancing this journey are its 
multi-sensory experience centres in Delhi and Bengaluru, where 
customers can engage with our products first-hand, explore live 
applications, and make informed, confident choices.
Complementing these centres is AIS’s extensive dealership 
network, present across India, ensuring accessibility and support 
wherever our customers are.
Product Suite
•	 Bay windows
•	 Sliding doors and windows
•	 Tilt and turn windows
•	 Combination windows
•	 Specialised windows
•	 Arched Windows
•	 Fixed Windows
•	 Casement Windows
•	 French Doors
AIS Glasxperts
AIS Glasxperts offers India’s only comprehensive glass lifestyle 
solutions, transforming residential and commercial spaces with 
precision and style. Combining expert consultation, premium 
product selection, and professional installation, Glasxperts 
ensures a seamless and reliable experience from start to end.
With a strong focus on modern aesthetics, safety, and sustainability, 
Glasxperts brings to life contemporary glass designs that not only 
enhance visual appeal but also promote eco-conscious living, 
making it the go-to partner for smart and elegant spaces.
Offering a full spectrum of premium solutions including doors, 
windows, staircases, balustrades, canopies, and even infinity pool 
enclosures.
Product Suite
•	 Sound Insulation
•	 Weather Resistance
•	 Radiation Shielding
•	 Light Management
•	 Resistance to Physical Impact
•	 Heat Control
•	 Burglar Protection
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
20
AIS Windshield Experts
AIS Windshield Experts is India’s largest and most trusted brand 
for automotive glass repair and replacement. With a presence 
in 71 cities through 124 strategically located service centres and 
a fleet of mobile vans, the company ensures easy access and 
convenience across the country. Anchored in a “Repair First” 
philosophy, it prioritizes cost-effective and efficient service 
delivery.
An ISO 9001:2015 certified organization, AIS Windshield Experts 
is the preferred partner for insurance companies, fleet operators, 
and car owners alike. The company offers fast, hassle-free, and 
minimal-contact services, including cashless insurance claims, all 
while maintaining the highest Total Quality Management (TQM) 
standards.
Its extensive inventory covers all vehicle types, including 
high-end luxury cars, ensuring timely availability and service. 
Every technician is trained to meet international standards, 
and each job is backed by a written one-year warranty on both 
workmanship and materials.
In addition to core glass solutions, the company offers 
value-added services such as battery check and replacement, 
wiper blade replacement, and car sanitization and detailing. 
Enhancing customer engagement, AIS Windshield Experts has 
built a strong digital presence across platforms like WhatsApp, 
Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
Product Suite
•	 Car Glass Repair
•	 Car Glass Replacement
•	 Value-added Product and Services
•	 Sunroof Glass Replacement
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
21
Engagement Initiatives
Creating impact that goes 
beyond today
We reinforced our design-led sustainability leadership by inspiring the next 
generation of architects through the national AIS Design Olympiad, bridging 
academia and industry via AIS Academy workshops, showcasing cutting-edge glass 
technology at premier forums (ACETECH, IGBC, GRIHA, Rising Rajasthan, FOAID), 
and amplifying brand impact with integrated social-media campaigns highlighting 
product innovation, ESG initiatives, and season-responsive storytelling.
The AIS Design Olympiad (ADO) has 
emerged as a vibrant national platform 
that fosters creativity and innovation 
among architecture students across 
India. With each successive edition, the 
event has grown in scale and impact—and 
ADO 6.0 was a powerful reflection of that 
momentum.
This year’s edition posed a bold, 
future-facing challenge: to design India’s 
First Energy Museum—a space that 
chronicles the nation’s transition from 
traditional energy sources to a net-zero 
future. Participants were encouraged 
to think beyond convention, exploring 
sustainable architecture with glass as a 
central design element, reflecting AIS’s 
commitment to eco-friendly, design-led 
innovation.
ADO 6.0 attracted over 400 students 
from 59 premier architecture institutions 
nationwide. Held between January 
and February 2025, the regional rounds 
followed a hybrid format—two zones 
hosted physical events while the others 
were conducted virtually. From each zone, 
two top teams advanced to the national 
finale.
The Grand 
Finale, 
hosted 
on 
1st March 2025 at the iconic Jio World 
Convention Centre, Mumbai, brought 
together the brightest young talents 
and stalwarts of the industry. Ahead 
of the event, participants visited AIS’s 
Taloja plant facilities on 28th February, 
gaining first-hand exposure to 
cutting-edge glass manufacturing 
technologies.
Final day celebrations included not 
just project presentations but also a 
networking dinner that created space for 
meaningful dialogue and collaboration. 
The competition was judged by an 
esteemed national jury comprising Ar. Karl 
Wadia, Ar. Sonali Bhagwati, Ar. Paul Moses, 
Ar. Avinash Nawathe, Ar. J P Agrawal, and 
Ar. Reza Kabul, supported by experienced 
regional jurors from across the country.
AIS Design Olympiad 
2024-25
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
22
AIS Academy and 
Masterclass
As part of AIS’s commitment to fostering 
industry-academia collaboration, AIS 
Academy was conceptualized to enhance 
awareness about glass and fenestration 
systems among architecture students 
across India. Designed specifically for 
students in their 3rd to 5th years of study, the 
initiative aims to bridge the knowledge 
gap between academic learning and 
real-world applications in architectural 
design and materials.
AIS conducted a series of engaging 
Masterclass sessions across leading 
architecture institutions, aimed at 
inspiring students and deepening their 
understanding of innovative glass 
applications in design. The sessions 
were held at AIT School of Planning, 
Sushant University, Guru Nanak Dev 
University, World School of Design, IIT 
Madras, and IPS Academy Indore. These 
interactive sessions provided a platform 
for meaningful knowledge exchange and 
reinforced AIS’s commitment to nurturing 
future architects through academic 
engagement.
In FY 2024-25, the program onboarded 
a total of eight reputed architecture 
colleges spread across four key zones: 
North, West, South, and Central India. 
These included BVP (Navi Mumbai), 
TSAP (Kandivali), and BRICKS (Pune) in 
the West; Sushant University (Gurugram) 
and AIT SAP (Greater Noida) in the North; 
SIST (Chennai) and UVCE (Bengaluru) in 
the South; and IPS (Indore) in the Central 
zone.
The event was further enriched by the 
presence of thought leaders. Chief Guest 
Prof. Rajan Rawal of CEPT University 
delivered an insightful address, while 
Mr. Mahesh Arumugam (Meinhardt Group) 
and Mr. Ashu Gupta (Design2Occupancy 
Services) offered compelling keynote talks 
on sustainable design.
ADO 6.0 not only spotlighted India’s 
next-gen architectural talent but also 
reaffirmed AIS’s commitment to shaping a 
smarter, greener built environment—one 
idea, one student, and one vision at a time.
130
Participants from NIRF Colleges
59
Total Colleges Associated
35
NIRF Colleges Associated
431
Total Participants
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
23
Engagement Initiatives
Events and Exhibitions FY 2024–25
AIS actively participated in several prestigious industry forums across India during FY 2024-25, showcasing its integrated range of 
innovative glass and fenestration solutions. These platforms offered opportunities to demonstrate AIS’s commitment to sustainability, 
performance, and design innovation, while also facilitating thought leadership through expert-led discussions and presentations.
IGBC, Bengaluru
ACETECH, Bengaluru
Bangalore International Exhibition 
Centre
The AIS exhibit focused on 
high-performance glass technologies 
aligned with green building standards. 
An insightful presentation was given 
on “High-Performance Glass Towards 
Net Zero,” reinforcing AIS’s leadership 
in sustainable architecture.
Bangalore 
Internat ional 
Exhibition Centre
AIS presented an expansive portfolio 
of window and door solutions 
integrated with cutting-edge glass 
technologies focused on security, 
privacy, thermal and acoustic 
comfort. The exhibit also featured 
interactive demonstrations of AIS’s AR 
and VR applications, offering visitors 
an immersive product experience.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
24
FOAID, Mumbai
Rising Rajasthan, Jaipur
GRIHA Summit, New Delhi
Jio World Convention Centre
AIS featured its cutting-edge glass solutions, including 
acoustic, thermal, and privacy products, along with the 
AIS Ecosense high-performance range. Mr. Shailesh Ranjan 
participated in a prominent panel discussion during the Build 
India Vision conference, further amplifying AIS’s thought 
leadership in architectural innovation.
Jaipur Convention Centre
AIS showcased a comprehensive 
suite of its advanced glass and 
window offerings including 
security, privacy, thermal and 
acoustic comfort solutions, 
automotive glass, fire-resistant 
glass (FRG), high-performance AIS 
Ecosense products, Windshield 
Experts Car Care solutions, and 
immersive AR & VR product demos.
India Habitat Centre
At this sustainability-focused forum, 
AIS showcased its climate-responsive 
glazing solutions. A presentation on 
“Climate Responsive Glazing Solutions for 
Buildings” was given and audience were 
addressed on “High-Performance Glass 
Technologies Driving Net Zero Goals.”
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
25
Digital Platforms
Reimagining Possibilities 
in a Connected World
Today’s smarter, faster, and more connected consumers have evolving expectations—
and AIS is keeping pace by reimagining how people discover, design, and decide. 
Through virtual tools and intelligent apps, AIS delivers experiences that are 
immersive, intuitive, and effortlessly accessible anytime, anywhere.
AIS Windows Virtual Studio 
(Online Tool)
AIS Windows Virtual Studio is a powerful 
online tool that brings product 
configuration to life. It enables users to 
design and visualize their ideal doors and 
windows in an immersive 3D environment. 
From frame materials and colour options 
to handle styles and glazing choices, every 
element can be tailored to individual 
preferences. Once configured, users can 
project their selection into their physical 
environment through augmented reality, 
allowing them to experience their design in 
real-time and real space using a 
mobile device. The platform makes 
personalization simple, smart, and 
engaging.
World of Glass App
AIS World of Glass is your one-stop 
digital destination, designed to ensure 
that homes and office buildings benefit 
from the finest glass solutions. The app 
offers tailored recommendations based 
on the specific functional needs of 
modern, smart buildings—leveraging 
the latest advancements in glass 
technology. From maximizing natural 
daylight and ensuring energy efficiency 
to enhancing thermal insulation and 
visual comfort, AIS’s solutions strike the 
perfect balance between aesthetics, 
performance, and sustainability. 
Built to support the Green Building 
movement, AIS World of Glass empowers 
architects, builders, and homeowners 
to explore eco-sensitive options that 
contribute to a greener, more responsible 
future. Building on its intelligent feature 
set, AIS recently introduced the Acoustic 
Feature, which helps users identify glass 
solutions that minimize noise and create 
peaceful indoor environments. Whether 
you’re designing a quiet home office, a 
serene bedroom, or a calm conference 
room, the app guides you every step 
of the way—transforming spaces into 
havens of comfort and tranquility.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
26
Key Social Media Campaigns
AIS Glass
#UVShieldGlass (Value-Added 
Automotive Products)
Product-led campaign showcasing 
advanced features like UV protection, 
acoustic insulation, and energy efficiency.
Positioned AIS as the go-to brand for 
high-performance automotive glass.
Used real-life applications and expert 
quotes to build trust and authority.
#WeArePresentAroundYou
A brand recall campaign that emphasized 
AIS’s omnipresence—from homes and 
offices to cars and public spaces.
Used relatable visual storytelling to 
connect with diverse audience segments.
Showcased product applications across 
lifestyle, infrastructure, and mobility.
#FirstInIndia
Celebrated AIS’s role in pioneering 
category-first innovations in glass 
solutions.
Highlighted unique features and 
technology advancements exclusive to 
AIS.
Reinforced leadership and innovation 
credentials in the industry.
#AISInEverySeason / 
#TropicalAndTrending 
(Moment Marketing)
Agile campaign adapting to seasonal 
themes (e.g., summer heat, monsoons) 
and trending topics.
Used product relevance (heat insulation, 
UV protection, privacy solutions) to stay 
contextually visible.
Engaged users through polls, reels and 
short videos.
#PathToSustainability
Sustainability-focused campaign 
showcasing how AIS uses sustainable 
manufacturing practices.
Green manufacturing practices like water 
harvesting and recycling, solar energy, 
LED lightning etc.
#FestivalWithAIS 
(AI-Generated Festive 
Greetings)
Used AI tools to generate personalized, 
visually distinctive festive posts for Diwali, 
Holi, and New Year.
Created visual delight and increased 
engagement while reducing creative 
turnaround time.
Blended tradition with modern 
technology, resonating with both 
corporate and retail audiences.
#GlassThatsBestInClass
A brand reinforcement campaign tying 
together AIS’s full product portfolio under 
a single quality narrative.
Positioned AIS as the standard-setter for 
performance, design, and innovation.
Showcased product USPs, visuals and 
testimonials.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
27
#YourMonsoonCanvas
Positioning windows as a canvas to 
explore more than just the features that 
the products offer.
The campaign was executed with a series 
of static and video creatives.
Digital Platforms
AIS Windows
#SilenceTheChaos 
(Acoustic Solutions)
H ero 
c amp aign 
highlighting 
noise-cancelling windows ideal for urban 
living.
Used relatable scenarios (e.g., traffic 
noise, construction) to showcase product 
impact.
Combined video explainers with customer 
stories to build relevance..
#VirtualStudioWithAIS
Promoted the interactive AIS Windows 
Virtual Studio digital platform where users 
can explore window designs in real-time.
Encouraged self-exploration while 
boosting product discovery online.
Paired with tutorials and explanatory 
walkthroughs.
#SunshineWithoutSweat
Videos and visual showcasing solar control 
products .
Product features highlighting windows 
with glass that allows light to enter but 
not heat.
AIS Glasxperts (GX)
#GXProjectSpotlight
Featured luxury architecture and interior 
projects using GX expertize.
Used elegant photography, case studies, 
and customer testimonials.
Built aspiration among HNIs, designers, 
and premium developers.
#SmartCarCare 
(Product-Focused)
Showcased convenience products like
Windshield Tablets, Odour Killer Spray, and 
Headlight Restoration Kit.
Focused on time-saving, cost-efficient self 
car care products.
Targeted millennials and everyday vehicle 
owners with quick-use videos and how-to 
reels.
#RestoreAndShine
Campaign highlighting headlight 
restoration service for enhanced safety and 
visual appeal.
Used night-driving visuals and side-by-side 
comparisons to show impact.
Promoted as a low-cost, high-impact 
upgrade.
AIS Windshield Experts
#TrustTheExperts
Built credibility around core services—
glass replacement, headlight repair, battery 
and sanitization services.
Included before-after visuals, customer 
feedback, and quick tips.
Emphasized safety, speed, and reliability.
#GXDesignRenaissance
A storytelling-led campaign blending 
design history with cutting-edge 
innovation.
Positioned GX as a connoisseur’s choice 
where form meets function.
Used minimalist aesthetics and designer 
collaborations for visual appeal.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
28
AIS Windows Mass Media 
Campaign
AIS Windows made a significant impact on 
brand visibility and consumer awareness 
through the strategic airing of its 
award-winning brand films across leading 
general entertainment and news channels. 
This high-frequency television campaign 
ensured widespread reach, elevating AIS 
Windows’ presence in the competitive home 
solutions category.
In a special promotional effort, the films were 
also streamed on the SonyLiv OTT platform 
during the popular television quiz show Kaun 
Banega Crorepati (KBC) — a strategic move 
aimed at capturing the attention of a diverse 
and engaged pan-India audience. This digital 
integration further reinforced the brand’s 
message by aligning with premium content 
and high viewership slots.
The campaign prominently featured two 
standout films:
•	
“The Robber”, highlighting the brand’s 
noise-cancelling window solutions, 
which won Gold at the Abby One Show 
Awards 2023.
•	
“Summer”, showcasing heat-resistant 
window technology, which secured a 
Bronze at the same prestigious awards.
Both films were also shortlisted for the Cannes 
Lions International Festival of Creativity 
2023, further validating the brand’s creative 
excellence on a global stage.
The mass media push translated into 
measurable digital impact. Key performance 
indicators such as brand clicks, direct website 
traffic, keyword search volumes recorded a 
steady and upward trend during and after the 
campaign period. This data clearly underscores 
the effectiveness of the integrated media 
strategy and the strong consumer resonance 
of the campaign narrative.
Through a combination of powerful 
storytelling, targeted media placement, 
and award-winning creative execution, 
AIS Windows significantly reinforced its 
positioning as a leader in innovative, 
high-performance window solutions in India.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
29
Environment
Sustainable Steps for Lasting Impact
AIS believes that true progress goes hand in hand with environmental responsibility. 
With this belief at its core, it strives to operate in ways that are mindful of nature 
and its resources. Sustainability is embedded in everyday decisions, from processes 
and products to long-term planning. AIS actively pursues cleaner practices, efficient 
resource use, and policies that protect and preserve the environment. By aligning 
business goals with ecological responsibility, it seeks not only to reduce its footprint 
but also to help shape a future where both people and the planet thrive.
Advancing Environmental 
Stewardship and Sustainable 
Operations
In an age where climate change and 
resource scarcity present pressing global 
challenges, AIS continues to lead with 
purpose, committing to environmentally 
responsible operations, resource efficiency, 
and workplace safety. AIS’s comprehensive 
sustainability agenda is designed to 
future-proof operations while contributing 
to national and global goals, including 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(UNSDGs).
Sustainability as a 
Strategic Imperative
Sustainability is central to AIS’s strategy. 
Guided by ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 
standards, AIS focuses on reducing 
GHG emissions, water usage, and waste, 
while promoting biodiversity. AIS’s 4R 
philosophy—Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, 
Renew—drives efficiency and lowers 
its ecological footprint. Environmental 
monitoring is conducted through 
NABL-accredited labs to ensure transparency 
and regulatory compliance.
R
e
d
u
c
e
R
e
u
s
e
R
e
c
y
c
l
e
R
e
n
e
w
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
30
Environment
FY 2024–25 marked another significant year in AIS’s journey toward sustainable future. It implemented a wide range of initiatives that 
improved energy efficiency and reduced carbon emissions.
Water conservation is a central pillar of AIS’s sustainability commitment. The  focus remains on reducing freshwater intake, maximising 
reuse, and adopting closed-loop systems.
Key Initiatives
•	 Installed high-efficiency EC plug 
fans and blower bypass ducts to 
optimise airflow.
•	 Deployed 
Variable 
Frequency 
Drives (VFDs) and variable-speed 
screw-type 
vacuum 
pumps 
for 
energy-responsive operations.
•	 Upgraded 
to 
IE4 
motors 
and 
energy-efficient compressors across 
key manufacturing units.
•	 Replaced 
diesel 
forklifts 
with 
battery-operated models, significantly 
reducing emissions.
•	 Installed automatic capacitor banks, 
improving power factor to 0.99 
and optimizing electricity usage 
measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh).
•	 Optimised 
furnace 
operations 
and reduced thermal losses with 
high-density ceramic insulation.
•	 Adopted low suction pressure blower 
systems and redesigned processes for 
improved energy control.
AIS marked a major sustainability milestone with the successful commissioning of its 
green hydrogen initiative at the Soniyana float glass facility in Rajasthan. Under a 20-year 
agreement with Inox Air, AIS is now sourcing green hydrogen produced using renewable 
energy from a dedicated solar power plant through electrolysis. This landmark project 
reinforces AIS’s leadership in India’s green industrial transition and demonstrates its 
commitment to decarbonising core manufacturing processes.
Key Initiatives
•	 Installed sensor-based and auto-close 
taps in restrooms, saving 3–4 KLD daily
•	 Interlinked CNC tank washing and 
conductivity-based 
water 
reuse, 
saving ~1 KLD
•	 Recycled water for cleaning pallet 
spacers, saving 5 KLD.
•	 Utilised 
STP-treated 
water 
for 
flushing (5 KLD saved)
Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy Transition
Water Stewardship
•	 Regenerated high TDS water (1 KLD), 
and condensate reuse from AC 
systems (2 KLD).
•	 Installed a 2 KL RO systems at some 
of the new sites which, eliminated the 
need for DM plant water, saving 2 KLD
•	 Upgraded the cooling tower which 
reduced drift loss by 1 KLD.
•	 AIS’s ZLD plants with 3-stage RO and 
Mechanical Vapour Recompression 
(MVR) technology recycle 55–60 KLD, 
with ~20 KL reused daily in operations.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
31
Key Initiatives
•	 Implemented waste heat recovery 
system at AIS’s new float facility to 
reduce thermal losses and enhance 
energy efficiency, as well as the 
recycling of process waste and cullet 
(broken glass) to significantly cut 
down on landfill contribution.
•	 Ensured full compliance in managing 
hazardous 
waste 
by 
partnering 
with authorised agencies for safe 
recycling, recovery, and disposal.
•	 Reduced 
reliance 
on 
wooden 
packaging for finished products 
by initiating an in-house project 
to recycle waste pallet materials 
into 
reusable 
wooden 
pallets, 
resulting in daily cost savings of 
approximately `5,000.
AIS is actively contributing to ecological 
regeneration through the Miyawaki 
method of afforestation, a scientifically 
proven technique for developing dense, 
native forests in compact spaces. These 
forests grow 10x faster, are 30x denser, and 
absorb significantly more CO₂ compared 
to traditional methods.
AIS is committed to responsible, compliant, and efficient waste management practices that align with the principles of a circular 
economy. The approach focuses on maximising resource recovery while minimising environmental impact.
Responsible Waste Management and Circularity
Promoting Biodiversity and Ecological Restoration
9,038
Native trees and plants were 
planted across AIS facilities.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
32
People and Communities
Nurturing a Competent Team
AIS’s journey of progress is fuelled by the strength of its people. Employees are more 
than just contributors, they are collaborators, innovators, and the foundation on 
which every milestone is built. Their passion, resilience, and shared sense of purpose 
have enabled the Company to grow consistently and sustainably. With a strong focus 
on building a workplace that inspires, the Company fosters a culture of inclusivity, 
continuous learning, and personal growth. By empowering individuals through 
meaningful opportunities and supporting their overall well-being, the Company 
unlocks collective potential, driving success through shared ambition and teamwork, 
amplified by the strategic use of technology, AI, and digital tools.
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
33
AIS firmly believes that its people are the driving force behind its sustained growth and long-term success. The Company is committed 
to fostering a work environment that is inclusive, engaging and rewarding. With a strong focus on continuous learning, AIS offers a 
diverse range of development opportunities, from hands-on training and in-house workshops to external programs and structured 
mentoring. These initiatives are designed to strengthen capabilities, inspire professional growth, and empower employees to contribute 
meaningfully to AIS’s evolving journey.
Training and Development Programmes
Training Categorisation
AIS’s training initiatives are strategically 
crafted to develop both technical 
expertise and leadership capabilities 
across the organisation. Key focus areas 
include:
•	 Competency 
Enhancement 
Programs (CEP)
For 
super visors, 
engineers, 
a n d  
d e p a r t m e n t  
h e a d s 
Simulation-Based Technical Training 
and Process Labs
•	 AIS 
Learning 
Management 
System (LMS)
For structured, self-paced skill 
development through E-learning 
Modules and Technical Manuals
•	 AIS Vidya Niketan – DOJO Centre
Hands-on training facility for 
experiential learning
•	 Functional, Process, and Safety 
Training
Delivered across departments for 
operational excellence
•	 Job Standards-Based Training
Tailored for shop-floor associates
•	 Capability Development Programs
For trainee engineers and lateral hires
These initiatives are central to building a 
skilled, agile, and future-ready workforce, 
aligned with AIS’s strategic goals and 
committed to continuous improvement.
AIS is committed to nurturing a skilled, 
safety-conscious, and future-ready 
workforce through a structured and 
evolving Education & Training ecosystem 
deployed across all its plants. The 
framework is designed to address the 
competency needs of employees at 
every level, with a focus on both strategic 
capabilities building and technical skill 
enhancement. AIS’s training programs are 
designed to achieve targeted outcomes 
that support both individual development 
and operational excellence. The core 
objectives include:
•	 Enhancing product quality, work 
standards, and system efficiency
•	 Improving overall productivity across 
functions
•	 Strengthening functional skills and 
encouraging self-development
•	 Optimising processes and building 
capabilities to improve production 
yields
People and Communities
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
34
AIS VidyaNiketan (DOJO Training Centre)
AIS VidyaNiketan, the DOJO Training 
Centre, plays a vital role in onboarding and 
upskilling new employees by imparting 
the core knowledge and competencies 
required to excel in their roles. The 
program is rooted in the principles of 
Safety, Quality, Skills, and Discipline, 
and is carefully designed to align with 
both customer expectations and the 
organisation’s strategic goals.
The DOJO concept was introduced to 
AIS by Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) 
in April 2017. To gain deeper insights, a 
benchmarking visit was conducted at 
the Maruti Suzuki Training Academy on 
May 8, 2017. This visit served as a catalyst 
in shaping AIS’s vision to establish its own 
structured training ecosystem.
This vision took form with the launch 
of AIS VidyaNiketan at the Bawal Plant, 
which became the first dedicated DOJO 
Training Centre within the organisation. 
Since its inception, the DOJO model has 
been successfully replicated across all 
AIS manufacturing locations, reinforcing 
a culture of capability-building and 
operational excellence across the board.
Introduction of DOJO 2.0 in FY 2024–25
In FY 2024–25, AIS rolled out DOJO 2.0 across its new plants, an advanced, future-ready framework designed to elevate employee 
capabilities and deepen the culture of safety. This evolved model builds on the strengths of the original DOJO system and 
introduces a more structured, tech-enabled approach to learning and development.
DOJO 2.0 is anchored on four strategic pillars
By integrating structured planning, digital integration, AI, and real-time feedback, DOJO 2.0 has significantly 
enhanced both the safety mindset and skill readiness of our workforce. It reflects AIS’s enduring commitment to 
continuous learning, driving operational excellence, resilience, and sustainable growth through a well-trained, 
future-ready team.
Advanced Manpower 
Planning & Digital Skill 
Assessment
Regular Management 
Reviews
Integration of Digital 
Tools & Practical 
Hands-on Training
Process-Specific 
DOJO Modules
1.
2.
3.
4.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
35
AIS DOJO Training Modules
AIS’s DOJO Centres are designed to provide immersive, hands-on learning 
experiences that strengthen foundational knowledge and operational readiness 
for new employees. Each module focuses on a key functional area essential to safety, 
quality, and performance on the shop floor.
Impart awareness of Company 
profile, TQM, TPM, 5S and basic 
HR & IR Policies and procedures.
Introduces new members to 
AIS’s core safety practices, 
including fire safety protocols, 
process safety rules, use of 
personal protective equipment 
(PPE), fire-fighting tools, safety 
simulations, working at height 
guidelines, and kiosk-based 
evaluations.
Builds awareness of quality 
management practices by 
familiarising new joiners with 
common defect types, adherence 
to job standards, abnormality 
identification and handling, 
customer-specific 
quality 
requirements, and the practical 
use of inspection instruments and 
gauges.
Provides foundational knowledge 
about 
AIS’s 
product 
range, 
including 
key 
features, 
applications of child parts, and an 
overview of the different types of 
glass products manufactured.
Aims to enhance coordination 
and reflexes through exercises 
that improve brain-eye-
hand synchronization and 
fine motor skills, critical for 
high-precision tasks.
Offers an introduction to essential 
shop floor rules, such as Production 
Rules, the STOP-CALL-WAIT 
(Andon) system, HR guidelines, 4M 
Change Management protocols, 
and abnormality handling 
procedures.
Equips employees with basic 
process knowledge related to 
glass handling and packing, 
job standards, and the impact 
of adherence on customer 
satisfaction.
Covers the basics of shop floor 
maintenance 
by 
introducing 
key 
tools, 
equipment, 
and 
components 
used 
in 
daily 
operations, ensuring safe and 
efficient upkeep.
Creating a Workplace 
Safety Culture
During FY 2024–25, AIS drove key 
initiatives across all plants to strengthen 
sustainability, safety and operational 
excellence. Fire suppression systems, 
smoke detectors aligned with the PDSC 
approach, (Prevention, Detection, 
Suppression, Containment) and advanced 
alarms enhanced emergency readiness, 
while fall protection, skylight guards, and 
upgraded PTW systems elevated on-site 
safety standards. Forklift battery upgrades 
further improved operational efficiency. A 
culture of safety was reinforced through 
DOJO training, National Safety Month 
campaigns, and recognition programs for 
employees and contractors. Infrastructure 
upgrades like laminated roofs and glass 
ceilings, improved both safety and energy 
efficiency. These efforts underscore 
the organisation’s commitment to 
responsible, future-ready operations.
Company Overview
Safety DOJO
Maintenance DOJO
Quality DOJO
Process DOJO
Product DOJO
Senses DOJO
Process Rules DO
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
36
Corporate Social Responsibility
Fostering Change Through 
Social Imperatives
AIS views social responsibility as a catalyst for meaningful and measurable impact. Its 
initiatives focus on expanding access to primary healthcare, enhancing employability 
through skill development, and promoting environmentally responsible growth, 
particularly within underserved communities. By aligning empowerment with equity, 
AIS enables individuals to take greater control of their futures. Each programme is 
designed to foster collaboration, promote social well-being, and build pathways to 
self-reliance and dignity. Through these efforts, AIS is helping shape a more inclusive 
and resilient society.
22,849
Lives Impacted in FY 2024-25
₹ 10.50 cr+
CSR Expenditure in FY 2024-25
Bawal, Haryana
School Bus Service
The school bus service currently supports 
473 girls across 35 villages, significantly 
reducing dropout rates by enabling 
continued access to education.
473
Girl students availing 
school bus service
6,706
Total Beneficiaries (including 
594 beneficiaries under 
government school support 
programme)
790
Remedial and Dropout Education
435
Students Impacted
Unnati Remedial and 
Dropout Education 
Programme
The AIS Unnati Education Programme 
provides tutorial support in Mathematics, 
English, and Science to marginalized 
students in remote government schools, 
aiming to bridge learning gaps, promote 
girls' education, and foster academic 
confidence and empowerment through 
a dedicated team of trained educators. 
During FY 2024-25, AIS reached out to a 
total of 790 students through this 
programme.
Digital Literacy Programme
The Unnati Digital Literacy Programme, 
implemented in partnership with the 
NIIT Foundation, empowered 435 rural 
students with job-oriented digital skills 
through certified courses in Active Basic IT 
and Tally Pro. Additionally, in March 2025, 
a new centre was established in Dharan 
village and formally inaugurated by AIS 
Bawal team.
Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
37
37
154
Cutting & Tailoring Training
45
Students trained under Spoken 
English Programme
1900
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene 
(WASH)
521
Life Skills
594
Beneficiaries under Government 
School Support Programme
235
Girls were benefitted from 
construction on Bus Stop Sheds
1,259
Members’ Health Check-ups 
were done
300
People benefitted from 
the revival of R.O. Plant
Unnati Cutting and 
Tailoring Training Centre
During FY 2024-25, AIS reached out to 154 
women through the cutting and tailoring 
training programme across the Bawal 
region, equipping them with income-
generating skills in garment sewing, 
crochet, knitting, soft toy making, and 
clothing repurposing, thereby promoting 
financial independence and self-reliance.
Spoken English Programme
During 2024-25, AIS trained a total of 45 
students (25 boys and 20 girls) under this 
programme, enabling improved readiness 
for academic and career opportunities.
Life Skill Programme
During FY 2024-25, through the Life 
Skills Programme, we reached out to 361 
adolescent girls at the Government Girls 
Senior Secondary School, Girls’ College 
in Bawal. This programme was also 
introduced across eight Unnati Remedial 
Education Centres reaching out to 160 
additional students. The training focuses 
on job-readiness, entrepreneurship, key 
interpersonal and self-management skills.
Water, Sanitation 
and Hygiene (WASH) 
Programme
The Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) 
Programme continued at the Government 
Girls' School and Girls’ College in Bawal, 
supporting better hygiene and health 
practices. Following a request from the 
SDM of Bawal, AIS appointed a full-time 
cleaner to maintain 36 toilets across 
four campuses. This initiative benefits 
approximately 1,900 girls across the 
Primary, Middle, Senior Secondary School 
and 1 Govt. College Campus.
Health Check-up Camps
During FY 2024-25, 10 General Health 
Check-up Camps were conducted across 
10 villages near the Bawal manufacturing 
plant. Through these camps we reached 
out to more than 1,259 people.
Bus Stop Shed Construction
As part of this initiative, four bus stop 
sheds were built in the villages of Kheri 
Dalu Singh, Harchandpur, Shahpur and 
Aasra Ka Majra. These sheds support 235 
girl students who travel to Govt. Senior 
Secondary School, Bawal, by offering 
them protection while they wait for the 
school bus. In addition to our school 
children, these facilities also benefit local 
villagers and other residents.
Revival of R.O. Water 
Treatment Plant
The objective of the Community R.O. Plant 
initiative is to provide villagers with access 
to affordable and purified drinking water. 
As part of this effort, the Community 
R.O. Plant at Harchandpur village was 
successfully revived after completing all 
necessary groundwork. It reaches out to 
more than 300 individuals.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
38
Roorkee, 
Uttarakhand
7,350
Total Beneficiaries
329
Remedial and Dropout Education
235
Adult Literacy
374
Self Defence Training
190
Digital Literacy
126
School Bus
90
Cutting & Tailoring Training
Remedial and Dropout 
Education Centre
Through Remedial and Dropout Education 
Centre AIS provided support to students 
who are struggling academically or are 
at risk of leaving school altogether. It has 
reached out to a total of 329 students.
Adult Literacy Programme
The Adult Literacy Programme empowers 
rural women by offering them a second 
chance at education, with five centres 
currently operational. The curriculum 
is designed to promote participatory 
learning through interactive and reflective 
activities. During FY 2024–25, AIS has also 
introduced digital classes using audio/ 
video aids to make the learning process 
more interesting. It reached out to a total 
of 235 women.
Digital Literacy Programme
AIS launched our Digital Literacy Centres 
to provide six-month basic computer 
courses, in partnership with NIIT. 
Currently, three centres are operational in 
the villages of Delna, Fazilpur, and Palbasti 
Noorpur-Boodpur, bringing quality 
computer education closer to those who 
need it most. This year we have reached 
out to 190 youth.
AIS School Bus Service
AIS introduced a dedicated school bus 
service for girls in the Narsan Block, 
ensuring safe and reliable access to 
education. The presence of a female 
attendant further builds trust within the 
community. A total of 126 students from 
six villages use the service.
Self-Defence Training 
Programme
The programme aims to build physical 
ability through basic strikes, blocks, and 
escape techniques, while also fostering 
emotional resilience to help girls stay calm 
in threatening situations. AIS has trained 
374 students in the reporting year.
Thermal Fogging
This was new intervention planned for the 
year. It was done in 15 villages and has had 
a great impact in terms of reducing the 
cases of dengue and other illness related 
to mosquitoes.
Cutting and Tailoring 
Training Centre
This year 90 women have successfully 
completed our Cutting & Tailoring course. 
The students not only saved money by 
stitching their own clothes but some of 
them have also made a small set up in 
their house where they stitch clothes 
for the community members at nominal 
charges, thereby earning some income.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
39
Patan, Gujarat
351
Remedial Education
Remedial Education 
Programme
The Remedial Education Programme was 
designed to strengthen foundational 
skills in Maths, Science and Language 
for academically weak students. Baseline 
tests were conducted to identify learning 
gaps, followed by targeted remedial 
sessions in Primary and High Schools 
across eight project villages. Through this 
initiative we reached out to 351 students 
this year.
6,971
Total Beneficiaries
5,240
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene 
(WASH)
590
Members’ Health Check-ups were 
done
176
Self Help Groups and Enterprise 
Development
Water, Sanitation 
and Hygiene (WASH) 
Programme
AIS’s WASH initiatives has positively 
impacted the enrollment and attendance 
of students in schools specially among 
girl students who have become regular 
because of better and cleaner toilets and 
availability of sanitary napkin vending 
machines. Under this programme, 
dustbins were also installed within the 
school premises to ensure cleanliness 
in the surroundings. Five cleaners were 
deputed in 24 government schools across 
17 villages that benefitted more than 
5,000 students.
Health Check-Up Camp
During FY 2024-25, this was a new 
intervention under which we have 
conducted 5 camps in 5 villages reaching 
out to 590 community members. These 
camps enable women and senior 
residents to access essential healthcare 
services, thereby bridging a critical gap in 
their healthcare access.
SHG and Enterprise 
Development Programme
Through this programme, AIS has reached 
out to over 5,780 women since inception. 
This year, the main focus was to bring 
economically weaker families under 
SHGs programme and to strengthen the 
community institutions and make them 
sustainable. AIS formed 16 new SHGs 
during FY 2024-25, with 176 members.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
40
266
Students were provided 
school uniforms
1,244
Awareness Programme
2,187
Sponsoring Sports Events
Awareness Programme
During FY 2024-25, the community 
mobilisers regularly visited villages 
to share information about new 
government initiatives. AIS also organised 
awareness sessions on Government 
schemes in various villages. Through 
these sessions it reached out to 1,244 
community members. Additionally, 
AIS distributed leaflets with detailed 
information on available government 
programmes throughout the project 
area. In collaboration with Agricultural 
Technology Management Agency (ATMA), 
it conducted an awareness session on soil 
health testing and organic farming in one 
of the villages (Ganget) – the basic idea 
was to support sustainable agricultural 
practices.
Sports Event Sponsorship 
Programme
AIS 
actively 
supported 
youth 
participation in sports by sponsoring the 
Khel-Mahakumbh events at the Taluka 
and District levels. These events were 
organised by the Sports Authority of 
Gujarat. A total of 2,187 athletes from 39 
villages in Patan District participated in 
the event. We received excellent feedback 
from the Sports Authority of Gujarat as 
well as teachers and participants. Ms. Usha 
Yadav, a former national tug-of-war 
player, commended our efforts towards 
promoting youth participation in sports.
Other Activities
During the year, uniforms were distributed 
to 266 students, comprising 234 primary 
school students and 32 high school 
students, in Dhanodhara. Moreover, 
sweaters were distributed to 183 children 
with special needs in Chanasma city 
during the winter season.
In addition, initiatives such as digital 
literacy programmes and beauty parlour 
training were undertaken to enhance skills 
and livelihood opportunities.
1,212
School Intervention
153
Cutting & Tailoring Training
1,223
Health Check-Up Camps
School Intervention 
Programme
The School Intervention Programme 
aims to enhance English proficiency and 
provide academic support in government 
schools across 11 project villages. During 
FY 2024–25, regular sessions were 
conducted in both Primary and High 
Schools. Mid-year, due to approval issues 
from the District Primary Education Officer, 
the intervention in Primary Schools was 
paused and shifted to Government High 
Schools. To continue supporting younger 
students, three new Unnati Education 
Centres were established. The programme 
led to a 26% improvement in reading and 
22% in writing among weaker students, 
while average to strong students showed 
a 32% improvement.
Cutting and Tailoring 
Training Programme
This programme aims to empower women 
and girls through skill development in 
project areas. During FY 2024-25, we 
trained a total of 153 women across 
5 villages under this programme.
Health Camp
Across 10 villages a total of 1,223 
beneficiaries were benefitted by the 
health camps. The response from the 
community (specially the senior residents) 
has been really positive with respect to 
these camps.
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
41
75
School Intervention
1606
Health Check-Up Camps
52
Cutting & Tailoring Training
48
Digital Literacy
Soniyana, Rajasthan
1,781
Total Beneficiaries
School Intervention 
Programme
During FY 2024-25, following a need 
assessment at Government Upper 
Primary School, Gulabpura, urgent 
infrastructure improvements were 
undertaken, including roof repairs 
and replacement, construction of new 
washrooms, restoration of damaged walls, 
and complete repainting to ensure a safer, 
healthier, and more engaging learning 
environment for students and teachers.
Cutting and Tailoring 
Training Programme
To equip women and girls in the project 
area with vocational skills and promote 
self-reliance, a Cutting and Tailoring 
Training Centre was established in 
Soniyana village. The centre conducted 
a structured six-month training 
programme, completing two batches 
during the reporting year and benefiting 
52 participants.
Digital Literacy Programme
To enhance digital skills among youth in 
the project area, a Digital Literacy Centre 
was established in collaboration with 
the NIIT Foundation. The Centre offers 
a four-month certificate course in basic 
computer education. During the reporting 
year, two batches were completed 
in Soniyana village, with a total of 48 
students successfully participating in and 
completing the course. Upon completion, 
all students were assessed and certified by 
the NIIT Foundation team.
Health Camps
Community members really applauded 
us for this intervention because it was for 
the very first time that a corporate had 
organised health camps at village level 
-earlier any camp that was organised 
was only at district level or block level 
or panchayat level. They have expressed 
their gratitude to AIS time and again for 
this intervention, especially women and 
senior citizens who did not have access 
to proper health care services. We did 16 
camps in 16 different villages reaching out 
to more than 1606 community members.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
42
Performance Highlights (Standalone)
Particulars
 FY 16  FY 17*  FY 18*  FY 19*  FY 20*  FY 21*  FY 22*  FY 23*  FY 24*
 FY 25*
 Net Sales
216799
230676
259050
285851
259926
238049
310963
391837
414629
431161
 Other Income
612
2995
2573
2050
1544
3992
2411
2147
3097
3621
 Net Revenue
217411
233671
261623
287901
261470
242041
313374
393984
417726
434782
 Operating Profit (before OCI/ in FY 17 to  FY21)**
44329
46267
50268
55432
48229
47127
79333
84658
74914
76594
 Interest
14340
14376
12308
13454
14393
13845
11757
10107
13061
12230
 Depreciation
10532
7617
9178
11526
13206
12745
15517
15374
16473
17250
 Exceptional Item
5629
 Profit/(Loss) Before Tax (before OCI in FY17 to FY21)
15785
23658
28244
28834
18416
21798
51899
57510
45380
52743
 Tax
6058
8854
9709
9827
2425
7914
17137
20728
11827
13833
 Profit/(Loss) After Tax (before OCI in FY 17 to FY21)
9727
14804
18535
19007
15991
13884
34762
36782
33553
38910
 Paid-up Equity Capital
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
2431
 Reserve & Surplus
37523
92933
108531
122538
131892
146222
178773
210270
238917
272284
 Shareholders' Fund
39954
95364
110962
124969
134323
148653
181204
212701
241348
274715
 Loans
131642
121955
137141
163604
173967
149128
117989
132375
185354
250943
 Capital Employed
165191
229247
248115
246592
265655
276915
301773
342122
370809
502711
 Net Fixed Assets
115563
162143
197001
235589
245972
242292
235163
248291
319583
434699
 Net Current Assets#
48908
57557
46615
43644
55225
51921
65187
94373
80843
90268
 Earning per share (`)
4.00
6.09
7.62
7.82
6.58
5.71
14.30
15.13
13.80
16.01
 Cash Earning per share (`)
9.45
11.02
12.91
14.07
10.94
11.76
21.31
21.99
20.69
24.91
 PBDIT/Average Capital Employed (%)
26%
23%
21%
22%
19%
18%
27%
26%
21%
18%
 ROACE (%) (PBIT /Average Capital Employed)
18%
19%
17%
17%
13%
13%
22%
21%
16%
14%
 ROANW (%)  (PAT /Average Net Worth)
27%
22%
18%
16%
12%
10%
21%
19%
15%
15%
 PBDIT to Net Sales
20%
20%
19%
19%
19%
20%
26%
22%
18%
18%
 Gross Block to Net Sales
120%
67%
78%
76%
91%
113%
94%
79%
82%
114%
 Gross Block to PBDIT
5.85
3.32
4.00
3.93
4.93
5.56
3.70
3.65
4.54
6.42
- Previous year’s figures have been regrouped/rearranged , wherever found necessary , to make them comparable with those of current year
- Capital employed is arrived after deducting capital work-in -progress and miscellaneous expenditure not written off.
* As per IND AS
** Before extraordinary/exceptional items and exchange rate fluctuation loss
# Excluding current borrowings
Shareholder’s Funds (` Lakhs)
2,17,411
2,33,671
2,61,623
2,87,901
2,61,470
2,42,041
3,13,374
3,93,984
Net Revenue (` Lakhs)
FY19
FY17
FY21
FY16
FY20
FY18
FY22
FY23
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY24
FY25
39,954
95,364
1,10,962
1,24,969
1,34,323
1,48,653
1,81,204
FY19
FY17
FY21
FY16
FY20
FY18
FY22
PBDIT (` Lakhs)
18
19
17
17
13
13
22
21
16
14
Return on Average Capital Employed (%)
FY19
FY17
FY21
FY16
FY20
FY18
FY22
4,17,726
4,34,782
FY23
FY24
FY25
44,329
46,267
50,268
55,432
48,229
47,127
79,333
FY19
FY17
FY21
FY16
FY20
FY18
FY22
84,658
74,914
76,594
2,12,701
2,41,348
2,74,715
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Corporate Overview
43
Corporate information
Board of Directors
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
Chairman & Managing Director
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Director
Mr. Masao Fukami
Dy. Managing Director – 
Technical & C.T.O.
(Auto)
Mr. Masahiro Takeda
Director
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka1
Director
Ms. Sheetal Mehta
Director
Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla (Retd.)2
Director
Mr. Rahul Rana3
Director
Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat4
Director
Mr. Yoji Taguchi5
Director
Mr. Setsuya Yoshino6
Director
Ms. Shradha Suri7
Director
Board Committees
Audit & Risk Management 
Committee
Mr. Rahul Rana3
Chairman
Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat4
Chairman
Ms. Shradha Suri7
Member
Ms. Sheetal Mehta
Member
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Mr. Rahul Rana3
Chairman
Ms. Shradha Suri7
Chairperson
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Member
Ms. Sheetal Mehta8
Member
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Ms. Sheetal Mehta8 
Chairperson
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
Member
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Member
Stakeholder’s 
Relationship Committee
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Chairperson
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
Member
Ms. Shradha Suri7
Member
Restructuring Committee
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
Chairman
Mr. Rahul Rana3
Member
Ms. Shradha Suri7
Member
Ms. Sheetal Mehta8
Member
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Member
Mr. Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director, Chief – GRC, 
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Offices
Registered Office
A-2/10, 1st Floor, 
WHS DDA Marble Market,
Kirti Nagar,
New Delhi – 110 015
Corporate Office
Global Business Park, 
Tower - D, 3rd & 11th Floor, 
Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, 
Gurugram - 122 002, Haryana
Tel: +91 124 4062212-19
Fax: +91 124 4062244 & 88
Bankers / Lenders 
Axis Bank Limited
Bajaj Finance Limited
Bank of Baharain & Kuwait
Bank of Baroda
Bajaj Finance Limited
Central Bank of India
CTBC Bank Co.
DBS Bank India Limited
Export-Import Bank of India
HDFC Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Limited
IDFC First Bank Limited
MUFG Bank Limited
RBL Bank Limited
Shinhan Bank Limited
The Federal Bank Limited
Yes Bank Limited
1.	
Resigned w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
2.	
Director w.e.f. 16th December, 2024
3.	
Ceased to be Director and Member w.e.f. 5th August, 2024
4.	
Director and Member w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
5.	
Resigned w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
6.	
Director w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
7.	
Redesignated as Chairperson of NRC w.e.f. 6th August, 2024 and ceased to be Director and Member w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
8.	
Member of CSR Committee w.e.f. 8th May, 2024 and Member of NRC & Restructuring Committee w.e.f. 6th August 2024
Mr. Shailesh Agarwal
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
Statutory Auditors
V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountant
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
44
Statutory 
Reports 
Management 
Discussion & 
Analysis
Since 
foundation 
in 
1984, 
Asahi India Glass Ltd. (AIS) 
has transformed India’s glass 
sector and today it delivers fully 
integrated solutions that span 
the entire value chain, from 
raw material sourcing, through 
processing and fabrication to 
installation across automotive, 
architectural 
and 
consumer 
segments. 
By 
forecasting 
market trends and aligning 
its 
manufacturing 
footprint 
with 
emerging 
demands, 
AIS has created a connected 
value 
chain 
capable 
of 
delivering 
customized 
glass 
systems that evolve alongside 
customer requirements.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
46
Aligned with national priorities like 
Atmanirbhar Bharat and Viksit Bharat, AIS 
is advancing sustainable development 
through strategic investments in modern, 
state-of-the-art facilities across India. 
These efforts have reduced reliance 
on imports, strengthened domestic 
manufacturing, and enhanced supply 
chain resilience, reinforcing the broader 
Indian manufacturing ecosystem. 
 
In the automotive sector, AIS continued 
to lead by aligning with trends in vehicle 
premiumization and intelligent mobility. 
Its diverse portfolio includes laminated 
acoustic windshields, UV-blocking and 
IR-reflective glass, ADAS-ready glazing, 
smart-tinted sunroofs, HUD-compatible 
panels, tempered glass for sides and rear, 
heated and encapsulated assemblies, 
rain sensor-compatible windshields, and 
privacy-tinted solutions. AIS also developed 
thinner, lighter panels that improve 
insulation and noise reduction. These are 
ideal for electric and connected vehicles 
and contribute to greater energy efficiency. 
 
On the architectural front, AIS is redefining 
light and thermal management in buildings. 
Its high-performance glass offerings 
include Low-E coatings, solar-control and 
hydrophobic surfaces, and self-cleaning 
treatments that reduce maintenance. 
Electrochromic and photochromatic 
technologies enable façades to adjust 
opacity in real time. This enhances 
occupant comfort, supports green building 
certifications, and delivers dynamic, 
energy-efficient design. Innovation 
drives AIS’s evolution. Its in-house R&D 
teams continuously advance surface 
coatings, digital-printing techniques, 
and multifunctional glass that blend 
performance, aesthetics, and sustainability. 
Efforts focus on eco-friendly formulations 
and processes tailored to India’s climate 
and aligned with technological progress. 
 
AIS has deepened its sustainability 
commitment by expanding recycled 
cullet usage, lowering energy intensity, 
and introducing green hydrogen in new 
lines. Collaborations on circular economy 
initiatives, such as photovoltaic-glass 
recycling, reflect its drive toward a low-
carbon future and industry leadership. 
 
By increasing local raw material sourcing 
and achieving greater vertical integration, 
AIS has built a resilient, self-reliant supply 
chain. Together, these efforts in innovation, 
sustainability, and integrated operations 
position AIS as a key enabler of India’s 
economic growth and self-reliance.
Macro-Economic Overview
Global Economy
In CY 2024, the global economy grew 
by 3.3%, reflecting relative stability 
despite ongoing headwinds. Entering CY 
2025, policy priorities shifted sharply as 
geopolitical tensions rose and economic 
strains mounted. Major economies 
adjusted fiscal and monetary frameworks 
and introduced new trade measures that 
reshaped international dynamics.
In the glass manufacturing sector, demand 
remained stable but uneven across 
regions. Developed markets saw modest 
growth due to subdued construction 
and tight credit, while emerging 
economies experienced stronger 
momentum driven by urbanization 
and infrastructure development. Rising 
energy costs and stricter environmental 
norms 
pressured 
margins 
and 
accelerated efficiency investments. 
Sustainability emerged as a key 
trend, with rising demand for high 
performance glass driven by green 
building norms and emissions regulations. 
Manufacturers responded by upgrading 
technologies, using more recycled cullet, 
and exploring advanced materials to 
manage costs and gain market share. 
 
In CY 2024, the global economy grew 
by 3.3%, demonstrating resilience 
despite persistent headwinds. Entering 
CY 2025, trade tensions escalated as the 
U.S. announced tariffs on key imports, 
intensifying pressure on the global trading 
environment. Policy priorities shifted 
sharply amid escalating geopolitical 
frictions and mounting economic 
strains. In response, major economies 
recalibrated fiscal and monetary policies 
and introduced new trade measures that 
reshaped international dynamics.
Statutory Reports
47
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
U.S. tariffs on key imports triggered 
reciprocal actions, pushing global tariff 
to multi-decade highs. These barriers 
lowered global GDP forecasts by 0.5–1.0%, 
while higher input costs and supply chain 
disruptions challenged pricing and volume 
assumptions.Unpredictable policy shifts 
undermined conventional forecasting 
models. Economists expanded scenario-
planning frameworks to accommodate a 
broader range of outcomes.
Headline inflation declined more slowly 
than expected. After peaking in early 
CY 2024, global consumer-price inflation 
eased to 5.1% by December. Projections 
now point to 4.3% in CY 2025 and 3.6% 
in CY 2026, reflecting elevated inflation 
in advanced economies partly offset by 
milder pressures in emerging markets.
Companies that have invested in 
sustainable technologies and agile 
supply-chain strategies were best 
positioned to navigate this challenging, 
opportunity-rich environment.
Growth in advanced economies is 
expected to stay subdued, with global 
projections indicating a modest 1.4% 
expansion in 2025. The U.S. may grow at 
1.8%, while the Eurozone is likely to trail at 
0.8%. Emerging markets and developing 
economies (EMDEs) are projected to slow 
to 3.7% in 2025, with a slight rebound to 
3.9% in 2026. Countries most affected by 
recent trade actions, especially China, are 
seeing notable downward revisions in 
growth forecasts.
In contrast, several emerging markets—
particularly India, Southeast Asia, and 
parts of Africa and Latin America—are set 
to outperform the global average. This 
momentum is fuelled by strong domestic 
demand, infrastructure investment, and 
favourable demographics. Additionally, 
growing investments in renewables, 
electric vehicles, green buildings, and 
carbon capture are expected to accelerate, 
creating new opportunities and reshaping 
global supply chains.
Global Economic Growth 
(in %)
3.3
2.8
3.0
1.8
1.4
1.5
4.3
3.7
3.9
Global Economy
CY 2024
CY 2025
CY 2026
Advanced Economies
Emerging Markets and 
Developing Economies
(Source: World Economic Outlook, April 2025)  
Outlook
Despite its current challenges, the global economy faced a unique opportunity to build 
resilience and pursue a more sustainable path. Stressed economies demonstrated 
that, with coordinated policies and proactive reforms, recovery was within reach. 
Stable, transparent trade; timely debt resolution; and efforts to correct structural 
imbalances could have fostered a more balanced, inclusive rebound. Credible fiscal 
plans, clear monetary guidance and targeted macroprudential measures would have 
helped restore financial stability and safeguard long-term growth. Navigating the 
road ahead required international cooperation, coherent strategies and committed 
leadership. By aligning on shared objectives, the global economy could have regained 
momentum, rebuilt buffers and unlocked new prospects for prosperity across regions.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
48
Indian Economy  
India’s economic performance in 
FY 2024–25 stands out as a bright spot 
amid global uncertainty, marked by 
rising trade tensions and persistent 
geopolitical risks. With GDP growth at 
6.5%, India remains the world’s fastest-
growing major economy, underscoring 
its resilience in navigating external 
headwinds. Growth was driven by a strong 
pipeline of government-led infrastructure 
projects and sustained momentum in 
finance, real estate, and construction. 
Rural demand also strengthened, 
supported by targeted financial inclusion 
initiatives and robust agricultural output. 
 
As of June 2025, the Reserve Bank of India 
adopted a more accommodative stance, 
reducing the repo rate by a cumulative 
50 basis points to 5.50%. These calibrated 
cuts aim to balance inflation control with 
the need to boost credit growth and 
capital formation. Retail inflation eased 
to 3.16% in April 2025—the lowest in 
nearly six years—remaining below the 
RBI’s 4% target for the third consecutive 
month, driven by softer food prices. While 
core inflation remains sticky, the overall 
easing gives the RBI room to continue 
supporting growth through policy. 
 
India’s domestic fundamentals remain 
strong. Prudent fiscal management, 
sustained infrastructure spending, and 
effective welfare schemes have provided a 
buffer against global shocks. Labor markets 
are improving, lifting household incomes 
and consumption. The BFSI sector has also 
shown robust growth, aided by stable credit 
expansion and improved asset quality, 
further reinforcing economic stability. 
 
These developments reflect India’s 
ability to maintain its growth trajectory 
and macroeconomic stability, even in a 
challenging global environment.
6.5
8.2
2023-24
2024-25 
Indian Economy GDP Growth Rate 
(%)
7.0
(6.6)
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
8.7
As of FY 2024-25, India’s Current Account 
Deficit (CAD) improved significantly, 
narrowing to 1.5% of GDP in Q3 from 
2.2% a year earlier. This was driven 
by lower global oil prices, recovering 
exports—especially in pharmaceuticals, 
electronics, and software—and strong 
remittance inflows crossing $100 
billion. (Source: RBI Report, March 2025) 
 
India’s capital markets reached new highs, 
with total market capitalisation crossing 
₹450 lakh crore ($5.4 trillion) as of 31st 
March 2025. The BSE Sensex and NSE 
Nifty 50 contributed ₹300 lakh crore ($3.6 
trillion) and ₹150 lakh crore (~$1.8 trillion), 
respectively. Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FIIs) infused $15 billion during the year, 
reflecting strong global confidence. 
The Union Budget FY 2025–26 reaffirmed 
focus on growth with fiscal prudence. 
Capital expenditure was raised to ₹11.21 
lakh crore (~3.1% of GDP), supporting 
infrastructure, rural development, 
and private investment. The fiscal 
deficit was targeted lower at 4.9%. 
 
Consumption revival remained a priority, 
backed by enhanced rural allocations, 
higher Direct Benefit Transfers (DBTs), and 
tax reliefs under the new regime—set 
to boost disposable income, especially 
in rural and middle-income segments. 
 
Statutory Reports
49
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
India’s external sector showed resilience, 
with overall exports growing nearly 6% 
YoY, led by services exports, reinforcing 
its leadership in the global services trade. 
 
Together, 
rising 
consumption, 
infrastructure investments, strong trade 
performance, and policy tailwinds have 
created a solid platform for sustained 
economic growth. India’s ability to steer 
through global volatility while advancing 
domestic reforms underscores its growing 
resilience and long-term potential.
Outlook
India’s economic outlook for 
FY 2025–26 remains positive, with GDP 
growth projected between 6.5% and 
6.8%. Supported by solid domestic 
fundamentals and targeted policies, a 
revival in private capital expenditure 
and improved consumption will drive 
momentum. Strategic initiatives such 
as Make in India, digital infrastructure 
investments and PLI ( Production-
Linked-Incentive) schemes will bolster 
manufacturing, while robust rural 
recovery via financial inclusion will fuel 
demand across sectors.
India’s youthful population represents a 
major demographic dividend, providing 
a sizeable workforce and expanding 
consumer base. This advantage, 
combined with accelerating technology 
adoption and sectoral innovation, 
will enhance productivity and 
competitiveness. Active engagement 
in global trade agreements and 
partnerships is opening new export 
markets and attracting foreign 
investment.
With inflation subdued and the RBI 
maintaining an accommodative 
monetary stance, the macroeconomic 
environment looks stable. Large-
scale infrastructure projects, favorable 
demographics and rising investor 
confidence will underpin long-term 
growth despite global volatility.
Against this backdrop, India’s glass 
industry is set to thrive. Robust real-
estate and infrastructure activity will 
sustain demand for architectural glass, 
while automotive and EV segments 
will drive specialized requirements. 
Government incentives for clean-energy 
projects and Make in India reforms will 
support local manufacturing capacity 
expansion. Meanwhile, the global 
appetite for specialty and technical glass 
will enhance export prospects.
The sector will consolidate around 
technology and sustainability. Smart-
glass innovations, energy-efficient 
solutions and automated production 
processes will meet end-user 
expectations. By aligning with national 
growth drivers and sustainability goals, 
India’s glass industry is poised for 
dynamic expansion in FY 2025–26.
Industry and Business Overview
Automotive Glass
Industry Structure and 
Development
The Indian automobile industry stands 
as one of the largest and most dynamic 
sectors in the country, playing a crucial role 
in driving economic growth, technological 
advancement, 
and 
employment 
generation. Encompassing a wide range 
of segments including passenger vehicles, 
commercial vehicles, two-wheelers, 
three-wheelers, and tractors, the industry 
directly and indirectly supports millions of 
livelihoods and contributes significantly to 
the nation’s GDP.
In recent years, the industry has witnessed 
robust development, fueled by factors 
such as rising consumer aspirations, rapid 
urbanization, and favorable government 
policies that promote manufacturing, 
innovation, and sustainability. As a result, 
India has emerged as a key player on the 
global automotive stage, attracting both 
domestic and international investments 
while becoming a preferred hub for 
automotive production and exports.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
50
In FY 2024–25, the industry continued on 
its growth trajectory with domestic sales 
increasing by 7.3%, supported by healthy 
demand, infrastructure investments, and 
supportive policy frameworks. India’s 
automobile exports surged by 19.2% in FY 
2024–25, reflecting strong global demand 
and the growing traction of ‘Made in India’ 
vehicles. During the year, over 5.3 million 
vehicles were exported, with two-wheelers, 
passenger cars, and commercial vehicles 
witnessing robust growth. African nations, 
South Asia, and Latin America emerged as 
key destinations, reaffirming India’s rising 
stature as a global manufacturing and 
mobility hub. This growth also underscores 
the success of the Government’s 
Make in India and Production-Linked 
Incentive (PLI) initiatives, which continue 
to boost competitiveness, localisation, and 
innovation in the auto sector. The sector’s 
performance was strengthened by sound 
macroeconomic policies, positive market 
sentiment, and sustained government 
spending on infrastructure. Additionally, 
reforms in personal income tax announced 
in the Union Budget 2025–26, along with 
two consecutive rate cuts by Reserve Bank 
of India, enhanced consumer purchasing 
power and improved vehicle financing 
accessibility.
India’s automobile industry is undergoing 
a strong transformation, led by a rapid 
shift towards electric mobility—especially 
in three-wheelers and compact passenger 
vehicles. Backed by a 2030 EV adoption 
target, supportive policies, rising 
awareness, and expanding charging 
infrastructure, the segment is poised for 
sustained growth. However, challenges 
such as infrastructure gaps, high taxation, 
regulatory complexities, and skilled labour 
shortages persist. Commercial vehicle 
demand remains buoyant, driven by 
infrastructure investments, replacement 
cycles, and growth in core sectors like coal, 
steel, and cement. With a positive policy 
environment and steady capex push, 
the industry outlook remains optimistic, 
anchored in innovation, technology 
adoption, and global best practices. 
 
Automotive glass, a critical safety and 
comfort component, is gaining traction 
with the rise of EVs and premium vehicles. 
Valued at USD 908.1 million in 2024, 
the Indian automotive glass market is 
projected to grow to USD 1,374.6 million 
by 2033 at a CAGR of 4.48% (IMARC 
Group). The demand is fuelled by rising 
vehicle ownership, preference for 
advanced features, and growing use of solar 
control, acoustic, and HUD-compatible 
glass. Smart glass technologies—such 
as thermochromic, electrochromic, and 
SPD glass—are reshaping the segment 
by offering dynamic shading, improved 
cabin comfort, and energy efficiency. 
As lightweight, eco-friendly vehicles 
gain prominence, the need for high-
performance glass solutions is rising. 
Backed by R&D investments, localisation, 
and global collaborations, automotive glass 
is emerging as a vital enabler of innovation, 
safety, and sustainability in India’s evolving 
mobility landscape.
Performance
AIS has cemented its leadership position 
in India’s automotive glass industry, 
commanding 75% market share in 
passenger car segments. AIS Auto Glass 
remained the preferred partner for leading 
vehicle manufacturers in passenger cars, 
commercial vehicles, trucks, buses, 
railways, metros, tractors and off-highway 
applications by consistently delivering 
advanced, safety-focused glazing solutions.
In FY 2024–25, AIS Auto Glass SBU achieved 
a strong revenue increase of 13.02%, rising 
to ₹ 2,989.72 crores from ₹ 2,645.27 crores 
in the prior year. Operating profit grew 
by 14.27% to ₹ 360.33 crores, up from 
₹ 315.34 crores in FY 2023–24. These results 
have reflected AIS’s strong commitment to 
innovation, stringent quality standards 
and the trust of its customers, further 
reinforcing its position at the forefront of 
automotive glass.
AIS remains well positioned to capitalise on 
emerging opportunities, address evolving 
safety and sustainability standards and 
drive sustained growth in India’s dynamic 
automotive glass market.
Statutory Reports
51
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Key Achievements
•	 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd: Certificate of Application for Superior Performance in 
Area of Sustainability and Best Overall Performance 
•	 Ashok Leyland: Supplier SAMRAT ’25 Competition Regional-Level 1st Runner-Up 
Award; Platinum Award in Quality Performance; Supplier SAMRAT Competition 
National-Level Runner-Up Award 
•	 KIA Motors: Appreciation Award 
•	 TI Montra: Best Supplier Award for Quality Performance & Customer Support 
•	 Whirlpool India Ltd.: QCC Competition Runner-Up Award 
•	 Honda Cars India Ltd.: National-Level KAIZEN Competition 2024–25 
Road Ahead
The Indian automobile industry is on a 
clear trajectory of sustained, dynamic 
expansion, underpinned by structural 
reforms, cutting-edge technologies and 
shifting consumer tastes. As the world’s 
third-largest vehicle market, India is 
rapidly emerging as a crucible for mobility 
innovation, both for domestic drivers and 
for exports.
A defining driver of this growth is the pivot 
to electric vehicles. Generous incentives 
under FAME II, combined with progressive 
state-level EV policies, have ignited 
investment across the entire value chain—
from battery manufacturing to charging 
infrastructure. As charging networks 
multiply and battery costs decline, EV 
adoption is accelerating beyond metro 
cores into tier II and tier III cities.
At the same time, rising disposable 
incomes and rapid urbanization continue 
to fuel demand across every segment. 
While entry-level two-wheelers continue 
to serve first-time mobility needs, it is the 
four-wheeler segment that increasingly 
drives aspirations and long-term value for 
Indian consumers. With rising incomes, 
evolving lifestyles, and growing demand 
for safety and comfort, four-wheelers have 
become the preferred choice for personal 
mobility, particularly in urban and semi-
urban markets. On the commercial side, 
stronger freight volumes—driven by 
renewed infrastructure spend, surging 
e-commerce and a rebound in mining 
and construction—are lifting demand for 
trucks and buses alike.
Still, the industry must navigate headwinds. 
Elevated input costs, intermittent 
supplychain disruptions and the full rollout 
of BS-VI Stage II emissions standards pose 
near-term pressures. The shortage of 
skilled technicians and engineers adds 
another layer of complexity.
Yet India’s long-term outlook remains 
robust. A vast manufacturing ecosystem, 
a deepening talent pool, and a policy 
framework that rewards innovation 
and localisation all point to continued 
resilience. Looking forward, the next 
wave of growth will be defined by 
digitalization—connected-car platforms, 
over-the-air updates and advanced 
driver-assistance systems—as well as by 
alternative fuels, circular-economy models 
and sustainability commitments.
Together, these forces position India 
not only as a powerhouse of vehicle 
production, but as a global hub for future-
ready mobility solutions.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
52
Architectural Glass
Industry Structure and 
Development
India’s real estate sector has emerged as 
a powerful catalyst of socio-economic 
transformation. Once informal and 
fragmented, the industry has evolved 
significantly—driven by urban migration, 
rising demand for housing and commercial 
infrastructure, and the expansion of 
industrial corridors. Strategic government 
interventions—ranging from regulatory 
reforms to initiatives boosting transparency 
and investor confidence—have further 
strengthened the sector’s foundation.
In CY 2025, the Indian real estate market 
is estimated at USD 332.85 billion and 
is projected to reach USD 985.80 billion 
by CY 2030, growing at a robust CAGR 
of 24.25%. Rapid urbanisation, with 
the urban population expected to hit 
40% by 2030, is fuelling demand for 
residential, commercial, and infrastructure 
developments across metros and emerging 
cities. The sector’s ability to respond with 
agility will be critical to supporting India’s 
broader growth ambitions.
The commercial real estate segment 
has been a major growth engine, long 
dominated by the IT sector but now 
witnessing strong leasing from BFSI, 
engineering, manufacturing, e-commerce, 
and co-working operators. High absorption 
and low vacancy rates continue to 
reflect healthy demand. Simultaneously, 
commercial real estate has gained traction 
among investors, supported by reforms 
like RERA and the introduction of REITs, 
which have improved transparency, 
liquidity, and institutional participation. 
Office properties, in particular, have 
become a preferred asset class for HNIs 
and global private equity players seeking 
attractive rental yields and long-term value 
appreciation.
Urban lifestyle shifts, including compact 
living and multi-generational households, 
are reshaping work patterns and 
accelerating demand for flexible office 
spaces. Co-working models are increasingly 
popular, offering cost-effective, scalable 
solutions suited for startups, SMEs, and 
large corporates operating in a hybrid work 
environment.
As urbanisation deepens and investor 
confidence grows, the real estate sector’s 
innovation and responsiveness will be vital 
in shaping India’s future cities, boosting 
employment, and reinforcing its role as 
a cornerstone of the country’s economic 
progress.
In this evolving landscape, architectural 
glass has emerged as a key enabler of 
modern infrastructure and sustainable 
construction. With its unique blend of 
transparency, strength, and durability, it 
not only enhances structural aesthetics 
but also allows abundant natural light, 
improving energy efficiency and occupant 
well-being. Engineered to endure diverse 
weather conditions, architectural glass 
maintains its structural integrity and 
visual appeal over time. Unlike many 
conventional materials, it resists fading 
and aging, making it a preferred choice 
for both contemporary developments and 
renovation projects.
According to Knight Frank India , the 
country will need an estimated investment 
of USD 2.2 trillion in infrastructure to 
achieve its goal of becoming a USD 7 
trillion economy by 2030. The Government 
approved 12 more projects across 6 major 
corridors, bringing the total to 44 industrial 
nodes under the National Industrial 
Corridor Development Programme. 
Simultaneously, through the PMAY-U’s 
Global Housing Technology Challenge, 54 
cutting-edge construction technologies 
have been shortlisted globally, with six 
Light House Projects already built and plans 
underway to scale these innovations under 
PMAY-U 2.0. This drive towards sustainable, 
smart development parallels India’s rapid 
push for green cities and energy-efficient 
infrastructure.
Reflecting these trends, the architectural 
glass market is expected to grow and 
propelled by rising demand for low-E and 
double-glazed solutions. As urbanization 
deepens and sustainability goals intensify, 
high-performance architectural glass 
stands to play a central role in shaping 
India’s modern and resilient built 
environment.
Statutory Reports
53
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Performance
AIS’s Architectural Glass SBU delivered a 
strong performance in FY 2024–25, driven 
by a significant increase in the proportion 
of value-added products within total 
segment sales. This shift towards premium, 
customer-centric solutions highlights the 
division’s commitment to innovation and 
underscores its ability to meet evolving 
design and performance requirements. 
During the year, the division secured a 
domestic market share of 13%, reflecting 
its enhanced competitiveness and growing 
footprint in key end-use segments.
The Strategic Business Unit recorded 
revenues of ₹1,266.55 crore in FY 2024–25, 
compared to ₹1,492.26 crore in the previous 
year. Operating profit stood at ₹200.82 
crore, against ₹264.17 crore in FY 2023–24, 
reflecting the impact of recalibrated market 
prices and fluctuating raw material costs. 
Despite these headwinds, AIS remained 
focused on value creation, operational 
efficiency, and product diversification, 
laying a strong foundation for sustainable 
growth and long-term profitability in the 
architectural glass segment.
India faces a huge threat of dumping of low 
quality float glass from Chinese Companies 
in the ASEAN region. The Domestic 
Industry has requested for Government’s 
intervention to address this issue.
Road Ahead
The demand for architectural glass in India 
is being propelled by evolving regulations, 
progressive design trends and heightened 
environmental awareness. Stricter building 
codes around safety, energy efficiency and 
acoustic control have shifted preference 
toward engineered glazing solutions. At 
the same time, contemporary architects 
are embracing expansive glazed façades 
to maximize natural light—fueling uptake 
of high-performance glass that balances 
transparency, comfort and thermal control.
Advances in manufacturing now enable 
glass with superior insulation, noise 
reduction, and aesthetics. The market is 
shifting from basic float glass to premium 
options, driven by suppliers educating 
stakeholders on how slightly higher costs 
yield significant benefits in energy savings, 
comfort, and maintenance.
Looking ahead, government initiatives 
in urban infrastructure and sustainable 
construction will underpin continued 
growth in architectural glass. The 
accelerating focus on green buildings and 
eco-friendly materials will further reinforce 
demand for energy-efficient, responsibly 
sourced glazing. AIS is making relentless 
efforts to achieve this transformation 
with its guiding mantra of delivering 
“Quality of Japan at Cost of India” (QJCI), 
ensuring world-class standards at globally 
competitive prices. To capitalize on this 
opportunity, the industry must tackle 
structural challenges such as securing 
raw-material supply chains and managing 
rising energy expenses. With sustained 
investment in innovation, stakeholder 
education, and operational excellence, 
India’s architectural glass sector is poised 
to deepen its domestic leadership and 
emerge as a global benchmark.
Consumer Glass
AIS continues to lead the industry 
with cutting-edge innovation and an 
unwavering focus on customer experience. 
The company operates a first-of-its-kind, 
state-of-the-art Experience Centres in 
Delhi and Bengaluru, India’s only fully 
immersive, 360-degree, multisensory, and 
interactive glass showcase. This unique 
space enables customers to engage with 
AIS’s full suite of glass solutions in a tangible 
and experiential way, helping them make 
informed decisions with confidence.
AIS Windows offers a versatile portfolio 
of high-performance glass and window 
systems engineered for modern living. 
These solutions are designed to deliver 
superior benefits such as noise reduction, 
energy efficiency, burglar resistance, and 
protection from pollution. Every product 
is crafted with precision and installed by 
trained professionals to ensure long-term 
durability and maximum customer value.
AIS Glasxperts provides premium, end-to-
end glass, customized window, and door 
solutions tailored to diverse architectural 
and interior needs. The offerings focus on key 
performance areas including safety, security, 
energy conservation, and acoustic comfort. 
With a wide selection of designs from bay 
and sliding windows to elegant sliding 
glass doors, Glasxperts delivers customized 
solutions and seamless execution through 
its full-service model, ensuring a hassle-free 
and satisfying customer experience.
AIS Windshield Experts stands as India’s largest 
automotive glass repair and replacement 
company. Backed by an extensive network of 
service centers and mobile vans, the brand 
delivers quick, reliable, and convenient 
services across the country. Certified to ISO 
9001:2015 standards, AIS Windshield Experts 
is the only player in India offering a one-year 
warranty on both workmanship and materials, 
reaffirming its commitment to quality, safety, 
and customer’s peace of mind.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
54
Total Quality Management (TQM)
During FY 2024-25, AIS further strengthened 
its Total Quality Management framework 
by integrating improvement tools from 
the Toyota Production System, Total 
Productive Maintenance and Six Sigma 
across both Automotive and Architectural 
business units. Under three core themes—
deep analysis, Kobetsu Kaizen and PDCA 
cycles—the Company completed over 150 
new PDCA initiatives and, since its Deming 
Prize recognition, has driven nearly 1,700 
improvement themes, reflecting active 
participation from every Strategic Business 
Unit.
In the Automotive division, a revised 
methodology for enhancing operator 
efficiency was launched under the 
guidance of the Deputy Managing Director. 
This initiative delivered a productivity 
uplift of more than 10 percent in sub-
assembly operations, and plans are in place 
to extend the program across additional 
areas. Employee involvement remained a 
priority: Quality-control (QC) circles, Jishu 
Hozen (autonomous maintenance) teams 
and cross-functional task forces collectively 
achieved over 80 percent participation 
across all plants.
To further foster a culture of continuous 
improvement, AIS hosted internal QC 
circle competitions at every facility and 
encouraged teams to compete externally. 
Eighteen QCC teams represented AIS 
at the National-Level QCC Convention, 
showcasing a rich pipeline of employee-
led Kaizen and suggestion-scheme 
projects. Complementing these efforts, the 
Company invested in workforce capability 
through a comprehensive training 
agenda—both in-house and at external 
centers, including Lean Manufacturing 
modules and the Maruti Production System 
curriculum delivered via AIS’s own MACE 
learning platform.
By embedding these structured 
improvement methodologies, AIS not only 
elevated operational performance but also 
strengthened its organizational culture of 
innovation. The progress achieved during 
FY 2024–25 laid a robust foundation for 
future excellence, ensuring that both 
Automotive and Architectural divisions 
remain agile, efficient and equipped to 
meet evolving customer expectations.
Quality awards
In our journey of excellence, this year 
in the 59th ACMA Excellence Awards & 
10th Technology summit 2025, we were 
awarded with:
	
−“Gold Award” Corporate Level - 
Excellence in New Product Design & 
Development and Localization
	
−Certificate of Merit – Progressive in 
Excellence in Safety Management for 
our best practices implemented in 
AIS Patan Plant.
	
−AIS received the esteemed CII CIO 
Excellence 
Award, 
celebrating 
its 
impactful 
digital 
transformation 
initiatives 
and 
commitment 
to 
organizational innovation.
Statutory Reports
55
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Information and Digital Technology (IDT)
AIS Information and Digital Technology 
(IDT) serves as a pivotal corporate function, 
collaborating closely with various business 
units, corporate departments, and external 
partners to strategically guide the Group’s 
digital initiatives.
IDT actively engages in business 
transformation projects, leveraging 
enterprise architecture principles and 
best practices to implement cutting-edge 
digital technologies. 
Through these initiatives, IDT aims 
to cultivate a robust Digital Business 
Ecosystem, fostering innovation, improving 
operational efficiency, and delivering 
sustainable value across the organization.
Mobility Solutions: 
Enhancing workforce productivity and 
customer engagement through mobile 
platforms.
Advanced Analytics: 
Utilizing big data analytics to drive 
informed decision-making and uncover 
actionable insights.
Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT): 
Integrating interconnected sensors and 
devices to optimize industrial processes 
and operational efficiency .
Artificial Intelligence (AI): 
Deploying AI and machine learning 
algorithms to automate processes and 
foster innovation.
Human Resources
AIS believes that people are the cornerstone 
of organizational excellence. The Company 
has fostered a workplace culture that is 
participative, collaborative, and employee-
centric, one that promotes a strong sense 
of ownership and belonging among its 
workforce.
The Company takes pride in maintaining 
a diverse and inclusive environment, free 
from discrimination based on nationality, 
gender, religion, marital status, caste, or 
creed. The Company’s human resource 
policies are thoughtfully crafted to 
ensure fairness, equity, and respect, while 
encouraging continuous learning and 
development.
The Company’s people practices are 
anchored in key principles such as merit-
based recruitment, comprehensive training 
and skill enhancement, and a robust 
rewards and recognition system. Emphasis 
is placed on developing employee 
capabilities and sustaining motivation 
through structured learning pathways, 
upskilling programs, and knowledge-
sharing initiatives. These efforts have 
helped build a harmonious, engaged, and 
high-performing organizational culture. 
As of March 31, 2025, the Company’s total 
employee strength stood at [ ], reflecting 
its continued growth and the vibrancy of 
its workforce.
Recognitions
Gold Award – SKOCH Group (2024): AIS 
won for “HR Digitisation by Implementing 
HRMS,” reflecting the successful rollout of 
a unified Human Resource Management 
System that streamlined recruitment, 
onboarding, performance management, 
learning and payroll.
Certificate of Appreciation – Maruti 
Suzuki (2024–25): Honoured for superior 
sustainability performance, recognising 
AIS’s ESG-driven initiatives in energy 
efficiency, resource management and 
green practices across the workplace.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
56
Risk Management
The Company acknowledges the evolving 
nature of the business environment and the 
potential impact of industry uncertainties. 
In response, it has established a 
comprehensive and integrated risk 
management framework that forms a core 
component of its operating model. This 
framework is structured around a clear 
understanding of strategic objectives, 
policy directives, prudential norms, 
proactive mitigation measures, and 
structured reporting protocols. Through 
this systematic approach, the Company 
is able to anticipate and address risks 
effectively. By embedding risk awareness 
into decision-making processes and 
operational planning, the Company 
enhances its resilience and agility. This 
enables it to navigate challenges with 
confidence while remaining firmly 
committed to excellence, continuity, and 
sustainable long-term growth.
The Company continually identifies the 
strategic operational risk along with 
targeted mitigation measures.
Internal Controls
Cautionary Statement
Outlook
The Company has established robust and 
comprehensive internal control systems 
that are effectively integrated across all 
processes, units, and functions. These 
controls are supported by clearly defined 
policies and procedures designed to 
ensure the efficient management of day-
to-day operations. Structured to align with 
the scale and complexity of the Company’s 
activities, the internal control framework is 
regularly reviewed to assess its adequacy 
and effectiveness. This includes ongoing 
evaluation of risk management practices, 
governance mechanisms, and operational 
processes. The system is managed 
and monitored by a team of qualified 
professionals, ensuring strong oversight 
and compliance across the organization.
This chapter contains forward-looking 
statements, which may be identified by 
their use of words like ‘plan’, ‘expect’, 
‘will’, ‘anticipate’, ‘belief’, ‘intend’, ‘project’, 
‘estimate’, or other words of similar 
meaning. All statements that address 
expectations or projections about the 
future, including but not limited to 
statements about the Company’s strategy 
for growth, product development, market 
position, expenditures and financial results 
are forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements are based on certain 
assumptions and expectations of future 
The Indian glass industry has been on 
a steady growth trajectory, fueled by 
increasing urbanization and rising demand 
from the construction, automotive, and 
consumer sectors. However, the industry 
also contends with challenges such as 
the growing use of alternative materials, 
volatility in raw material costs, and the 
imperative to adopt environmentally 
sustainable practices.
The Indian glass industry is on a strong 
growth trajectory, fueled by rising demand 
across key sectors such as construction, 
automotive, pharmaceuticals, consumer 
goods, solar, and renewable energy. In this 
dynamic environment, AIS must continue 
to strengthen its focus on innovation, 
operational excellence, and sustainability-
led growth. By proactively addressing 
emerging challenges and embracing 
future-ready strategies, the Company is 
well-positioned to reinforce its leadership 
and deliver sustained value creation. 
With the right investments in advanced 
technology and green manufacturing, 
India has the potential to become a global 
hub for specialty and high-performance 
glass by 2030.
Overall, the Indian glass industry is 
projected to grow at a healthy  pace over 
the next few years supported by industrial 
growth, rising consumer demand and 
supportive policy framework contributing 
India’s vision to become  Atmanirbhar 
Bharat and Viksit Bharat.
events. The Company cannot guarantee 
that these assumptions and expectations 
are accurate or will be realised. The 
Company’s actual results, performances or 
achievements could, thus differ materially 
from those projected in any such forward-
looking statements. The Company assumes 
no responsibility to publicly amend, modify 
or revise any forward-looking statements, 
based on any subsequent developments, 
information or events. The Company has 
sourced the industry information from 
the publicly available sources and has not 
verified that information independently.
Statutory Reports
57
Annual Report 2024-25
AtmaNirbhar AIS
To the the Members,
The Directors are pleased to present their 40th Report along with 
the audited financial statements (Standalone and Consolidated) of 
the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
Financial Performance
The Company’s financial performance for the year ended 
31st March, 2025 is summarized below:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Revenue from Operations
4,31,161
4,14,629
Other Income
3,621
3,097
Total Income
4,34,782
4,17,726
Operating Profit (PBDIT)
76,594
74,914
Profit before Depreciation & 
Tax (PBDT)
64,364
61,853
Profit before Tax
52,743
45,380
Profit after Tax
38,910
33,553
OCI for the year
(681)
56
Total Comprehensive Income
38,229
33,609
Dividend
4,862
4,862
Performance Overview
FY 2024-25 has been a satisfactory year for AIS due to improved 
demand in both automotive and architectural segments. However, 
significant drop of price in float lowered profits. Financial and 
operational performances have largely been close to budgets. 
Your Company managed to implement its plans and executed 
them more efficiently in a sustainable manner.
Revenue from Operations of the Company stood at ₹ 4,31,161 lakhs 
in FY 2024-25 as against ₹ 4,14,629 lakhs in FY 2023-24. Operating 
Profit has increased by 2.24% from ₹ 74,914 lakhs in the previous 
year to ₹ 76,594 lakhs in FY 2024-25. The Company posted a profit 
(PAT) of ₹ 38,910 lakhs in FY 2024-25 against profit of ₹ 33,553 lakhs 
in the previous financial year.
A detailed analysis of Company’s business operations forms a part 
of the Management Discussion and Analysis, a separate section to 
this Annual Report.
Change in the nature of business
During the year under review, there has been no change in the 
nature of business of the Company.
Further, no material changes and commitments have occurred 
between the end of the Financial Year and the date of the report 
affecting the financial position of the Company.
Report of the Directors
Capital Structure
During the year, there was no change in the Company’s authorised, 
issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital.
Subsidiaries and Associates
Pursuant to Section 129 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), a separate statement 
containing salient features of financial statements of all 
subsidiaries and associates of your Company, forms part of the 
financial statements.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 the financial statements of subsidiary & 
associate companies and related information are available for 
inspection by Members at the Corporate Office of AIS as well as 
Registered Office of respective subsidiary and associate companies, 
during business hours on all days except Saturdays, Sundays and 
public holidays upto the date of Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
to any shareholder on demand.
Further, in terms of the above provisions, the audited 
financial statements including the consolidated financial 
statements, financial statements of subsidiaries and all 
other relevant documents required to be attached to this 
report have been uploaded on website of the Company at 
www.aisglass.com. A report on the performance and financial 
position of each of the Subsidiary and Associate companies as per the 
Companies Act, 2013 is provided as Annexure to the consolidated 
financial statements in the prescribed Form AOC-1. During the FY 
2024-25, Asahi India Flat Glass Limited, Wholly Owned Subsidiary 
of the Company has been struck off from the records of ROC. 
Further, TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited has ceased to be an 
Associate of the Company. Except as above, no other Company 
has become or ceased to be Subsidiary, Joint Venture or Associate 
of the Company.
Further, the Board of Directors of each of the subsidiaries viz. 
AIS Adhesives Limited (AIA), AIS Distribution Services Limited 
(ADSL), GX Glass Sales & Services Limited (GX) (“the Transferor 
Companies”) and AIS Glass Solutions Limited (GS) (“the Transferee 
Company”) have approved a composite Scheme of Arrangement 
under the provisions of Section 230 to 232 read with other 
applicable provisions of the Companies, 2013 (including rules 
made thereunder) (“the Scheme”) at their respective meetings 
and filed the same with Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal 
(NCLT), which was approved by the NCLT vide its order dated 
19th May, 2025. All such Subsidiaries have filed certified copy of the 
said NCLT order along with the certified copy of the Scheme with 
Registrar of Companies, Delhi (ROC) dated 1st July, 2025 to affect 
the Amalgamation of all the Transferor Companies into Transferee 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
58
Company from that date, which was approved by the ROC on 
8th August, 2025. Therefore, all the Transferor Companies ceased 
to exist w.e.f. 1st July, 2025.
Material Subsidiaries
The Company does not have any material subsidiary. Pursuant 
to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
(hereinafter referred to as “Listing Regulations”), the Company 
has formulated and duly updated a policy for determining material 
subsidiaries. This policy is available on the Company’s website 
and may be accessed through the link https://www.aisglass.com/
wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Policy_for_Determining_Material_
Subsidiaries_W.pdf.
Awards
Your Directors take pride in reporting the following awards and 
recognitions received by your Company during the year:
Awarding OEM
Details
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.
Certificate of Application for
Superior performance in Area of Sustainability
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.
Best Overall Performance
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.
- Supplier Collaboration Initiatives
- Spares Performance
Ashok Leyland
AL - Supplier SAMRAT’ 25 Competition 
Regional level 1st Runner-up Award
Ashok Leyland
Platinum Award in Quality Performance
Ashok Leyland
Supplier Samrat Competition, National level 
Runner-up Award
Ashok Leyland
Nominee - ESG Champion - Proprietary
KIA Motors
Appreciation Award
TI Montra
Best Supplier Award for Quality Performance 
& Customer Support
Whirlpool India Ltd.
QCC Competition Runner - up Award
Honda Cars Indian Ltd.
National Level KAIZEN competition 2024-25
Honda Cars Indian Ltd.
Certificate of Excellence - Delivery, Quality & 
Cost parameters
Honda Cars Indian Ltd.
- Best Kaizen - Quality
- Gold Award - Spare Parts
TI Clean Mobility Pvt. Ltd.
Best Supplier award for Quality Performance 
and Customer Support
JSW MG Motors
Certificate of Appreciation for Product 
Development & Launch Support
Bajaj
Silver Quality Award in Polymer Category for 
zero defect
Mahindra & Mahindra
Special Appreciation Award - Thar Roxx
Hyundai Motor India Ltd.
Excellence Award - Safety & ER Management
Management Discussion and Analysis
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the year under 
review forms part of this Annual Report.
Dividend
Your Directors are pleased to recommend a Final Dividend of 
₹ 2 per equity share of face value of ₹ 1 each for the year ended 
31st March, 2025.
The above dividend, subject to the approval of Members 
at the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 
10th September, 2025, will be paid on or after 16th September, 2025 to 
those Shareholders whose names appear in the Register of Members 
as on 3rd September, 2025. The total dividend for the Financial Year 
will be ₹ 4,862 lakhs.
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations, the 
Company has formulated a ‘Dividend Distribution Policy’. The 
Policy is available on the Company’s website https://www.aisglass.
com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/AIS-Dividend-Distribution-
Policy.pdf.
Reserves
The Board has not proposed to carry any amount to Reserves.
Public Deposits
During the FY 2024-25, your Company has not accepted any 
deposits within the meaning of Section(s) 73 and 76 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance 
of Deposits) Rules, 2014 and as such no amount of principal or 
interest was outstanding as on date of the Balance Sheet.
Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable 
Accounting Standards, the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company are provided in the Annual Report.
Corporate Governance
Your Company is in strict compliance with the Corporate 
Governance requirements.
A separate report on Corporate Governance along with the General 
Shareholders Information, as prescribed under Regulation 34 of 
the Listing Regulations, is annexed as a part of the Annual Report 
along with the Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Your Company has been conducting business on Principles 
of Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) that not only 
delivers long-term shareholder value but also benefits the society. 
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as per 
Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations is annexed and forms an 
integral part of the Annual Report.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
59
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Industrial Relations
During the FY 2024-25 under review, industrial relations in the 
Company continued to be cordial and peaceful.
Annual Return
Annual Return of the Company in Form MGT-7, in accordance with 
Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, is available on 
Company’s website www.aisglass.com and can be accessed 
through link https://www.aisglass.com/annual-return.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(g) of the Companies Act, 2013 
particulars of loans, guarantees and investments under the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 as at the 
end of financial year 2024-25 are given at note nos. 4, 10, 37 and 
45 of the Standalone Financial Statements.
Meetings of the Board and its Committees
The details in respect of the number of Board and Committees 
meetings of your Company are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report which forms a part of the Annual Report.
Audit & Risk Management Committee
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 18 of Listing Regulations, 
the Audit & Risk Management Committee consists of three 
Independent Directors - Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat as Chairman 
and Ms. Shradha Suri & Ms. Sheetal Mehta as Members as on 
31st March, 2025.
Board of Directors of the Company has duly accepted the 
recommendations of Audit & Risk Management Committee 
during FY 2024-25. Detailed disclosure in respect of Audit & Risk 
Management committee is in the Corporate Governance Report 
of the Company which forms a part of Annual Report.
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy
The Company has established a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower 
Policy. The purpose of this mechanism is to provide a framework 
to report concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected 
fraud or violation of the Company’s code of conduct or Ethics 
Policy and provide adequate safeguards against victimization of 
the person availing this mechanism. 
The Policy is available on the Company’s website at https://
www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/AIS_vigil_
mechanism_whistle_blower_policy.pdf which has been 
appropriately communicated within the organisation and 
is effectively operational. The policy provides mechanism 
whereby any whistle blower may send protected disclosures at 
complaintscommittee@aisglass.com and in exceptional cases, 
directly to the Chairman of Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Risk Management
AIS has developed and implemented a Risk Management Policy 
to identify and mitigate key risks that may negatively impact the 
Company. It lays down broad guidelines for timely identification, 
assessment and prioritisation of risks affecting the Company.
Internal Financial Controls
Your Company has put in place adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements. Such system has been 
designed to provide for:
•	
adoption of accounting policies in line with applicable 
Accounting Standards.
•	
uniform accounting treatment is prescribed to the 
subsidiaries of your Company.
•	
proper recording of transactions with internal checks and 
reporting mechanism.
•	
compliance with applicable statutes, policies, management 
policies and procedures.
The management of your Company periodically reviews the 
financial performance against the approved plans across various 
parameters and takes necessary action, wherever required.
Your Company has its own Internal Audit department with qualified 
professionals which carries out periodic audits of all locations and 
functions. The observations arising out of the internal audits are 
periodically reviewed and its summary along with corrective action 
plans, if any, are submitted to top management and Audit & Risk 
Management Committee for review, comments and directions.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
Appointments, Re-appointments and Resignations
During the year under review following changes took place in the 
Board of your Company:
During the financial year, Mr. Yoji Taguchi (DIN: 01892369), 
Independent Director of the Company has resigned from the 
Board of Directors of the Company w.e.f. 1st April, 2024 due 
to his permanent return to Japan and Mr. Setsuya Yoshino 
(DIN: 10504479) was appointed in his place as Director in the 
capacity of Independent Director of the Company vide circular 
resolution dated 22nd February, 2024 and by Members through 
Postal Ballot on 25th March, 2024 for a period of up to five 
consecutive years with effect from 1st April, 2024 in accordance 
with the provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152, 161, 175 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Schedule IV of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Mr. Yoji Taguchi has confirmed that there was no material reason 
for his resignation apart from the reasons cited above.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
60
Mr. Rahul Rana (DIN: 00476406), has completed his second term of 
five years as an Independent Director and consequently ceased to 
be a Director of the Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours on 
5th August, 2024 and Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat (DIN: 10723711) 
was appointed as Non-Executive Director in the capacity of 
Independent Director of the Company by the Board of Directors on 
31st July, 2024 and by Members at 39th AGM held on 
4th September, 2024 for a period upto five consecutive years with 
effect from 6th August, 2024 in accordance with the provisions 
of Section(s) 149, 150, 152 & 161 and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Schedule IV of the 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla (Retd.) (DIN: 10824636) has been appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director in the capacity of Independent 
Director of the Company vide circular resolution dated 
16th December, 2024 and subsequently by Members through 
Postal Ballot on 15th March, 2025 for a period upto five consecutive 
years with effect from 16th December, 2024 in accordance with 
the provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152, 161, 175 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Schedule IV of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka (DIN: 07692846), Non-Executive Director of 
the Company has resigned from the Board of Directors of the 
Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours of 31st March, 2025 
due to his permanent return to Japan.
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka has confirmed that there was no material 
reason for his resignation apart from the reasons cited above.
Ms. Shradha Suri (DIN: 00176902), has completed her second term 
of five years as an Independent Director and consequently ceased 
to be a Director of the Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours 
on 31st March, 2025.
In accordance with the provisions of Section(s) 149, 152 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, Mr. Masao Fukami (DIN: 09811031) and Ms. Nisheeta Labroo 
(DIN: 10040978), Directors are liable to retire by rotation at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-appointment.
Board places on record its heartfelt appreciation for the Directors 
who left the Board.
Statement of Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of the company are of the opinion that 
all the Independent Directors of the Company appointed / 
reappointed during the year possess impeccable integrity, relevant 
expertise and experience required to best serve the interests of 
the Company.
Declaration of Independence
Your Company has received declaration from all the Independent 
Directors confirming that they meet the criteria of Independence 
as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Schedules and Rules made thereunder as well as 
Regulation(s) 16 & 25 of the Listing Regulations. The details of 
the familiarization programme along with format of the letter 
of appointment provided to the Independent Directors at the 
time of appointment outlining his / her role, functions, duties 
and responsibilities have been uploaded on the website of the 
Company and may be accessed through the link https://www.
aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/familiarisation_
programmes_for_Independent_Directors.pdf.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Directors hereby state and confirm that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable Accounting Standards and Schedule III of the 
Companies Act, 2013 have been followed, long with proper 
explanation relating to material departures, if any;
b)	
they have selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 2025 
and of the profit and loss of the company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March, 2025;
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the company and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities;
d)	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern 
basis;
e)	
proper internal financial controls as laid down by the Directors 
were followed by the Company and that such internal 
financial controls are adequate and operating effectively; and
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems are 
adequate and operating effectively.
Statement indicating the manner in which formal 
annual evaluation has been done
In terms of provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried 
out the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of 
its Directors individually. The evaluation criteria as laid down by 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
61
AtmaNirbhar AIS
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee included various 
aspects of functioning of the Board such as composition, process 
and procedures including adequate and timely information, 
attendance, delegation of responsibilities, decision-making, 
roles and responsibilities including monitoring, benchmarking, 
feedback, stakeholder relationship and Committees.
The performance of individual Directors including the Chairman 
& Managing Director was evaluated on various parameters such 
as knowledge, experience, interest of stakeholders, time devoted, 
etc. The evaluation of Independent Directors was based on aspects 
like participation in and contribution to the Board decisions, 
knowledge, experience and judgment.
Particulars of Remuneration
The information as required in accordance with Section 197(12) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, may be obtained by any Member by 
writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office or the 
corporate office of the Company. However, as per the provisions of 
Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Report along with 
financial statements are being sent to all Members of the Company 
excluding the aforesaid information.
Board Diversity
The Company recognizes and embraces the importance of a 
diverse Board in its success. We believe that a truly diverse Board 
will leverage differences in thought, perspective, knowledge, 
skill, regional and industry experience, cultural and geographical 
background, age and gender, which will help us in retaining 
our competitive advantage. Your Board comprises of experts 
in the field of Business, Finance, Law, Corporate Governance, 
Management and Leadership skills and also has three Women 
Directors on the Board.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy, as approved by the Board 
on recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
is available on website of the Company www.aisglass.com and can 
be accessed through the link https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/
uploads/2020/10/Nomination_Remuneration_Policy.pdf.
Corporate Social Responsibility
In compliance with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Rules made thereunder, the Company has 
formed Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee. The 
policy on Corporate Social Responsibility as approved by the 
Board of Directors is uploaded on the website of the Company 
www.aisglass.com and can be accessed through the link 
https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/AIS-
Corporate-and-Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf.
The CSR Committee has adopted a CSR Policy in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules 
made thereunder. The details of the CSR initiatives undertaken by 
the Company during the FY 2024-25 in the prescribed format are 
annexed as “Annexure A”.
Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
The Company has in place a Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace in line with the requirements of 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder 
and an Internal Complaints Committee has also been set up to 
redress any such complaints received.
During the period under review, no complaints were received by 
the Internal Complaints Committee established under the Policy 
for Prohibition, Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace of the Company.
Other Disclosures
a)	
There are no proceedings initiated / pending against your 
Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 
which materially impacts the business of the Company.
b)	
There were no instances where your Company required the 
valuation for one time settlement while taking the loan from 
the Banks or Financial Institutions.
c) 	
The Company has complied with the provisions of Maternity 
Benefit Act, 1961 during the year under review.
Related Party Transactions
With reference to Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
all transactions entered by the Company during FY 2024-25 with 
the related parties were in the ordinary course of business and on 
arm’s length basis.
During the year under review, your Company has entered into 
Material Related Party Transactions as approved by the Members 
under Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations. All the related 
party transactions entered by the company during the financial 
year were at arm’s length basis and in ordinary course of business.
The details of the related party transactions entered during the 
year are provided in the accompanying financial statements.
The Company has not entered into any Material Related Party 
Transactions as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
a confirmation to this effect as required under Section 134(3)(h) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 is annexed herewith as “Annexure B” to 
this Report.
The Company has formulated a policy on Related Party Transactions 
which is available on the website and can be accessed through link 
https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Policy_
on_Related_Party_Transactions.pdf.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
62
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The information relating to conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required 
under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is annexed as 
“Annexure C” to this Report.
Compliance of Secretarial Standards
Pursuant to provisions of Section 118 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Company has complied with the applicable provisions of 
the Secretarial Standards issued by “The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India” and notified by Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
Auditor and Auditors’ Report
Statutory Auditors
M/s. VSSA & Associates, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 012421N) were appointed as Statutory Auditors of AIS, for 
a second term of 5 (five) consecutive years from conclusion of 
37th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of 42nd Annual 
General Meeting. Your Company has received confirmation 
from M/s. VSSA & Associates regarding their eligibility under 
Section(s) 139 and 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. As required under 
Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations, the Auditors have 
also confirmed that they hold a valid certificate issued by the 
Peer Review Board of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India. The Auditors’ Report for FY 2024-25 does not contain any 
qualification or reservation or adverse remark.
Further, no fraud was reported by the auditors of the Company 
under Section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Cost Auditor
Your Company had appointed M/s. Ajay Ahuja & Associates, Cost 
Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101142), as the Cost Auditors of 
your Company for FY 2024-25 to conduct audit of cost records of 
the Company. Cost Audit Report for the FY 2024-25 shall be filed 
with Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
As per Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, your Company is required to maintain cost accounts 
and records. The Board of Directors of your Company, on 
recommendation of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, 
has appointed M/s. Ashish & Associates Cost Accountants as the 
Cost Auditor of the Company for the FY 2025-26.
Your Company has received consent from M/s. Ashish & Associates, 
Cost Accountants, to act as the Cost Auditor of your Company 
for the FY 2025-26 along with a certificate confirming their 
independence.
Secretarial Auditor
In accordance with the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and 
Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, your Company 
had appointed Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, FCS, Company 
Secretary in Practice and proprietor of M/s. SKP & Co., Company 
Secretaries, (Firm Registration No. S2005DE077900, Peer Review 
Certificate No. 1323/2021) as Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company for a term of five consecutive years commencing from 
FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30, subject to approval of the 
Members at the ensuing AGM. The Board of Directors based 
on the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Management 
Committee at its meeting held on 30th July, 2025, approved and 
recommended to the Members for their approval, appointment of 
Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, Company Secretary, as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company.
Your Company has received consent from Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, 
Company Secretary to act as the Secretarial Auditor of your 
Company for the FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30 along with a certificate 
confirming their independence.
The Secretarial Audit Report for FY 2024-25 is annexed herewith as 
“Annexure D” to this Report. The Secretarial Auditor’s Report for 
FY 2024-25 does not contain any qualification or reservation or 
adverse remark.
Annual Secretarial Compliance
The Company had undertaken an audit for the financial year 
2024-25 for all applicable compliance as per SEBI Regulations and 
Circulars / Guidelines issued thereunder. The Annual Secretarial 
Compliance Report has been submitted to Stock Exchanges within 
60 days from the end of the financial year.
Significant and Material Orders of Regulators or 
Courts or Tribunals
No significant and material order was passed by Regulators or 
Courts or Tribunals during the year under review impacting the 
going concern status of your Company and its future operations.
Acknowledgements
The Board hereby places on record its sincere appreciation for 
the continued assistance and support extended to the Company 
by its collaborators, customers, bankers, suppliers, government 
authorities and employees.
Your Directors acknowledge with gratitude the encouragement 
and support extended by our valued Shareholders.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
Asahi India Glass Limited,
	
 
 Sanjay Labroo
Dated: 30th July, 2025	
	
Chairman & Managing Director
Place: Gurugram	
	
	
	
	
	
     DIN: 00009629
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
63
AtmaNirbhar AIS
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company.
	
The Company’s focus areas are education, health, water and sanitation, women empowerment, and livelihood development. 
The projects undertaken are within the broad framework of Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013. A detailed discussion on 
Company’s CSR Policy and Activities is provided in ‘CSR and Sustainability’ section of Annual Report.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
S. 
No. Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee held during the year
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended during the year
1
Ms. Sheetal Mehta*
Chairperson – Independent Director
1 (One)
0 (Zero)
2
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
Member – Promoter / Executive
1 (One)
3
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Member – Promoter / Non-Executive
1 (One)
	
* Ms. Sheetal Mehta (DIN: 06495637) has joined the Committee w.e.f. 8th May, 2024.
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on 
the website of the company.
	
The CSR Policy of the Company has been uploaded on the website of the Company and can be accessed at following link: https://
www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/AIS-Corporate-and-Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf
4.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of Sub-Rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report) -  Not Applicable 
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of Sub-Rule (3) of Rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
(in ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off from preceding 
financial years
Amount required to be set- off for the financial 
year, if any
1
2024-25
9.58
9.58
TOTAL
9.58
9.58
6.	
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) – ` 51,384.82 lakhs
7.	
(a)	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) – ` 1,027.70 lakhs
	
(b)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of  the previous financial years - Nil
	
(c)	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any – ` 9.38 lakhs
	
(d)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b- 7c) – ` 1,018.32 lakhs
8.	
(a)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
(in ` Lakhs)
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year
Amount Unspent
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
1,087.40
Nil
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Nil
Not Applicable
Annexure A to Report of the Directors
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
64
	
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year
(in ` Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
S. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of 
the project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in `)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
financial 
Year  
(in `)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for the 
project as per 
Section 135(6) 
(in `)
Mode of 
Implementation	
-Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
– Through 
Implementing Agency
State District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
1
Not applicable
TOTAL
	
(c)	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(in ` Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
S. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from the 
list of activities 
in Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(in `)
Mode of 
implementation-
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of implementation 
– Through implementing 
agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
1
Youthreach
Education and 
vocational 
training
Yes
Haryana 
Uttarakhand 
Gujarat
Rajasthan
Rewari 
Jhabrera 
Mehsana 
Soniyana
207.78 No
Youthreach
CSR00000083
2
Women’s Golf 
Association of India
Sports
Yes
Delhi
Delhi
40.00 No
Women’s Golf 
Association of 
India
CSR00017233
3
CGS Charitable Trust
Healthcare
Yes
Haryana
Gurgaon
13.60 No
CGS Charitable 
Trust
CSR00015354
4
Shree Saraswati Badhir 
Education Trust
Healthcare
Yes
Gujarat
Patan
3.50 No
Delhi 
Commonwealth 
Women’s 
Association
CSR00040354
5
Himalyan Institute of 
Altenatives Ladakh
Education
No
Leh
Leh
1.00 No
Kalinga Institute 
of Social 
Sciences
CSR00008845
6
Livelihood programs & 
health and sanitation
Vocational 
training and 
health and 
sanitation
Yes
Haryana
Chennai 
Maharashtra 
Gujarat
Uttarakhand
Rewari 
Chennai
Taloja
Mehsana 
Jhabrera
821.53 Yes
-
-
TOTAL
1,087.40
	
(d)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads - Nil
	
(e)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable - Nil
	
(f)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e) - `1,087.40 lakhs
	
(g)	
Excess amount for set off, if any -
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
65
AtmaNirbhar AIS
(in ` Lakhs)
S. No.
Particular
Amount 
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5)
1,027.70
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
1,096.78*
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
69.08
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
0
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
69.08
	
*Amount spent on CSR Activities for the financial year includes set - off of excess amount spent by the Company on CSR activities in previous financial year 
for ₹ 9.38 Lakhs.
9.	
(a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
(in ` Lakhs)
S. No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account 
under Section 135 (6)
Amount spent 
in the reporting 
Financial Year
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if any
Amount remaining 
to be spent in 
succeeding financial 
years
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date 
of transfer
1.
2021-22
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.
2022-23
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
2023-24
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
TOTAL
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
	
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
(in ` Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
S. No. Project ID
Name  
of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total amount 
allocated for 
the project 
Amount spent 
on the project 
in the reporting 
Financial Year
Cumulative amount 
spent at the end of 
reporting Financial 
Year
Status of 
the project 
Completed / 
Ongoing
1.
Not applicable
TOTAL
10.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent 
in the financial year (asset-wise details).
	
(a)	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s) – Not applicable
	
(b)	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset – Nil
	
(c)	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address etc. 
– Not applicable
	
(d)	
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset) – Not 
applicable
11.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per Section 135(5) – Not applicable
Sheetal Mehta
Sanjay Labroo
Dated: 30th July, 2025
Chairperson, CSR Committee
Chairman & Managing Director
Place: Gurugram
DIN: 06495637
DIN: 00009629
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
66
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the Company with related 
parties referred to in Sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length 
transactions under third proviso thereto
1.	
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis—
	
There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended 31st March, 2025, which were not at 
arm’s length basis.
2.	
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis—
	
There were no material contracts or arrangements or transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2025 as per the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013. Thus, this disclosure is not applicable.
	
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Asahi India Glass Limited
	
 
 Sanjay Labroo
Dated: 30th July, 2025	
	
  Chairman & Managing Director
Place: Gurugram	
	
	
	
	
	
 DIN: 00009629
Annexure B to Report of the Directors
FORM AOC–2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
67
AtmaNirbhar AIS
1.	
Conservation of Energy:
(i)	
Conservation of Energy is on the top agenda of Management. 
The manufacturing units have continued their efforts to 
reduce energy consumption by continuous monitoring, 
improvement in maintenance and distribution systems and 
through improved operational techniques. Introduction of 
energy efficient equipment and new efficient technologies 
has helped AIS to reduce the energy demand and boost 
savings.
(ii)	
Apart from regular practices and measures to reduce the 
energy consumption and CO2 emissions, many new initiatives 
were driven across the units. Some of the key measures taken 
are as follows:
a)	
Installation of new energy efficient 2nd stage air 
compressor with dryer and air reciever tank at Bawal 
plant.
b)	
Energy-saving and automation initiatives including 
smart lighting, motion sensors, auto cut-offs, VFDs, 
IE4 motor installation, equipment modifications, APS 
improvement, and vacuum pump replacement for 
efficiency enhancement at Chennai Plant.
c)	
Replaced old 3-phase AC with a new 11TR energy-
efficient unit and reduced cooling load by 5.5TR using 
glass partitions at Roorkee plant.
d)	
Fresh air circulation with humidity control via AHU 
and a solar heat exchange system for maintaining air 
conditioner cooling gas temperature at Patan plant.
(iii)	 AIS is continuously investing in various new technologies to 
reduce energy consumption to minimize carbon footprint. 
AIS has done capital investment of around ` 149.30 lakhs 
during FY 2024-25 for energy conservation.
2.	
Technology absorption:
(i)	
Efforts, in the brief, made towards technology absorption, 
adaptation and innovation.
Annexure C to Report of the Directors
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
AND OUTGO
In order to be at par with latest global technology, we at AIS 
keep ourselves closely engaged with AGC with continuous 
exchange of information in form of technology collaboration / 
licensing. Our team is involved in the visit to various exhibitions, 
seminars and visit to other plants at different locations within 
India and outside India. Technical team is working with the 
Japanese experts for learning innovative solutions.
(ii)	
Benefit derived as a result of above efforts e.g. product 
improvement, cost reduction, product development, import 
substitution etc.
a.	
With all the efforts, we are armed with latest technology 
in our Product, Glass Processing Equipments, 
Manufacturing Process and Management System. Your 
Company continued to develop new products due to 
these efforts.
b.	
Enhanced Customer satisfaction.
c.	
Engineering team motivation and retention has 
enhanced.
(iii)	 Technology Imported (during the last three years reckoned 
from the beginning of the financial year) - N.A.
(iv)	 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
During the year, the Company spent approx. ` 671 lakhs 
towards Research, Design and Development expenses on 
various new products and production technologies.
3.	
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo:
During the year Foreign Exchange outflow amounted to 
` 1,53,589 lakhs (` 1,70,095 lakhs) and Earnings in Foreign 
Currency amounted to ` 5,874 lakhs (` 4,395 lakhs).
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Asahi India Glass Limited,
Sanjay Labroo
Dated: 30th July, 2025
Chairman & Managing Director
Place: Gurugram
DIN: 00009629
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
68
Annexure D to Report of the Directors
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Asahi India Glass Limited
CIN: L26102DL1984PLC019542
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate governance practices by Asahi India Glass Limited 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the 
Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025, complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 
has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
1.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made 
there under, as applicable;
2.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and 
the rules made thereunder;
3.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
4.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
5.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’), wherever applicable :-
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
f)	
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client;
g)	
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
h)	
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and;
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations,2018
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
	
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
	
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited.
During the period under review the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. 
mentioned above subject to the following observation: 
The Board of Directors of the Company was found to be short of one 
Independent Director in its constitution till 16th December,  2024. Thus 
the constitution of the Board was not in compliance with proviso 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
69
AtmaNirbhar AIS
to Regulation 17(1)(b) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, untill 16th December, 2024.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors except as observed hereinabove. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance except wherever a meeting was duly 
called on shorter notice as per the prescribed procedure, and a 
system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for 
meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ 
views are captured and recorded as the part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, 
rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the Company has 
not undertaken such events as public, rights or preferential issue 
of shares, debentures or sweat equity; redemption or buy-back 
of securities; major decision by the Members in pursuance to 
Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013; merger, amalgamation 
or reconstruction; Foreign Technical Collaboration or any other 
like event(s)/action(s) having a major bearing on the Company’s 
affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards, et cetera. 
For SKP & Co.
Company Secretaries
(CS Sundeep K. Parashar)
M. No. : F6136
C.P. No. : 6575
Dated: 30th July, 2025
PR :1323/2021
Place: Gurugram
UDIN : F006136G000881736
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
70
Annexure A
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date issued to M/s. Asahi India Glass Limited (CIN: L26102DL1984PLC019542) is to be read 
along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of 
the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial record and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company
For SKP & Co.
Company Secretaries
(CS Sundeep K. Parashar)
M. No. : F6136
C.P. No. : 6575
Dated: 30th July, 2025
PR :1323/2021
Place: Gurugram
UDIN : F006136G000881736
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
71
AtmaNirbhar AIS
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
72
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Section A: General Disclosures
Details of the listed entity:
S. 
No. Question
Response
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L26102DL1984PLC019542
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Asahi India Glass Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation
1984
4.
Registered Office Address
A-2/10, 1st Floor, WHS DDA Marble Market, Kirti Nagar, New Delhi – 110015
5.
Corporate Address
Global Business Park, Tower - D, 3rd & 11th Floor, Mehrauli - Gurugram Road, Gurugram, 
Haryana - 122002
6.
E-mail
investorrelations@aisglass.com
7.
Telephone
0124-4062212
8.
Website
www.aisglass.com
9.
Financial Year for which reporting is being done
1st April 2024 – 31st March 2025
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
i.	
BSE Limited
ii.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital (`)
24,30,89,931
12.
Name and contact details (telephone & email) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of queries on 
the BRSR report
Mr. Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director,
Chief - GRC, General Counsel & Company Secretary
0124-4062212
investorrelations@aisglass.com
13.
Reporting Boundary
(Standalone or Consolidated basis)
Standalone
14.
Name of assurance provider
Not applicable
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Not applicable
Products/ Services:
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the 
entity
1
Manufacturing and 
Processing of Glass
Manufacturing: Clear, Tinted, Reflective, Mirror, Back painted and Frosted Glass.
Processing: Laminated, Toughened and White Goods Glass.
100%
17.	
Product/ Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
%of total turnover 
contributed
1
Toughened Glass, Laminated Glass and Float Glass
23101
100%
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
73
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Operations:
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/ offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
14
6*
20
International
0
0
0
*Delhi, Navi Mumbai, Gurgaon, Kolkata, Bangalore and Noida  
19.	
Markets Served by the Entity:
	
a.	
Number of Locations:
Location
Number
National (No. of States)
Pan India (28 States and 8 Union Territories)
International (No. of Countries)
More than 7 countries across the globe
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
Export sale contribute 1.6% of the total turnover during FY 2024-25.
c.	
A Brief on types of customers?
Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) caters to market requirements in three segments namely: a) Automotive, b) Building and 
Construction (Architectural); and c) Consumer Glass.
In the Auto glass business, the Company supplies glass across a wide range of vehicle segments such as passenger vehicles, 
commercial vehicles (trucks and buses), railways, city metro trains, tractors, and off-highway vehicles. This allows the Company 
to serve a broad range of customers including OEMs as well as end consumers, accounting for 75% of the market share in 
passenger vehicle segments in India. Additionally, the Company supplies glass in white goods segment, i.e. refrigerator shelf 
glass, door glass, washing machine lid glass, and glass for other such domestic appliances.
Employees:
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year 2024- 25:
a.	
Employees and Workers
Employees (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
Number (B) Percentage 
(B/A)
Number (B) Percentage 
(B/A)
1.
Permanent Employees 
2,149
2,052
95%
97
5%
2. 
Other than Permanent Employees 
18
18
100%
0
0%
3. 
Total Employees (1+2) 
2,167
2,070
95%
97
5%
Workers (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
Number (B) Percentage 
(B/A)
Number (B) Percentage 
(B/A)
4.
Permanent Workers 
654
654
100%
0
0%
5. 
Other than Permanent Workers  
4,326
4,041
93%
285
7%
6. 
Total Workers (4+5)
4,980
4,695
94%
285
6%
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
74
b.	
Differently abled Employees and Workers 
Differently Abled Employees
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
Number (B)
Percentage 
(B/A)
Number (B)
Percentage 
(B/A)
1.
Permanent Employees 
1
1
100%
0
0%
2. 
Other than Permanent Employees 
0
0
0
0
-
3. 
Total Employees (1+2) 
1
1
100%
0
-
4.
Permanent Workers 
0
0
-
0
-
5. 
Other than Permanent Workers  
0
0
-
0
-
6. 
Total Workers (4+5)
0
0
-
0
-
21.	
Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of Women
Total (A) 
Number of Female (B) 
Percentage (B/A) 
Board of Directors 
10*
3
33%
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
2*
0
0%
	
* One of the KMP is the member of Board , theretofore he is considered as a part of Board of Director.
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 2024- 25
FY 2023- 24
FY 2022- 23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees 
18% 
22%
19%
18%
29%
19%
16%
31%
16%
Permanent Workers 
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures):
23. (a). Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate 
company/ joint venture (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ subsidiary/ 
associate company/ 
joint venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
Column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the entity (Yes/ No)
1
AIS Glass Solutions Limited
Subsidiary
82.55%
No
2
GX Glass Sales and Services Limited
Subsidiary
93.48%
No
3
Integrated Glass Materials Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
100%
No
4
Shield Autoglass Limited
Subsidiary
99.97%
No
5
AIS Adhesives Limited
Subsidiary
95.66%
No
6
AIS Distribution Services Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
100%
No
7
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited*
Associate 
30.00%
No
8
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
Associate 
33.09%
No
9
Asahi India Flat Glass Limited**
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
100%
No
10
Under Par Sports Technologies Private Limited***
Associate 
34.00%
No
* TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited ceased to be an Associate company with effect from 24th December, 2024.
** Asahi India Flat Glass Limited was strike off on 30th November, 2024.
*** Under Par Sports Technologies Pvt. Ltd., is an Associate company pursuant to the investment by GX Glass Sales and Services Limited and AIS Adhesives 
Limited, both being the Subsidiary companies of AIS.
CSR Details: 
24. 
(i). Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 (Yes/No)
Yes
(ii). Turnover (in `)
` 43,478 million
(iii). Net Worth (in `)
` 27,471 million
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
75
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Transparency and Disclosures Compliances: 
25.	 Complaints/ Grievances on any of the Principles (1-9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct: 
Stakeholder 
Group
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in place 
(Y/N)
(Provide web-link of policy)
Current Financial Year 2024- 25
Previous Financial Year 2023- 24
Number of 
complaints 
filed
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
close of year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
close of year
Remarks
Communities
Yes*
The 
Company 
in 
collaboration 
with 
its 
implementing partners, engages with villages 
surrounding its manufacturing sites by organizing 
sessions to gather feedback and address any 
grievances raised by the local communities.
0
0
Not 
applicable
0
0
Not 
applicable
Investors and 
Shareholders
Yes.
The Company has an Investor Relations 
Department 
that 
provides 
services 
to 
shareholders and Investors. The Company has 
effective systems and processes in place to 
ensure prompt redressal of investor grievances, 
such as:
(a) The Company has a specific e-mail ID 
earmarked for receiving investor complaints: 
investorrelations@aisglass.com.
(b) The Company Secretary oversees the redressal 
of investor grievances, and reviews adherence to 
the service standards adopted by the Company 
for redressal of investor grievances and updates 
the same periodically to the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors.
(c) The Company’s Investor Relations Department 
attends to shareholder and investor complaints 
within five working days or as per applicable 
requirements.
(d) Details of investor complaints received by the 
Company are filed on a quarterly basis with the 
Stock Exchanges where the Company’s shares 
are listed. https://www.aisglass.com/forinvestors/
investor-relations-contact/.
45
0
All 
complaints 
closed 
within 
timeline 
defined
34
0
All complaints 
closed within 
timeline 
defined
Employees and 
Workers
Yes*
Employees and workers have access to the 
Company’s Whistleblower mechanism, enabling 
them to raise grievances through email, an 
online portal, or other written formats. Each 
site is equipped with committees such as the 
Safety, Canteen, Transport, and Employee 
Welfare Committees, which serve as platforms 
for 
grievance 
registration 
and 
resolution. 
Additionally, suggestion boxes are placed 
at prominent locations within each plant 
to encourage submission of feedback and 
recommendations from employees and workers.
0
0
Not 
applicable
1
1
The
complaint is 
pending for 
resolution
Customers
Yes*
The customers raise and address their grievances 
through various communication channels such as 
e-mail, couriers, and quality complaints portals. 
Customers can reach out to a local salesperson 
to lodge complaints and resolve their concerns. 
An Android and iOS application is available for 
customers to lodge their complaints on the 
customer portal.
87
0
All 
complaints 
closed 
within 
timeline 
defined
117
0
All
complaints
closed with 
in timeline 
defined
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
76
Stakeholder 
Group
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in place 
(Y/N)
(Provide web-link of policy)
Current Financial Year 2024- 25
Previous Financial Year 2023- 24
Number of 
complaints 
filed
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
close of year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
close of year
Remarks
Value Chain 
partners
Yes*
Value chain partners can address their grievances 
through email, face-to-face meetings, and direct 
communication. An escalation framework is in 
place to handle any issues or misconduct, in line 
with the AIS Code of Conduct.
0
0
Not 
applicable
0
0
Not 
applicable
Implementing 
Partners 
(NGOs)
Yes*
The 
implementing 
partners 
i.e., 
NGOs 
continuously engage with the Company’s CSR 
representative and in case of any grievance, 
address it through direct communications i.e., 
mails and/or calls.
0
0
Not 
applicable
0
0
Not 
applicable
Note: * Some of the policies guiding the Company’s conduct with all its stakeholders, including grievance mechanisms are placed on the Company’s 
website. The link is: https://www.aisglass.com/for-investors/for-investors-policies/. In addition, there are internal policies placed on the intranet platform 
of the Company. 
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format: 
S. 
No. 
Material Issue 
Identified 
Indicate 
whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity 
In case of Risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial 
Implications of 
the risk or the 
opportunity 
(Negative/ Positive) 
1.
Energy 
Management
(Climate 
Change, GHG
Emissions and
Air Pollution)
Risk and 
Opportunity
To pinpoint intervention areas 
and explore opportunities for 
reducing air pollution, lowering 
greenhouse gas emissions, and 
enhancing energy efficiency 
within business operations and 
throughout the value chain.
At AIS, we continue to work to reduce reliance 
on purchased energy by transitioning to 
renewable energy installations. Additionally, 
to curb GHG emissions from transportation, 
Delhi NCR-based suppliers are planning 
to adopt green fuels in alignment with 
the Government of India’s directives and 
in response to customer expectations for 
cleaner fuel and lower emissions.
Transitioning 
to 
renewable 
energy 
(up to 70% by 2030) 
and improving energy 
efficiency will reduce 
operational costs and 
enhance 
long-term 
sustainability.
Potential 
negative 
financial implications 
and 
reputational 
damage in case of 
failure to meet the 
commitment towards 
GHG reduction.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
77
AtmaNirbhar AIS
S. 
No. 
Material Issue 
Identified 
Indicate 
whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity 
In case of Risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial 
Implications of 
the risk or the 
opportunity 
(Negative/ Positive) 
2.
Waste 
Management
Risk and 
Opportunity
Waste management is a key 
aspect of our industry, and we 
hold the primary responsibility 
to handle both hazardous 
and non-hazardous waste in a 
sustainable manner. Our focus 
is on maximizing the recycling 
and reuse of waste generated 
from our operations wherever 
possible.
At AIS, we consistently monitor the volume 
of waste generated at our manufacturing 
facilities and adjust our strategies accordingly 
to minimize waste. As a glass manufacturer, 
cullet forms the majority of our waste. 
However, we take meticulous measures 
and strictly follow safety protocols to avoid 
unnecessary glass breakage. Regular training 
is provided to employees on the importance 
of waste reduction. Cross-functional teams, 
including shop-floor workers, are equipped 
with problem-solving techniques to foster 
greater engagement and reduce waste 
through Kaizen and other continuous 
improvement initiatives.
AIS is recycling cullet 
and 
minimizing 
waste that will lower 
raw 
material 
costs 
and create potential 
revenue streams from 
recycled products.
Poor and inefficient 
waste 
management 
can 
lead 
to 
e n v i r o n m e n t a l 
pollution 
and/ 
or 
c o n t a m i n a t i o n , 
regulatory penalties, 
health hazards, and 
public dissatisfaction. 
Each 
of 
which 
can 
significantly 
damage 
brand 
reputation and lead 
to negative financial 
implications on the 
Company.
3.
Water 
Management
Risk and 
Opportunity
Recognizing the importance 
of water conservation, we are 
committed 
to 
responsibly 
managing both the usage and 
treatment of water across our 
operations.
Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) and Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STPs) have been installed 
at all our manufacturing facilities to ensure 
ongoing treatment of wastewater generated 
by our operations. Additionally Some plants 
have ZLD (Zero Liquid discharge) facilities, 
enabling complete wastewater recycling 
with no environmental discharge. We are 
committed to exploring innovative solutions 
and initiatives to further reduce water 
consumption across our processes.
Efficient 
water 
usage, 
recycling 
and 
Targeted 
ZLD 
will 
reduce 
utility 
expenses and ensure 
u n i n t e r r u p t e d 
o p e r a t i o n s , 
safeguarding revenue.
Non-availability 
of 
water 
may 
impact 
the operations of our 
business and lead to 
potential 
negative 
financial impact on 
the Company.
4.
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety (OHS)
Risk and 
Opportunity
Ensuring 
a 
safe 
working 
environment for our employees 
and workers is one of our 
highest priorities. Safeguarding 
their well-being and adhering 
to all legal regulations is 
essential to the Company’s 
long-term success.
The Company conducts both internal and 
external audits in line with ISO 45001:2018 
to ensure effective implementation of 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
Management Systems across its operations. 
Its Process Safety Management System 
supports the adoption of industry best 
safety practices and helps identify workplace 
hazards 
using 
tools 
such 
as 
design 
checklists, HAZOP (Hazard and Operability 
Analysis), HIRA (Hazard Identification and 
Risk Assessment), and other consequence 
modeling techniques.
Strong 
safety 
practices 
has 
minimized downtime 
and 
increase 
productivity, leading 
to cost savings and 
higher output.
Failure in the safety 
m a n a g e m e n t 
system 
may 
lead 
to the person-hour 
loss and therefore, 
negatively 
impact 
the productivity of 
operations, leading to 
financial costs.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
78
S. 
No. 
Material Issue 
Identified 
Indicate 
whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity 
In case of Risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial 
Implications of 
the risk or the 
opportunity 
(Negative/ Positive) 
5.
Human Rights
Risk and 
Opportunity
Upholding equal opportunities 
for all employees in recognition, 
advancement, 
and 
career 
development—irrespective 
of 
their 
background 
or 
beliefs—and 
maintaining 
a zero-tolerance stance on 
discrimination or harassment 
is essential for the Company’s 
sustainable growth. Any breach 
of human rights may result in 
regulatory, legal, or legislative 
consequences.
The Company has established human‑rights 
policies, procedures, and a Code of Conduct 
that are regularly reviewed and updated 
through formal assessments. A dedicated 
Steering Committee handles all human‑rights 
complaints with the utmost priority and 
integrity. In addition, employees and workers 
receive ongoing training to ensure they 
understand their fundamental rights and the 
Company’s related policies.
Promoting 
equal 
opportunity 
in 
employment, 
and 
zero 
tolerance 
to 
discrimination are at 
the core of AIS. 
This has  facilitated 
talent retention and 
productivity, reducing 
hiring and training 
costs
Potential 
to 
negatively 
impact 
the brand image and 
financial resilience, 
inability 
to 
retain 
good 
talent 
and 
regulatory fines and 
notices etc.
6.
Business 
Ethics and 
Transparency
Risk and 
Opportunity
Sustaining 
the 
highest 
standards of transparency and 
ethics is essential for achieving 
excellence 
in 
corporate 
governance and building trust 
among our stakeholders.
The Company has established Code of 
Conduct and other governance policies for 
employees, workforce, senior management, 
and the Board of Directors to foster a culture 
of compliance and transparent governance. 
Additionally, we are committed to promote 
ethical behavior by regularly conducting 
training and awareness sessions for both 
employees and the extended workforce, 
periodically to reinforce ethical business 
conduct behavior.
Maintaining 
ethical 
practices 
has 
strengthened investor 
confidence 
and 
is 
likely to further attract 
sustainable financing, 
improving 
capital 
access.
Unethical 
behavior, 
n o n - c o m p l i a n c e, 
and 
violations 
in 
any form may lead 
to reputational risk, 
financial 
penalties, 
loss of investor’s trust, 
and brand value.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
79
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies, and processes out in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics and 
Transpar-
ency
Sustain-
able 
Business
Employee 
Well-be-
ing
Stake-
holder 
Relation-
ship
Human 
Rights
Environ-
ment 
Steward-
ship
Public 
Advocacy
Com-
munity 
Develop-
ment
Customer 
Relations
Policy and Management Processes
1.	
(a).	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover each principle and its 
core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(b).	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
(c). Web Link of the policies, if available
Internal policies are available for employees only. For other policies, refer to www.aisglass.com
For other policies, refer to www.aisglass.com
2.	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1.	
Name of the national and international codes/ certifications/labels/
standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
•	 ISO 14001: 2015 (Environmental Management Systems)
•	 ISO 45001: 2018 (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems)
•	 ISO 50001: 2018 (Energy Management)
•	 Integrated Management System (IMS)
•	 ISO 27001: 2013 (Information Security Management System)
•	 IS 2553 Part- I and II
•	 SNI-TEMP.-150048: 2014
•	 LAM-151326- 2005
•	 25-1-2-3 (Taiwan International Code for Quality)
•	 ANSIZ 26.1- 1996 (USA International Code for Quality)
•	 Deming Award
•	 TPM Award
•	 EDICP No.- 41-2018 (Metro Brazil, Quality Code)
•	 GSO42- 2015 (Gulf International Code for Quality)
•	 JIS3211- 3212 (Japan International Code for Quality)
•	 IATF 16949: 2016 (International Automotive Task Force)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
80
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics and 
Transpar-
ency
Sustain-
able 
Business
Employee 
Well-be-
ing
Stake-
holder 
Relation-
ship
Human 
Rights
Environ-
ment 
Steward-
ship
Public 
Advocacy
Com-
munity 
Develop-
ment
Customer 
Relations
5.	
Specific commitments, goals, and targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
1.	
Environment Commitment: 
a).	 Up to 70% share of total energy from renewable sources by 2030.
b).	 Aim for Carbon Neutral pathways.
c).	 Aim for Zero accident for Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) for all manufacturing sites by 2030.
d).	 Zero Waste to Landfill by 2040.
e).	 100% of non-hazardous waste to be recycled or reused by 2025.
f).	 Reduce 10% plastic waste by adopting recyclable materials on year-on-year basis.
2.	
Social Commitment: 
a).	 Human Resource commitments i.e., approximately 70% through internal moment and 30% 
through external hirings.
b).	 Focus on skill upgradation of talent pool and enhance employee engagement score on Y-o-Y basis.
c).	 Drive digitalization of Human Resource data sets.
d).	 Achieve zero accident across all manufacturing sites.
e).	 Ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations, standards, and legal requirements, 
including the regular conduct of safety audits.
f).	 Uphold Human Rights across all manufacturing sites and value chain activities.
g).	 Leverage Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to improve livelihoods for marginalized and 
vulnerable communities. 
3. 	 Governance Commitment: 
a). 	 Zero tolerance towards corruption, bribery, and conflict of interest at AIS. 
b). 	 Ensuring transparency in all the business operations at AIS .
c).	 Protect and uphold principles of human rights, dignity, and workplace ethics always and in all 
circumstances.
d).	 Drive compliance to data protection and data privacy; ensure strong cyber security controls and 
measures.
e).	 Promote ethical business dealing and public relation with government representatives, industry 
associations/ chambers, and business partners.
f).	 Uphold good corporate governance with effective board oversight.
6.	
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals, and 
targets along with reasons in case sthe same are not met.
Asahi India Glass Ltd. (AIS) is committed to advancing its ESG performance through a range of initiatives 
across environmental sustainability, social responsibility, and strong governance. In the environmental 
domain, AIS has made notable progress by reducing its carbon emissions, enhancing energy efficiency, 
expanding the use of renewable energy, conserving water, and minimizing waste. On the social 
front, AIS emphasizes employee well-being, safety, diversity, equity, and inclusion, while also driving 
community development through initiatives in education, healthcare, and skill-building—positively 
impacting marginalized and vulnerable groups. AIS’s governance practices are rooted in strict 
regulatory compliance and a continuous focus on ethical conduct and governance excellence.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
81
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Governance, leadership, and oversight 
7.	
Statement by the director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)  
AIS remains deeply committed to its ESG goals and consistently works to integrate sustainable practices across all aspects of its 
operations. This includes efforts in water conservation, achieving Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD), expanding the use of renewable 
energy, reducing emissions and plastic usage, implementing the Miyawaki method of afforestation, and actively measuring and 
lowering its carbon footprint. AIS is also dedicated to investing in knowledge, skilled manpower, and advanced technologies to 
meet its ESG objectives—both within its own operations and throughout its supply chain.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies) 
At the apex, the Board of Directors of the Company, led by the Chairman and Managing Director, have the onus of trusteeship to 
protect and enhance shareholder value through strategic supervision of AIS and the policies. The Board ensures that the Company 
has clear goals aligned to shareholder value and its growth and is in line with its ESG commitments. 
The CSR Committee of the Board annually reviews and oversees implementation of the sustainability policies and strategies of 
the Company as well as review the progress in implementation of the Company’s CSR Programmes. The COOs of Business Units 
and Heads of Corporate Functions are responsible for ensuring implementation of both the Corporate and Sustainability Policies 
of the Company within their respective functions and disseminating the same to all employees and extended workforce. 
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes/No). If “Yes”, provide details 	
Yes, as stated above, the CSR Committee of the Board, inter-alia, reviews, monitors, and provides strategic direction to the 
Company’s CSR and sustainability practices and ensures that they are aligned with the outlined objectives. The Committee seeks 
to guide the Company in developing unique models to aid creation of sustainable livelihoods together with environmental 
conservation and management. The Committee also reviews the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) of the 
Company and recommends the same to the Board for adoption along with approval of the Annual Report of the Company. 
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any 
Other- please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
The COOs and Heads of Corporate Functions are 
tasked with overseeing and assessing compliance 
with 
the 
Company’s 
Sustainability 
Policies. 
Additionally, functional and plant heads ensure 
these policies are implemented within their specific 
areas. Over the past year, the majority of the 
Company’s Sustainability Policies were thoroughly 
reviewed and revised to align with current Company 
practices and evolving industry standards. The 
CSR Committee conducts an annual review of the 
implementation of these policies.
Quarterly and annually
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Company is complaint with applicable laws and 
regulations of the land, where it operates.
Quarterly and annually
11.	
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). 
If “Yes”, provide name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics and 
Transparency
Sustainable 
Business
Employee 
Well-being
Stakeholder 
Relationship
Human 
Rights
Environment 
Stewardship
Public 
Advocacy
Community 
Development
Customer 
Relations
The policies are developed internally and approved by the Top Management of AIS. These policies are periodically reviewed and updated as per 
regulatory changes, external environmental requirements, and as per stakeholders’ feedback.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
82
12.	 If Answer to Question (1) Above is “NO”, i.e., not all Principles are covered by a Policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics 
and 
Transpar-
ency
Sustain-
able 
Business
Em-
ployee 
Well-be-
ing
Stake-
holder 
Relation-
ship
Human 
Rights
Environ-
ment 
Steward-
ship
Public 
Advo-
cacy
Com-
munity 
Develop-
ment
Customer 
Relations
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Yes/No) 
Not applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on 
specified principles (Yes/No) 
The entity does not have the financial or human 
and technical resources available for the task 
(Yes/No) 
It is planned to be done in the next financial year 
(Yes/No) 
Any Other Reason (please specify) 
Section C: Principle Wise Performance Disclosure 
Entity demonstrates their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions.
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent, 
and Accountable
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year 2024-25:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programs held
Topics/ Principles covered under training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors
4
Board meetings broadly cover topics related to the company’s operations, 
governance, and strategy decisions. Few impact areas covered during meetings 
are strategic planning for company’s long-term vision & growth opportunities, 
business performance (financial & non-financial, including environmental and 
social performances), annual budget and plan, investment plans (including 
R&D), stakeholder relationships, community development (CSR) programs and 
plans, and compliance and legal matters, which need immediate attention.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Employees 
other than BoD 
and KMPs
920
Various training on the following topics for behavior management: 
Communication Skills, Accountability & Ownership, Attention To Detail, 
Delegating To & Directing Others, Developing Teams for High Performance, 
Leading, Supervising & Managing Performance, Negotiation Skills, Networking 
& Relationship Building, Problem-Solving & Decision Making Training, Result 
Orientation, Self-Awareness & Self Control, Strategic Thinking & Alignment, 
Taking Initiative & Being Proactive, Time Management, Microsoft Excel- 
Advance Training, Planning & Project Management, Workshop on Musical 
Mindfulness, Workshop on Mental Health Awareness, Workshop on Cervical 
Cancer Awareness, Leadership Connect on ‘Brand You’. Plant HR provided 
training and Topics: Code of Conduct, POSH, PPE’s Adherence, WASH and 
Hygiene, Employee engagement, Information Technology, Employee Health & 
Safety, Work Ethics, Manual Handling, Work at heights, Fire Drills and fire safety, 
and behavior-based safety training.
82%
Workers
732
Various training held for workers on the following topics: Code of Conduct, 
Health, Hygiene & Cleanliness, POSH, Teamwork, PPE’s Adherence, Employee 
health and safety, Extreme weather conditions, Machinery safety, Complaint 
mechanism, Work ethics, Shop floor safety, Do’s and don’t in case of Fire and 
other emergency, near miss and unsafe condition act reporting, Waste and 
water management and saving practices.
85%
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
83
AtmaNirbhar AIS
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format: 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as discussed on the entity’s website)
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the Regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(in `)
Brief of Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(yes/ No)
Penalty/ Fine
Not 
Applicable
BSE Limited
8,40,000
As stipulated under Regulation 17(1)(b) 
of Listing Regulations, the Company was 
short of one Independent Director on 
the Board till 15th December, 2024 and 
hence NSE and BSE had imposed penalties 
amounting to ₹8,40,000 each, which was 
paid by the Company in due time. The 
criteria are fulfilled w.e.f. 16th December, 
2024, after the appointment of an 
Independent Director on the Board.
Not Applicable
Not 
Applicable
National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited
8,40,000
Not Applicable
Settlement
Nil
Compounding 
Fee
Nil
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the Regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(yes/ No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2, above detail of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not applicable to AIS. 
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide web-link 
to the policy. 
The Company’s Code of Conduct expresses the AIS commitment to ‘Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery practices’ with the 
following statement: “Our employees and representatives, including agents and intermediaries, shall not directly or indirectly 
offer or accept any illegal or improper payments or similar benefits intended or perceived to gain undue advantage in business 
dealings at AIS. 
AIS’s Code of Conduct is available in public domain at: https://www.aisglass.com/wpcontent/uploads/2020/10/Code_of_Conduct_
for_Directors_and_Senior_Management.pdf 
5.	
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Directors 
0
0
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) 
0
0
Employees 
0
0
Workers 
0
0
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
84
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:  
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Number
Remark
Number
Remark
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the 
Directors
0 No complaints
0 No complaints
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the 
KMPs
0 No complaints
0 No complaints
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
AIS upholds strong ethics while conducting business operations and stakeholder engagement, therefore, no cases of corruption 
or conflicts of interest were reported during the reporting period
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable*365)/ Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
122
116
9.	
Openness of Business:
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along with loans and 
advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as % of the total purchases
NA
NA
b.	
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
NA
NA
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
NA
NA
Concentration 
of Sales
a.	
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
94%
96%
b.	
Number of dealers/ distributors to whom sales are made
977
946
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales to dealers/ 
distributors
29%
30%
Share of RPTs 
in
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total Purchases)
17%
21%
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
31%
25%
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/ Total 
loans & advances)
22%
79%
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total Investments 
made)
100%
77%
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for the value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year 2024-25:
Total number of 
awareness programmes 
held 
Topics/ Principles covered under the training 
%age of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes 
6
Sessions covering topics such as sustainability of good/ 
services, environmental sustainability, ethics, transparency 
and accountability from suppliers, stakeholder engagement, 
and vendor conference for vendor engagement. 
100%
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No). 
	
If “Yes”, provide details of the same.  
Yes. The Company’s Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior Management clearly lays down guidelines for avoiding 
and disclosing actual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company. Annually, the Company receives declaration from its 
Board of Directors and senior management personnel on the entities they are interested in and ensures the requisite approvals 
as required under the applicable laws are taken prior to entering transactions with each entity.
The policy is available on the Company’s website at: https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Code_of_Conduct_
for_Directors_-and_Senior_Management.pdf 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
85
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve environmental and social 
impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental and social 
impacts
R&D
Not applicable
Not applicable
Not applicable to AIS
Capex
58%
8.5%
Capex investment in environmental processes across all 
segments/ verticals of the Company as well as investment in 
EV, installment in RECD (emission control device in DG set) 
and replacement of old compressor with energy efficient 
compressors during the reporting period.
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No).
	
b.	
If “Yes”, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainability?
Yes.
AIS has a system of onboarding new suppliers for sourcing and procuring materials, which comprises of checklist having 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) parameters. The Company has an Audit Assessment (Document no.: AIS/FL1/QA/
FRM/54) and Vendor Rating process and yearly or half yearly visit for RM suppliers (as per vendor visit plan), to ensure ethical 
business practices and drive sustainable procurement standards. The Company’s vendor assessment form QAP-MAT-01, 
evaluates the vendor on validity of statutory compliances, approvals, clearances, process parameters, quality standards, and 
business capacity. The Company has an Audit Assessment (MT/PU/FM/13) as per Vendor Ranking Score Yearly or twice Yearly 
for BOP suppliers (QA/IN/FM-13), to ensure ethical business practices and drive sustainable procurement practices. During 
FY 2024-25, 100% of procurement was done in a responsible and sustainable manner.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life for:
a.	
Plastics (including packaging)
b.	
E-waste
c.	
Hazardous waste
d.	
Other waste
At Asahi India Glass Ltd. (AIS), we have certified, third-party vendors at each plant location to collect and dispose of process 
generated hazardous and non-hazardous waste (to landfill and through incineration, as applicable). As a process, all waste 
generated at different plant locations is aggregated at the designated area (scrap yard), inventoried, and disposed of in 
accordance with State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) Guidelines, as applicable.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If “Yes”, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Board? If “Not”, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) has been granted Plastic Waste Management registration by the Central Pollution Control Board 
(CPCB) under the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Guidelines, recognized both as a Brand Owner and an Importer. The EPR 
certificate has allocated the following targets to AIS. EPR Target (Metric Tons):
As a brand owner, AIS Target for the FY 24-25
CAT I:
•	
Recycling:5
•	
End of Line: 5
CAT II:
•	
Recycling: 338
•	
End of Line: 788
CAT III
•	
Recycling: 1
•	
End of Line: 1
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
86
	
As an Importer AIS target for the FY 24-25
CAT II:
•	
Recycling :1
•	
End of Line: 2
Given AIS’s pan-India footprint, we have partnered with a registered and reputable recycler to ensure the effective collection and 
environmentally sound recycling of plastic waste. This partnership supports AIS in meeting its EPR obligations. Beyond regulatory 
compliance, AIS has implemented a comprehensive waste management strategy focused on waste minimization, segregation, 
recycling, and the safe disposal of waste generated through its operations.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessment (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industries) or for 
its services (for service industry)? If “Yes”, provide details in the following format:
NIC Code
Name of 
product/ 
service
% of Total Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life cycle perspective/ 
assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes/
No)
If “Yes”, provide web-link
23101
Float Glass, 
Processed 
Glass, and 
Reflective 
Glass
* AIS is in the process of 
conducting the LCA for its 
select products, and the 
respective percentage will 
be reported in the near 
future.
Cradle-to-Gate
Yes
No
	
* AIS has conducted EPD assessment for representative Float glass. The company is in the process of carrying out LCA of its select products.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products/ 
services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along with action-taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study identified key environmental concerns such as resource consumption, waste generation, energy and 
water usage, and wastewater discharge. AIS recognizes these challenges and is committed to sourcing product materials sustainably, in line 
with environmental stewardship principles. Operationally, AIS places strong emphasis on optimizing resource use, ensuring efficient utilization 
of non-renewable resources, implementing energy-efficient practices, and actively working to minimize waste and reduce emissions.
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or 
providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Glass
20% to 30%
20% to 30%
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Re-Used 
Recycled 
Safely 
Disposed 
Re-Used 
Recycled 
Safely 
Disposed 
Plastics (including packaging) 
NA
1,140*
NA
NA
1,124*
NA
E-Waste 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Hazardous Waste 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other Waste 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*: Plastic waste recycled is as per EPR mandate is under progress and will be achieved as per the brand owner and importer category in collaboration with 
our authorized vendor as per the compliance requirements. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
87
AtmaNirbhar AIS
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category 
Indicate Product Category 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % total products 
sold in respective category 
Not applicable to Asahi India Glass Limited due to the nature of business operation.
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains. 
Essential Indicators
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of Employees:
Category
Total (A)
Health Insurance 
Accident Insurance 
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities 
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number
(C)
% (C/A)
Number
(D)
% (D/A)
Number
(E)
% (E/A)
Number
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees 
Male
2,052
2,052
100%
2,052
100%
-
-
-
-
2,052
100%
Female
97
97
100%
97
100%
97
100%
-
-
97
100%
Total
2,149
2,149
100%
2,149
100%
97
100%
-
-
2,149
100%
Other than Permanent Employees 
Male
18
18
100%
18
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
0
0
100%
0
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
18
18
100%
18
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
1. b. Details of measures for the well-being of Workers:
Category
Total (A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number
(C)
% (C/A)
Number
(D)
% (D/A)
Number
(E)
% (E/A)
Number
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
654
654
100%
654
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
0
0
100%
0
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
654
654
100%
654
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
4,041
4,041
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
285
285
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
4,326
4,326
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1. c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in the 
following format
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company 
0.23%
0.26%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY 2024-25 and Previous FY 2023-24 
Benefits
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
No. of employees 
covered as % of 
total employees 
No. of workers 
covered as % of 
total workers 
Deducted and 
Deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/ No/ NA) 
No. of employees 
covered as % of 
total employees 
No. of workers 
covered as % of 
total workers 
Deducted and 
Deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/ No/ NA) 
PF 
99%
100%
Yes
99%
100%
Yes
Gratuity* 
99%
100%
NA
99%
100%
NA
ESI 
32%
0%
Yes
17%
0.15%
Yes
*: The gratuity scheme is Internal Scheme of Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS).
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
88
3.	
Accessibility of Workplaces
	
Are the premises/ offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
If “Not”, then whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes. AIS offices are fully compliant with the provisions of the Disabilities Act, 2016, ensuring accessibility for differently abled 
employees and workers. Necessary infrastructure such as ramps, accessible washrooms, lifts, and wheelchairs are available within 
the premises. The Company remains committed to continuously enhancing its facilities to foster a more inclusive, diverse, and 
equitable work environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, please provide 
the web-link of the policy.
AIS strongly promotes “equal opportunity to all”, irrespective of gender, caste, creed, religion, disability, sexual orientation, personal 
characteristic or status and any other discriminatory factor. Company’s “Policy on Equal Opportunity & Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion”, recognizes the value of a diverse workforce. The Policy is committed to provide equal opportunities in employment and 
fostering an inclusive workplace where all employees are treated with respect, equality, and dignity. In addition, salient features of 
our Human Rights Policy include non-discrimination, equal opportunities, reasonable accommodations, accessibility, awareness, 
and sensitization factors, along with grievance redressal mechanism.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave for FY 2024-25.
Gender
Permanent Employees 
Permanent Workers 
Return to Work 
Rate 
Retention Rate 
Return to Work 
Rate 
Retention Rate 
Male 
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female 
67%
100%
NA
NA
Total 
67%
100%
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? If 
“Yes”, give details of the mechanism in brief: Permanent Workers 	
	
Permanent Workers
Formal Grievance Redressal Mechanism is available at AIS for employees and workers to raise complaints and seek 
redressal on their issues/ concerns, in the following manner:
Stage 1: Concerns are initially submitted in writing to the immediate supervisor. The line manager then arranges 
a hearing, involving the employee/worker and an HR representative, to discuss the issue. A formal response is 
provided within five working days. If the outcome is unsatisfactory, the matter may be escalated to the next level 
of management.
Stage 2: If the issue remains unresolved after Stage 1, it is escalated to the HR Manager, who documents any 
further details. A hearing is scheduled within five working days and is conducted by the Functional Head/Plant 
Head along with the Location Head. A written decision is then provided within five working days of the hearing.
Final Stage: If the concern remains unresolved or the employee/worker is dissatisfied with the outcome of Stage 2, 
the matter can be escalated in writing to the COO/ED and CHRO. The Committee records any additional information 
and schedules a hearing within 10 working days. The hearing is conducted by the COO/ED and CHRO, and a final 
written decision is provided within five working days.
AIS also has in place an informal channel of grievance redressal that allows complaints to be resolved informally in 
discussion and deliberation with the employee/worker’s immediate supervisor.
Other than Permanent 
Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
89
AtmaNirbhar AIS
7.	
Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity: 
Category
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category
(A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of Association(s) 
or Unions
(B)
Percentage 
(%)
(B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category
(A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of Association(s) 
or Unions
(B)
Percentage 
(%)
(B/A)
Total Permanent 
Employees
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
-	
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
-	
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total Permanent 
Workers
654
576
88%
669
587
88%
-	
Male
654
576
88%
669
587
88%
-	
Female
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
8. (a). Details of training given to employees and workers on “Health and Safety Measures”
Category
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total
(A)
Number
(B)
Percentage (%) 
(B/A)
Total
(C)
Number
(D)
Percentage (%) 
(D/C)
Employees
Male
2,070
2,070
100%
1,830
1,552
85%
Female
97
97
100%
93
35
38%
Total
2,167
2,167
100%
1,923
1,587
83%
Workers
Male
4,695
4,695
100%
4,319
4,006
92%
Female
285
285
100%
233
193
83%
Total
4,980
4,980
100%
4,552
4,199
92%
   (b).Details of training given to employees and workers on “Skill Upgradation”
Category
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total
(A)
Number
(B)
Percentage (%) 
(B/A)
Total
(C)
Number
(D)
Percentage (%) 
(D/C)
Employees
Male
2,070
1,795
87%
1,830
1,290
71%
Female
97
93
96%
93
22
24%
Total
2,167
1,888
87%
1,923
1,312
69%
Workers
Male
4,695
4,263
91%
4,319
3,633
84%
Female
285
238
84%
233
190
82%
Total
4,980
4,501
90%
4,552
3,823
84%
9.	
Details of Performance and Career Development reviews of employees and workers: 
Category
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total
(A)
Number
(B)
Percentage (%) 
(B/A)
Total
(C)
Number
(D)
Percentage (%) 
(D/C)
Employees
Male
2,070
1,810
87%
1,830
1,190
65%
Female
97
89
92%
93
71
76%
Total
2,167
1,899
88%
1,923
1,261
66%
Workers*
Male
Career development reviews are provided to Workers through a comprehensive programme for “Operating Engineer 
Trainees” and “Diploma Engineer Trainees”, which involves periodic reviews for process skill enhancement by Departmental 
Heads. This programme aims to improve the quality of people by improving their technical capability and ensuring the 
Company’s QCDV target is achieved.
Female
Total
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
90
10.	 Heath and Safety Management System: 
a.	 Whether an occupational 
health and safety 
management system has 
been implemented by 
the entity? (Yes/No)
	
If “Yes”, then coverage of 
the system.
Yes. AIS is ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational health and safety) certified.
At AIS, we have implemented a robust “Health and Safety Management” system, which is a formal, top-down, 
organization-wide approach for managing safety risks and ensuring the effectiveness of safety controls. It 
includes policies, systematic procedures, and practices for managing safety risks, and reducing accidents and 
occupational hazards and illnesses at the workplace.
AIS Safety system has been broadly classified into two categories:
1. Process Safety & Human Safety
2. Fire Safety, Electrical fire safety & Water Safety
In addition to this, Occupational Health & Safety Activities are as given below:
•	 Pre-employment and Periodical Medical Assessments
•	 Health & Safety Training
•	 Safety Study and Audits
•	 Work Permit System
•	 Contractor Safety Management
•	 Occupational Health & Safety Communication
•	 Emergency Preparedness
•	 Incident Investigation
•	 Safety awareness and vaccination programmes.
•	 The Mi-Safe UC/UA App for reporting safety patrolling was successfully piloted at our Haryana-Bawal 
plant in FY 23-24. Additional modules have been added, and the approach will be extended from 
FY 24-25 onwards.
Feedback received from the outcome of risk assessment, suggestions, Investigation process, behavior-based 
safety observations, audit outcomes etc, are recorded and monitored as part of continual improvement at AIS.
a.	 What are the processes 
used to identify work-
related hazards and 
assess risks on a routine 
and non-routine basis of 
the entity?
The Company undertakes periodic internal and external audits to ensure compliance with the Occupational Health 
and Safety management system within the manufacturing operations. EHS training, audits, and inspections are 
carried out as per the guidelines of the ISO 45001 standard. The Company’s Process Safety Management system 
facilitates the implementation of best safety practices. Further, it enables the identification of work-related 
hazards through design checklists, Hazard, and Operability Analysis (HAZOP), Hazard Identification and Risk 
Assessment (HIRA), and other consequence modelling studies.
•	 Routine activities are monitored through adherence to Job Safety Analysis, Hazard Identification and 
Risk Assessment (HIRA), Standard Operating procedure, and Operational Control Procedure.
•	 Non-routine activities are monitored through Work Permit systems and JSA (Job Safety Analysis) to 
ensure the health and safety of workers. Machines and Materials are, a) Hot work permit, b) Confined 
space entry permit, c) Height work permit, d) General work permit, e) Electrical work permit, f) Lifting work 
permits, and g) Excavation work permit.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
91
AtmaNirbhar AIS
a.	 Whether you have 
processes for workers to 
report the work-related 
hazards and to remove 
themselves from such 
risks? (Yes/No)
AIS has a well-defined process to report work-related hazards, which includes the following:
•	 Kiken Yochi (Danger prediction): This is a systematic tool to identify the danger to the workers and take 
the countermeasure against the potential risk.
•	 Daily Toolbox meetings: AIS has a robust approach towards Daily Toolbox talks meetings i.e., prior to 
commencing any work-related activity, we explain the activity and the risk associated with that activity to 
mitigate the potential hazards.
•	 Safety Committee meetings: At AIS, a Safety Committee is an essential component of a healthy workplace 
environment. The Safety Committee develops our safety culture, improves efficiency, and sets and tracks 
safety standards. A system is in place across all manufacturing units for workers to spot and report work-
related and offer suggestions for improvements. Necessary training and awareness sessions are organized 
for all workers and employees to recognize hazards and issues. Joint inspections by management 
representatives and employees on the shop floors are also carried out at regular intervals, and respective 
corrective and preventive measures are undertaken to mitigate the identified risks. To create an open and 
transparent safety culture across AIS, employees are encouraged to participate and discuss safety-related 
issues in forums like periodic Safety Committee meetings and Departmental Open Forums.
•	 Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment: We have a process to identify hazards and assess the 
associated risks including defining and implementing necessary control measures to bring down risk to 
an acceptable level.
•	 Pointing and Calling: This is a culture that AIS has created at each plant location, in terms of occupational 
safety, to avoiding mistakes by pointing at important indicators and verbally calling out their status quo.
•	 Safety Patrolling: At AIS, we follow the best practices to identify any kind of risk for this on a weekly basis. 
Safety officers perform safety patrolling and rectify the emerging issues.
•	 Near-miss Reporting: AIS pays attention to near-miss reporting, as timely reporting helps in 
mitigating risks, preventing accidents, raising awareness about the hazard’s employees face, 
and ensuring a safer working environment for everyone.
a.	 Do the employees/ 
workers of the entity 
have access to non-
occupational medical 
and healthcare services? 
(Yes/No)
Yes, we are operating full-fledged 24X7 Occupational Health Centres (OHCs), where:
•	 We have medical officers with associate fellowship and Industrial hygiene (AFIH) degrees.
•	 Qualified male and female nurses.
•	 Ambulance drivers with a valid license for driving the vehicle.
•	 OHCs are equipped with necessary medical equipment as per the Factory Act norms.
•	 Non-occupational Illnesses, like fever, cold, tooth pain, etc. are also treated in OHCs.
•	 OHCs are equipped with necessary medical equipment for providing basic first aid and necessary 
medical care.
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incidents/ Number
Category
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked) 
Employees 
0
0.06
Workers 
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries 
Employees 
0
1
Workers 
0
0
Number of fatalities 
Employees 
0
0
Workers 
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities) 
Employees 
0
1
Workers 
0
0
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
92
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. 
Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) follows the principles of ISO 45001:2018, OSHA standards, the Factory Act, and relevant state-level 
regulations as part of its Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) management system. The EHS policy emphasizes providing a safe 
and secure work environment for employees, contractors, sub-contractors, visitors, and surrounding communities. To ensure 
compliance and effectiveness, the Company conducts regular internal and external audits aligned with EHS practices and ISO 
45001:2018 standards. Health and safety performance is continuously monitored through various systems to identify and address 
any deviations from established protocols.
The following is the mechanism being used for monitoring our workplaces:
•	
Display boards with plant safety instructions installed.
•	
Proactive monitoring such as daily safety patrolling, audits, workplace inspections, statutory inspections, outcomes 
from risk assessment, surveys, and hygiene, OHS objectives and management programs, outcomes of safety committee 
meetings, BBS observation, mock drill etc.
•	
Reactive Monitoring such as near misses, danger prediction, accident/incident investigation, illness cases, Injuries, 
reportable and non-reportable accidents etc.
•	
Feedback received as part of risk assessment, suggestions, investigation process, audit outcomes etc. are recorded and 
monitored as part of continual improvement.
•	
Kaizen Awards for promoting good safety practices.
•	
MSDS installed for chemical areas and process risk assessment performed to mitigate the potential hazards.
•	
On-the-job safety training and Toolbox talk, daily work-related briefing to the staff.
•	
Reviewing the number of accidents is the priority agenda item for senior management’s review
13.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
Benefits
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Filed
Pending 
Resolution at end 
of year
Remark
Filed
Pending 
Resolution at end 
of year
Remark
Working 
Conditions 
0
0
-
0
0
No complaints
Health and 
Safety 
0
0
-
1
1
Complaint pending 
for resolution, 
which is due for 
effective resolution 
by Q1 of FY 2024- 
25. 
14.	 Assessment for the Year (2024-25):
% of plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third party)
Health and Safety Practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
Footnote: As per internal audit and third-party assessment during ISO certification as well as during OEM audits and assessments.
15.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risk/ 
concerns arising from assessment of health and safety practices and working conditions.
At AIS, adherence to both international and national standards support compliance with statutory requirements and facilitates 
regular internal and external HSE audits. Internal audits are conducted by the safety team, while external HSE, Fire, and Electrical 
audits are carried out by third-party agencies. Based on their findings, the Company implements appropriate corrective and 
preventive actions to continually enhance safety and compliance. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
93
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or compensatory package in the event of death of (A). Employees; and (B). Workers 
(Yes/No). Provide detail.
AIS values its employees and workers as a critical part of Human Capital, and the Company provides life insurance or financial 
compensation in the event of death, ranging from `12.5 lakhs to `5.7 Crore.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
The Company routinely verifies its vendors’ compliance with regulatory and statutory requirements, particularly regarding GST, 
tax receipts, forest transit fees, and other financial obligations, through its F&A Team. AIS also conducts random checks on its 
vendors and suppliers to ensure compliance with ESI, PF, insurance, wages, and other mandatory employee well-being standards 
as part of its vendor compliance process.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury/ ill-health/ fatalities (as 
reported in Qs. 11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been/ are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total Number of affected employees/ workers 
No. of employees/ workers that are rehabilitated or whose 
family member have been placed in suitable employment 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24 
FY 2024-25 
FY 2023-24 
Employees
0
1
0
0
Workers 
0
0
0
0
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No)
Yes. At AIS, we take utmost care of our employees specially culture carrier and even after the retirement. Depending on business 
requirements , the culture carrier employee are usually appointed. 
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners (FY 2024-25): 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Health and Safety Practices 
100%
Working Conditions 
100%
The Company ensures compliances of health and safety requirements by its value chain partners as a core requirement during the 
onboarding process, contract renewal, and assessment phase. The company encourages and drives, its business partners to adopt a 
healthy and safe workplace for its employees and extended workforce. 
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
During the reporting period, the Company did not identify any significant risks or concerns through its assessments. At AIS, value 
chain partners are consistently reminded of the importance of maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, recognizing its 
essential role in promoting employee well-being and enhancing productivity. 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
94
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the process for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
AIS recognizes any individual, group, entity, or institution that influences its operations as a core stakeholder. Key stakeholder 
groups identified by the Company include customers, employees, investors, communities, vendors, government and regulatory 
bodies, and influencers. AIS actively engages with these stakeholders to identify material issues and opportunities that are both 
strategic and operational in nature, influencing its economic, social, and environmental performance. Engagement methods 
include employee engagement surveys, customer satisfaction assessments, plant visits for suppliers and investors, and regular 
interactions with dealers and financial institutions. A dedicated email ID is also available for stakeholders to reach out to the 
Company. Through strong and ongoing collaboration, AIS has fostered mutually beneficial relationships, supporting shared 
growth and development.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group. 
Stakeholder 
Group 
Identified as 
Vulnerable or 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No) 
Channels of 
Communication 
Frequency of 
engagement 
Purpose and scope of engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised during each engagement  
Investors and 
Shareholders
No
Website and Declaration to
Stock Exchange
Quarterly and 
annually
Discuss Company’s financial performance and strategic 
priorities. Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Company’s website: https://www.aisglass.com 
contains a dedicated functional segment ‘INVESTOR 
RELATIONS’ where all the information meant for the 
shareholders is available, including information on 
directors, financial statements, annual reports, codes, and 
policies, etc.
Employees and 
Workers
No
Video conferencing, 
trainings, LMS module, 
e-mail, CFT’s (Cross 
Functional Team), and 
Newsletters
Continuous
Industry 
scenario, 
challenges, 
issues, 
employee 
wellbeing, career development initiatives, health, and 
safety training, grievance handling sessions, performance 
review, and company’s sustainability commitment, 
initiatives, and programs.
Customers
No
Feedback surveys, customer 
meets, Physical meeting, 
leaflets, pamphlets, 
newsletter, email, and 
telephones
Continuous
Understand 
customer 
requirements, 
needs, 
and 
aspirations, 
customer 
complaints 
and 
grievance 
handling, and alignment of business operations to such 
requirements.
Value Chain 
Partners
No
Vendors meet, e-mail, and 
telephones
Continuous
Building 
and 
maintaining 
relationships 
and 
collaborations, orders, and timely payments, training on 
procurement practices, and capacity building sessions. 
Such as examples: vendor conference, Vendor audit & 
handholding through training sessions, maintaining 
hygiene through ethical work environment as listed 
above.
Communities
No
Community meetings, with 
local people through our 
implementing partner
Continuous
Need Assessment, Implementation of CSR interventions, 
Feedback and Grievance Redressal Mechanism on 
thematic interventions of AIS such as education, 
community health, livelihood, and water-based CSR 
interventions.
Implementing 
Partners 
(NGOs)
No
Email, telephone, and Field 
visits
Continuous
The implementation partner does the regular visit to 
ensure that CSR beneficiaries are benefitted. Feedback is 
taken during and post interventions; corrective action is 
implemented accordingly if any gaps identified. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
95
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or 
if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
AIS believes that a robust stakeholder engagement process is vital to upholding its commitment to environmental sustainability, 
social progress, and inclusive growth. To support this, the Company has developed a structured approach to stakeholder 
consultation, integrated within its strategic communication and engagement framework. The Board, through the CSR Committee, 
provides oversight and direction for the Company’s CSR initiatives, with a strong focus on community development through 
livelihood enhancement and the implementation of sustainable solutions.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topic? 
(Yes/No)
If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into 
policies and activities of the entity.
Yes. AIS undertook a stakeholder engagement exercise to identify key environmental, social, and governance (ESG) material 
topics relevant to its business and aligned with both national and international frameworks. The Company regularly engages with 
stakeholders across a wide range of issues, enabling it to recognize potential risks and opportunities and communicate appropriate 
mitigation measures as needed.
3.	
Provide detail of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
At AIS, engaging with and responding to the concerns of marginalized and vulnerable stakeholder groups is a key priority to foster 
inclusivity, equity, and social responsibility. Community engagement initiatives are specifically tailored to identify and meet the 
unique needs of these groups. AIS carries out its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs in collaboration with local partners 
and NGOs, focusing on areas such as education, skill development and livelihoods, healthcare, and environmental sustainability 
to support and uplift vulnerable sections of society.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
96
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following 
format:
Category 
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total 
(A) 
Number 
(B) 
Percentage (%) 
(B/A) 
Total 
(C)
Number 
(D) 
Percentage (%) 
(D/C) 
Employees
Permanent 
2,149
2,149
100%
1,898
1,560
82%
Other than permanent* 
18
18
100%
25
0
0%
Total Employees 
2,167
2,167
100%
1,923
1,560
82%
Workers 
Permanent 
654
555
85%
669
459
69%
Other than permanent 
4,326
3,720
86%
3,883
3,278
84%
Total Workers 
4,980
4,275
86%
4,552
3,737
82%
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Total
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
Number
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/D)
Number 
(F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
2,149
-
-
2,149
100%
1,898
-
-
1,898
100%
-	
Male
2,052
-
-
2,052
100%
1,805
-
-
1,805
100%
-	
Female
97
-
-
97
100%
93
-
-
93
100%
Other than Permanent
18
-
-
18
100%
25
-
-
25
100%
-	
Male
18
-
-
18
100%
25
-
-
25
100%
-	
Female
0
-
-
0
100%
0
-
-
0
100%
Workers
Permanent
654
-
-
654
100%
669
-
-
669
100%
-	
Male
654
-
-
654
100%
669
-
-
669
100%
-	
Female
0
-
-
0
100%
0
-
-
0
100%
Other than Permanent
4,326
3,139
73%
1,187
27%
3,883
3,193
82%
690
18%
-	
Male
4,041
2,925
72%
1,116
28%
3,650
3,007
82%
643
18%
-	
Female
285
214
75%
71
25%
233
186
80%
47
20%
3.	
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages, in the following format for FY 2024-25: 
	
a.	
Median remuneration/ wages: 
Male
Female
Number
Median salary/ 
wage of respective 
category
Number
Median salary/ 
wage of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD) 
Please refer to Corporate Governance Report on Page No. 120
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) 
Employees other than BoD and KMP
2,052
3,99,862
97
4,64,331
Workers 
654
8,36,934
0
-
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
Current Financial Year 
2024-25 
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages 
3.7%
3.9%
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
97
AtmaNirbhar AIS
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
At AIS, any human rights violations can be reported to the designated Steering Committee, which is responsible for upholding the 
Company’s core values and ensuring that any adverse impacts on human rights are appropriately addressed. The Company makes 
continuous efforts to raise employee awareness about their rights and the procedures for reporting violations. Additionally, AIS 
has a dedicated POSH Committee in place to handle and resolve complaints related to sexual harassment.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
AIS is firmly committed to upholding the human rights of its employees and workers. The Company makes consistent and sincere 
efforts to raise awareness among employees about their rights and the procedures for reporting any violations. Any breach of the 
human rights outlined by the organization can be reported to the Values Steering Committee, which is entrusted with ensuring 
the Company’s values are upheld and that all reported violations are appropriately addressed.
1.	
Protection against forced and/or child labour: We ensure non-deployment of child labour, forced labour or any form of 
involuntary labour, paid or unpaid in any of our plants or offices.
2.	
Providing Equal Opportunity: We are committed towards and ensure that there is no discrimination in employment or 
developmental opportunities based on religion, caste, language, region, gender (male, female, or transgender), age, sex, 
sexual orientation, physical abilities, etc. We recruit, appraise, reward, and promote on the sole basis of merit.
3.	
Compliance: We are completely committed towards compliance and adhere to all applicable laws pertaining to human 
rights as per the laws of the land.
4.	
Protection against Sexual Harassment at the workplace (POSH): We are committed to create a healthy working 
environment that enables employees to work without fear of prejudice, intimidation, gender bias and sexual harassment 
of any form. Any discriminatory treatment or harassment of employees in violation of Company Values, or law, is met with 
appropriate disciplinary action.
5.	
Providing a healthy and safe work environment: We are committed to provide a work environment that is safe, hygienic, 
humane, and which upholds the dignity of the employees. We are committed to following the highest standards of safety 
in our processes and ensure safety of our employees.
6.	
Collaboration: We encourage the formation of various committees that have representation from the workforce and make 
suggestions on measures to improve working conditions in the company. We respect their views and provide access to 
appropriate grievance redressed mechanism to our employees.
7.	
Development of employees: We are committed to and ensure continuous up-gradation of the skills and competence of 
our employees by providing access to necessary learning opportunities on an equal and non-discriminatory basis.
8.	
Well-being of employees: We take cognizance of the work-life balance of our employees and ensure well-being of our 
employees.
In addition, the company has a set of stated values, as defined below, that we ensure are upheld at all points of time:
a)	
Creation of value for shareholders
b)	
Customer Satisfaction
c)	
Respect for Environment
d)	
Use of Facts
e)	
Continuous Improvement
f)	
Strengthening of systems
g)	
Upgradation of Human Potential through education and training
h)	
Social Consciousness
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
98
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at end of year
Remark
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at end of year
Remark
Sexual Harassment
0
0
-
0
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour/ Involuntary 
Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related 
issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 in the 
following format:
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Total complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)  
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers 
0
0
Complaints on POSH upheld 
Nil
Nil
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
At AIS, we continually aim to provide a safe working environment, which is free from discrimination and harassment. Such an 
environment is created through various measures as follows:
•	
Confidentiality: The identity of the complainant is kept confidential, to ensure protection of the complainant from 
retaliation and minimizes the risk of damage to their reputation or career.
•	
Non-Retaliation Policy: The organization has a non-retaliation policy in place to protect employees who report 
discrimination or harassment or harassment case.
•	
Investigation Process: The organization has a clear and transparent investigation process for discrimination and harassment 
complaints. The process is fair, objective and conducted in a timely manner. The organization also provides regular updates 
to the complainant on the progress of the investigation.
•	
Support Services: The organization provides support services to the complainant, such as access to counselling. These 
services help the complainant cope with the emotional impact of the discrimination or harassment and ensure that their 
mental wellbeing is prioritized.
•	
Training: The organization provides regular training to employees on discrimination and harassment, including how to 
recognize it, how to report it and the consequences of engaging in discriminatory behaviour or harassment. This also helps 
to prevent future incidents of discrimination and harassment and create a more inclusive workplace culture.
•	
Monitoring and Review: The organization regularly monitors and reviews its policies and practices to ensure that they are 
effective in preventing discrimination and harassment. This helps to identify areas for improvement and ensure that the 
organization is meeting its legal and ethical obligations.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, AIS purchase order (PO) and business agreements incorporate clauses related to social well-being and human rights, which 
mandatorily needs to be signed off by all engaging business partners (vendors / suppliers / distributors / OEMs, etc.).
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
99
AtmaNirbhar AIS
10.	 Assessment for the FY 2024-25:
% of plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties) 
Child Labour 
100%*
Forced/ Involuntary Labour 
100%*
Sexual harassment 
100%*
Discrimination at workplace 
100%*
Wages
100%*
*: These topics of human rights are covered via internal and external audits and through vendor HR Audits on an annual basis.
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the assessments 
at Qs. 9, above.
No significant concern nor risk was identified during the human rights review assessment or vendor audits. AIS advocates and 
upholds human rights principles at all times, during business operations and while interacting with employees, extended 
workforce, and business partners.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
The Company regularly reviews its policies, procedures, and processes around human rights, code of conduct, and other business 
policies, considering environmental changes and modifies the same, as per requirements.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human Rights due diligence conducted.
Nil.
3.	
Is the premise/ office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes, AIS office is fully accessible to the differently abled visitors as per the requirements under Disabilities Act, 2016 and the required 
infrastructure support such as ramps, disability-friendly washroom, lift, wheelchair, are available within the premise. The Company 
is constantly working to improve infrastructural support to promote diversity, equity and inclusion at our offices.
4.	
Details on assessment of Value Chain Partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed: 
Child Labour 
100%^
Forced/ Involuntary Labour 
100%^
Sexual harassment 
100%^
Discrimination at workplace 
100%^
Wages
100%^
^: These topics of human rights are covered via internal and external audits and through vendor HR Audits on an annual basis. In addition, 
during the on-boarding, contract renewal and vendor assessment, the company ensures compliances and review of the human rights 
topics, including any cases of non-violation, if any.
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the assessment 
at Qs. 4 above.
During the reporting period, no significant risk nor concern was identified as part of the vendor assessment or visits. The Company 
encourages its value chain partners to adhere with human rights compliances and requirements, to ensure good ethical business 
practices and uphold respect of individuals, during the operations and in all business interactions.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
100
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
(in Gigajoules- Gj)
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
From ‘Renewable Sources’
Total Electricity Consumption (A): Solar & Wind
490,877
287,713
Total Fuel Consumption (B): Briquettes
371
379
Energy consumption through Other Sources (C): Stem Consumption
92,888
82,833
Total Energy Consumption from renewable sources (A+B+C)
584,136
370,925
From ‘Non-Renewable Sources’
Total Electricity Consumption (D): Grid
726,771
824,339
Total Fuel Consumption (E)
4,699,499
3,030,824
Energy consumption through Other Sources (F)
0
0
Total Energy Consumption from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
5,426,270
3,855,163
Total Energy Consumption (Renewable + Non-Renewable)
6,010,406
4,226,088
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Energy Consumption/ Turnover in Rupees)
0.0001382
0.00010192
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity
(Total Energy Consumed/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.002856
0.002283
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (Total Energy Consumption/ Output
(MT))
9.738
7.033
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO
	
PPP in USD taken from IMF: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC (PPP rate: 20.66)
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve, and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Yes/No) If “Yes”, disclose whether targets set under the PAT Scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not Applicable to Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS).
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres- Kl)
(i).	
Surface Water (Rainwater)
7,902
0
(ii).	 Groundwater
293,317
291,234
(iii).	 Third Party Water: Municipal Water
300,411
349,267
(iv).	 Seawater/ Desalinated water
0
0
(v).	 Others: Tankers
48,856
52,361
Total Volume of water withdrawal (in KL)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
650,486
692,862
Total volume of water consumption (in KL)
636,588
685,497
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
101
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Water Consumed/ turnover)
0.0000146
0.0000165
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000302
0.000370
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water consumption/Output (MT)
1.031
1.141
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO
	
PPP in USD taken from IMF: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC (PPP rate: 20.66)
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharge:
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i). To Surface Water
0
0
	
- No treatment
0
0
	
- With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii). To Ground Water
0
0
	
- No treatment
0
0
	
- With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii). To Seawater
0
0
	
- No treatment
0
0
	
- With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv). Sent to Third Parties
Plants discharge the wastewater to Common 
Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP)
	
- No treatment
0
0
	
- With treatment- please specify level of treatment
13,184
7,364
(v). Others
Septic tank
0
	
- No treatment
0
0
	
- With treatment- please specify level of treatment
714
0
Total water discharged (in kilo-litres)
13,898
7,364
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD)? If “Yes”, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
At AIS, we have set up Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) systems at our plants in Chennai and Bawal. The ZLD system at the Bawal plant 
can treat about 700 kilolitres per day (KLD) of wastewater, allowing us to achieve zero discharge of wastewater from the site. Our 
other plants are equipped with Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs), with a combined treatment 
capacity of over 2,500 KLD. The treated water from these plants is reused within our facilities for activities such as gardening and 
plumbing. The only exception is our Taloja plant, where the treated water is sent to a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) 
for further treatment.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
102
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter 
Please specify unit 
Current Financial Year 
2024-25   
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24  
NOx
Tons/year
65
253
SOx
Tons/year
34
81
Particulate Matter (PM)
Tons/year
58
54
Persistent organic pollutant (POP) 
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) 
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO
7.	
Please provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24
Total Scope 1 Emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
260,368
245,072
Total Scope 2 Emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, 
NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
1,46,799
1,63,983
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/
Turnover in `
0.0000094
0.0000099
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions/ Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/
Turnover in 
adjusted PPP in 
USD
0.000193
0.000221
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/
Output in Metric 
Tons
0.660
0.681
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO
PPP in USD taken from IMF: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC (PPP rate: 20.66)
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Greenhouse gas emissions? If “Yes”, then provide details.
AIS follows Energy Management practices as per ISO 50001 Standard and the energy conservation methodology is based on “4R’s 
approach” i.e., “Recycle, Reduce, Reuse, and Renew”. We have taken steps to reduce carbon dioxide emissions such as:
•	
Replacing diesel forklifts with battery forklifts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve air quality, and decrease noise 
pollution in the workplace.
•	
Adapting new processes for low suction pressure in blowers to reduce power consumption and installing Variable 
Frequency Drives (VFDs) to optimize motor speed and efficiency.
•	
Converting low-efficiency motors to high-efficiency motors to enhance energy savings, reduce operational costs, and 
improve overall system performance.
•	
Adopting new technology to reduce CO2 emissions in plants, thereby enhancing sustainability and minimizing the 
environmental impact.
•	
Reducing leakage throughout the premises along with other adoption of energy efficient technology.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
103
AtmaNirbhar AIS
•	
Planning to install ‘Waste to Heat’ recovery plant to capture and reuse the heat generated by industrial processes that 
would otherwise be lost to the environment, which has significant positive significant environmental benefits i.e., reduction 
in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs), decreased air pollutants, resource conservation along with economic benefits, and 
contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
•	
AIS has signed a 20-year contract with Inox Air to supply 95 tonnes of green hydrogen annually for their new greenfield 
float glass facility in Chittorgarh, Rajasthan. In addition, AIS has invested in the solar plant that will provide renewable 
energy for generating green hydrogen through the electrolysis process.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:  
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024- 25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023- 24
Total Waste Generated (in metric Tonnes)
Plastic Waste (A)
466
823
E-Waste (B)
4
13
Bio-medical Waste (C)
0.06
0
Construction and Demolition Waste (C&D) (D)
0
20
Battery Waste (E)
16.42
45
Radioactive Waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous Waste generated (G)
(Please specify, if any)
1,292
878
Other Non-Hazardous Waste generated (H)
(Please specify, if any)
30,652
18,129
Total Waste Generated
(A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
32,431
19,908
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Waste Generated/ Revenue from operations)
0.0000007
0.0000005
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Waste Generated/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000015
0.000011 
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Waste generated/Output (MT))
0.0525
0.0331
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric 
tonnes)
Category Waste
(i). Recycled
17,833
11,800
(ii). Re-used
7,363
5,057
(iii). Other recovery operations
500
1,206
Total
25,696
18,063
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category Waste
(i). Incineration
22
18
(ii). Landfilling
1,211
1,402
(iii). Other disposal operations
5,502
429
Total
6,735
1,849
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: NO 
PPP in USD taken from IMF: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC (PPP rate: 20.66)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
104
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
At AIS, we continuously monitor waste generation on a day-to-day basis across all the manufacturing plants. Measures are taken 
into consideration to effectively store, manage, and safely dispose of the waste as per pollution control board guidelines.
Being a glass manufacturer, cullet is our primary type of waste generated, however, we are working very carefully to reduce the 
unwanted generation of broken glasses and train our workers on safety norms on a periodic basis.
Additionally, for glass printing, we use sealant and ink materials, which are categorized hazardous waste. Therefore, the empty 
bottles of these inputs are collected and stored at a separate location and safely disposed of through authorized vendors, as per 
State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) guidelines.
11.	
If the entity has operations/ offices in & around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones, etc.) where environmental approvals/ 
clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of operations/ offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance are being 
complied with? (Yes/No)
If “No”, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
None of the AIS manufacturing locations are in ecologically sensitive zone; therefore, the question is not applicable to AIS.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year 2024-25:
Name and brief of 
the project
EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web-link
Not applicable, since no EIA was conducted during the reporting period, as per regulatory requirements.
13.	
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection Act and Rules thereunder 
(Yes/ No). If “Not”, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
S. 
No.
Specify the law/ regulation/ 
guidelines which is not 
compliant
Provide details of the 
non-compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken by regulatory 
agencies such as pollution control board or by 
courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
During the reporting period, no case of non-compliance was reported.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of ‘Water Stress’ (in kilo litres):
For each facility/ plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
i.	
Name of area: Bawal (Haryana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Patan (Gujarat) and Soniyana (Rajasthan)
ii.	
Nature of operations: Manufacturing of Glass (Plant)
iii.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilo litres)
(i). Surface Water
0
0
(ii). Ground Water
91,657
101,650
(iii). Third Party Water: Municipal Water
154,378
195,577
(iv). Seawater/ Desalinated Water
0
0
(v). Others (Tankers)
46,383
42,257
Total volume of water withdrawal (in KL)
292,418
339,484
Total volume of water consumption (in KL)
292,418
339,484
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Water consumed/ Turnover)
0.000007
0.000008
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
105
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Parameter
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in Kilo litres)
(i). To Surface Water
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii). To Ground Water
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii). Sent to Third Party Water
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv). Into Seawater
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v). Others
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment- please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged. (in kilo-litres- Kl)
0
0
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: No
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions and its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Please specify 
unit
Current Financial Year 
2024-25  
Previous Financial Year 
2023-24 
Total Scope 3 Emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
The Company is currently 
undertaking GHG 
accounting for its scope 3 
emissions.
Not Applicable
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/ 
turnover 
Not Applicable
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No). If 
“Yes”, name the external agency.: No
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported in Qs. 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant 
direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation activities.
None of AIS facility are in and around ecologically sensitive area. 
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome 
of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
S. 
No.
Initiative undertaken 
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided along 
with summary)
Outcome of the Initiative 
1.
Energy Conservation
CETP water transfer process has been made 62.5% more energy 
efficient by changing piping design and pump. Booster compressor 
functioning has been automated reducing power wastage and 
double edger grinding blower on/off system has been automated as 
per glass size.
Energy saving and GHG reduction.
2.
Energy efficient compressor 
for utility
Installation of energy efficient compressor for 8 utility airline, 
magnetic motor specific power is less than 0.170 and zero unloading 
power: leading to power saving. 
Specific power saving of 0.167
3.
Wastewater Treatment
Sewage treatment plant (STP) and Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) 
to treat wastewater and reuse the treated water for gardening and 
toilet flushing. Drain line of compressors have been modified and 
directly connected with ETP collection tank to prevent soil pollution.
Recycle 
and 
reuse 
of 
treated 
wastewater and prevention of soil 
pollution.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
106
S. 
No.
Initiative undertaken 
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided along 
with summary)
Outcome of the Initiative 
4.
Water Conservation Initiatives
Sensor taps installation in toilets, CNC washing tanks 
interconnections, CNC washing water usage based on conductivity, 
pallet yard spacer washing using recycled water, and taps flow 
reduction by tank height reduction.
Water saving of 14 KLD
5.
Reuse of wooden scrap
Making wooden pallets using waste wooden pallet materials 
(making 10 to 15 boxed daily).
Cost saving: ` 5,000 per day
6.
Forklift Conversion from Diesel 
to battery Operated
Battery operated forklift instead of diesel forklifts, opting for eco-
friendly option and machine reliability increased. 
162 lacs diesel cost saving annually 
(for 20 forklifts) and carbon 
reduction by 100%. 
7.
Biodiversity: Miyawaki System 
of Afforestation
Planting number of trees close to each other to enrich green cover 
and natural biodiversity, avoid water stagnation, and help in air 
ventilation.
Over 5,200 trees of different species 
planted across 5 sites of AIS Glass 
(Bawal, Chennai, Roorkee, Patan, 
and Taloja).
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web-link.
At AIS, all sites are equipped with a Business Contingency and Emergency Response Plan to ensure readiness and adaptability in the 
face of natural disasters or unforeseen events that could disrupt operations at the plant or central level. In addition, the Company 
has established a Crisis Management Plan to address significant business risks, structured around four key components: mitigation, 
preparedness, response, and recovery. Complementing this, the Risk Management Plan helps minimize disaster-related losses by 
evaluating potential disruptions, identifying associated business risks, and outlining suitable mitigation strategies.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
AIS is committed to minimizing its environmental footprint across its operations and value chain. As part of this commitment, 
the Company has integrated RoHS compliance into its procurement policies and practices to reduce hazardous waste and ensure 
responsible chemical management. To address GHG emissions from transportation, NCR Delhi-based suppliers are planning 
a transition to green fuel in line with Government of India directives and customer expectations for low-emission logistics. 
Additionally, AIS has significantly reduced the use of wooden packaging for finished glass products, with over 80% now dispatched 
in loose form. The Company also substitutes batch materials with cullet (glass scrap), which is recycled in furnaces to lower mineral 
consumption and support circular practices.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
AIS ensures business partnership with vendors/ suppliers who adhere to regulatory and statutory norms/ requirements and have 
environmental clearance and certificates to ensure compliance and business approach towards sustainability. Since mining product 
(minerals) are main raw material for glass production, AIS ensures that all its vendors and suppliers undergo proper validation and 
assessment during the vendor onboarding and vendor visits/ assessments*.
*: Mining product (minerals) are main raw material for glass production. Like silica sand, Dolomite, limestone, feldspar. During vendor 
visit, environmental clearance, related certificates & valid royalty checks implemented.
8.	
How many “Green Credits” have been generated or procured:
	
a.	
By the listed entity.
	
b.	
By the top ten (in terms of the value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners.
	
Nil.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
107
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
(a). Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.	
8
	
(b). List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total numbers of such body) the entity 
is member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/ National)
1.
The All-India Glass Manufacturers' Federation
National
2.
Confederation of Indian Industry
National
3.
Federation of Safety Glass
National
4.
National Safety Council
National
5.
Kaizen Conclave National
National
6.
Glazing Society of India
National
7.
Sidcul Manufacturers Association, Uttarakhand
State
8.
Uttarakhand Productivity Council
State
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
The Company has not received any complaint about anti-competitive conduct during reporting period 2024-25.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. 
No. 
Public policy 
advocated 
Method resorted for 
such advocacy 
Whether information available 
in public domain (Yes/No) 
Frequency of Review 
by Board 
Web Link, if available 
AIS does not maintain a standalone policy on “policy advocacy.” Instead, the Company engages in advocacy efforts related to the glass industry 
through active participation in industry associations such as ACMA, GSI, and CII. Designated officials are authorized to liaise with these bodies 
and manage government relations in line with the Company’s communication protocols. Through these associations, AIS contributes to the 
formulation of inclusive and progressive industry policies. Additionally, the Company’s R&D team collaborates with statutory agencies like the 
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) to help develop new product standards that prioritize both human safety and environmental protection. On 
other relevant matters, AIS representatives engage either directly or through industry associations to support appropriate legal and policy 
developments.
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial 
year 2024-25: 
Name and brief detail 
of project 
SIA Notification No. 
Date of 
notification 
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency 
(Yes/ No) 
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No) 
Relevant web-
link 
Not Applicable, as no Social Impact Assessment (SIA) conducted during FY 2024-25.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of the project for which 
R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of project affected 
families (PAFs)
%of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in 
the FY (in `)
Not Applicable.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
108
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
At AIS, for effective grievance redressal and subsequent improvement in CSR initiatives, there is a robust community feedback 
mechanism. The field level CSR teams follow methodical approach through:
•	
Need assessment survey - All the interventions are backed by need assessment and then only finalized for final 
implementation.
•	
Design and plan the projects based on the need of local communities - Basis the need assessment an idea of the 
expectations from the intervention by the local communities is availed and the same is incorporated while designing and 
planning of interventions.
•	
Implement the project to benefit people - For every intervention there is target number of beneficiaries and it is closely 
monitored during the execution that the target is achieved.
•	
Monitor and review the project - There is a monitoring mechanism in place wherein month wise activity and expenditure 
is closely monitored and reviewed for any deviation and further improvement.
4.	
Percentage of input material (input to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ Small producers
21%
15%
Directly from within India
58%
56%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns: Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of the total wage cost:
Location
Current Financial Year 
2024-25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023-24
Rural
NA
NA
Semi-Urban
0.5%
0.3%
Urban
70.9%
70.2%
Metropolitan
28.6%
29.5%
Note: Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System- rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference 
Qs. 1 of Essential Indicators, above).
Details of negative social impact identified 
Corrective action taken 
Not Applicable as no social impact assessment undertaken during the reporting period. 
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies:
S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (in `)
In line with the CSR rules, AIS’s CSR activities are focused on the manufacturing facilities in Bawal, Roorkee, Patan and Soniyana. Currently we 
are not doing any CSR activities directed towards Aspirational Districts.
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
Currently, there is No Preferential Procurement Policy at AIS. The Company does not discriminate between its vendors and 
suppliers. At AIS, we award the business opportunity based on merit criteria only. In FY 2024-25, some of our current vendors 
/ suppliers do fall under vulnerable/ marginalized group.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
109
AtmaNirbhar AIS
	
(b)	
From which marginalized/ vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Nil
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Nil
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year 2024-25), based on traditional knowledge:
S. No. 
Intellectual Property based on traditional 
knowledge 
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/
No) 
Benefit Shared (Yes/ 
No) 
Basis of calculating 
benefit share 
Not applicable to AIS
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of Case
Corrective action taken
Not applicable to AIS
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited from 
CSR Projects
% Beneficiaries from vulnerable 
& marginalized groups
1.
Education Programs:
1)	 School bus service for girls
2)	 Remedial education for drop-outs
3)	 Govt. School Support
4)	 Adult literacy program
5)	 Sports Event
6,652
100%
2.
Digital Literacy Initiatives:
1)	 Basic computer training
2)	 Advanced tally software training
1,219
100%
3.
Skill Development Programs:
1)	 Sewing & tailoring
2)	 Beauty Parlour
1,057
100%
4.
Health & Sanitation Programs and Initiatives:
1)	
Construction of toilets
2)	
Repair and maintenance of toilets
3)	
Provision for safe drinking water
4)	
Sanitary pad distribution
5)	
Setting up of health camps for basic health check-ups
12,118
100%
5.
Self Help Groups and capacity building:
1)	
Promoting women entrepreneurship
2)	
Awareness about various govt. schemes
3)	
Self defense
1,803
100%
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
110
Principle 9: Business should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
At AIS, there is a grievance redressal mechanism to receive, record, and respond to customer/ consumer complaints. The following 
steps are as follows:
•	
Customer complaints are received through local salesperson or directly by customers via telephonic conversation/ Mail/ 
WhatsApp/various other channels of communication.
•	
All complaints received are responded to within three hours of receiving them, by customer representative based 
at plant/ site.
•	
Decision for complaint resolution is taken in form of either visit to customer location or asking for defective samples from 
the customer to determine the problem.
•	
Decision making is carried out through physical verification of the complaint and a compensation agreement is mutually 
signed between customer and AIS plant team if the quality claim is accepted after the visit/ survey.
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry information about:
Parameters
As percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not applicable to AIS due to nature of business operations.
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%*
*: Glass is sustainable and fully recyclable material. 
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: 
Current Financial Year 2024-25
Previous Financial Year 2023-24
Received
Pending at end of 
year
Remarks
Received
Pending at end of 
year
Remarks
Data Privacy
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Advertising
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Cyber-security
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Delivery of essential services
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Customer Complaints
87
0
Complaints 
resolved
117
0
Complaints 
resolved
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary Recalls
0
No product recall
Forced Recalls
0
No product recall
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No). 
	
If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
AIS has an Information Security and Management (ISMs) Policy that is based on ISO 27001 Standards and GDPR framework. 
Further, the IT system at AIS is BCP complaint i.e., the Company’s information security aspects of business continuity and Disaster 
Recovery management follows the cardinals of Risk-based thinking (RBT), process approach, and the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) 
methodology.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services, 
cyber security, and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls, penalty/ action taken by regulatory 
authorities on safety of products/ services.
Not applicable
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
111
AtmaNirbhar AIS
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches during FY 2024-25:
(a).	
Number of instances of data breaches:	
Nil
(b).	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers.	
Nil
(c).	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches.	 Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if possible)
Information dissemination is carried out through company’s website, newsletter, social media, e-mailing marketing activities, direct 
communication (SMS and WhatsApp), posters, brochures, leaflets, product profile, direct interactions, and other communication 
channels.
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/ or services.
AIS product solutions serve the entire breadth of automotive, building and construction, and consumer glass requirements, which 
are made of fully sustainable and recyclable material. The Company informs its customers about safe and responsible usage 
through DOJO Centre, product profile, posters, pamphlets, direct communication (SMS and WhatsApp), and in-person interactions.
3.	
Mechanism in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services.
The Company informs its customers of any potential risk of disruption in supply chain through email, direct communication (SMS 
and WhatsApp) and in-person interactions.
4.	
(a).	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per the local laws? (Yes/ 
No/ Not Applicable).
	
	
If “Yes”, provide details in brief.
	
(b).	 Did your entity carry out any survey about customer satisfaction relating to the major products/ services of the entity, 
significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/ No).
(a).	
At AIS, we disclose/display product information like type of product, size, thickness, date and year of production, and 
other mandatory regulatory requirements on the product in form of branding and bar tags.
(b).	 Customer satisfaction feedback is sought on three main criteria i.e., quality of product supplied (supplied to their line, 
and feedback on warranty claim data), delivery, and facility evaluation through audits / evaluating customer score cards 
and recognition scale / awards. In our latest customer score card, AIS Glass received top score from its customers on 
satisfaction level.
Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance
Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) believes that, for long-term and 
sustainable success in business, Corporate Governance must 
become an intrinsic part of the Company. AIS is, therefore, 
committed to achieve the highest standards of accountability, 
transparency and equity in all its spheres and in all its dealings 
with its stakeholders. This commitment to adhere to Corporate 
Governance principles, not just in letter but in spirit, permeates 
through every level of the Company. Driven by an active, 
independent and participative Board, the Company is totally 
committed to timely and comprehensive disclosures, transparent 
accounting policies and high level of integrity.
This chapter, along with the chapters on Management Discussion 
and Analysis, reports AIS’s compliance with Regulation 17 to 27 and 
Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred to as “Listing Regulations”).
Your Company has complied with all the requirements of 
Corporate Governance as laid down under Chapter IV of Listing 
Regulations except Regulation 17(1)(b) as at least half of the Board 
was not Independent post resignation of Mr. Yoji Taguchi w.e.f. 
closure of business hours of 1st April, 2024 till the appointment of 
Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla (Retd.) on 16th December, 2024.
Board of Directors
At AIS, the Board of Directors approve and review the strategies and 
oversee the actions and results of management. The management 
team of the Company is headed by the Chairman & Managing 
Director and a Whole-time Director.
Report on Corporate Governance
Composition of Board
The present strength of the Board is ten Directors, out of which 
five are Independent Directors (including two Women Directors) 
and three are Non-Executive and Non Independent Directors 
(including one Woman Director).
The Composition of Board of Directors of the Company is as below:
S. 
No.
Category
No. of 
Directors
1.
Executive
2
2.
Independent
5
3.
Non-Executive and Non-Independent 
3
Total
10
Board Procedures
Detailed agenda with explanatory notes and all other related 
information is circulated to the members of the Board in advance 
of each meeting. Detailed presentations are made to the Board 
covering all major functions and activities. The requisite strategic 
and material information is made available to the Board to ensure 
transparent decision making by the Board.
Number of Board Meetings
During the financial year 2024-25, the Board of Directors of the 
Company met four times. The maximum time gap between any 
two Board Meetings was not more than one hundred and twenty 
days and at least one Meeting was held in every calendar quarter.
The details of the Board Meetings are as under:
S. 
No.
Date
Board 
Strength
No. of Directors 
Present
1.
15th May, 2024
9
8
2.
31st July, 2024
9
7
3.
29th October, 2024
9
9
4.
29th January, 2025
10
10
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
112
Disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se
None of the Directors are related to each other except Mr. Sanjay Labroo, Chairman & Managing Director who is related to 
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo, Promoter, Non-Executive Director.
Information relating to Directors
a.	
The details relating to the composition and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings during 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 and at the last Annual General Meeting are detailed below:
Name of the Directors
Category
Attendance Particulars
Number of Board Meetings
Last 
AGM
Held
Attended
Mr. S. Labroo
(Chairman & Managing Director)
(DIN: 00009629)
Promoter 
Executive
4
4
Yes
Mr. M. Fukami
[Dy. Managing Director – Technical & C.T.O. (Auto)]
(DIN: 09811031)
Executive
4
4
Yes
Mr. M. Takeda
(DIN: 07058532)
Promoter
Non-Executive
4
4
Yes
Dr. S. Ishizuka 1
(DIN: 07692846)
Promoter
Non-Executive
4
4
No
Ms. N. Labroo
(DIN: 10040978)
Promoter
Non-Executive
4
4
Yes
Mr. Y. Taguchi 2
(DIN: 01892369)
Independent
NA
NA
NA
Mr. S. Yoshino 3
(DIN: 10504479)
Independent
4
4
No
Mr. R. Rana 4
(DIN: 00476406)
Independent
2
0
NA
Mr. K Kalkat 5
(DIN: 10723711)
Independent
2
2
Yes
Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) 6
(DIN: 10824636)
Independent
1
1
NA
Ms. S. Suri 7
(DIN: 00176902)
Independent
4
3
Yes
Ms. S. Mehta
(DIN: 06495637)
Independent
4
4
Yes
1Dr. S. Ishizuka (DIN: 07692846) has resigned from the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
2Mr. Y. Taguchi (DIN: 01892369) has resigned from the Board w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
3Mr. S. Setsuya Yoshino (DIN: 10504479) has joined the Board w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
4Mr. R. Rana (DIN: 00476406) has ceased to be Director on the Board w.e.f. 5th August, 2024 
5Mr. K. Kalkat (DIN: 10723711) has joined the Board w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
6Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) (DIN: 10824636) has joined the Board w.e.f. 16th December, 2024 
7Ms. S. Suri (DIN: 00176902) has ceased to be Director on the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
113
AtmaNirbhar AIS
b)	
Number of directorships / committee memberships held by the Directors of the Company in other Companies including the names 
of the other listed entities where the Director is a Director and the category of their Directorship as on 31st March, 2025
Name of the Directors
Outside Directorships, Committee Memberships and 
Chairmanships
Names of Other Listed Companies in which he / she holds 
Directorships and category of Directorships
Directorships1
Committee 
Memberships2
Committee 
Chairmanships 2
Mr. S. Labroo 
(Chairman & Managing Director) 
(DIN: 00009629)
11
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. M. Fukami  
[Dy. Managing Director – 
Technical & C.T.O. (Auto)] 
(DIN: 09811031)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. M. Takeda 
(DIN: 07058532)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Dr. S. Ishizuka 1
(DIN: 07692846)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Ms. N. Labroo 
(DIN: 10040978)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. S. Yoshino 2
(DIN: 10504479)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. K. Kalkat 3 
(DIN: 10723711)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) 4 
(DIN: 10824636)
1
1
Nil
Jamna Auto 
Industries Ltd.
Independent Director
Ms. S. Suri 5
(DIN: 00176902)
8
1
Nil
•	 Subros Ltd.
•	 Sona BLW Precision 
Forgings Ltd.
•	 Chairperson & Managing Director
•	 Independent Director
Ms. S. Mehta
(DIN: 06495637)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
1Dr. S. Ishizuka (DIN: 07692846) has resigned from the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
2Mr. S. Yoshino (DIN: 10504479) has joined the Board w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
3Mr. K. Kalkat (DIN: 10723711) has joined the Board w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
4Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) (DIN: 10824636) has joined the Board w.e.f. 16th December, 2024
5Ms. S. Suri (DIN: 00176902) has ceased to be Director on the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
1. Excludes Directorship in AIS. Also excludes directorships in Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies as per Companies Act, 2013.
2. In accordance with Listing Regulations, Memberships / Chairmanships of only Audit & Risk Management Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of public limited companies have been considered. Also excludes the Memberships & Chairmanships in AIS. No Director is a Member of more than 
10 Board Committees of public limited companies or is a Chairperson of more than 5 such Committees.
Board Independence
The Independence of a Director is determined by the criteria stipulated under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations & 
Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the confirmation / disclosures received from the Independent Directors, no director 
holds directorship in more than the prescribed limit as per the Listing Regulations as on 31st March, 2025.
Further, Board has evaluated the Independence of Directors and opines that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified 
in Listing Regulations and are independent of the management.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
114
Matrix setting out the skills / expertise / competence required in the context of its business for it to function effectively and 
those actually available with the Board:
Name of Director
Strategy and Planning
Ability to think strategically; 
identify and critically assess 
strategic opportunities and threats. 
Develop effective strategies in the 
context of the strategic objectives 
of the Company, relevant policies 
and priorities
Governance, Risk and 
Compliance
Experience in the application 
of Corporate Governance 
principles. Ability to identify key 
risks to the Company in a wide 
range of areas including legal 
and regulatory compliance
Financial
understanding 
of financial 
accounting, 
reporting and 
controls & 
analysis
Sales, Marketing & Brand 
building
Experience in developing 
strategies to grow sales 
and market share, build 
brand awareness and 
equity 
and 
enhance 
enterprise reputation.
Mr. Sanjay Labroo




Mr. Masao Fukami




Mr. Masahiro Takeda




Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka




Ms. Nisheeta Labroo




Mr. Setsuya Yoshino




Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat




Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla 
(Retd.)




Ms. Shradha Suri




Ms. Sheetal Mehta




Information provided to the Board
The information being provided to the Board includes:
-	
Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates 
thereof;
-	
Capital budgets and any updates thereof;
-	
Quarterly results of the Company and its operating divisions 
and business segments;
-	
Minutes of Meetings of the Audit & Risk Management 
Committee and other Committees of the Board;
-	
Recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below 
board level, including appointment and removal of Chief 
Financial Officer and the Company Secretary;
-	
Materially important show cause, demand, prosecution and 
penalty notices;
-	
Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any 
material effluent or pollution problems;
-	
Any material default in financial obligations to and by the 
Company, or substantial non-payment for goods sold by the 
Company;
-	
Any issue which involves possible public or product liability 
claims of substantial nature, including any judgement or 
order which, may have passed strictures on the conduct of 
the Company or taken an adverse view regarding another 
enterprise that can have negative implications on the 
Company;
-	
Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement;
-	
Transactions that involve substantial payment towards 
goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property;
-	
Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. 
Any significant development in Human Resources / 
Industrial Relations front like signing of Wage Agreement, 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme, etc.;
-	
Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries and 
assets which is not in the normal course of business;
-	
Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the 
steps taken by management to limit the risks of adverse 
exchange rate movement, if material; and
-	
Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory nature or listing 
requirements and shareholders service such as non-payment 
of dividend, delay in share transfer, etc.
Vigil Mechanism
The Company has established a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower 
Policy. The purpose of this mechanism is to provide a framework 
to report any matter or activity which may affect the interest of 
the Company including but not limited to reporting of concerns 
about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation 
of applicable laws or rules of the Company including code of 
conduct and provide adequate safeguards against victimization 
of the person availing this mechanism. The Policy is available on 
the Company’s website https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/
uploads/2020/10/AIS_vigil_mechanism_whistle_blower_policy.
pdf and has been appropriately communicated within the 
organisation and is effectively operational. The policy provides 
mechanism whereby whistle blower may send protected 
disclosures directly to the Committee as formed under the Policy 
and in exceptional circumstances to the Chairman of Audit & Risk 
Management Committee and no personnel has been denied 
access to the Committee.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
115
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Material Subsidiaries
The Company does not have any material subsidiary company 
in terms of Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations. Pursuant to 
Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated a policy for 
determining material subsidiaries.
This policy is available on the Company’s website https://
www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Policy_for_
Determining_Material_Subsidiaries_W.pdf.
Shares 
and 
convertible 
instruments 
held 
by 
Non-Executive Directors
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo holds 7,17,586 equity shares as on 
31st March, 2025. No other Non-Executive Director holds any 
equity share as on that date.
Code of Conduct
AIS’s Board has adopted a Code of Conduct for Members of the 
Board and Senior Management (“Code”). The Code lays down, in 
detail, the standards of business conduct, ethics and governance. 
A copy of the Code has been posted on the Company’s website 
https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Code_
of_Conduct_for_Directors_and_Senior_Management.pdf. The 
Code has been circulated to all Members of the Board and Senior 
Management and compliance of the same has been affirmed by 
them. A declaration signed by the Chairman & Managing Director 
to this effect is given below:
I hereby confirm that:
The Company has obtained from all the members of the 
Board and Senior Management an affirmation that they have 
complied with the Code in the FY 2024-25.
S. Labroo
Chairman & Managing Director 
Separate Independent Directors Meeting
Independent Directors are required to hold and attend a 
separate meeting in accordance with the provisions of Listing 
Regulations and Secretarial Standard I. The Independent Directors 
met once during the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 on 
29th January, 2025 and inter alia, discussed:
•	
the performance of Non-Independent Directors and the 
Board of Directors as a whole;
•	
the performance of the Chairman & Managing Director of 
the Company, taking into account the views of Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors; and
•	
assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Company Management and the 
Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and 
reasonably perform its duties.
In addition to the formal meeting, interactions outside the Board 
Meetings also take place between the Chairman & Managing 
Director and Independent Directors.
Familiarisation 
Programme 
for 
Independent 
Directors
The provision of an appropriate induction programme for new 
Directors is a part of Corporate Governance standards of AIS. The 
Independent Directors, from time to time, request Management 
to provide details related to any activity, project or process of 
the Company either as special update to the Board or otherwise. 
The management provides such information and training either 
at the meeting of Board of Directors or otherwise. The details 
of Familiarisation Programme for Independent Directors can be 
accessed through the link https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/
uploads/2020/10/familiarisation_programmes_for_Independent_
Directors.pdf.
Committees of the Board
AIS has five Board Committees – Audit & Risk Management 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee and Restructuring Committee.
Details regarding the role and composition of the Board 
Committees, including the number of meetings held during 
the financial year 2024-25 and attendance of the members are 
provided below:
Audit & Risk Management Committee
Terms of Reference
The composition of Audit & Risk Management Committee 
meets the requirements of Section 177 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. The terms 
of reference of this Committee, inter alia, covers the matters 
specified for Audit & Risk Management Committee under Part C of 
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations read with Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk 
Management Committee, inter alia, includes the following:
Powers of Audit & Risk Management Committee
a)	
To investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
b)	
To seek information from any employee.
c)	
To obtain outside legal or other professional advice.
d)	
To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if 
it considers necessary.
Composition, Meetings & Attendance of the Committee
The Audit & Risk Management Committee comprises of three 
Non-Executive Directors, all of them are Independent Directors. 
All the members of the Committee have accounting and financial 
management expertise.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
116
The Audit & Risk Management Committee met four times 
during the financial year on 14th May, 2024, 29th July, 2024, 
28th October, 2024, and 27th January, 2025. The time gap 
between any two meetings was less than 120 (one hundred and 
twenty) days. The composition of the Audit & Risk Management 
Committee and the attendance of its members are detailed 
below:
Name of 
Members
Category
Status
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. R. Rana*
Independent
Chairman
2
2
Mr. K. Kalkat**
Independent
Chairman
2
2
Ms. S. Suri***
Independent
Member
4
3
Ms. S. Mehta
Independent
Member
4
4
*Mr. R. Rana has ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 5th August, 2024
**Mr. K. Kalkat has joined the Committee w.e.f. 6th August, 2024 as its Chairman
***Ms. S. Suri  has ceased to be Member of the Committee w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
Mr. Gopal Ganatra, Executive Director, General Counsel & Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit & Risk Management 
Committee.
The functions of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, inter 
alia, include the following:
•	 oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and 
the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the 
financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
•	 recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms 
of appointment of auditors of the Company;
•	 approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by the statutory auditors;
•	 reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditors’ report thereon before submission 
to the board for approval, with particular reference to:
	
−matters required to be included in the directors’ 
responsibility statement to be included in the board’s 
report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of  
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013;
	
−changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and 
reasons for the same;
	
−major accounting entries involving estimates based on the 
exercise of judgment by management;
	
−significant adjustments made in the financial statements 
arising out of audit findings;
	
−compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements;
	
−disclosure of any related party transactions;
	
−modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
•	 reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial 
statements before submission to the board for approval;
•	 reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / 
application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds 
utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document / prospectus / notice and the report submitted 
by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter;
•	 reviewing and monitoring the auditors’ independence and 
performance, and effectiveness of audit process;
•	 approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of 
the listed entity with related parties;
•	 scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
•	 valuation of undertakings or assets of the listed entity, 
wherever it is necessary;
•	 evaluation 
of 
internal 
financial 
controls 
and 
risk 
management systems;
•	 reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory 
and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;
•	 reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, 
including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, 
reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
•	 discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings 
and follow up there on;
•	 reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the 
internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud 
or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a 
material nature and reporting the matter to the board;
•	 discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as 
post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
•	 to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment 
to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of 
non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
•	 to review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism;
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
117
AtmaNirbhar AIS
•	 approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer after 
assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. 
of the candidate;
•	 carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms 
of reference of the Audit & Risk Management Committee;
•	 consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact 
of schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc. 
on the listed entity and its shareholders;
•	 reviewing the utilization of loans and / or advances from 
/ investment by the holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding ` 100 crore or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, 
whichever is lower including existing loans / advances / 
investments existing as on the date of coming into force of 
this provision;
•	 management discussion and analysis of financial condition 
and results of operations;
•	 management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses 
issued by the statutory auditors;
•	 internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses;
•	 review of appointment, removal and terms of remuneration 
of the chief internal auditor; and
•	 statement of deviations:
	
−quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report 
of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to 
stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1) of 
Listing Regulations.
	
−annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than 
those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice in 
terms of Regulation 32(7) of Listing Regulations.
•	 To 
formulate 
a 
detailed 
risk 
management 
policy 
which shall include:
	
−a framework for identification of internal and external risks 
specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, 
ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or any 
other risk as may be determined by the Committee;
	
−measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks.
	
−business continuity plan;
	
−to ensure that appropriate methodology, processes 
and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks 
associated with the business of the Company;
	
−to monitor and oversee implementation of the risk 
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems;
	
−to periodically review the risk management policy, at least 
once in two years, including by considering the changing 
industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
	
−to keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, recommendations and 
actions to be taken;
	
−the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by 
the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Terms of Reference
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been 
constituted to formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes, independence of a Director, criteria for 
evaluation of Independent Director and Board, policy on Board 
diversity and reviewing & recommending to the Board a policy 
relating to the remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other employees. Such recommendations are made 
considering the overall performance and annual financial results 
of the Company. Further the Committee will also identify and 
recommend to the Board, persons who are qualified to become 
Directors and who may be appointed in Senior Management 
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to 
the Board their appointment and removal and shall carry out 
evaluation of every Director’s performance.
It also includes whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director on the basis of the 
report of performance evaluation of Independent Directors and 
recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form 
payable to the Senior Management.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
118
Composition, Meetings & Attendance of the Committee
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises of three 
Non-Executive Directors, two of them are Independent Directors. 
The Composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
is in compliance with the provisions of Section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations. 
The Committee met three times during the financial year 
on 15th May, 2024,  30th July,  2024,  and 23rd March, 2025.  The 
composition and attendance of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee is as follows:-
Name of 
Members
Category
Status
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Mr. R. Rana*
Independent
Chairman
2
0
Ms. S. Suri**
Independent
Chairperson
3
3
Ms. N. Labroo
Promoter,  
Non-Executive
Member
3
3
Ms. S. Mehta***
Independent
Member
1
1
*Mr. R. Rana has ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 5th August, 2024
** Ms. S. Suri was redesignated as Chairperson w.e.f 6th August, 2024 and has 
ceased to be Member of the Committee w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
***Ms. S. Mehta has joined the Committee w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company did not issue any 
stock options to its Directors and Employees.
Mr. Gopal Ganatra, Executive Director, General Counsel & 
Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee.
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent 
Directors
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 17(10) of the Listing Regulations, the Company has 
devised a mechanism for performance evaluation of Independent 
Directors, Board, Committees and other Directors which includes 
criteria for performance evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors 
and Executive Directors.
The criteria for performance evaluation cover the areas relevant 
to the functioning as Independent Directors such as preparation, 
participation, conduct and effectiveness. The performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors is done by the entire Board of 
Directors and during the evaluation, the Directors who are subject 
to evaluation do not participate.
In developing the methodology to be used for evaluation, on 
the basis of best standards and methods meeting international 
parameters, the Board / Committee may take the advice of an 
Independent Professional Consultant.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy as approved by the Board 
on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee is available on the website of the Company https://
www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Nomination_
Remuneration_Policy.pdf.
Remuneration to Directors
Chairman & Managing Director and other Executive Directors 
are paid remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites 
& allowances (fixed component) and commission (variable 
component) on the net profits of the Company. The annual 
increments are as per the salary scale approved by the Members 
and are effective from 1st April of each year.
The commission payable to the Chairman & Managing Director 
and other Executive Directors is decided by the Board, on 
recommendations of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and are within the limits sanctioned by the Shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees for attending 
the meetings of the Board and its Audit & Risk Management 
Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
the commission on net profits of the Company as approved by 
the Board within the overall limits sanctioned by the Shareholders.
During the FY 2024-25, the sitting fee payable to Non-Executive 
Directors was revised to  ₹50,000 for Board Meetings and  ₹30,000 
for eligible Committee Meetings from erstwhile  ₹20,000 each for 
Board and eligible Committee Meetings w.e.f. 29th January, 2025.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
119
AtmaNirbhar AIS
The details of remuneration paid / payable to the Directors for the financial year 2024-25 are given below:
Name of Directors
Sitting Fees (₹)
Salary, Allowances 
and perquisites (₹)
Commission (`)
Total
(`)
Mr. S. Labroo
N.A.
5,61,32,250
2,31,45,000
7,92,77,250
Mr. M. Fukami
N.A.
2,60,30,171
12,00,000
2,72,30,171
Mr. M. Takeda
1,10,000
NIL
12,00,000
13,10,000
Dr. S. Ishizuka 1
1,10,000
NIL
12,00,000
13,10,000
Ms. N. Labroo
1,80,000
NIL
12,00,000
13,80,000
Mr. Y. Taguchi 2
NA
NA
NA
NIL
Mr. S. Yoshino 3
1,10,000
NIL
12,00,000
13,10,000
Mr. R. Rana 4
40,000
NIL
6,00,000
6,40,000
Mr. K. Kalkat 5
1,20,000
NIL
6,00,000
7,20,000
Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) 6
50,000
NIL
3,00,000
3,50,000
Ms. S. Suri 7
2,30,000
NIL
12,00,000
14,30,000
Ms. S. Mehta
2,30,000
NIL
12,00,000
14,30,000
Details of Service Contracts – Executive Directors
S. 
No. Name of Director Tenure
Notice 
Period
Severance 
Fee
1
Mr. Sanjay Labroo 5 
(five) 
years 
Commenced 
from 
19th February, 2024
6 months
Nil
2
Mr. Masao Fukami 4 
(four) 
years 
Commenced 
from 
1st January, 2023
6 months
Nil
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Terms of Reference
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee comprises of four 
Directors including one Independent Director with Chairperson as 
Non-Executive Director. The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
has been constituted to specifically look into the redressal of 
Shareholder and Investor complaints and other Shareholder 
related issues. The Committee approves transfer, transmission 
of shares and issues like split, sub-division, consolidation of 
securities, issue of duplicate share certificates, dematerialisation /
re-materialisation of shares etc. It also includes the following:
•	 Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed 
entity including complaints related to transfer / transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of 
declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate certificates, 
general meetings, etc.
•	 Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting 
rights by shareholders.
•	 Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the 
listed entity in respect of various services being rendered by 
the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
•	 Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by 
the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants 
/ annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders 
of the company.
Composition, Meetings & Attendance of the Committee
The composition of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
is in compliance with the provisions of Section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules issued thereunder 
and Regulation 20 of Listing Regulations. The Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee met 14 (fourteen) times during financial 
year 2024-25, composition and attendance of the Committee is 
as under:
Name of 
Members
Category
Status
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Ms. N. Labroo
Promoter,  
Non-Executive
Chairperson
14
14
Mr. S. Labroo
Promoter, 
Executive
Member
14
13
Mr. M. Fukami
Executive
Member
14
0
Ms. S. Suri*
Independent
Member
14
1
*Ms. S. Suri ceased to be Member of the Committee w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
1Dr. S. Ishizuka has resigned from the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
2Mr. Y. Taguchi has resigned from the Board w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
3Mr. S. Yoshino has joined the Board w.e.f. 1st April, 2024
4Mr. R. Rana has ceased to be Director on the Board w.e.f. 5th August, 2024 
5Mr. K. Kalkat has joined the Board w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
6Lt. Gen. R. Khosla (Retd.) has joined the Board w.e.f. 16th December, 2024
7Ms. S. Suri has ceased to be Director on the Board w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
120
Compliance Officer
Mr. Gopal Ganatra, Executive Director, Chief - GRC, General Counsel & Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company.
Shareholders’ Queries / Complaints and redressal status
The details of Shareholders’ queries / complaints received and resolved during the year under review are given below.
Particulars
Correspondences
Complaints
Total
Transmission 
of shares
Change of 
address
Non-receipt of 
dividend / share 
certificates
Others
Received during the year
21
214
0
3,187
45
3,232
Attended during the year
21
214
0
3,187
45
3,232
Not resolved to the satisfaction of Shareholder
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pending as on 31st March, 2025
0
0
0
0
0
0
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee comprises of three Directors with Independent Director as Chairperson. Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of AIS has been constituted in accordance with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof 
for the time being in force). The Committee formally looks into the current CSR activities of the Company in line with requirements of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and way forward to pursue AIS’s social projects and programmes in a focused manner ensuring maximum 
positive impact. AIS’s on-going CSR initiatives are focused on, inter alia, education, health, water & sanitation, women empowerment 
and livelihood development.
Given below is a chart showing investors’ complaints.*
1000
900
800
700
600
100
0
300
200
500
400
*It does not include correspondences request.
No. of Complaints
FY 21
FY 22
FY 23
FY 25
FY 24
FY 20
FY 19
FY 18
FY 17
FY 16
FY 15
FY 14
FY 13
FY 12
FY 11
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
121
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Composition, Meetings & Attendance of the Committee
During the financial year 2024-25, 1 (one) meeting of Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee was held on 15th May, 2024. The 
composition and attendance of the Committee is as under:
Name of 
Members
Category
Status
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Ms. S. Mehta*
Independent
Chairperson
1
0
Mr. S. Labroo
Promoter, 
Executive
Member
1
1
Ms. N. Labroo
Promoter,  
Non-Executive
Member
1
1
*Ms. S. Mehta has joined the Committee w.e.f. 8th May, 2024 as Chairperson
Restructuring Committee
In view of AIS’s vision to reorganize its downstream / consumer 
businesses, and with a view to identify possible acquisitions of 
adjacent businesses in the Consumer Glass space as well complete 
the required regulatory formalities and compliances, the Board 
had, in its meeting held on 31st July, 2023, formed a special 
“Restructuring Committee”.
Composition, Meetings & Attendance of the Committee
During the financial year 2024-25, no meeting of Restructuring 
Committee was held. The composition of the Committee is as 
under:
Name of Members
Category
Status
Mr. S. Labroo
Promoter, Executive
Chairman
Mr. R. Rana*
Independent
Member
Ms. S. Suri**
Independent
Member
Ms. S. Mehta***
Independent
Member
Ms. N. Labroo
Promoter, Non-Executive
Member
*Mr. R. Rana has ceased to be Member of the Committee w.e.f. 5th August, 2024
**Ms. S. Suri has ceased to be Member of the Committee w.e.f. 31st March, 2025
***Ms. S. Mehta has joined the Committee w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
Management Discussion and Analysis
A separate chapter on Management Discussion and Analysis is 
given in this Annual Report.
Other Disclosures
Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
The Company has in place a Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace in line with the requirements of 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder.
During the period under review, no complaints were received by 
the Internal Complaints Committee established under the Policy 
for Prohibition, Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace of the Company.
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 is as 
under:
S. 
No. Details
Status
1
Number of Complaints filed during the Financial Year
0
2
Number of Complaints disposed of during the Financial Year
0
3
Number of Complaints pending as on the end of the 
Financial Year
0
Disclosures of Related Party Transactions
During the year under review, your Company has entered into 
Material Related Party Transactions as approved by the Members 
under Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations. All the related party 
transactions entered by the company during the financial year 
were at arm’s length basis and in ordinary course of business. The 
related party transactions as per applicable accounting standards 
are disclosed in the Notes to Accounts in this Annual Report. All 
details relating to business transactions where Directors may have 
a potential interest are provided to the Board and the interested 
Directors neither participate in the discussions nor do they vote 
on such matters.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board of 
Directors of the Company have formulated the Policy on dealing 
with RPTs and Policy on materiality of RPTs which is uploaded on 
the website of the Company and can be accessed through link 
https://www.aisglass.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Policy_
on_Related_Party_Transactions.pdf.
Details of non-compliance by the Company
During the last three years there has been no instance of 
non-compliance by the Company on any matter related to capital 
markets However, the Company was short of one Independent 
Director since the date of resignation of an Independent 
Director from the Board till 15th December, 2024. The criteria 
of half of the Board being Independent, as stipulated under 
Regulation 17(1)(b) of Listing Regulations, was not fulfilled till 
15th December, 2024 and hence NSE and BSE had imposed penalties 
amounting to  ₹8,40,000 each which was paid by the Company in 
due time. The criteria is fulfilled w.e.f. 16th December, 2024 after the 
appointment of an Independent Director on the Board.
Code for prevention of Insider Trading Practices
In compliance of the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has formulated “Code 
of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information” and “Code of Conduct to Regulate, 
Monitor and Report Trading by Designated Persons.”
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
122
“Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information” prescribes the framework 
for fair disclosure of events and occurrences that could impact 
price discovery in the market for securities of the Company and 
“Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading by 
Designated Persons” has been formulated to regulate, monitor 
and report trading by employees and other connected persons 
of the Company.
CEO / CFO Certification
Chairman & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer have 
certified to the Board with respect to the financial statements, 
internal controls and other matters as required under Listing 
Regulations.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and 
Hedging Activities
The Company is exposed to the risks associated with volatility in 
foreign exchange rates mainly on account of import raw materials, 
stores & spares and CAPEX payments. The Company uses foreign 
currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations. The Company does not use forward 
contracts for speculative purposes. A robust planning and strategy 
ensures the Company’s interests are protected despite volatility 
in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. The details of 
foreign currency exposure are disclosed in the Note No. 39 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements.
Total Fees paid to Statutory Auditors
The total fees paid to M/s. VSSA & Associates, Statutory Auditors 
by the Company and its subsidiaries; on a consolidated basis for 
the Financial Year 2024-25 is ₹ 63,00,000/- (Rupees Sixty Three 
Lakhs Only).
Shareholders
Disclosure regarding appointment / re-appointment / 
resignation of Directors
During the year under review following changes took place in the 
Board of your Company:
During the financial year, Mr. Yoji Taguchi (DIN: 01892369), 
Independent Director of the Company has resigned from the 
Board of Directors of the Company w.e.f. 1st April, 2024 due 
to his permanent return to Japan and Mr. Setsuya Yoshino 
(DIN: 10504479) was appointed in his place as Director in the 
capacity of Independent Director of the Company vide circular 
resolution dated 22nd February, 2024 and by Members through 
Postal Ballot on 25th March, 2024 for a period of up to five 
consecutive years with effect from 1st April, 2024 in accordance 
with the provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152, 161, 175 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Schedule IV of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Mr. Yoji Taguchi has confirmed that there was no material reason 
for his resignation apart from the reasons cited above.
Mr. Rahul Rana (DIN: 00476406), has completed his second term of 
five years as an Independent Director and consequently ceased to 
be a Director of the Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours 
on 5th August, 2024 and Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat (DIN: 10723711) was 
appointed as Director in the capacity of Independent Director of 
the Company by the Board of Directors on 31st July, 2024 and by 
Members at 39th AGM held on 4th September, 2024 for a period 
upto five consecutive years with effect from 6th August, 2024 in 
accordance with the provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152 & 161 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Schedule IV of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla (Retd.) (DIN: 10824636) has been appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director in the capacity of Independent Director 
of the Company by the Board of Director vide circular resolution 
dated 16th December, 2024 and subsequently by Members through 
Postal Ballot on 15th March, 2025 for a period upto five consecutive 
years with effect from 16th December, 2024 in accordance with 
the provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152, 161, 175 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Schedule IV of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17 of Listing Regulations.
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka (DIN: 07692846), Non-Executive Director of 
the Company has resigned from the Board of Directors of the 
Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours of 31st March, 2025 
due to his permanent return to Japan.
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka has confirmed that there was no material 
reason for his resignation apart from the reasons cited above.
Ms. Shradha Suri (DIN: 00176902), has completed her second term 
of five years as an Independent Director and consequently ceased 
to be a Director of the Company w.e.f. the closure of business hours 
on 31st March, 2025.
In accordance with the provisions of Section(s) 149, 152 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, Mr. Masao Fukami (DIN: 09811031) and Ms. Nisheeta Labroo 
(DIN: 10040978), Directors are liable to retire by rotation at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-appointment.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
123
AtmaNirbhar AIS
General Body Meetings
The details of the last three Annual General Meetings are as follows:
Financial 
Year
Day and Date
Time
Location of the 
meeting
Special Resolution(s) passed
2023-24
Wednesday, 
4th September, 2024
3:00 PM.
Through Video 
Conferencing mode
a)	 Appointment of Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat (DIN: 10723711) as Non-Executive 
Director in the capacity of Independent Director of the Company, for a 
term of 5 (five) consecutive years w.e.f. 6th August, 2024
2022-23
Monday,
18th September, 2023
3:00 PM.
Through Video 
Conferencing mode
a)	 Re-appointment of Mr. Sanjay Labroo (DIN: 00009629) as Chairman & 
Managing Director for a period of 5 (Five) years w.e.f. 19th February, 2024.
2021-22
Thursday,
15th September, 2022
3:00 PM.
Through Video 
Conferencing mode
No
Postal Ballot
During the year under review, the Company passed a resolution through postal ballot, details of the resolution are as under:
Name of the Resolution
Type of
Resolution
No. of votes 
Polled
Votes Cast in favour
Votes cast against
No. of votes
%
No. of votes
%
Appointment of Lt. Gen. Ravin Khosla (Retd.) (DIN: 10824636) 
as a Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company
Special Resolution
14,01,45,810
14,01,08,543
99.97
37,267
0.03
Raising funds in one or more tranches
Special Resolution
14,01,45,814
14,01,45,392
99.99
422
0.01
Increase in overall borrowing limits of the Company as per 
Section 180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 and limits under 
Section 180(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 for securitization / 
direct assignment and creating charge on the assets of the Company
Special Resolution
14,01,45,810
13,97,13,979
99.69
4,31,831
0.31
Further, no Special Resolution requiring Postal Ballot is being 
proposed for the ensuing AGM.
The Postal Ballot was carried out as per the provisions of 
Section(s) 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules framed thereunder 
and applicable Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standards - 2 on 
General Meeting (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI). The voting period for remote 
e - voting commenced on Friday, 14th February, 2025 at 
9:00 a.m. (IST) and ended on Saturday, 15th March, 2025 
at 5:00 p.m. (IST).
M/s. SSPK & Co., Practicing Company Secretaries were appointed 
as the Scrutinizer for conducting the Postal Ballot process through 
remote e - voting in a fair & transparent manner. The e - voting 
results were declared on Tuesday, 18th March, 2025 and all the 
resolutions were passed with requisite majority.
Means of Communication with Shareholders
Financial Results
The financial results of AIS are communicated to all the Stock 
Exchanges where the Company’s equity shares are listed. The 
results are published in ‘Business Standard’ in English and ‘Veer 
Arjun’ in the vernacular language.
The details of publications of financial results in the year under 
review are as under:
Description
Date
Unaudited financial results for the first quarter 
ended 30th June, 2024
1st August, 2024
Unaudited financial results for the second quarter 
and the half year ended 30th September, 2024
30th October, 2024
Unaudited financial results for the third quarter 
and the nine months ended 31st December, 2024
30th January, 2025
Audited financial results for the fourth quarter and 
the year ended 31st March, 2025
15th May, 2025
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
124
Company’s Website
The website of the Company, www.aisglass.com is regularly 
updated with the financial results, corporate information, official 
news releases, presentation to institutional investors, analysts and 
press releases.
Compliance
Mandatory Requirements
As on 31st March, 2025, the Company has complied with all 
applicable mandatory requirements of the Listing Regulations.
Shareholders’ Rights / Information
Information like financial results, official news releases, press 
releases, presentation to analysts, etc. are displayed on the 
Company’s website www.aisglass.com.
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance
The Company has obtained a Certificate from the Statutory 
Auditors regarding compliance of conditions of corporate 
governance, as mandated in Listing Regulations. The certificate is 
annexed to this Annual Report.
General Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting
Date
10th September, 2025
Time
3:00 p.m. IST
Venue
Virtually through Webex Software which shall be deemed 
to have held at Registered Office of the Company at A-2/10, 
1st Floor, WHS DDA Marble Market, Kirti Nagar, New Delhi –110 015
Financial Year
Financial year
1st April to 31st March
For the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, results were 
announced on:
First quarter
31st July, 2024
Second quarter
29th October, 2024
Third quarter
29th January, 2025
Fourth quarter and annual
14th May, 2025
For the year ending 31st March, 2026, results will be announced by:
First quarter
Fifth week of July, 2025
Second quarter
First week of November, 2025
Third quarter
Fifth week of January, 2026
Fourth quarter and annual
Third week of May, 2026
Dividend
Your Directors have recommended dividend of ₹ 2 (@ 200%) per 
Equity Shares of face value of ₹ 1 each for the FY 2024-25. Dividend, 
if declared, shall be paid on or after 16th September, 2025.
IEPF
Pursuant to applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (hereinafter 
referred to as “IEPF Rules”), (including any statutory modification(s) 
and or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), the 
amount of dividend remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period 
of 7 (seven) years are required to be transferred by the Company 
to the IEPF established by the Central Government.
Further, according to the said IEPF Rules, shares in respect of which 
dividend has not been claimed by the shareholders for 7 (seven) 
consecutive years or more shall also be transferred to the demat 
account of the IEPF Authority within a period of thirty days of such 
shares becoming due to be so transferred.
The dividend amount and shares transferred to the IEPF can be 
claimed by the concerned Members from the IEPF Authority after 
complying with the procedure prescribed under the IEPF Rules. 
The details of the unclaimed dividends are also available on the 
Company’s website at www.aisglass.com and the said details have 
also been uploaded on the website of the IEPF Authority which can 
be accessed through the link www.iepf.gov.in.
Listing
BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers
Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)
Exchange Plaza,
Plot No. C/1, G Block
Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051
Listing Fees
The listing fee for the financial year 2024-25 has been paid to BSE 
and NSE.
Shareholders’ Issues
Shareholders may send their queries to the e-mail address 
investorrelations@aisglass.com, proactively managed by the 
Company, under the 'Investor Relations' Section of Company’s 
website.
Analysts
Analysts may schedule their conference calls and meetings 
through the e-mail address, analyst@aisglass.com, under the 
'Investor Relations' section of the website of the Company with:
1.	
Mr. Gopal Ganatra, Executive Director, General Counsel & 
Company Secretary or
2.	
Mr. Shailesh Agarwal, Executive Director & Chief Financial 
Officer.
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
125
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, 2025
Categories
(No. of Shares)
Total No. of Shareholders
Percentage of total 
shareholders
Total No. of shares held
Percentage of total 
shares
1-500
64,341
95.84
34,15,059
1.40
501-1,000
973
1.45
7,72,121
0.32
1,001-2,000
506
0.75
7,88,377
0.32
2,001-3,000
220
0.33
5,68,973
0.24
3,001-4,000
185
0.28
6,86,780
0.28
4,001-5,000
110
0.16
5,14,963
0.21
5,001-10,000
347
0.52
25,44,691
1.05
10,001 and above
452
0.67
23,37,98,967
96.18
Total
67,134
100.00
24,30,89,931
100.00
Shareholding pattern as on 31st March, 2025
Category
As on 31st March, 2025
Total No. of Shares
Percentage
A.
Promoters’ Holding
1
Promoters
a. 	 Indian Promoters
7,43,19,421
30.57
b. 	 Foreign Promoters
5,74,26,400
23.62
Total
13,17,45,821
54.19
B.
Non-Promoters’ Holding
2
Institutional Investors
a. 	 Mutual Funds/UTI
38,74,540
1.60
b. 	 Venture Capital Fund
0
0.00
c. 	 Alternative Investment Funds
83,501
0.03
d. 	 Foreign Venture Capital Investors
0
0.00
e. 	 Foreign Portfolio Investor
1,01,08,466
4.16
f. 	
Banks/FI
4,384
0.00
g. 	 Insurance Companies
22,209
0.01
h. 	 Provident Funds/Pension Funds
0
0.00
i. 	
Others (Foreign Banks)
2,024
0.00
j. 	
FIIs
150
0.00
Total
1,40,95,274
5.80
3
Others
a. 	 Indian Public
4,75,74,169
19.57
b. 	 Trusts
3,204
0.00
c. 	 HUF
1,43,30,935
5.90
d. 	 NRI
26,95,636
1.11
e. 	 Body Corp-Ltd Liability Partnership
20,16,747
0.83
f. 	
OCB’s
22,64,000
0.93
g. 	 Clearing Member
302
0.00
h. 	 Bodies Corporate
2,68,68,458
11.05
i. 	
NBFCs registered with RBI
3,650
0.00
j. 	
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
14,90,621
0.61
k. 	 Escrow Account
1,114
0.00
Total
9,72,48,836
40.01
Grand total
24,30,89,931
100.00
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
126
Unclaimed Shares
As per the requirements of Regulation 34(3) of Listing Regulations 
and Para F of Schedule V, the Company has identified 8,528 folios 
comprising of 8,84,085 equity shares of face value of ₹ 1 each, 
which are unclaimed as on 31st March, 2025. The Company had 
sent reminders to the concerned shareholders in accordance with 
the said regulation.
Dematerialisation of Shares
The shares of the Company are in the compulsory demat segment. 
The Reconciliation of the Share Capital Audit Report of the 
Company obtained from the Practicing Company Secretary has 
been submitted to Stock Exchanges within stipulated time period. 
The below mentioned table contains detailed break-up of share 
capital, held in dematerialized or physical mode, of the Company 
as on 31st March, 2025.
No. of shares held in dematerialized and physical mode:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Number of 
Shares
% of Total 
Issued Capital
1.
Shares held in 
dematerialized form in CDSL
2,35,69,250
9.70
2.
Shares held in 
dematerialized form in NSDL
21,70,70,500
89.29
3.
Shares held in physical form
24,50,181
1.01
Total
24,30,89,931
100.00
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants / Options
The Company has not issued any GDRs or ADRs or Warrants or 
Convertible Instruments.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
The Company in compliance with SEBI guidelines has appointed a 
common Share Transfer Agent for both the physical and electronic 
form of Shareholding. The Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent (RTA) namely, MUFG Intime India Private Limited can be 
contacted at the following address:
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Mumbai)
C-101, 247 Park,
LBS Marg, Vikhroli West,
Mumbai - 400 083
Tel No: +91 22 49186000
Fax: +91 22 49186060
Share Transfer System
The Company’s shares held in the dematerialised form are 
electronically traded in the Depository.
In the case of transfers in physical form which are lodged at the 
above offices of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, such 
transfers are processed within the stipulated time period. All share 
transfers are approved by the officials authorised by the Board and 
thereafter ratified by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee at 
its next meeting.
Communication
Communication regarding share transfer, change of address, 
dividend, etc. can be addressed to the RTA at the address given 
above. Shareholders’ correspondence / communication is 
acknowledged and attended to within the stipulated time, as 
applicable.
Plant Locations
The details of the Plant locations are given in a separate section 
in this Annual Report.
Credit Rating
The Credit ratings obtained by the Company during FY 2024-25 
are below:
Bank Facilities
Rating
Long Term Bank Facilities
CRISIL A+ / Stable 
CARE A+ / Stable
Short Term Bank Facilities
CRISIL A1, CARE A1+
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
127
AtmaNirbhar AIS
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V, Para C, Sub-clause (10) (i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
Asahi India Glass Limited
New Delhi
For SKP & Co.
Company Secretaries
(CS Sundeep K. Parashar)
M. No.: FCS 6136
C.P. No: 6575
Dated: 30th July, 2025
PR: 1323/2021
Place: Vaishali
UDIN: F006136C000711271
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Asahi India Glass Limited 
having CIN L26102DL1984PLC019542 and having registered office at A-2/10, 1st Floor, WHS DDA Marble Market, Kirti Nagar, Mansarover 
Garden, New Delhi-110015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing 
this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V, Para-C, Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications, including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in, as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we, 
hereby, certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below has been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Director of the Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or 
any such other Statutory Authority as on 31st March, 2025:
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
1.
Mr. Sanjay Mohan Labroo
00009629
2.
Ms. Shradha Suri
00176902
3.
Mr. Masahiro Takeda
07058532
4.
Mr. Satoshi Ishizuka
07692846
5.
Ms. Sheetal Kapal Mehta
06495637
6.
Mr. Masao Fukami
09811031
7.
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
10040978
8.
Mr. Ravin Khosla
10824636
9.
Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat
10723711
10.
Mr. Setsuya Yoshino
10504479
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these, based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
128
Independent Auditors' Certificate Regarding Compliance of 
Conditions of Corporate Governance
To the Members of 
Asahi India Glass Limited,
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate 
Governance by Asahi India Glass Limited for the year ended on 
31st March, 2025 as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses 
(b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and para C and D of Schedule V to the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “LODR 
Regulations”).
Management’s Responsibility
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the 
responsibility of the Management. This responsibility includes the 
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and 
procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of the 
Corporate Governance stipulated in the LODR Regulations.
Auditors' Responsibility
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and 
implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring 
compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance. It 
is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the Financial 
Statements of the Company.
We have examined the books of account and other relevant records 
and documents maintained by the Company for the purposes of 
providing reasonable assurance on the compliance with Corporate 
Governance requirements by the Company.
We have carried out an examination of the relevant records of the 
Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification 
of Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (the ICAI), the Standards on Auditing 
specified under Section 143 (10) of the Companies Act, 2013, in 
so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per 
the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes 
issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of 
the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, quality control for firms 
that perform audits and reviews of Historical Financial Information 
and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according 
to the information and explanations provided to us and the 
representations provided by the management, we certify that 
the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, as applicable 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025, as referred to in paragraph 1 
above.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
   (Firm Registration No. 012421N)
Place: New Delhi
CA Samir Vaid
Dated:14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCM3876
Membership No. 091309
Annual Report 2024-25
Statutory Reports
129
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Financial 
Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of 
Asahi India Glass Limited 
Report on the audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements of 
Asahi India Glass Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 
Balance Sheet as at 31st March, 2025, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the Financial Statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Ind AS 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Act in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
State of Affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 2025 and its Profit, 
Changes in Equity and its Cash Flows for the year ended on that 
date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements under the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules there-under, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters. We have determined the matters described below 
to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
The Key Audit Matters
The Key Audit Matters
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company operates in various States within India and is 
exposed to different Central and State/Local laws, regulations 
and interpretations thereof. Due to a complex regulatory 
environment, there is an inherent risk of litigations and claims.
Our audit procedures included: We understood the processes, 
evaluated the design and implementation of controls and tested 
the operating effectiveness of the Company’s controls over the 
recording and re-assessment of uncertain legal positions, claims 
(including claims receivable) and contingent liabilities.
Consequently, provisions and contingent liability disclosures may 
arise from indirect tax proceedings, legal proceedings, including 
regulatory and other government/ department proceedings, as 
well as investigations by authorities and commercial claims.
We have gained an understanding of outstanding litigations against 
the Company from the Company’s inhouse legal counsel and other 
key managerial personnel who have knowledge of these matters.
The Company applies significant judgement in estimating the 
likelihood of the future outcome in each case and in determining 
the provisions or disclosures required for each matter.
We have read the correspondence between the Company and 
the various indirect tax/legal authorities and the legal opinions of 
external legal advisors, where applicable, for significant matters.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
131
AtmaNirbhar AIS
The Key Audit Matters
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Resolution of tax and legal proceedings may span over multiple 
years due to the highly complex nature and magnitude of the 
legal matters involved and may involve protracted negotiation 
or litigation.
We have evaluated the Company’s estimate of the possible outcome 
of the disputed cases based on applicable indirect tax laws and 
legal precedents.
We have assessed the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures in 
respect of contingent liabilities for indirect tax and legal matters.
These estimates and outcome could change significantly over 
time as new facts emerge and each legal case progresses. Given 
the inherent complexity and magnitude of potential exposures 
and the judgement necessary to estimate the amounts of 
provisions required or to determine required disclosures, this is 
a key audit matter.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Ind 
AS Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in Section 134 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with 
respect to the preparation of these Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, 
financial performance including Other Comprehensive Income, 
changes in Equity and Cash Flows of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed 
under Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material mis-statement, whether due 
to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements as a whole are free 
from material mis-statement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material mis-statement when it exists. Mis-statements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone 
Ind AS Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material mis-statement of 
the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material mis-statement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal financial 
controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
132
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to 
the related disclosures in the Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained upto the date of our auditors’ report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease 
to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of 
the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures and whether the Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected 
to outway the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 
(“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, we give in the “Annexure A”, a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order to the 
extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by 
law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books.
c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss 
including Other Comprehensive Income and the 
Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Ind AS Financial 
Statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act read 
with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors, as on 31st March, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors 
is disqualified as on 31st March, 2025, from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of 
the Act.
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Company and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
g)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors during the current year 
is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of 
the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not in 
excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the 
Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed 
other details under Section 197(16) which are to be 
required to be commented upon by us.
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i)	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations on its financial position in its Ind AS 
Financial Statements - refer Note 37 to Ind AS 
Financial Statements.
ii)	
The Company did not have any long term 
contracts including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
133
AtmaNirbhar AIS
iii)	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
iv)	
a)	
The management has represented that to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, other than 
as disclosed in the Notes to the Accounts, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other source of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies) including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”) with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediaries shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
b)	
The management has represented that to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, other than 
as disclosed in the Notes to the Accounts, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies) including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”) with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
funding party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries and
c)	
Based on such audit procedures that we have 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) 
contain any material mis-statement.
v)	
The dividend declared/paid during the year by the 
Company is in compliance with Section 123 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
vi)	
Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Company has used accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account for 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) 
facility and the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, 
the audit trail has been preserved by the Company 
as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCK3566
Membership No. 091309
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
134
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Ind AS 
Financial Statements of Asahi India Glass Limited
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements of our Report of even date)
i)	
a)	
A)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant & 
Equipment.
	
	
B)	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
	
b)	
The Company has a regular program of physical 
verification of its Property, Plant & Equipment through 
which all Property, Plant & Equipment are verified in 
a phased manner over a reasonable period of three 
years. As informed to us, no material discrepancies were 
noticed on such verification during the year.
	
c)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other 
than properties where the Company is the lessee and 
the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee) disclosed in the Financial Statements are held in 
the name of the Company.
	
d)	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant 
& Equipment (including Right of Use Assets) and 
intangible assets during the year.
	
e)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of records of the 
Company, no proceedings have been initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding any benami 
property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) 
Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
ii)	
a)	
The inventories except goods in transit have been 
physically verified by the management at reasonable 
intervals during the year, and in our opinion the 
coverage and procedure of such verification by the 
management is appropriate. No discrepancies of 10% 
or more in the aggregate in each class of inventory were 
noticed during physical verification as per information 
and explanations given to us.
	
b)	
As per information and explanations given to us, the 
quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company 
with banks or financial institutions who have sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of Rupees five crores, in 
aggregate, to the Company on the basis of security of 
current assets do not vary materially with the books of 
accounts of the Company.
iii)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, the 
Company has made investments in, provided guarantees 
or security and granted unsecured loans and advances in 
the nature of loans, to companies. There are no investments 
in or loans and advances in the nature of loans, secured or 
unsecured, to firms, Limited Liability Partnership or any other 
parties during the year.
	
a)	
Based on the audit procedures carried out by us and as 
information and explanations given to us, in respect of 
the above, it is stated below:
	
	
A)	
The aggregate amount during the year, and 
balance outstanding at the balance sheet date 
with respect to such loans or advances and 
guarantees or security to subsidiaries are ` 3500 
Lakhs and ` 12278 Lakhs respectively.
	
	
B)	
The aggregate amount during the year, and 
balance outstanding at the balance sheet date 
with respect to such loans or advances and 
guarantees or security to parties other than 
subsidiaries and associates are ` NIL and ` 8781 
Lakhs respectively.
	
b)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, the 
investments made, guarantees provided, security given 
and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans 
and advances in the nature of loans and guarantees 
provided are not prejudicial to the company’s interest.
	
c)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by us, 
in respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans, 
as the loans are repayable on demand, no schedule of 
repayment of principal and payment of interest has 
been stipulated. Hence, the provisions of clause (iii)(c) 
of the Order are not applicable.
	
d)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, as 
the loans are repayable on demand, the provisions of 
clause (iii)(d) of the Order are not applicable.
	
e)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, as 
the loans and advances in the nature of loans granted 
are repayable on demand, the provisions of clause (iii)
(e) of the Order are not applicable.
	
f)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, the 
Company has granted loans or advances in the nature of 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
135
AtmaNirbhar AIS
loans either repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment of ` 10445 Lakhs which 
is 97.87% of total loans granted including ` 8700 Lakhs 
loans granted to related parties as defined in clause (76) 
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
iv)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, in respect of investments, 
guarantees and security provisions of Section 185 and 186 
of the Companies Act, 2013 have been complied with.
v)	
As per information and explanations given to us and the 
records of the Company examined by us, the Company has 
neither accepted any deposits nor there are any amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits. As per information and 
explanations given to us, no order has been passed by 
Company Law Board or National Company Law Tribunal or 
Reserve Bank of India or any court or other tribunal.
vi)	
We have broadly reviewed the records maintained by the 
Company pursuant to the Rules prescribed by the Central 
Government for maintenance of cost records under Sub 
Section (1) of Section 148 of the Companies Act and are of 
the opinion that prima facie the prescribed accounts and 
records have been made and maintained. However, we 
are not required to and have not carried out any detailed 
examination of such accounts and records.
vii)	 a)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined 
by us, the Company has been generally regular in 
depositing undisputed statutory dues, including 
Goods and Services Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ 
State Insurance, Income Tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, 
Duty of Customs, Duty of Excise, Value added Tax, 
Cess and other statutory dues with the appropriate 
authorities during the year. We are informed that there 
are no undisputed statutory dues as at the year end, 
outstanding for a period of more than six months from 
the date they become payable.
	
b)	
There are no statutory dues referred to in sub clause 
(a) which have not been deposited on account of any 
dispute other than those mentioned below:-
Nature 
Of dues
Amount 
(` Lakhs)
Period 
to which 
amount 
relates
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Sales Tax/
VAT
970
2002-03 
and 
2003-04
High Court
Sales Tax/
VAT
2217
2006-07 
to 
2017-18
Deputy/Joint Commissioner/
VAT Tribunal
Excise 
Duty and 
Service 
Tax
490
2005-06 
to 
2017-18
Commissioner of Central 
Excise/ Service Tax/ Additional 
Director General/CESTAT
Nature 
Of dues
Amount 
(` Lakhs)
Period 
to which 
amount 
relates
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Custom 
Duty 
(Refer 
note 
37(a))
31502
2015-16 
and 
2024-25
Pr. Commissioner Customs 
and other Authorities
Goods & 
Service 
Tax
2061
2017-18 
to 
2021-22
Commisioner (GST)
Provident 
Fund
12
2018-19 
to 
2020-21
Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal/ EPFAT, 
Lucknow
Others
15
Commissioner Customs
viii)	 According to the records of the Company examined by us and 
on the basis of information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), which is not recorded in 
the books of accounts.
ix)	
a)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, the 
Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or 
other borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon 
to any lender.
b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by us, 
the Company is not declared as a wilful defaulter by any 
bank or financial institution or other lender.
c)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by us, 
term loans have been applied for the purpose for which 
they were obtained.
d)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, no 
funds raised on short term basis have been utilised for 
long term purposes.
e)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by us, 
the Company has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the obligations of 
its subsidiaries and associates. The Company does not 
have any joint ventures.
f)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by 
us, the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, or 
associate companies. The Company does not have any 
joint ventures.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
136
x)	
a)	
According to the records of the Company examined by 
us, the Company has not raised any money by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including debt 
instruments) during the year.
	
b)	
According to the records of the Company examined 
by us the Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or convertible 
debentures (fully, partially or optionally convertible) 
during the year.
xi)	
a)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, no 
fraud by the Company and fraud on the Company has 
been noticed or reported during the year.
b)	
No report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 has been filed in Form ADT-4 
as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
c)	
The Company has neither informed us nor we have 
come across any whistle blower complaints received 
during the year by the Company.
xii)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 
Company. Therefore, the provisions of clause (xii)(a), (b) and 
(c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xiii)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us all transactions with the related 
parties are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, where applicable. The details 
of such related party transactions have been disclosed in 
the Financial Statements as required by the applicable 
accounting standards.
xiv)	 a)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has an internal audit 
system through its internal audit department which is 
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
b)	
The reports of Internal audit department of the Company 
for the period under audit were duly considered by us.
xv)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions 
with directors or persons connected with them and hence 
provisions of clause 3(xv) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
xvi)	 a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company is not required 
to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).
b)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on our examination 
of the records of the Company, the Company has not 
conducted any Non-Banking Financial or Housing 
Finance activities during the year and the Company is 
not required to obtain Certificate of Registration from 
the Reserve Bank of India as per Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934.
c)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on our examination 
of the records of the Company, the Company is not 
a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in 
the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India 
therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xvi)(c) and (d) of 
the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xvii)	 According to the records of the Company examined by us, 
the Company has not incurred cash losses in the financial 
year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii)	There has been no resignation of statutory auditors during 
the year.
xix)	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on our examination of 
the records of the Company and on the basis of financial 
ratios, ageing and expected date of realisation of financial 
assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the Financial Statements, our knowledge of 
the Board of Directors and management plans, no material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of audit report that 
Company is capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the 
date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date.
xx)	 a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on our examination 
of the records, there are no unspent amounts for the 
year in respect of other than ongoing projects requiring 
transfer to a fund specified in Schedule VII to the 
Companies Act, 2013.
b)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on our examination 
of the records, the Company does not have any unspent 
amount for the year under sub-section (5) of Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013, pursuant to any 
ongoing project, to a special account in compliance 
with the provision of sub-section (6) of Section 135 
of the said Act.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCK3566
Membership No. 091309
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
137
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on 
the Standalone Financial Statements of Asahi India Glass Limited
(Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-Section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”))
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of Asahi India Glass Limited (“the Company”) as of 31st 
March, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Ind 
AS Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on 
that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India ("the ICAI"). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal 
financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the 
“Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India and the standards on auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed 
to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, 
both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls both 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those 
standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls over financial reporting was established and maintained 
and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls 
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material mis-statement of 
the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the Company’s internal financial controls system over financial 
reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial 
Reporting
A Company's internal financial control over financial reporting is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A Company's internal financial 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the Company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
Financial Statements. 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
138
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion 
or improper management override of controls, material mis-
statements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls 
over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that 
the internal financial control over financial reporting may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us, the Company has in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls system over financial 
reporting and such internal financial controls over financial 
reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March, 2025, based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over financial reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCK3566
Membership No. 091309
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
139
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Standalone Balance Sheet As At 31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
As At
31st March, 2025
As At
31st March, 2024
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Property,Plant and Equipment
2(a)
336265
201757
Capital Work-in-Progress
3
55200
81318
Intangible Assets
2(b)
142
145
Right of Use Assets
2(c)
42963
36234
Assets Classified as held for Sale
129
129
Financial Assets
Investments
4
23035
24397
Other Financial Assets
5
3453
3234
Other Non-Current Assets
6
6456
19144
Total Non-Current Assets
467643
366358
Current Assets
Inventories
7
104185
92558
Financial Assets
Trade Receivables
8
63093
51043
Cash and Cash Equivalents
9
10921
13803
Loans
10
12109
10756
Other Financial Assets
11
468
183
Current Tax Assets (Net)
12
279
443
Other Current Assets
13
23841
16526
Total Current Assets
214896
185312
TOTAL ASSETS
682539
551670
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity Share Capital
14
2431
2431
Other Equity
15
272284
238917
Total Equity
274715
241348
Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
Lease Liabilities
11414
4097
Borrowings
16
195835
126232
Other Financial Liabilities
17
2149
2199
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
18
17834
13584
Provisions
19
856
619
Total Non-Current Liabilities
228088
146731
Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
Lease Liabilities
758
703
Borrowings
20
55108
59122
Trade Payables
21
a) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note 43)
3892
1045
b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
94010
81850
Other Financial Liabilities
22
17178
14333
Other Current Liabilities
23
8315
6406
Provisions
24
475
132
Total Current Liabilities
179736
163591
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
682539
551670
See accompanying notes to the financial statements
1 to 65
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN : 00009629
DIN : 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No.: 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
140
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Income
	
Revenue from Operations
25
431161
414629
	
Other Income
26
3621
3097
Total Income
434782
417726
Expenses
Cost of Materials Consumed
159909
153387
Purchase of Stock-in-Trade
2481
1517
Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Work-in-Progress,
Stock-in-Trade and Others
27
(3764)
(204)
Employee Benefits Expense
28
35156
31609
Finance Costs
29
12230
13061
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
30
17250
16473
Other Expenses
31
164406
156503
Total Expenses
387668
372346
Profit Before Tax & Exceptional Item
47114
45380
Exceptional Item
53
5629
-
Profit Before Tax
52743
45380
Tax Expense
Current Tax
	
For the Year
(9428)
(11550)
	
Relating to Earlier Year
(45)
(15)
Deferred Tax
(4360)
(262)
Profit for the Year
38910
33553
Other Comprehensive Income
	
Items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss
	
Net Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on Defined Benefit Plans
(317)
(250)
	
Net Gain/(Loss) on Fair Value of Equity Instruments
(473)
273
	
Deferred Tax on Other Comprehensive Income
109
33
Other Comprehensive Income for the year, Net of Income Tax
(681)
56
Total Comprehensive Income for the year
38229
33609
Earnings per Equity Share
36
	
Basic (`)
16.01
13.80
	
Diluted (`)
16.01
13.80
See accompanying notes to the financial statements
1 to 65
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN : 00009629
DIN : 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No.: 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
141
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
A) Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Profit Before Tax
52743
45380
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and Amortisation, Including Capitalised
17457
16550
Net Actuarial Gains/(Losses) on Defined Benefit Plans
(317)
(250)
Finance Costs
12230
13061
Exceptional Item (Refer note 53)
(5629)
-
(Profit)/Loss on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
(934)
169
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes
75550
74910
(Increase)/ Decrease in Trade Receivables
(12050)
(1157)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Loans
(1353)
(3383)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Financial Assets
(504)
(573)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Deferred Tax Assets/Liabilities (Net)
4250
229
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Non-Current Assets
12688
(12642)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories
(11627)
6499
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Current Assets
(7315)
6725
(Increase)/ Decrease in Current Tax Assets (Net)
164
128
Increase/ (Decrease) in Trade Payables
15007
329
Increase/ (Decrease) in Other Financial Liabilities
2863
5318
Increase/ (Decrease) in Other Current Liabilities
1909
934
Increase/ (Decrease) in Provisions
580
114
Cash Generated from Operations
80162
77431
Income Taxes (Paid)
(13724)
(11794)
Net Cash Generated by Operating Activities
66438
65637
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
142
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
B) Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
(124417)
(85621)
Proceeds From Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
1097
349
Purchase of Non-Current Investments
(10)
(12674)
Proceeds From Sale of Non-Current Investments
6529
-
Net Cash used by Investing Activities
(116801)
(97946)
C) Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Finance Costs Paid
(12230)
(13061)
Payment of Lease Liabilities
(948)
(656)
Proceeds from Non-Current Borrowings
104506
91464
Repayment of Non-Current Borrowings
(37108)
(38621)
Proceeds from Current Borrowings (Net)
(1809)
136
Dividend Paid
(4862)
(4862)
Net Cash Generated From Financing Activities
47549
34400
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A + B + C)
(2814)
2091
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Year
13149
11058
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Year
10335
13149
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
As At
31st March, 2025
As At
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
Cash on Hand
14
16
Cheques on Hand
156
-
Balances with Banks:
In Current Accounts
2652
6136
In Deposit Accounts (with original maturity within 12 months)
7676
7244
Book Overdraft in Current Accounts
(163)
(247)
Total
10335
13149
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 1 to 65
Notes:
i)	
The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Ind AS 7 on 
“Statement of Cash Flows”.
ii)	
Previous year figures have been restated wherever necessary.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN : 00009629
DIN : 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No.: 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
143
AtmaNirbhar AIS
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At
1st April, 
2023
Changes 
due to
prior 
period 
errors
Restated 
Balance 
As At
1st April, 
2023
Changes 
during
the year
As At
31st March, 
2024
Changes 
due to
prior 
period 
errors
Restated 
Balance 
As At
1st April, 
2024
Changes 
during
the year
As At
31st March, 
2025
Equity Share Capital
2431
-
2431
-
2431
-
2431
-
2431
B)	
Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Total
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Amalgamation 
Reserve
General 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Balance As At 1st April, 2023
16
1395
23858
637
9851
174735 
(222)
210270 
Changes in Accounting policy or 
prior period errors
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated Balance as at 1st April, 2023
16
1395
23858
637
9851
174735 
(222)
210270 
Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
33553 
 - 
33553 
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 56 
56 
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the Year
-
-
-
-
-
33553 
56 
33609 
Ind AS Adjustments
 (100)
 - 
 (100)
Dividend Paid
-
-
-
-
-
(4862)
 - 
(4862)
Balance As At 31st March, 2024
16
1395
23858
637
9851
203326 
(166)
238917 
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Balance As At 1st April, 2024
16
1395
23858
637
9851
203326 
(166)
238917 
Changes in Accounting policy or 
prior period errors
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated Balance as at 1st April, 2024
16
1395
23858
637
9851
203326
(166)
238917
Profit for the Year
-
-
-
-
-
38910 
 - 
38910 
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
(681)
(681)
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the Year
-
-
-
-
-
38910 
(681)
38229 
Ind AS Adjustments
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Dividend Paid
-
-
-
-
-
(4862)
 - 
(4862)
Balance As At 31st March, 2025
16
1395
23858
637
9851
237374 
(847)
272284 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN : 00009629
DIN : 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No.: 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
144
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements 
1A)	 Corporate Information
	
Asahi India Glass Limited (“the Company”) is a public limited 
Company incorporated in India with its Registered Office at 
Delhi and is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited 
(BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE). The Company is engaged inter-alia, in the business 
of manufacturing of Auto Glass, Float Glass and other value-
added Glasses.
      	 The Standalone Financial Statements are approved 
for issue by the Company’s Board of Directors on 
14th May, 2025.
1B)	 Material Accounting Policies
	
a)	
Statement of Compliance
	
	
The Standalone Financial Statements have been 
prepared as a going concern in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) including the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,2015 
(as amended from time to time) and presentation 
requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the 
Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant) as applicable 
to the Standalone Financial Statements.
	
b) i)	 Basis for Preparation of Financial Statements
	
	
The Financial Statements have been prepared under 
the historical cost convention on accrual basis with the 
exception of certain assets and liabilities carried at fair 
values. The assets and liabilities have been classified 
as Current/Non-Current as per the Company’s normal 
operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Act. 
Based on the nature of products and the time between 
the acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company 
has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for the 
purpose of Current/Non-Current classification of assets 
and liabilities. The Statement of Cash Flows has been 
prepared under indirect method.
	
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted or a revision to an existing accounting 
standard requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use. The material accounting policy 
information used in preparation of the audited 
Standalone Financial Statements have been discussed 
in the respective notes.
   	
 ii)	
Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Judgements
	
	
The preparation of Financial Statements is in conformity 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
which requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions. 
	
	
The estimates and the associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience, opinions of experts and 
other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates.
	
	
Significant judgements and estimates are made in 
areas relating to useful life of Property, Plant and 
Equipment, impairment of Property, Plant and 
Equipment, Investments, actuarial assumptions relating 
to recognition and measurement of employee defined 
benefit obligations and recognition of provisions and 
exposure of contingent liabilities relating to pending 
litigations or other outstanding claims etc.
	
c)	
Property, Plant and Equipment-Tangible Assets
	
	
Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost, net 
of recoverable taxes, trade discounts and rebates less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any. 
Such cost includes purchase price, borrowing cost and 
any cost directly attributable to bringing the assets to 
its working condition for its intended use, net changes 
on foreign exchange contracts and adjustments arising 
from exchange rate variations attributable to the assets.
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the entity and the 
cost can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss during the reporting period in which they are 
incurred.
	
	
An item of Property, Plant and Equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from continued use of asset.
	
	
Depreciation Method and Estimated Useful Life
        	 	
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line 
method on a pro-rata basis from the date on which 
each asset is put to use to allocate their cost, net of 
their residual values, over their estimated useful lives. 
The estimated useful lives are those prescribed under 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
145
AtmaNirbhar AIS
of the following assets,where useful life is different than 
those prescribed in Schedule II (based on technical 
evaluation)
i)
Carpeted roads-other than RCC - Auto 
SBU
15 years
ii)
Carpeted roads-other than RCC - Float 
SBU
25 years
iii)
Fences (Boundary Walls) - Float SBU
25 years
iv)
Plant and Equipment
a)	 Tooling, Utility, Forklifts, Testing 
Equipment 
20 years
b)	 Continuous Process Plant and 
Electrical Installations forming part 
thereto 
18 years
c)	 Float Glass Melting Furnace
15 years
d)	 Other parts of Plant and Equipment 
(where cost of a part asset is 
significant to total cost of the asset)
25 years
v)
Electrical Installations- Auto SBU
25 years
	
	
vi)	
Assets not represented by physical assets owned 
by the Company are amortised over a period of 5 
years.
	
	
vii)	 Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount and 
such gains or losses are recognised as income or 
expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
	
viii)	 Cost of items of Property, Plant and Equipment 
not ready for intended use as on the Balance 
Sheet date is disclosed as capital work in progress. 
Advances given towards acquisition of Property, 
Plant and Equipment outstanding at each Balance 
Sheet date are disclosed as Capital Advance under 
Other Non-Current Assets.
	
d)	
Intangible Assets and Amortisation 
	
Intangible assets are stated at cost, net of recoverable 
taxes, trade discounts and rebates less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment loss, if any. The cost 
comprises of purchase price, borrowing costs and any 
cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to its 
working condition for the intended use. 
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
recognised as income or expense in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss. 
	
Cost of items of intangible assets not ready for intended 
use as on the Balance Sheet date is disclosed as 
intangible assets under development.
	
An intangible asset is derecognised when no future 
benefits are expected from use.
	
	
Amortisation Method and Estimated Useful Life
	
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis (SLM) 
over the estimated useful life. The estimated useful life 
and amortisation method is reviewed at the end of each 
annual reporting period with the effect of any changes in 
the estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
	
e)	
Impairment 
	
Tangible and Intangible assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. 
Non-financial assets that suffered an impairment are 
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the 
end of each reporting period.
	
f)	
Leases 
      	
	
Company as a lessor: 
       	 The Company classifies the leases as either a finance 
lease or an operating lease depending on whether 
the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an 
underlying asset are transferred and recognises finance 
income over the lease term. 
	
	
Company as a lessee:
    	
In accordance with Ind AS-116, the Company assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease at inception of a 
contract. At the date of commencement of the lease, 
the Company recognises a “Right of Use” asset and 
a corresponding liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is the lessee, except for leases with a term 
of twelve months or less (short term leases) and low 
value leases. For these short term and low value leases, 
the Company recognises the lease payments as an 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. The right of use assets are amortised using 
the straight line method from the commencement date 
over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right to 
use asset. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease or if not readily 
determinable using the incremental borrowing rates. 
Lease liabilities are re measured with a corresponding 
adjustment to the related right of use asset if the 
Company changes its assessment of whether it will 
exercise an extension or termination option.
	
g)	
Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the relevant instrument. Since the 
transaction price does not differ significantly from the 
fair value of the financial asset or financial liability, the 
transaction price is assumed to be the fair value on 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
146
initial recognition. Transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets 
and financial liabilities are added to or deducted from 
the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or 
financial liabilities. Purchase and sale of financial assets 
are recognised using trade date accounting.
	
	
i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
Financial assets include Trade Receivables, 
Advances, Security Deposits, Cash and Cash 
Equivalents etc., which are classified for 
measurement at amortised cost. The Company 
accounts its investments in subsidiaries and 
associates at cost. However, all other equity 
investments are measured at fair value, with 
value changes recognised through “Other 
Comprehensive Income”.
	
	
Management determines the classification of 
an asset at initial recognition depending on the 
purpose for which the assets were acquired. The 
subsequent measurement of financial assets 
depends on such classification.
	
	
	
Impairment:
	
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date 
whether a financial asset (or a group of financial 
assets) are tested for impairment based on 
available evidence or information. Expected 
credit losses are assessed and loss allowances 
recognised if the credit quality of the financial 
asset has deteriorated significantly since initial 
recognition.
	
	
	
De-Recognition:
	
	
Financial assets are derecognised when the right 
to receive cash flow from the assets has expired, 
or has been transferred and the Company has 
transferred substantially all of the risks and 
rewards of ownership.
	
	
	
Income Recognition:
	
	
Interest income is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss using the effective interest method. 
Dividend income is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss when the right to receive the same 
is established.
	
	
ii)	
Financial Liabilities:
	
	
Borrowings, Trade Payables and Other Financial 
Liabilities are initially recognised at the value of 
the respective contractual obligations. They are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
	
	
For trade and other payables maturing within one 
year from the Balance Sheet date, the carrying 
amounts approximate fair value due to short 
maturity of these instruments.
	
	
	
De-Recognition: 
	
	
Financial Liabilities are derecognised when 
the liability is extinguished, that is, when the 
contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled 
and on expiry.
	
h)	
Inventories  
	
Inventories are valued at lower of cost or net realisable 
value except waste which is valued at estimated 
realisable value as certified by the management. The 
basis of determining cost for various categories of 
inventories are as follows:
Raw Materials, 
Stores, Spare 
Parts and Packing 
Materials  
Weighted moving average method 
except stores segregated for specific 
purposes and materials in transit valued 
at their specific cost.
Work in Progress 
and Finished Goods 
Material cost plus appropriate share of 
production overheads.
Stock in Trade 
First in First Out method based on 
actual cost.
	
i)	
Revenue 
	
Revenue is recognised when the performance 
obligation is satisfied by transferring promised goods 
or services (i.e. an asset) to a customer. An asset is 
transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control 
of that asset. Revenue is measured at the fair value 
of the consideration received or receivable net of 
discounts, taking into account contractually defined 
terms and excluding taxes and duties collected on 
behalf of the Government. Dividend income from 
investments is recognised when the right to receive 
payment has been established. Interest income is 
accrued on time proportion basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and the effective interest rate 
applicable. Rental income from investment properties 
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the relevant leases. Income from services is accounted 
over the period of rendering of services.
	
j)	
Foreign Currency Transactions  
	
	
i)	
Items included in the Financial Statements are 
measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity 
operates (the functional currency). The Standalone 
Ind AS Financial Statements are presented in 
Indian Rupee  (INR) which is Company’s functional 
and presentation currency. 
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rates 
at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
147
AtmaNirbhar AIS
of such transactions and from the translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are 
generally recognised in Statement of Profit and 
Loss except on transactions entered into to hedge 
certain foreign currency risks. 
	
	
Exchange gains or losses on foreign currency 
borrowings taken prior to 1st April, 2017 which 
are related to the acquisition or construction of 
qualifying assets are adjusted in the carrying cost 
of such assets.	
	
	
ii)	
Derivative Financial Instruments
	
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Company 
uses certain financial instruments to reduce 
business risks which arise from its exposure to 
foreign exchange rate risks, commodity price risks 
and interest rate fluctuations. The instruments 
are confined mainly to forward contracts, certain 
other derivative financial instruments and interest 
rate swaps.
	
	
Derivatives are initially accounted for and 
measured at fair value from the date derivative 
contract is entered into and subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
k)	
Cash and Cash Equivalents  
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
Cash Flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents includes cash 
in hand, cheques/drafts in hand, demand deposits with 
banks, short term balances, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash 
and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in 
value. Book overdrafts are shown within Other Financial 
Liabilities in the Balance Sheet and form part of Cash 
and Cash Equivalents in the Cash Flow Statement.
	
l)	
Income Tax
	
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current 
tax and deferred tax. 	
	
Current tax charge is based on taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss because some items 
of income or expense are taxable or deductible in 
different years or may never be taxable or deductible. 
The Company’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using Indian tax rates and laws that have been enacted 
by the reporting date. 
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. 
	
The Company periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate. 
	
Deferred tax is the tax arising from temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the Balance Sheet and the corresponding tax bases 
used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is 
calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
	
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are off set 
against each other and the resultant net amount is 
presented in the Balance Sheet if and only when the 
Company currently has a legally enforceable right to 
set off the current income tax assets and liabilities. 
	
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax 
(MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, 
to the extent it would be available for set off against 
future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is 
recognised as deferred tax asset in the Balance Sheet 
when the asset can be measured reliably and it is 
probable that the future economic benefit associated 
with the asset will be realised.
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or 
loss, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or 
directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised 
in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity 
respectively. 
m)	
Employee Benefits  
	
	
i)	
Short Term Employee Benefits  
	
	
Short term employee benefits are expensed 
as the related service is provided. A liability is 
recognised for the amount expected to be paid if 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
past service provided by the employee and the 
obligation can be estimated reliably.
	
	
ii)	
Post Employment Benefits
	
	
	
Defined Contribution Plans  
	
	
The Company’s defined contribution plans 
are Superannuation and Employees Provident 
Fund, Employee State Insurance/ Labour Fund 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
148
and Employees’ Pension Scheme (under the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952) since 
the Company has no further obligation beyond 
making the contributions. The Company’s 
contributions to these plans are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.
	
	
	
Defined Benefits Plans  
	
	
Liability for defined benefit plans is provided on 
the basis of valuations as at the Balance Sheet 
date, carried out by an independent actuary. 
	
	
	
Gratuity 
	
	
The gratuity fund benefits are administered by 
a Trust recognised by Income Tax Authorities 
through Group Gratuity Schemes. The liability 
for gratuity at the end of the each financial year 
is determined on the basis of actuarial valuation 
carried out by the independent Actuary. The 
method used for measuring the liability for 
gratuity is Projected Unit Credit Method. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the 
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income in 
the period of occurrence of such gains and losses. 
The obligations for gratuity are measured at the 
present value of estimated future cash flows 
discounted at rates reflecting the prevailing 
market yields of Indian Government securities as 
at the Balance Sheet date for the estimated term 
of the obligations. The estimate of future salary 
increases considered takes into account the 
inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors. The expected rate of return of plan assets 
is the Company’s expectation of the average long-
term rate of return expected on investments of the 
fund during the estimated term of the obligations. 
Plan assets are measured at fair value as at the 
Balance Sheet date.
	
	
iii)	
Other Long Term Benefit Plans 
	
	
The liabilities for earned leave are not expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months after the 
end of the period in which the employees render 
the related service. They are therefore measured 
as the present value of expected future payments 
to be made in respect of services provided 
by employees up to the end of the reporting 
period using the Projected Unit Credit Method. 
The benefits are discounted using the market 
yields at the end of the reporting period that 
have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. Re-measurements as a result 
of experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income. 
	
iv)	
The expenditure on voluntary retirement scheme 
is charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss in 
the year in which it is incurred. 
	
n)	
Investments in Subsidiaries 
	
Investments in subsidiaries are long term and are 
carried at cost less impairment loss, if not temporary.
	
o)	
Earnings Per Share 
	
Basic earnings per Share is calculated by dividing the 
profit for the period attributable to the owners of 
Company by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period. The weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during 
the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for 
events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion 
of potential equity shares that have changed the 
number of equity shares outstanding without a 
corresponding change in resources. For the purposes of 
calculating diluted earnings per share the profit for the 
period attributable to the owners of the Company and 
the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the period is adjusted for the effects of all 
dilutive potential equity shares. 
	
p)	
Non Current Assets held for Sale 
	
Non Current Assets are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through 
a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale 
is considered highly probable. They are measured at the 
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost 
to sell.  
	
q)	
Exceptional Items  
	
When items of income or expense are of such nature, 
size and incidence that their disclosure is necessary 
to explain the performance of the Company for the 
year, the Company makes a disclosure of the nature 
and amount of such items separately under the head 
“Exceptional Items”. 
	
r)	
Segment Reporting  
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The Chairman & 
Managing Director of the Company has been identified 
as CODM and responsible for allocating the resources, 
assess the financial performance of segments and 
position of the Company and makes strategic decisions. 
	
The Company has identified two reportable segments 
“Automotive Glass” and “Float Glass” based on the 
information reviewed by the CODM. Refer note 38 for 
“Segment Information” presented.
	
s)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
	
A provision is recognized if as a result of a past event, the 
Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
149
AtmaNirbhar AIS
that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that 
an outflow of economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation. Provisions are recognized at the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the present obligation at the Balance Sheet date. If the 
effect of time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate the risks specific to the liability.  
	
A contingent liability exists when there is a possible 
obligation arising from past events, the existence of 
which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non 
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not 
wholly within the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that arises from past event where it is either 
not probable that an outflow of resources will be 
utilized to settle the obligation  or a reliable estimate 
of the amount cannot be made. Contingent liabilities 
do not warrant provisions but are disclosed unless the 
possibility of outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits is remote. Contingent assets are neither 
recognized nor disclosed in the  Financial Statements. 
However, when the realization of income is virtually 
certain, then the related asset is not a contingent asset 
and its recognition is appropriate. 
      	 The Company uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. The Company faces litigations 
and claims from various authorities and parties which 
are connected with a degree of uncertainty. Such 
litigations comprise complex issues which can only 
be resolved over extended time periods. Accordingly, 
the assessment of whether an obligation exists on the 
Balance Sheet Date as a result of an event in the past 
and whether a future cash outflow is likely and the 
obligation can be reliably estimated, largely depends 
on estimations by the Management including past 
precedents based on similar facts, opinions and 
consultation with experts handling the litigations and 
similar other weighing factors. 
	
t)	
Research and Development  
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Product 
development costs are capitalised when technical and 
commercial feasibility of the products is demonstrated, 
future economic benefits are probable, the Company 
has an intention and ability to complete and use or 
sell the product and the cost can be measured reliably. 
In other cases, such development costs are taken 
to the Statement of Profit and Loss. The costs which 
can be capitalised include the cost of material, direct 
labour, overhead costs that are directly attributable to 
preparing the asset for its intended use.
	
u)	
Rounding of Amounts  
	
All amounts disclosed in the Standalone Financial 
Statements and accompanying notes have been 
rounded off to the nearest lakhs as per the requirement 
of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013 unless 
otherwise stated. 
	
v)	
Dividends  
	
Dividend proposed is recognised in the period in 
which interim dividends are approved by the Board of 
Directors or in respect of final dividend when approved 
by shareholders.
	
w)	
Borrowing Cost  
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition 
or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised as 
part of the cost of such assets. A qualifying asset is one 
that necessarily takes substantial period of time to get 
ready for its intended use. All other borrowing costs 
are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss for the 
period for which they are incurred.
	
x)	
Government Grants
	
Government grants are not recognised until there is a 
reasonable assurance that the Company will comply 
with the conditions attached to them and the grants 
will be received.
	
Government grants related to expenses, are recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a systematic basis 
over the periods in which the Company recognises 
as expense the related cost for which the grants are 
intended to compensate.
	
Government grants related to income under State 
Investment Promotion Scheme linked with Goods 
and Service Tax (GST) payment, are recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss on the event they become 
receivable.
	
Government grants related to an asset, are recognized 
on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life 
of the related assets. MOOWR benefits arising from 
deferment of Custom Duty and Goods & Services Tax on 
import of capital goods under Manufacturing & Other 
Operations in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) Scheme 
are netted off from Property, Plant & Equipment. 
	
y)	
Royalty
	
The Company account for royalty in accordance with the 
relevant licence/technical collaboration agreements.
	
z)	
Recent pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
Standards or amendments to the existing Standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules as issued from time to time. For the year ended 
31st March, 2025, MCA has notified Ind AS-117 “Insurance 
Contracts” and amendments to Ind AS-116 “Leases” 
relating to sale and leaseback transactions, applicable 
to the Company w.e.f 1st April, 2024. The Company has 
reviewed the new pronouncements and based on its 
evaluation has determined that it does not have any 
significant impact in its financial statements. 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
150
2.	
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
	
As At 31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Description
Gross Block
Depreciation/Amortisation and Impairment
Net Block
As At 
1st April, 
2024
Additions
Other
Adjustments
Deductions/
Retirement
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
1st April, 
2024
For
the Year
Deductions/ 
Adjustments
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
a) Property, Plant & 
Equipment
Freehold Land
33070
 - 
 - 
 - 
33070
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
33070
33070
Buildings
70355
18707
3294
17
92339
14216
2425
5
16636
75703
56139
Plant and Equipment
165875
100893
18226
541
284453
67892
11575
433
79034
205419
97983
Electrical Installations 
and Fittings
14517
6009
1177
 12 
21691
4203
758
5
4956
16735
10314
Furniture and Fixtures
1841
180
 - 
 - 
2021
605
180
 - 
785
1236
1236
Office Equipments
3233
766
 1 
 1 
3999
2210
312
1
2521
1478
1023
Data Processing 
Equipments
2214
747
 4 
 3 
2962
1452
312
2
1762
1200
762
Vehicles
1996
466
 - 
84
2378
766
236
48
954
1424
1230
293101
127768
 22702 
658
442913
91344
15798
494
106648
336265
201757
(b) Intangible Assets
Software
714
65
 - 
 - 
779
582
55
 - 
637
142
132
Licence Fees
109
 - 
 - 
 - 
109
 96 
13
 - 
109
 - 
13
823
65
 - 
 - 
888
678
68
 - 
746
142
145
(c) Right of Use Assets
Leasehold Land
36572
45
 - 
 - 
36617
3406
544
 - 
3950
32667
33166
Plant and Equipment
158
3054
 - 
 - 
3212
25
111
 - 
136
3076
133
Buildings
4659
5746
 - 
1629
8776
1724
936
1104
1556
7220
2935
41389
8845
 - 
1629
48605
5155
1591
1104
5642
42963
36234
Total
335313
136678
22702
2287
492406
97177
17457
1598
113036
379370
238136
Previous Year
307658
28805
958
2108
335313
82179
16550
1552
97177
238136
-
Notes :
1.	
Buildings include cost of shares of ` 500 (previous year ` 500) in a Co-operative Society.
2.	
Other Adjustments (Gross Block) include Interest capitalised ` 1556 lakhs, `9411 lakhs, ` 665 lakhs, `4 lakhs and ` 1 lakh 
(previous year ` 116 lakhs, ` 264 lakhs, ` 38 lakhs, ` Nil and ` Nil) in Buildings, Plant and Equipments, Electrical Installations 
and Fittings, Data Processing and Office Equipment respectively.
3.	
Electrical Installations and Fittings include ` 636 lakhs (previous year ` 636 lakhs) paid to State Electricity Board not represented 
by physical assets owned by the Company.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
151
AtmaNirbhar AIS
3.	
Capital Work-In-Progress 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Building under Construction 
10281
9233
Plant and Equipment under Installation 
41670
61852
Electrical Installation under Erection 
1517
4520
Expenditure Incurred in the course of construction or acquisition 
1499
5575
Others 
233
138
TOTAL
55200
81318
	
The Capital Work-in-Progress (CWIP) ageing schedule as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 is as follows:
Particulars
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
47266
6936
954
44
55200
(77325)
(3691)
(256)
(46)
(81318)
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Total
47266
6936
954
44
55200
(77325)
(3691)
(256)
(46)
(81318)
	
For Capital Work-in-Progress, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan, the project wise 
details of when the project is expected to be completed is given below as of 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024:
Projects in Progress
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
Auto Projects
 13716 
 33 
 - 
 - 
(4798)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Float Projects
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Total
 13716 
 33 
 - 
 - 
(4798)
(-)
(-)
(-)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
152
4.	
Investments - Non-Current
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Number
Face Value (`)
Amount
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
i)	
Subsidiaries and Associates
Long Term - Trade
Equity Instruments
Unquoted (Measured at Cost)
Subsidiary Companies
AIS Glass Solutions Limited
3281999
3281999
10
10
328
328
GX Glass Sales & Services Limited
7976850
7976850
10
10
1813
1813
Integrated Glass Materials Limited
1400000
1400000
10
10
140
140
Shield Autoglass Limited
1833240
1833240
10
10
5242
5242
AIS Adhesives Limited
2099790
2099790
10
10
2605
2605
AIS Distribution Services Limited
200020
200020
10
10
7692
7692
17820
17820
Associate Companies
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited
-
11874378
-
10
-
900
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
1595562
1500000
10
10
160
150
160
1050
ii)	 Others (designated at fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income)
	
Quoted
	
Jamna Auto Industries Limited
825000
825000
1
1
620
1092
620
1092
Unquoted
Beta Wind Farm Private Limited
322924
322924
10
10
61
61
Green Infra Clean Wind Farms Limited
8352000
8352000
10
10
835
835
AMP Energy C and I Two Private Limited
362500
362500
10
10
36
36
Kamachi Sponge & Power Corporation Limited*
332000
332000
10
10
-
-
Vishakha Glass Private Limited
28076000
28076000
10
10
2808
2808
Watsun Infrabuild Private Limited
180664
180664
10
10
18
18
Avaada Mhbuldhana Private Limited
3500000
3500000
10
10
350
350
4108
4108
In Compulsorily Convertible Debentures
AMP Energy C and I Two Private Limited
32625
32625
1000
1000
327
327
327
327
Total
23035
24397
Aggregate Amount of Quoted Investments and 
Market Value thereof
620
1092
Aggregate Amount of Unquoted Investments
22415
23305
* Impaired
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
153
AtmaNirbhar AIS
5.	
Other Financial Assets
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Bank Deposits with more than 12 Months Maturity
-
-
Security Deposits
	
a) Related Party *
45
45
	
b) Others
3408
3189
Total
3453
3234
	
*` 45 lakhs (previous year ` 45 lakhs) due from R.S. Estates Private Limited.
6.	
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured Considered Good)
Capital Advances
6369
19025
Prepaid Expenses
87
119
 Total 
6456
19144
7.	
Inventories 
Raw Materials
34502
31062
Work-in-Progress
7805
8354
Finished Goods
37328
30535
Stock-in-Trade
462
426
Stores, Spares and Loose Tools
24062
22149
Others
Waste and Scrap
26
32
Total
104185
92558
Inventories include Material-in-Transit:
Raw Materials
6889
2532
Stock-in-Trade
41
-
Stores, Spares and Loose Tools
270
191
Note: Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value except waste and scrap which is valued at  estimated realisable 
value.
8.	
Trade Receivables 
Trade Receivables Considered Good-Secured
247
282
Trade Receivables Considered Good-Unsecured
62846
50761
Trade Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
84
4
Trade Receivables-Credit Impaired
-
28
63177
51075
Allowance for doubtful receivables
84
32
Total
63093
51043
Note: All dues are billed and there are no unbilled dues.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
154
	
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31st’ March, 2025 and 31st’ March, 2024	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
More than 6 
months- 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
i)	
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
23428
13454
3782
3170
3725
15015
 62574 
(21879)
(7730)
(1761)
(3933)
(2417)
(12755)
(50475)
ii)	
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
33
25
7
65
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(12)
(-)
(16)
(28)
iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables– 
considered good
-
-
-
13
75
431
519
(-)
(-)
(-)
(87)
(-)
(481)
(568)
v)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
1
18
19
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4)
(4)
vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Total
23428
13454
3782
3216
3826
15471
63177
(21879)
(7730)
(1761)
(4032)
(2417)
(13256)
(51075)
Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables
-
-
-
33
26
25
84
(-)
(-)
(-)
(12)
(-)
(20)
(32)
Total Trade Receivable
23428
13454
3782
3183
3800
15446
63093
(21879)
(7730)
(1761)
(4020)
(2417)
(13236)
(51043)
Note:
1.	
The Company’s exposure to credit and currency risks and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 39.
2.	
Figures in ( ) above are in respect of previous year.
9. 	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
i)	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
a)	 Balances with Banks
	
	
Current Accounts
2652
6136
	
	
Deposits With Original Maturity Upto Twelve Months (Including Interest Accrued)
7676
7244
	
b)	 Cheques and Drafts on Hand
156
-
	
c)	
Cash on Hand
14
16
	
d)	 Others - in Post Office Saving Account*
-
-
ii)	 Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
a)	 Unpaid Dividend Accounts
423
398
b)	 Fractional Entitlement Account
-
9
Total
10921
13803
	
* Rounded off to Nil 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
155
AtmaNirbhar AIS
10.	 Loans 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Loans Receivables considered good-Unsecured
	
Loans to Related Parties*
9778
8530
	
Loans to Others
2331
2226
Loans Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
-
-
Loans Receivables-Credit Impaired
-
-
Total
12109
10756
	
Details of Loans given to related parties as on 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024
Type of Borrower 
Amount of loans outstanding 
% of total loans
Promoters
-
-
 (-)
 (-)
Directors
-
-
 (-)
 (-)
KMPs
-
-
 (-)
 (-)
Related Parties
9778
 80.75 
(8530)
 (79.30)
Total
9778 
 80.75 
(8530)
 (79.30)
	
*`4450 lakhs (previous year `4450 lakhs) due from AIS Glass Solutions Limited, `3578 lakhs (previous year `3267 lakhs) due from Integrated Glass Materials 
Limited and `1750 lakhs (previous year `813 lakhs) due from Shield Autoglass Limited - Subsidiary Companies.
11. 	 Other Financial Assets
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Security Deposits*
468
183
Total
468
183
	
*Include interest accrued on Government Deposits of ` 82 lakhs (previous year ` 79 lakhs)
12.	 Current Tax Assets (Net) 
 Advance Income Tax & Tax Deducted at Source
279
443
Total
279
443
13.	 Other Current Assets (Unsecured Considered Good)
Advances
	
To Related Parties*
1867
1114
	
To Others
7047
6033
Advances to Government Authorities
13253
8289
Prepaid Expenses
1674
1090
Total
23841
16526
	
*` 1867 lakhs (previous year ` 1114 lakhs) to Integrated Glass Materials Limited - a Subsidiary Company against purchase of goods and other 
business purposes.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
156
14.	 Equity Share Capital
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Authorised
500000000 Equity Shares of par value `1/- each 
5000
5000
600000 Preference Shares of par value ` 100/- each
600
600
9000000 Preference Shares of par value ` 10/- each 
900
900
Total
6500
6500
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid Up
243089931 Equity Shares of par value ` 1/- each 
2431
2431
Total
2431
2431
	
(a)	
Movements in Equity Share Capital:
	
	
Reconciliation of the Equity Shares Outstanding:
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
Amount
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance at the beginning of the year
243089931
2431
243089931
2431
Issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
243089931
2431
243089931
2431
	
(b)	 Terms and Rights Attached to Equity Shares:
	
	
The Company has only one class of issued equity shares having a par value ` 1/- per share. Each Shareholder of equity shares 
is eligible to one vote per share held.	
	
	
	
(c)	
Details of Shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Name of Shareholder
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
% held
No. of Shares
% held
AGC Inc. 
53990400
22.21
53990400
22.21
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.
26995200
11.11
26995200
11.11
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
29230761
12.02
29210761
12.02
	
	
Shares held by Promoters as at 31st March, 2025
Promoter Name*
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
% change during 
the year
AGC Inc.
53990400
22.21
53990400
22.21
-
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd
26995200
11.11
26995200
11.11
-
Sanjay Labroo
29230761
12.02
29210761
12.02
0.07
Leena S Labroo
3517467
1.45
3483767
1.43
0.97
Pradeep Beniwal
816000
0.34
816000
0.34
-
Nisheeta Labroo
717586
0.30
717586
0.30
-
Aneesha Labroo
642086
0.26
642086
0.26
-
Tarun R Tahiliani
563148
0.23
563148
0.23
-
Bharat Roy Kapur
400000
0.16
400000
0.16
-
Satya Nand
364800
0.15
364800
0.15
-
Malathi Raghunand
306423
0.13
306423
0.13
-
Uma R Malhotra
347719
0.14
347719
0.14
-
Sabina Agarwal
210400
0.09
210400
0.09
-
Ashok Kanhayalal Monga
124000
0.05
124000
0.05
-
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
157
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Promoter Name*
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
% change during 
the year
Dinesh K. Agarwal
201640
0.08
201640
0.08
-
Krishna Chamanlal Tiku
163689
0.07
173689
0.07
(5.76)
Sushma Aggarwal
126150
0.05
126150
0.05
-
Charat Aggarwal
65862
0.03
113016
0.05
(41.72)
Dr Manjula Milind Pishawikar
60000
0.02
60000
0.02
-
V D Nanda Kumar
84077
0.03
84077
0.03
-
M Lakshmi
64000
0.03
64000
0.03
-
Tanya Kumar
63000
0.03
63000
0.03
-
Riva Agarwal
56800
0.02
56800
0.02
-
Abhinav Agarwal
55700
0.02
55700
0.02
-
M N Chaitanya
50800
0.02
50800
0.02
-
Ashok Kapur
40170
0.02
40170
0.02
-
Praveen Kumar Tiku
40000
0.02
40000
0.02
-
Padma N Rao
25600
0.01
25600
0.01
-
Rajeev Khanna
18240
0.01
18240
0.01
-
Daryao Singh
10000
0.00
10000
0.00
-
Kanta Gupta
1750
0.00
1750
0.00
-
Bhupinder Singh Kanwar
712
0.00
712
0.00
-
Ajay Labroo
255963
0.11
338008
0.14
(24.27)
Sanjaya Kumar
267519
0.11
267519
0.11
-
Sundip Kumar
316160
0.13
316160
0.13
-
Essel Marketing Private Limited
4026889
1.66
4026889
1.66
-
Allied Fincap Services Private Limited
400000
0.16
400000
0.16
-
Rajeev Khanna Tradelinks LLP
290624
0.12
290624
0.12
-
Anuradha Mahindra
3333486
1.37
3333486
1.37
-
Yuthica Keshub Mahindra
96000
0.04
96000
0.04
-
Anil Monga
160000
0.07
160000
0.07
-
Shashi Palamand
1550000
0.64
1550000
0.64
-
Suryanarayana Rao Palamand
1550000
0.64
1550000
0.64
-
Uma Ranjit Malhotra
65000
0.03
65000
0.03
-
Anjali Dhar
80000
0.03
80000
0.03
-
	
	
*Promoter here means promoter as defined in the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(d)	 Dividends:
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to 
the approval of Shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting except in case of interim dividend.
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of the equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. However no such preferential amounts exist currently. 
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the Shareholders.	
	
	
	
	
Details of dividend paid
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Equity Shares
Dividend for the year ended 31st March, 2024 of `2 (previous year `2) per fully paid equity share
4862
4862
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
158
15.	 Other Equity 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
a)	 Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
16
16
Closing Balance
16
16
b)	 Capital Redemption Reserve
Opening Balance
1395
1395
Closing Balance
1395
1395
c)	
Securities Premium
Opening Balance
23858
23858
Closing Balance
23858
23858
d)	 Amalgamation Reserve
Opening Balance
637
637
Closing Balance
637
637
e)	 General Reserve
Opening Balance
9851
9851
Closing Balance
9851
9851
f)	
Retained Earnings
Opening Balance
203326
174735
Net Profit After Tax transferred from Statement of Profit 
and Loss
38910
33553
Ind AS Adjustments
-
(100)
Dividend on Equity Shares
(4862)
(4862)
Closing Balance
237374
203326
g)	 Other Reserves Fair Value through Other 
Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)
Opening Balance
(166)
(222)
Ind AS Adjustments
(681)
56
Closing Balance
(847)
(166)
Total
272284
238917
	
Description of Reserves
	
a)	
Capital Reserve: Capital Reserve represents reserve of the Company which is not available for distribution as dividend.
	
b)	
Capital Redemption Reserve: Capital Redemption Reserve is reserve created on redemption of preference shares.
	
c)	
Securities Premium: Securities Premium represents excess amount received by the Company over the face value of its shares 
to be utilised for specific purposes only as per Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
d)	
Amalgamation Reserve: Amalgamation Reserve is reserve created on amalgamation of erstwhile Float Glass India Limited 
with the Company.
	
e)	
General Reserve: General Reserve is free reserve of the Company which is kept aside out of Company’s profits to meet 
future requirements as and when they arise. The Company had transferred a portion of the Profit After Tax to General Reserve 
pursuant to earlier provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to General Reserve is not required under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
f)	
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings are the accumulated profits of the Company after reduction of dividend and Income 
tax on dividend.
	
g)	
Other Reserves - FVTOCI: Other Comprehensive Income represents actuarial gain/loss on remeasurement of defined benefit 
obligation and fair valuation of Investments.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
159
AtmaNirbhar AIS
16.	 Borrowings - Non-current 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Secured Term Loans from Banks
Rupee Term Loans
174665
111509
Secured Term Loans from Others
Rupee Term Loans
11190
14723
Unsecured Term Loans from Banks
Rupee Term Loans
9980
-
Total
195835
126232
	
a)	
Details of Securities given and Terms of Repayments of Borrowings
Name of Bank / Others
As At 31st March, 2025
Security Given
Instalments 
Outstanding
Maturity
Non-
Current
Current
Secured Term Loans 
from Banks
HDFC Bank Limited
-
382
First Pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
1
Jun-25
AXIS Bank Limited
-
1874
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
3
Nov-25
MUFG Bank Limited
-
492
First Pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
1
Jun-25
Bank of Baroda
-
723
First Pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
2
Jul-25
HDFC Bank Limited
1218
813
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
10
Sep-27
Bank of Baroda
-
2496
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
4
Mar-26
EXIM Bank
2925
1663
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Oct-27
Bank of Bahrain and 
Kuwait B.S.C.
1875
1500
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
9
Jun-27
MUFG Bank Limited
3100
1760
First pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Dec-27
IDFC First Bank Limited
3746
1500
Subservient charge on current assets & movable 
fixed assets of the Company
7
Sep-28
Shinhan Bank Limited
2083
1249
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
8
Mar-27
Bank of Baroda
11701
772
First pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Dec-29
EXIM Bank
22327
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Mar-33
Central Bank of India
21218
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Mar-33
ICICI Bank Limited
15474
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Jul-33
HDFC Bank Limited
7781
1796
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Apr-29
The Federal Bank Limited
8746
1248
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Jul-29
The Federal Bank Limited
6804
1816
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
19
Dec-29
AXIS Bank Limited
4562
1036
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
19
Dec-29
MUFG Bank Limited
29400
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
24
Jun-32
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
160
Name of Bank / Others
As At 31st March, 2025
Security Given
Instalments 
Outstanding
Maturity
Non-
Current
Current
Shinhan Bank Limited
4372
623
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Sep-29
Citi Bank
8750
5000
Subservient charge on current assets & movable 
fixed assets of the Company
11
Oct-27
ICICI Bank Limited
6667
3333
First charge on T-16 Taloja Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
12
Jan-28
HDFC Bank Limited
11916
-
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Feb-30
Total
174665
30076
Secured Rupee Term 
Loans from Others
Bajaj Finance Limited
2823
1777
First Pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Mar-27
Bajaj Finance Limited
2200
800
Exclusive charge on Anantapur and Pune Sub 
Assembly Units movable fixed assets
15
Oct-28
Bajaj Finance Limited
6167
2000
First Pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
49
Apr-29
Total
11190
4577
Unsecured Term Loans 
from Banks
The Federal Bank Limited
9980
-
12
Mar-29
Total
9980
-
195835
34653
17.	 Other Financial Liabilities
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Deposits from Customers
2149
2199
Total
2149
2199
18.	 Deferred Tax Liabilities/(Assets) (Net) and Movement in Deferred Tax Balances
Particulars
Net Balance As At 
1st April, 2024
Recognised in 
Profit or Loss
Recognised 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Net Balance As At 
31st March, 2025
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Difference in Book Net Value and Tax Net Value of 
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
14661
3553 
-
18214 
Investments
-
113
(29)
84 
Borrowings
24
11
-
35 
14685
3677
(29)
18333 
Deferred Tax Assets
Expenses Allowed for Tax Purpose on Payment Basis
403
(42)
80
441 
Provision for Doubtful Debts and Advances
8
18
-
26 
Investments
561
(561)
-
- 
Unabsorbed Capital Loss
59
(59)
-
- 
Others
70
(39)
-
32 
1101
(683)
80
499 
Total
13584
4360
(109)
17834 
	
Note: Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset as they relate to the same governing laws. 
(` Lakhs)
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
161
AtmaNirbhar AIS
19.	 Provisions
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Provision for Employee Benefits
Leave Encashment
856
619
Total
856
619
20.	 Borrowings
Loans Repayable On Demand
Secured
From Banks*
955
6752
Unsecured
From Banks
19500
15512
Current Maturities (Refer Note 16)
Long Term Borrowings
34653
36858
Total
55108
59122
	
* ` 955 lakhs (previous year ` 6752 lakhs) are secured by first pari-passu charge on current assets of the Company.
21.	 Trade Payables
a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises* (Refer Note 43)
3892
1045
b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises*
94010
81850
Total
97902
82895
	
* Including unbilled dues
	
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule (due for payment) as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
i)	
MSME
3890
-
2
-
3892
(1039)
(4)
(1)
(1)
(1045)
ii)	
Others
25781
81
43
482
26387
(28322)
(121)
(248)
(197)
(28888)
iii)	 Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
-
106
129
289
524
(-)
(297)
(172)
(309)
(778)
Total
29671
187
174
771
30803
(29361)
(422)
(421)
(507)
(30711)
Add: Accrued Expenses (including 
unbilled dues)
67099
(52184)
Grand Total
97902
(82895)
Note: Figures in ( ) above are in respect of previous year.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
162
22.	 Other Financial Liabilities
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Interest Accrued
1230
369
Unclaimed Dividend*
423
398
Fractional Share Entitlement
-
9
Book Overdraft
163
247
Creditors for Capital Goods
12110
9942
Other Payables
Deposits from Customers/Vendors
137
241
Payable to Employees
2706
2755
Technical Fee / Royalty Payable
409
372
Total
17178
14333
*There are no amounts due for payment to the Investor Education and Protection Fund under Section 125(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
23.	 Other Current Liabilities
Advances from Customers and Others
4109
2790
Other Payables
	
Statutory Dues
4206
3616
Total
8315
6406
24.	 Provisions
Provision for Employee Benefits
	
Leave Encashment
115
102
	
Gratuity
330
 - 
	
Superannuation
30
30
Total
475
132
25.	 Revenue From Operations 
Particulars
Year ended 
31st March, 2025
Year ended 
31st March, 2024
Sale of Products
424707
410601
Sale of Services
1151
741
Other Operating Revenues
Scrap Sale
3293
3287
Government Grants (Refer Note 52(a))
2010
-
Total
431161
414629
26.	 Other Income
Interest Income
1876
1343
Profit on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
934
-
Net Gain on Foreign Currency transaction and translation
-
1047
Dividend received on Long Term Investments carried at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive 
Income
684
16
Miscellaneous
127
691
Total
3621
3097
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
163
AtmaNirbhar AIS
27.	 Changes in Inventory of Finished Goods, Work-In-Progress, Stock in Trade and Others
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Inventory at the Beginning of the Year
Finished Goods
30535
31851
Work-in-Progress
8354
6611
Stock-in-Trade
426
519
Others - Waste & Scrap
32
39347
25
39006
Inventory at the End of the Year
Finished Goods
34818
30398
Work-in-Progress
7805
8354
Stock-in-Trade
462
426
Others - Waste & Scrap
26
43111
32
39210
Total
(3764)
(204)
28.	 Employee Benefits Expense 
Particulars
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Salaries, Wages, Allowances and Bonus
29456
26403
 Contribution to Provident and Other Funds 
1572
1411
 Staff Welfare Expenses 
4128
3795
 Total 
35156
31609
29.	 Finance Costs 
Interest Expenses
11504
12578
Other Borrowing Costs
726
483
Total
12230
13061
30.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment
15697
15115
Amortisation of Right of Use Assets
1485
1238
Amortisation of Intangible Assets
68
120
Total
17250
16473
31.	 Other Expenses 
Consumption of Stores and Spares 
37031
34351
Power, Fuel, Water and Utilities (Refer note 52(b))
64771
63090
Payments to Auditors 
As Auditor 
54
47
For Other services 
9
8
For Reimbursement of expenses 
2
1
Packing 
6555
6351
Forwarding 
27087
27132
Repairs and Maintenanace 
7901
7810
Net Loss on Foreign Currency transaction and translation
104
-
Profit/Loss on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
-
169
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note No 46)
1087
854
Miscellaneous*
19805
16690
Total 
164406
156503
	
*Incuding ` 800 lakhs being contribution to a political party
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
164
32	 Disclosure as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’  
	
a)	
Income Tax Expense 
	
	
i)	
Income Tax Recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Current Tax Expense 
 Current Year 
(9428)
(11550)
 Adjustment for Earlier Years 
(45)
(15)
(9473)
(11565)
 Deferred Tax Expense 
 Origination and Reversal of Temporary Differences 
(4360)
(262)
 Total 
(13833)
(11827)
	
	
ii)	
Income Tax Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Particulars
 Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
 Before Tax 
 Tax 
(Expense)/ 
Benefit 
 Net of Tax 
 Before Tax 
 Tax 
(Expense)/ 
Benefit 
 Net of Tax 
Net Actuarial Gains/(Losses) on Defined 
Benefit Plans 
(317)
111 
(206)
(250)
87 
(163)
Net Gains/(Losses) on Fair Value of Equity 
Instruments 
(473)
(2)
(475)
273 
(54)
219 
 Total 
(790)
109 
(681)
23 
33 
56 
	
	
iii)	
Reconciliation of Tax Expense and the Accounting Profit Multiplied by India’s Domestic Tax Rate
Particulars
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Accounting Profit Before Tax 
51953
45403
Tax Using the Company’s Domestic Tax Rate of 25.168% 
13076
11427
Tax Effect of: 
Non-Deductible Tax Expenses 
602
(350)
Non Taxable Income 
(181)
(73)
Tax Savings on Long Term Capital Gain
(612)
-
Earlier Year Tax Adjustments
45 
15 
Others 
794
775 
Total Tax Expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
13724
11794
33.	 Disclosure as per Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ 
	
a)	
Defined Contribution Plans:
	
	
The Company pays fixed contribution to funds below at predetermined rates to appropriate authorities:	
	
	
i)	
Provident Fund
	
	
	
An amount of `1093 lakhs (previous year `1119 lakhs) for the year is recognised as expense on this account and charged 
to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
ii)	
Superannuation Fund
	
	
	
An amount of `31 lakhs (previous year `29 lakhs) for the year is recognised as expense on this account and charged to 
the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
	
iii)	
Employee State Insurance/ Labour Fund
	
	
	
An amount of `53 lakhs (previous year `48 lakhs) for the year is recognised as expense on this account and charged to 
the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
165
AtmaNirbhar AIS
	
b)	
Defined Benefit Plans:
	
	
The Company operates post retirement defined benefit plan for gratuity which is funded.
	
	
For details about the related employee benefits plan, See Note 1B(m) of Statement of Accounting Policies.
	
	
i)	
Reconciliation of the Net Defined Benefit Liability
	
	
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit 
liability and its components 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Balance at the Begining of the Year 
4617
3946
Benefits Paid
(243)
(254)
Current Service Cost 
259
233
Past Service Cost 
-
-
Interest Cost
331
295
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations - Due to Change in Demographic Assumptions 
(67)
143
Actuarial (Gains) / Losses Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
	
changes in financial assumptions
393
159 
	
experience adjustments
42
95 
Balance at the end of the Year
5332
4617
	
	
ii)	
Reconciliation of Plan Assets
	
	
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for fair value of plan assets 
and its components 
Balance at the Beginning of the Year 
4662
4251
Interest Income
334
317
Contribution by Employer
200
200
Benefits Paid
(243)
(254)
Return on Plan Assets excluding Interest Income
49 
148 
Balance at the end of the Year
5002
4662
	
	
iii)	
Reconciliation of Fair Value of Assets and Obligation
Present Value of Obligation at the end of the Year
5332
4617
Present Value of Plan Asset at the end of the Year
5002
4662
Liability/(Asset) Recognised in Balance Sheet
330 
(45)
	
	
iv)	
Expense Recognised in Profit or Loss
Current Service Cost
259
233
Past Service Cost
 - 
 - 
Interest Cost 
331
295
Interest Income
(334)
(317)
Capitalised 
(2)
 - 
Total
254
211
	
	
v)	
Re-Measurements recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Actuarial Loss on Defined Benefit Obligation
368 
398 
Return on Plan Assets excluding Interest Income
(49)
(148)
Capitalised
(2)
-
Total
317 
250 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
166
	
	
vi)	
Actuarial Assumptions
	
	
	
Principal Actuarial Assumptions at the Reporting Date (Expressed as Weighted Averages):
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Financial Assumptions
Discount Rate
6.65%
7.17%
Future Salary Growth
6.00%
5.00%
Expected Return on Plan Assets
6.65%
7.17%
Demographic Assumptions
Mortality Rate
Indian Assured Life Mortality (2012-14) 
Urban
Withdrawal Rate
- For ages 30 years and below 16.40% p.a.
- For ages 31 years to 40 years 15.70% p.a. &
- For ages 41 years and above 5.10% p.a.
Retirement Age (Years)
58
58
	
	
vii)	 Sensitivity Analysis
	
	
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount Rate (1%)
(271)
301
(202)
221
Future Salary Growth (1%)
282
(261)
211
(197)
Employee Turnover (1%)
9
(10)
26
(28)
	
c)	
Reconciliation of Leave Encashment Liability
	
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit 
liability and its components 
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Balance at the Beginning of the Year
722
608
Benefits Paid
(269)
(287)
Current Service Cost
43
36
Interest Cost
52
45
Actuarial (Gain)/Loss
	
Changes in financial assumptions
423
320
Balance at the End of the Year
971
722
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
167
AtmaNirbhar AIS
34.	 Related Party Transactions	
	
a)	
Related Parties under INDAS-24 with whom transactions have taken place during the year:
	
	
i)	
Subsidiaries:
	
	
	
1)	
AIS Glass Solutions Limited
	
	
	
2)	
Integrated Glass Materials Limited
	
	
	
3)	
GX Glass Sales & Services  Limited
	
	
	
4)	
Shield Autoglass Limited
	
	
	
5)	
AIS Adhesives Limited
	
	
	
6)	
AIS Distribution Services Limited
	
	
ii)	
Associates:
1)	
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited (upto 23rd December, 2024)
2)	
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
3)	
Under Par Sports Technologies Private Limited
	
	
iii)	
Enterprises owned or significantly influenced by KMPs or their Relatives:
1)	
R.S. Estates Private Limited
2)	
Allied Fincap Services Limited
3)	
Niana 
4)	
University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India
5)	
Automotive Components Manufacturers Association of India
6)	
Rudra Wood Pack Private Limited
	
	
iv)	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and their Relatives:
1)	
Mr. Sanjay Labroo	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Chairman and Managing Director
2)	
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo		
	
	
	
	
	
Non Executive Director
3)	
Mr. Masao Fukami	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dy. Managing Director-Technical and CTO (Auto)
4)	
Mr. Masahiro Takeda		
	
	
	
	
	
Non Executive Director
5)	
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka (upto 31st March, 2025)	
	
Non Executive Director
6)	
Mr.Yoji Taguchi (upto 1st Arpil, 2024)	 	
	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
7)	
Mr. Setsuya Yoshino (w.e.f. 1st Arpil, 2024)	 	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
8)	
Ms. Sheetal Kapal Mehta	 	
	
	
	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
9)	
Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat (w.e.f. 6th August, 2024)		
	
Non Executive Independent Director
10)	 Mr. Ravin Khosla (w.e.f. 16th Decemeber, 2024)		
Non Executive Independent Director
11)	
Mr. Rahul Rana (upto 5th August, 2024)	
	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
12)	 Ms. Shradha Suri (upto 31st March, 2025)	
	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
13)	 Mr. Shailesh Agarwal		
	
	
	
	
	
Chief Financial Officer
14)	 Mr. Gopal Ganatra	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Company Secretary
	
	
v)	
Others:
	
	
	
1)	
AGC Inc. and its Group Companies
	
	
	
2)	
Maruti Suzuki India Limited and its Subsidiary
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
168
	
b)	
Transactions with the Related Parties are as follows:
(` Lakhs)
Nature of Transactions
Subsidiaries
Associates
Enterprises Owned 
or Significantly 
Influenced by 
Key Management 
Personnel
Key Management 
Personnel and 
their Relatives
Others
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
1)	 Expenses
Purchase of Raw Materials and 
Power and Fuel
714
339
192
187
-
-
-
-
68039
61034
Purchase of Stock-in-Trade
274
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
1287
598
Stores and Spares
-
2
647
688
-
-
-
-
2157
1812
Purchase of Packing Material
-
-
-
-
659
456
-
-
-
-
Remuneration to Directors and 
KMP
-
-
-
-
-
-
1411
1159
-
-
Sitting Fee and Commission to 
Non-Executive Directors
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
7
2
1
Miscellaneous Expenses
2
16
-
-
33
59
-
-
-
-
Rent Paid
-
-
-
-
64
47
-
-
-
-
Repairs and Maintenance
20
17
12
-
-
-
-
-
304
90
Royalty / Technical Fee
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5191
3797
Interest Paid/Payable
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
132
211
2)	 Income
Sale of Goods Etc.
32390
7008
-
20740
-
-
-
-
100646
75432
Sale of Capital Goods
19
34
-
-
-
-
-
2
1106
622
Interest/Commission Received/
Others
960
712
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
6
Miscellaneous Income
441
58
-
330
-
-
-
-
-
-
3)	 Purchase of Capital Goods
245
26
153
68
-
-
-
-
2260
1562
4)	 Loans Given
1310
2400
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5)	 Advances Given
753
481
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
c)	
Outstanding Balances with Related Parties are as follows:
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Amount Recoverable towards Loans & Advances
From Subsidiaries
11645
9644
Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
45
45
Amount Recoverable other than above
From Subsidiaries
25904
21514
From Associates
-
-
From Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
-
146
From Others
5419
6509
Amount Payable
To Subsidiaries
1
1
To Associates
170
188
To Key Managerial Personnel
365
243
To Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
101
1
To Others
13663
11436
d)	
Related Party Relationship is as identified by the Company on the basis of available information and accepted by the Auditors 
as correct.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
169
AtmaNirbhar AIS
35. 	 Disclosure as per Ind AS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’
Company Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Proportion of Ownership
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
a)	 Investment in Subsidiaries*
AIS Glass Solutions Limited
India
82.55%
82.55%
GX Glass Sales & Services Limited
India
93.48%
93.48%
Integrated Glass Materials Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Shield Autoglass Limited
India
99.997%
99.997%
AIS Distribution Services Limited
India
99.97%
99.97%
AIS Adhesives Limited
India
95.66%
95.66%
b)	 Investment in Associates*
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited (up to 23rd December, 2024)
India
-
30.00%
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
India
40.00%
40.00%
Under Par Sports Technologies Private Limited
India
34.00%
34.00%
* Equity investments in subsidiaries and associates are measured at cost as per the provisions of Ind AS-27 on ‘Separate Financial Statements’.
36.	 Disclosure as per Ind AS-33 ‘Earnings per Share’
	
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share (₹)
16.01
13.80
Nominal Value per Share (₹)
1
1
a)	 Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (Used as Numerator)
	
Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (₹ lakhs)
38910
33553
b)	 Weighted Average Number of Equity Shares (Used as Denominator)
	
Opening Balance of issued Equity Shares of `1 each
243089931
243089931
	
Effect of Shares issued during the Year, if any
-
-
	
Weighted average number of Equity Shares Outstanding at the End of the Year for 
calculation of Basic and Diluted EPS
243089931
243089931
37. Disclosure as per Ind AS-37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
 As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Contingent Liabilities  
(As identified and provided by the management and accepted by the auditors as correct)
a)	 Claims against the Company not Acknowledged as Debts*
	
i)	
Excise, Custom Duty** and Service Tax
31992
4564
	
ii)	
Disputed Sales Tax Demand
3187
3280
	
iii)	 Goods & Service Tax (GST)
2061
1399
	
iv)	 Others
27
15
b)	 Guarantees
	
i)	
Bank Guarantees and Letters of Credit Outstanding
17507
18339
	
ii)	
Corporate Guarantees
7319
7153
	
iii)	 Bonds Executed in favour of Government Departments***
17123
6837
c)	
Other money for which the Company is Contingently Liable
	
i)	
Channel Financing from Banks
8825
9549
	
ii)	
Bills Discounted
23568
17450
Commitments
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for 
excluding Capital Advances
16022
59751
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
170
* The Company has been advised that the demands are likely to be deleted and accordingly no provision is considered necessary.
** Contingent Liability-Custom Duty include:
The Company has received several show-cause/demand notices from Custom Authorities alleging mis-classification of imported items. 
The Company is vehemently contesting such notices on legal grounds through expert consultants, and in the past in similar cases, 
such matters have been decided in favour of the Company. The Company is in the process of filing appeals/writ petition against the 
above notices. Therefore, the Company does not foresee any significant liability on such matters. Some of the above notices pertain to 
overlapping demands of Rs.15377 Lakhs, which has been excluded from the above.
*** As on 31-03-2025, the Company has a Contingent Liability of Rs.17123 Lakhs towards Custom Duty and Goods & Services Tax for 
capital goods imported under Manufacturing & Other Operations in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) Scheme. The Company’s liability 
towards such Custom Duty and Goods & Services Tax shall be contingent upon at the time of filing of Bill of Entry for home consumption. 
The event of such contingency occuring is remote.
38	 Segment Information:
a)	
Primary Segment Information
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Automotive 
Glass
Float 
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Automotive 
Glass
Float 
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Segment revenue
External
298972
126655
5660
-
431287
264527
149226
2785
-
416538
Inter segment sales
2122
6589
832
(9543)
-
2074
3515
3168
(8757)
-
Other income
-
-
3495
-
3495
-
-
1188
-
1188
Total revenue (Gross)
301094
133244
9987
(9543)
434782
266601
152741
7141
(8757)
417726
Segment result
36033
20082
(265)
-
55850
31534
26417
(700)
-
57251
Unallocated Income (net of 
expenses)
-
-
7246
-
7246
-
-
(153)
-
(153)
Operating profit
36033
20082
6981
-
63096
31534
26417
(853)
-
57098
Interest expense
-
-
(12230)
-
(12230)
-
-
(13061)
-
(13061)
Interest income
-
-
1877
-
1877
-
-
1343
-
1343
Tax Expense
- Current tax
-
-
(9428)
-
(9428)
-
-
(11550)
-
(11550)
- Deferred Tax
-
-
(4360)
-
(4360)
-
-
(262)
-
(262)
- Adjustments related to 
earlier years(Net)
-
-
(45)
-
(45)
-
-
(15)
-
(15)
Net profit / (Loss)
36033
20082
(17205)
-
38910
31534
26417
(24398)
-
33553
Capital Expenditure
25114
99265
38
-
124417
20178
65285
158
-
85621
Depreciation / Amortisation
12412
4417
421
-
17250
11564
4488
421
-
16473
b)	
Other information
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Total
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Total
Segment Assets
302291
333229
47019
682539
276516
227624
47530
551670
Deferred Tax Assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total Assets
302291
333229
47019
682539
276516
227624
47530
551670
Segment Liabilities
103487
31988
21406
156881
81027
28061
15880
124968
Share Capital and Reserves
-
-
274715
274715
-
-
241348
241348
Secured and Unsecured Loans
-
-
250943
250943
-
-
185354
185354
Total Liabilities
103487
31988
547064
682539
81027
28061
442582
551670
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
171
AtmaNirbhar AIS
c)	
Secondary Segment Information
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
India
Outside India
Total
India
Outside India
Total
Revenue by Geographical Market
External
437297
7028
444325
418986
7497
426483
Inter segment sales
(9543)
-
(9543)
(8757)
-
(8757)
Total
427754
7028
434782
410229
7497
417726
Notes:
i)	
The Company’s Operating Segments are established on the basis of the information that is evaluated by the “Chief Operating 
Decision Maker” as defined in Ind AS 108 - Operating Segments in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 
The segments have been identified taking into account nature of products and services,production processes,risks and returns 
and the internal business reporting systems.
ii)	
For management purposes, the Company is organised into two major operating divisions - Automotive Glass and Float Glass. 
These divisions	are the basis on which the company reports its primary segment information.
iii)	
All segment assets and liabilities are directly attributable to the segment. Segment assets include all operating assets used by 
the segment and consist primarily of fixed assets, inventories, trade receivables, advances and operating cash and bank balances. 
Segment liabilities include all operating liabilities and consist primarily of creditors and accrued liabilities. Investments, tax related 
assets, loans and other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed as 
unallocable.
iv)	
Segment revenues and segment results include transfers between business segments. Pricing is decided by marketing and logistics 
department. These transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
v)	
Joint expenses are allocated to business segments on a reasonable basis. All other revenues and expenses are directly attributable 
to the segments. They do not include interest income on inter corporate deposit and interest expense.
vi)	
There are no Non Current Assets located outside India.
vii)	 Revenue derived from a single external customer amounting to more than 10% of the entity’s revenue attributable to Automotive 
Glass Segment ` 65693 Lakhs (Previous Year ` 57189 Lakhs).
39.	 Financial Risk Management 	
The Company’s activities expose it to foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Company, derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts and 
foreign currency/commodity swaps are entered into by the Company to hedge certain foreign currency and commodity exposure. 
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging and not as trading or speculative instruments.
The Company is exposed to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
a)	
Credit Risk
b)	
Liquidity Risk
c)	
Foreign Currency Risk
d)	
Interest Rate Risk
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
172
	
a) 	
Credit Risk 
	
	
Credit risk arises from the possibility that the counter parties may not be able to settle their obligations. To manage trade 
receivables, the Company periodically assesses the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial 
conditions, economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of such receivables. 
	
	
i)	
Exposure to Credit Risk 
	
	
	
The carrying amount of financial assets represent the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk 
at the reporting date was:	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Financial Assets for which Loss Allowance is measured using 12 months Expected 
Credit Losses
Non-Current Investments
23035
24397
Other Non-Current Financial Assets
3453
3234
Trade Receivables
63093
51043
Cash and Cash Equivalents
10498
13396
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
423
407
Current Loans
12109
10756
Other Financial Assets
468
183
Current Tax Assets (Net)
279
443
Other Current Assets
23841
16526
137199
120385
	
	
ii)	
Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables
	
	
	
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables is as below:
Particulars
Ageing
Not due
Less than 
Six Months
More than 
Six Months
Total
Gross Carrying Amount As At 31st March, 2025
23428
13454
26211
63093
Gross Carrying Amount As At 31st March, 2024
21879
7730
21434
51043
	
	
iii) 	 Reconciliation of Impairment Loss Provisions 
	
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of financial assets during the year was as follows:
Particulars
Trade 
Receivables
Loans
Advances
Others
Total
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
 32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32 
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
 (-)
Impairment Loss Recognised
72
 - 
 - 
 - 
72
 (32)
(-) 
 (6)
(-) 
 (38)
Amounts Written Off
20
-
-
-
20
 (-)
 (-)
 (6)
 (-)
 (6)
Balance As At 31st March, 2025
 84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
84
 (32)
(-) 
(-) 
(-) 
 (32)
	
	
	
Based on historic default rates, the Company believes that, apart from the above, no impairment allowance is necessary 
in respect of any other assets as the amounts are insignificant. The figures in bracket are in respect of previous year.
	
b)	
Liquidity Risk
	
	
Liquidity risk refers to the risk to meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain 
sufficient liquidity and to ensure funds are available for use as per the requirements.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
173
AtmaNirbhar AIS
	
	
The Company has an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of short, medium and long 
term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash 
reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
	
	
i)	
Financing Arrangements
	
	
	
The Company has access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Fixed-Rate Borrowings
 - 
 - 
Floating-Rate Borrowings
Bank Overdraft
61678
27673
Rupee Term Loans
26037
69405
Total
87715
97078
	
	
ii) 	
Maturities of Financial Liabilities
	
	
	
The following are the contractual maturities of derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities, based on contractual 
cash flows:
Contractual Maturities of Financial Liabilities
Contractual Cash Flows
Less than 
One Year
More than 
One Year
Total
31st March, 2025
Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities
Rupee Term Loans from Banks
30076
174665
204741
Rupee Term Loans from Others
4577
11190
15767
Foreign Currency Loans from Banks
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unsecured Term Loans from Others
 - 
9980
9980
Lease Liabilities
758
11414
12172
Trade and Other Payables
97902
 - 
97902
Other Financial Liabilities
17178
2149
19327
Short Term Borrowings
20455
 - 
20455
31st March, 2024
Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities
Rupee Term Loans from Banks
29381
111509
140890
Rupee Term Loans from Others
4891
14723
19614
Foreign Currency Loans from Banks
2586
-
2586
Unsecured Term Loans from Others
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
703
4097
4800
Trade and Other Payables
82895
-
82895
Other Financial Liabilities
14333
2199
16532
Short Term Borrowings
22264
-
22264
	
c)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
The Company has exposure to foreign currency risk on account of its payables and receivables in foreign currency which are 
mitigated through regular reviews by the management. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to mitigate 
the foreign currency risk and interest rate risk including,	
	
	
i)	
forward foreign exchange contracts for foreign currency risk mitigation.
	
	
ii)	
foreign currency interest rate swaps to mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk on foreign currency loan.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
174
	
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are as below:	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
USD
EURO
JPY
RUB
INR 
Equivalent
31st March, 2025
Financial Assets 
Trade and Other Receivables
21
36
 - 
20
5200
21
36
-
20
5200
Financial Liabilities 
Foreign Currency Term Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Others
543
4
 - 
 - 
46789
Trade Payables and Other Financial Liabilities
180
58
1663
11
21697
723
62
1663
11
68486
Net Exposure
(702)
(26)
(1663)
9 
(63286)
31st March, 2024
Financial Assets
Trade and Other Receivables
40
127
55
-
14863
40
127
55
-
14863
Financial Liabilities
Foreign Currency Term Loans
31
 - 
 - 
-
2586
Others
422
 - 
 - 
-
35201
Trade Payables and Other Financial Liabilities
175
37
918
-
18428
628
37
918
-
56215
Net Exposure
(588)
90 
(863)
-
(41352)
*Rounded Off to Nil
	
	
	
Sensitivity Analysis
	
	
	
The Company is mainly exposed to JPY, USD and EURO.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table provides details of the Company’s sensitivity to a 2% increase and decrease in the INR against the 
relevant foreign currencies. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary 
items as tabulated above and adjusts their translation at the Year end for a 2% change in foreign currency rates. The 
sensitivity analysis includes external loans. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity and vice-versa.
2% Movement
Profit and Loss (Before Tax)
Profit and Loss (Before Tax)
Strengthening
(Weakening)
Strengthening
(Weakening)
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
INR/USD
1200 
(1200)
980 
(980)
INR/EUR
(47)
47 
163 
(163)
INR/JPY
19 
(19)
10 
(10)
Total
1172 
(1172)
1153 
(1153)
	
d)	
Interest Rate Risk 
	
	
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk arising mainly from long term borrowings with floating interest rates. The 
Company is exposed to interest rate risk because the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with 
changes in interest rates. The Company manages the interest rate risks by entering into different kinds of loan arrangements 
with varied terms (eg. fixed, floating, rupee, foreign currency etc.).
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
175
AtmaNirbhar AIS
	
	
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed-Rate Instruments
	
	
The Company’s fixed rate instruments are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk, since 
neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
	
	
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable-Rate Instruments
	
	
A change of 50 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the previous year.
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Profit or Loss
50 bp Increase
50 bp Decrease
31st March, 2025
Foreign Currency Loans
-
-
Short Term Loans
(102)
102
Rupee Term Loans
1154
(1154)
1052
(1052)
31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency Loans
-
-
Short Term Loans
(111)
111
Rupee Term Loans
(804)
804
(915)
915
40.	 Fair Value Measurements	
	
a)	
Financial Instruments by Category
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
Fair Value 
through Profit 
and Loss 
(FVTPL)
Fair Value 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
(FVTOCI)
Amortised Cost
Fair Value 
through Profit 
and Loss 
(FVTPL)
Fair Value 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
(FVTOCI)
Amortised Cost
Financial Assets
Investments
Equity Instruments
 - 
4728
17980
 - 
5200
18870
Compulsorily 
Convertible Debentures
 - 
327
 - 
 - 
327
 - 
Trade Receivables
 - 
 - 
63093
 - 
 - 
51043
Loans
 - 
 - 
12109
 - 
 - 
10756
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 - 
 - 
10498
 - 
 - 
13396
Other Bank Balances
 - 
 - 
423
 - 
 - 
407
Other Financial Assets
 - 
 - 
3921
 - 
 - 
3417
Total Financial Assets
 - 
5055
108024
 - 
5527
97889
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
250943 
 - 
 - 
185354 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
12172
 - 
 - 
4800 
Trade Payables
 - 
 - 
97902 
 - 
 - 
82895 
Payable for Capital 
Expenditure
 - 
 - 
12110 
 - 
 - 
9942 
Other Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
7217 
 - 
 - 
6590 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
380344
 - 
 - 
289581
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
176
	
b)	
Fair Value Hierarchy 
	
This Section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are 
(a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 
Financial Statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company 
has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each 
level follows underneath the table.
(` Lakhs)
Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair 
Value- Recurring Fair Value Measurement
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As At 31st March, 2025
Financial Assets
Investments in Quoted Equity Instruments
620
-
-
620
Investments in Unquoted Equity Instruments
-
4108
-
4108
Investments in Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures
-
327
-
327
Total
620
4435
-
5055
As At 31st March, 2024
Financial Assets
Investments in Quoted Equity Instruments
1092
 - 
-
1092
Investments in Unquoted Equity Instruments
-
4108
-
4108
Investments in Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures
-
327
-
327
Total
1092
4435
-
5527
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques 
as follows.
Level 1: Hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investments in quoted equity 
instruments. Quoted equity instruments are valued using quoted prices on recognised stock exchange.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is determined in accordance with generally accepted 
pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer 
quotes of similar instruments. This level includes derivative MTM assets/liabilities. Fair value of derivative assets/liabilities 
such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques, which employs 
the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap 
models and present value calculations.
There have been no transfers in either direction for the years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
The fair value of the financial assets are determined at the amount that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly 
transaction between market participants. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
177
AtmaNirbhar AIS
	
c)	
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
 Carrying Amount 
 Fair Value 
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
 Financial Assets  
 Investments 
17980
17980
18870
18870
 Loans 
12109
12109
10756
10756
Trade Receivables 
63093
63093
51043
51043
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
10498
10498
13396
13396
Other Bank Balances 
423
423
407
407
Other Financial Assets 
3921
3921
3417
3417
108024
108024
97889
97889
 Financial Liabilities 
Borrowings 
250943
250943
185354 
185354
Lease Liabilities
12172
12172
4800 
4800
Trade Payables 
97902
97902
82895 
82895
Payable for Capital Expenditure 
12110
12110
9942 
9942
Other Financial Liabilities 
7217
7217
6590 
6590
380344
380344
289581
289581
	
	
The carrying amounts of short term trade receivables, trade payables, creditors for capital goods and cash and cash equivalents 
are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature. For financial assets and liabilities that are 
measured at fair value, the carrying amounts are equal to the fair value.
41	 Key Financial Ratios as per the Schedule III requirements:	
Particulars
Formula
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
% 
Variance
Reason for Variance
Current Ratio
Current Assets / Current Liabilities
1.20
1.13
6%
Not Applicable
Debt Equity Ratio
Total Debt/ Total Equity
0.91
0.77
(19%)
Not Applicable
Debt Service Coverage 
Ratio
Earnings available for debt service/ Debt 
Service
1.46
1.26
15%
Not Applicable
Return on Equity Ratio
Profit after tax/ Average Total Equity
15.08%
14.78%
2%
Not Applicable
Inventory Turnover 
Ratio
Cost of goods sold (Raw Material 
Consumed + Purchases of stock in trade 
+ change in inventories + Employee 
Benefit + Depreciation & Amortisation) / 
Average inventory
2.15
2.12
1%
Not Applicable
Trade Receivables 
Turnover Ratio
Revenue from Operations/ Average 
Trade Receivables
7.56
8.22
(8%)
Not Applicable
Trade Payables 
Turnover Ratio
(Raw Material Consumed + Purchases 
of stock in trade + Other Manufacturing 
Expenses) / Average Trade Payables
3.00
3.14
5%
Not Applicable
Net Capital Turnover 
Ratio
Revenue from operations/ Working 
Capital
12.26
19.09
(36%)
Due to increase in Net 
Current Assets
Net Profit Ratio
Profit after tax/ Revenue from Operations
9.02%
8.09%
12%
Not Applicable
Return on Capital 
Employed Ratio
EBIT/ Capital Employed
20.69%
23.74%
(13%)
Not Applicable
Return on Investment
Income generated from invested funds/ 
Average invested funds in treasury 
investments
2.88%
0.09%
3131%
High Dividend Income 
received from an Associate
	
ROI = (Gross Return - Cost of Investment)/Cost of Investment	
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
178
42.	 Capital Management	
	
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
	
safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for 
other Stakeholders and maintain an appropriate capital structure of debt and equity.
	
The Board of Directors has the primary responsibility to maintain a strong capital base and reduce the cost of capital through 
prudent management in deployment of funds and sourcing by leveraging opportunities in domestic and international financial 
markets so as to maintain investors, creditors and markets confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The 
Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Company defines as result from operating activities divided by total 
Shareholders’ equity. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to Equity Shareholders.
	
Under the terms of major borrowing facilities, the Company is required to comply with the financial covenants as may be prescribed 
by the lenders. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest bearing borrowings.
	
The Company monitors capital, using a medium term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally 
used by industry and by the rating agencies. The Company is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
	
The Company monitors capital using gearing ratio which is net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises of long term 
and short term borrowings less cash and cash equivalent. Equity includes equity share capital and reserves that are managed as 
capital. The gearing ratio at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Total Debt
250943
185354
Cash and Cash Equivalent
(10335)
(13149)
Net Debt
240608 
172205 
Equity
274715
241348
Net Debt to Equity Ratio
0.88
0.71
43.	 Disclosure under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED)	
	
On the basis of confirmations obtained from the suppliers who have registered themselves under the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED) and based on the information available with the Company, the following are the details.
a)	 Amount remaining unpaid to any supplier:
	
1)	 Principal Amount
3892
1045
	
2)	 Interest due thereon*
1
-
b)	 Amount of interest paid in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act along-with the amount paid to 
the suppliers beyond the appointed day.
-
-
c)	
Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have been 
paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified 
under the MSMED Act.
-
-
d)	 Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
-
-
e)	 Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such 
date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprises, for the purpose 
of disallowances as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of MSMED Act
1
-
*Rounded Off in Lakhs
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
179
AtmaNirbhar AIS
44.	 Detail of R&D Expenditure	
	
a)	
The Company has in house R & D Centres at plants at Bawal & Taloja. R & D Centre at Bawal is approved by the Department 
of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science & Technology, Govt. of India. 	
	
	
	
b)	
The details of expenditure incurred during the year by the said R&D Centres are as under:	
	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Bawal
Taloja
Bawal
Taloja
Capital Expenses
13
 - 
129
 - 
Recurring Expenditure* 
658
 - 
454
 - 
Total
671
 - 
583
 - 
* Includes expenditure allocated to related projects/asset 
	
c)	
Breakup of the Capital Assets of R & D Centres
Opening Balance of Capital Assets
370
709
241
709
Additions during the year
13
 - 
129
 - 
Closing Balance of Capital Assets
383
 709 
370
709
45	 Details of investments made, loans and advances given and guarantees given covered under Section 186 
(4) of the Companies Act, 2013:
	
i)	
Advances given and Investments made are given under the respective heads.
	
ii)	
Corporate Guarantees given by the Company in respect of loans/credit facilities/other business purposes extended to 
following companies :
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
a)	 GX Glass Sales & Services Limited
300
300
b)	 AIS Glass Solutions Limited
3000
500
c)	
Vishakha Glass Private Limited
6450
6450
46	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
a)	 Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
1028
857
b)	 Amount of Expenditure incurred
1087
854
c)	
Shortfall at the end of year
-
-
d)	 Total of previous years shortfall
-
-
e)	 Reason for shortfall
-
-
f)	
Nature of CSR activities
Education & Vocational Training, 
Women Empowerment, 
Sanitation, Healthcare, Olympic 
Sports Promotion
Education & Vocational Training, 
Women Empowerment, 
Healthcare, Training to promote 
Olympic Sports
47	
The Company has used the borrowings from Banks and Financial Institutions for the specific purposes, for which it was taken at 
the Balance Sheet date.
48	
The Company does not have any Immovable Property (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) whose title deeds are not held in the name of the Company.
49	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant & Equipment or Intangible Assets during the year.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
180
50	
No Loans or Advances in the nature of loans are granted to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under 
the Companies Act 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, that are repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment except loans of `9778 lakhs to 3 subsidiary companies at the Balance Sheet date.
51	
The Company does not hold any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the Rules 
made thereunder.
52	
a) 	
Government Grants represents Incentives/Subsidies under State Investment Promotion Schemes of ` 2010 Lakhs (previous 
year NIL).
	
b)	
Power, Fuel, Water & Utilities are net of subsidy received, under State Investment Promotion Schemes of ` 712 Lakhs (previous 
year ` 600 Lakhs).
53	
Exceptional Item represents Profit on sale of Non-Current Investment in the shares of TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited, an 
Associate of the Company.
54	
The quarterly returns/ statements of current assets filed by the Company with Banks/ Financial Institutions in respect of borrowings 
from Banks/Financial Institutions on the basis of security of current assets are generally in agreement with the books of accounts. 
55	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any Bank/Financial Institution/other lender.
56	
The Company does not have any transaction with companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013/ Section 560 
of Companies Act, 1956.
57	
There are 4 charges yet to be satisfied with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory period as on the date of approval of 
Financial Statements.
(` Lakhs)
Sr.
No.
Chargeholder Name
Registrar Location
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
i)
HDFC Bank Limited
NCT of Delhi & Haryana
10000
10000
ii)
Standard Chartered Bank
NCT of Delhi & Haryana
1000
1000
iii)
State Bank of India
NCT of Delhi & Haryana
1000
1000
iv)
District Industries Centre
NCT of Delhi & Haryana
5920
5920
v)
Punjab National Bank
NCT of Delhi & Haryana
 - 
 50 
	
The Company is awaiting No-objection certificates from concerned Chargeholders for filing the requisite satisfaction of charges 
with ROC.
58	
The Company does not have any layers prescribed under Clause (87) of Section 2 of the Act, read with Companies (Restriction on 
number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
59	
No Scheme of Arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of Companies Act, 
2013.
60	
The Company’s four subsidiaries namely AIS Glass Solutions Limited, GX Sales & Services Limited, AIS Distribution Services Limited 
and AIS Adhesives Limited have filed a Composite Scheme of Arrangement before NCLT for their amalgamation with the surviving 
entity, AIS Glass Solutions Limited. The filing also includes a proposal for subsequent Capital Reduction in the Transferee Company. 
The Composite Scheme of Arrangement, upon its approval by NCLT will have a positive impact on the financial parameters and 
operational performance of the merged entity including its functioning thereof.
61	
The Company has not advanced/loaned/invested funds(either borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) to any other person(s) or entity(ies) including foreign entities (intermediaries) with understanding (whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise) that the intermediary shall
	
i)	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any other matter whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
ii)	
Provide any guarantee or security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
181
AtmaNirbhar AIS
62.	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall
	
i)	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any matter whatsoever by or on behalf of Funding 
Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
ii)	
Provide any guarantee or security or the like on behalf of Ultimate Beneficiaries.
63.	 The Company does not have any transaction not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
64.	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual currency during the financial year.
65.	 Amount in the Financial Statements are presented in ` lakhs except for per share data and as other-wise stated. Previous years 
figures have been regrouped/rearranged wherever considered necessary.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN : 00009629
DIN : 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No.: 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
182
Form AOC - 1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014)
Statement Containing Salient Features of the Financial 
Statement of Subsidiaries/Associate Companies
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
` Lakhs
S.
No. Particulars
AIS Glass 
Solutions Ltd.
GX Glass Sales 
& Services Ltd.
Integrated Glass 
Materials Ltd.
Shield 
AutoGlass Ltd.
AIS Distribution 
Services Limited
AIS Adhesives 
Limited
1
Reporting Period
1st April, 2024 - 31st March, 2025
2
Reporting Currency
Indian Rupees
3
Share Capital
398
853
140
183
20
220
4
Reserves & Surplus
(14250)
(1593)
(3173)
(1542)
12317
4313
5
Total Assets
24185
1128
2510
3651
13786
4901
6
Total Liabilities
24185
1128
2510
3651
13786
4901
7
Investments
-
4
-
-
-
-
8
Turnover
16406
2768
602
5,450
37495
3833
9
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
(2910)
(118)
(625)
(121)
3553
949
10
Provision for Taxation
531
(59)
-
24
(946)
(263)
11
Profit/(Loss) after Taxation
(2379)
(177)
(625)
(97)
2607
686
12
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
-
13
% of shareholding
82.55%
93.48%
100%
99.997%
99.97%
95.66%
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations	 	
	
	
Nil
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year	
	
Nil
Part “B”: Associates
S. 
No. Particulars
TGPEL Precision 
Engineering Limited
Fourvolt Solar 
Private Limted
Under Par Sports 
Technologies 
Private Limited
1
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
01st April, 2024 to 
23rd December, 2024
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2025
2
Shares of Associates held by the Company on the year/period end
No.
11874378
1595562
170000
Amount of Investment in Associates
900
160
10
Extent of Holding %
30.00%
38.75%
34.00%
3
Description of how there is significant influence
Holding > 20% of share 
capital
Holding > 20% of 
share capital
Holding > 20% of 
share capital
4
Reason why the Associate is not consolidated
NA
NA
NA
5
Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
2440
(98)
9
6
Profit / Loss for the year
962
(71)
(0.98)
i. Considered in Consolidation
292
(28)
(0.33)
i. Not Considered in Consolidation
670
(44)
(0.65)
Names of associates  which are yet to commence operations.	
	
	
	
NIL	
Names of associates which have been liquidated or sold during the year.	
	
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited
For and on behalf of the Board
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Chairman and Managing Director 
DIN : 00009629
Deputy Managing Director
DIN : 09811031
Executive Director and 
Chief Financial Officer 
ICAI M. No. 091255
Executive Director 
General Counsel & Company Secretary 
ICSI M. No. F7090
Place : Gurugram
Dated : 14th May, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
183
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Independent Auditors’ Report
To 
the Members of 
Asahi India Glass Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements of Asahi India Glass Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its 
associates which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
31st March, 2025, and the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Consolidated Cash Flows Statement for the year then ended, and 
notes to the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, including 
a summary of material accounting policies (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Act in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the 
Consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at 31st March, 2025, 
of Consolidated profit, Consolidated changes in Equity and its 
Consolidated Cash Flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matters/Other Matters
We draw attention to Emphasis of Matters/Other Matters 
paragraph in Auditors Reports of four subsidiary companies 
regarding accumulated losses and resultant effect on their net 
worth and current liabilities exceeding current assets. However, 
the same does not have any adverse impact on going concern 
status of the Group as a whole.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
The Key Audit Matters
The Key Audit Matters
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group operates in various States within India and is 
exposed to different Central and State/Local laws, regulations 
and interpretations thereof. Due to a complex regulatory 
environment, there is an inherent risk of litigations and claims.
Our audit procedures included: We understood the processes, 
evaluated the design and implementation of controls and tested the 
operating effectiveness of the Group’s controls over the recording 
and re-assessment of uncertain legal positions, claims (including 
claims receivable) and contingent liabilities.
Consequently, provisions and contingent liability disclosures may 
arise from indirect tax proceedings, legal proceedings, including 
regulatory and other government/ department proceedings, as 
well as investigations by authorities and commercial claims.
We have gained an understanding of outstanding litigations against 
the Group from the Group’s inhouse legal counsel and other key 
managerial personnel who have knowledge of these matters.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
184
The Key Audit Matters
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group applies significant judgement in estimating the 
likelihood of the future outcome in each case and in determining 
the provisions or disclosures required for each matter.
We have read the correspondence between the Group and the 
various indirect tax/legal authorities and the legal opinions of 
external legal advisors, where applicable, for significant matters.
Resolution of tax and legal proceedings may span over multiple 
years due to the highly complex nature and magnitude of the 
legal matters involved and may involve protracted negotiation 
or litigation.
We have evaluated the Group’s estimate of the possible outcome 
of the disputed cases based on applicable indirect tax laws and 
legal precedents.
We have assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of contingent liabilities for indirect tax and legal matters.
These estimates and outcome could change significantly over 
time as new facts emerge and each legal case progresses. Given 
the inherent complexity and magnitude of potential exposures 
and the judgement necessary to estimate the amounts of 
provisions required or to determine required disclosures, this is 
a key audit matter.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements in terms of the requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013, that give a true and fair view of the Consolidated 
financial position, Consolidated financial performance including 
Other Comprehensive Income, Consolidated changes in Equity 
and Consolidated Cash Flows of the Group including its Associates 
in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of Directors 
of the companies included in the Group and of its associates are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements that 
give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group and of its associates are responsible for assessing the ability 
of the Group and of its associates to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group and of its associates are responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Group and of its associates.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or 
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
185
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Group has adequate 
internal financial controls system in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the ability of the Group and its associates to continue as 
a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ 
report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained upto the date of our auditors’ report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group 
and its associates to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of 
the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures and whether the Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities 
within the Group and its associates to express an opinion 
on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance 
of the audit of the Financial Statements of such entities 
included in the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements of 
which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, 
which have been audited by other auditors, such other 
auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected 
to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
We did not audit the Financial Statements of six subsidiaries 
whose financial statements for the year ended on that date as 
considered in Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements. The 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements also include the 
Group’s share of net profit of three associates for the year ended 
31st March, 2025 as considered in Consolidated Ind AS financial 
whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These 
Financial Statements have been audited by other auditors whose 
reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our 
opinion on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements in so far 
as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of sub-
sections (3) and (11) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates 
to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based solely on the 
reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is 
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our 
reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors 
and the Financial Statements certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
 As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 
(“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, we give in the “Annexure-A”, a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order to the 
extent applicable.
2.	
 As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
186
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of 
the aforesaid Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements.
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements have been 
kept so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss and the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are 
in agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements.
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Ind 
AS Financial Statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of 
the Act.
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company, as on 31st 
March, 2025 taken on record by the Board of Directors of 
the Holding Company, and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiary companies and associate 
companies incorporated in India, none of the directors 
of the Group companies and its associate companies 
incorporated in India is disqualified as on 31st March, 
2025, from being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Group and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure-B”.
g) 	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies to 
its directors during the current year is in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The 
remuneration paid to any director is not in excess of 
the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other 
details under Section 197(16) which are required to be 
commented upon by us.
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors’) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i)	
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations on the 
Consolidated financial position of the Group and 
its associates- Refer Note 35 to Consolidated Ind 
AS Financial Statements.
ii)	
The Group and its associates did not have any 
material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts.
iii)	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary companies and associate companies 
incorporated in India.
iv)	
A)	
The respective managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries has represented 
that to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the Notes to the 
Accounts, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies) including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
B)	
The respective managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries has represented 
that to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the Notes to the 
Accounts, no funds have been received by 
the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies) 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”) 
with the understanding whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
funding party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries and
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
187
AtmaNirbhar AIS
C)	
Based on such audit procedures that we have 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) 
contain any material mis-statement.
v)	
The Dividend declared/paid during the year by the 
Holding Company is in compliance with Section 
123 of the Companies Act, 2013.
vi)	
Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Group has used accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2025 which has 
a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of the audit 
trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, 
the audit trail has been preserved by the Group 
as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCL8091
Membership No. 091309
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
188
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements of our Report of even date)
i.	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us there are no qualifications or adverse remarks by 
the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order (CARO) reports of the companies included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCL8091
Membership No. 091309
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
189
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of Asahi India Glass Limited
(Referred to in paragraph (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ of our Report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of Sub-Section 3 
of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 31st March, 
2025, we have audited the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of Asahi India Glass Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies and its 
associate companies, which are companies incorporated in India, 
as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary companies and its associate companies which are 
companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on “the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
respective companies considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (the ICAI)”. These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the respective Company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and 
the standards on auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls. Those standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting 
was established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system over financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls 
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the 
audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the subsidiary 
companies and associate companies which are companies 
incorporated in India, in terms of their reports referred to in the 
Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary companies and its associate companies which are 
companies incorporated in India..
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial 
Reporting
A Company's internal financial control over financial reporting is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A Company's internal financial 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and 
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of the Company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
Financial Statements.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
190
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion 
or improper management override of controls, material 
mis-statements due to error or fraud may occur and not be 
detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial 
reporting may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of 
the reports of the other auditors referred to in the Other Matters 
paragraph below, the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies 
and its associate companies which are companies incorporated in 
India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial 
controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as 
at 31st March, 2025, based on ‘the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI’.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting insofar as it relates to six subsidiary 
companies and three associate companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based solely on the corresponding reports 
of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matters.
For V S S A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
{Firm Registration No 012421N}
Place : New Delhi
(CA Samir Vaid)
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Partner
UDIN: 25091309BMJQCL8091
Membership No. 091309
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
191
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Consolidated Balance Sheet As At 31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
As At
31st March, 2025
As At
31st March, 2024
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
2(a)
345447
209302
Capital Work-In-Progress
3
56204
82605
Intangible Assets
2(b)
10841
10847
Right of Use Asset
2(c)
48172
41329
Assets Classified as held for Sale
130
129
Financial Assets
Investments
4
4971
8521
Other Financial Assets
5
5272
3826
Other Non-Current Assets
6
6456
19144
Total Non-Current Assets
477493
375703
	
Current Assets
	
Inventories
7
111940
99409
	
Financial Assets
	
	
Trade Receivables
8
44177
35350
	
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
9
16454
17862
	
	
Loans
10
3166
2426
	
	
Other Financial Assets
11
616
312
	
Current Tax Assets (Net)
12
1093
1422
	
Other Current Assets
13
24041
17477
	
Total Current Assets
201487
174258
	
TOTAL ASSETS
678980
549961
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
	
Equity Share Capital
14
2431
2431
	
	
Other Equity
15
264469
232914
	
Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company
266900
235345
	
Non Controlling Interests
(2663)
(2266)
	
Total Equity
264237
233079
	
Liabilities
	
Non-Current Liabilities
	
Financial Liabilities
	
	
Lease Liabilities
15052
7532
	
	
Borrowings
16
197218
128070
	
	
Other Financial Liabilities
17
2284
2358
	
Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net)
18
12134
8407
	
Provisions
19
1426
1076
	
Total Non-Current Liabilities
228114
147443
	
Current Liabilities
	
Financial Liabilities
	
	
Lease Liabilities
1480
1367
	
	
Borrowings
20
55830
59784
	
	
Trade Payables
21
	
	
A)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
4556
1478
	
	
B)	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
95980
83981
	
Other Financial Liabilities
22
17700
14785
	
Other Current Liabilities
23
10538
7883
	
Provisions
24
545
161
	
Total Current Liabilities
186629
169439
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
678980
549961
See accompanying notes to the financial statements
1 to 56
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director 
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN 00009629
DIN 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No. 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
192
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Income
Revenue from Operations
25
459425
434059
Other Income
26
3222
2527
	
Total Income
462647
436586
Expenses
Cost of Materials Consumed
166330
156930
Purchase of Stock-In-Trade
5918
7465
Changes in Inventory of Finished Goods, Work-In-Progress, Stock-In-Trade and Others
27
(4441)
(170)
Employee Benefits Expense
28
41891
35948
Finance Costs
29
12830
13589
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
30
19152
17684
Other Expenses
31
173137
161691
Total Expenses
414817
393137
Share of Profit of Associates
264
808
Profit Before Tax & Exceptional Item
48094
44257
Exceptional Item
46
3183
-
Profit Before Tax
51277
44257
Tax Expense
	
Current Tax
	
	
For the Year
(10631)
(11786)
	
	
Relating to Earlier Year
(63)
(10)
	
Deferred Tax
(3853)
44
	
Profit after Tax
36730
32505
	
	
Non Controlling Interest
397
293
Profit for the Year
37127
32798
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to Profit or Loss
Net Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on Defined Benefit Plans
(389)
(250)
Net Gain/(Loss) on Fair Value of Equity Instruments
(473)
273
Deferred Tax on Other Comprehensive Income
127
33
Other Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Income Tax
(735)
56
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year
36392
32854
Profit for the Year Attributed to:
	
Owners of the Company
37127
32798
	
Non Controlling Interest
397
293
Other Comprehensive Income for the Year Attributed to:
	
Owners of the Company
(735)
56
	
Non Controlling Interest
-
-
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year Attributed to:
	
Owners of the Company
36392
32854
	
Non Controlling Interest
397
293
Earnings per Equity Share
34
	
Basic (`)
15.27
13.49
	
Diluted (`)
15.27
13.49
See accompanying notes to the financial statements
1 to 56
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director 
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN 00009629
DIN 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No. 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
193
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Year Ended  
31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
A)	 Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Profit Before Tax
51277
44257
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and Amortisation (including capitalised)
19359
17760
Net Actuarial Gains/(Losses) on Defined Benefit Plans
(389)
(250)
Finance Costs
12830
13589
Impairment in value of Non-current Investments
6
-
Share of Profit from Associates
(264)
(808)
Exceptional Item (Refer note 46)
(3183)
-
(Profit)/Loss on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
(925)
170
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes
78711
74718
(Increase)/ Decrease in Trade Receivables
(8827)
(1643)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Loans
(740)
(839)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Financial Assets
(1750)
(968)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Deferred Tax Assets/Liabilities (Net)
3727
(170)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Non-Current Assets
12688
(12642)
(Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories
(12531)
5612
(Increase)/ Decrease in Other Current Assets
(6564)
6056
(Increase)/ Decrease in Current Tax Assets (Net)
329
(683)
Increase/ (Decrease) in Trade Payables
15077
227
Increase/ (Decrease) in Other Financial Liabilities
2908
5545
Increase/ (Decrease) in Other Current Liabilities
2655
1499
Increase/ (Decrease) in Provisions
734
341
Cash Generated from Operations
86417
77053
Income Taxes (Paid)
(14420)
(11719)
Net Cash Generated by Operating Activities
71997
65334
B)	 Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
(126798)
(90109)
Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
1151
415
Purchase of Non-Current Investments
(10)
(2674)
Proceeds from Sale of Non-Current Investments
6529
-
Net Cash used by Investing Activities
(119128)
(92368)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
194
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended
31st March, 2025
Year Ended
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
C)	 Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Finance Costs Paid
(12830)
(13589)
Payment of Lease Liabilities
(1711)
(1114)
Proceeds from Non-Current Borrowings
104506
92461
Repayment of Non-Current Borrowings
(37598)
(39522)
Proceeds from Current Borrowings (Net)
(1714)
(423)
Dividend Paid
(4862)
(4862)
Net Cash Generated From Financing Activities
45791
32951
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A + B + C)
(1340)
5917
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Year
17208
11291
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Year
15868
17208
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
As At
31st March, 2025
As At
31st March, 2024
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
Cash on Hand
24
42
Cheques on Hand
156
4
Balances with Banks:
	
In Current Accounts
3475
7324
	
On Deposit Accounts (With Original Maturity Within 12 Months)
12376
10085
	
Book Overdraft in Current Accounts
(163)
(247)
Total
15868
17208
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 1 to 56
Notes:
i)	
The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Ind AS 7 on “Statement 
of Cash Flows”.
ii)	
Previous Year figures have been restated wherever necessary.		
	
	
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director 
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN 00009629
DIN 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No. 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
195
AtmaNirbhar AIS
A)	 Equity Share Capital
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
 As At
1st April, 
2023
Changes 
due to 
prior 
period 
errors
Restated 
Balance  As 
At
1st April, 
2023
Changes 
during
the year
As At
31st March, 
2024
Changes 
due to
prior 
period 
errors
Restated 
Balance 
As At
1st April, 
2024
Changes 
during
the year
As At
31st March, 
2025
Equity Share Capital
2431
-
2431
-
2431
-
2431
-
2431
B)	
Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Total
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Amalgamation 
Reserve
General 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Balance As At 1st April, 2023
38
1395
23862
637
9989
169341
(240)
205022
Changes in Accounting policy or 
prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated Balance as at 1st April, 2023
38
1395
23862
637
9989
169341
(240)
205022
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
32798
 - 
32798
Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
56 
56 
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the Year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
32798
56 
32854
Dividend Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(4862)
 - 
(4862)
Ind AS Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(100)
 - 
(100)
Balance As At 31st March, 2024
38
1395
23862
637
9989
197177 
(184)
232914 
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Balance As At 1st April, 2024
38
1395
23862
637
9989
197177
(184)
232914
Changes in Accounting policy or 
prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated Balance as at 1st April, 2024
38
1395
23862
637
9989
197177
(184)
232914
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
37127
 - 
37127
Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(735)
(735)
Total Comprehensive Income for 
the Year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
37127
(735)
36392
Dividend Paid
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(4862)
 - 
(4862)
Ind AS Adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
25 
 - 
25 
Balance As At 31st March, 2025
38
1395
23862
637
9989
229467 
(919)
264469 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director 
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN 00009629
DIN 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No. 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
196
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1A)	 Corporate Information
	
Asahi India Glass Limited (“the Company”) is a public limited 
Company and is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited 
(BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE). 
The Company and its subsidiaries (jointly referred to as the 
Group hereinunder) and associates are engaged interalia, in 
the business of manufacturing of Auto Glass, Float Glass and 
other value added Glasses and allied products. 
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements are approved for issue 
by the Company’s Board of Directors on May 14, 2025.
	
The subsidiaries considered in these Consolidated Financial 
Statements are: 
Name of the 
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
% Voting 
Power held 
As At 31st 
March, 2025
% Voting 
Power Held 
As At 31st 
March, 2024
AIS Glass Solutions 
Limited
India
82.55
82.55
Integrated Glass 
Materials Limited
India
100.00
100.00
GX Glass Sales and 
Services Limited
India
93.48 
93.48
Shield Auto Glass 
Limited
India
99.997
99.997
AIS Adhesives 
Limited 
India
95.66
95.66
AIS Distribution 
Services Limited
India
99.97
99.97
	
The associates considered in these Consolidated Financial 
Statements are: 
Name of the 
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
% Voting 
Power Held 
As At 31st 
March, 2025
% Voting 
Power Held 
As At 31st 
March, 2024
TGPEL Precision 
Engineering 
Limited (upto 23rd 
Dec. 2024)
India
-
30.00
Fourvolt Solar 
Private Limited
India
40.00
40.00
Under Par Sports 
Technologies 
Private Limited
India
34.00
34.00
1B)	 Material Accounting Policies  
(a)	
Statement of Compliance
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group have 
been prepared as a going concern in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) including the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time) and presentation requirements of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant) 
as applicable to the financial statements.
b) i)	 Basis for Preparation of Financial Statements
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention on accrual 
basis with the exception of certain assets and liabilities 
carried at fair values by Ind AS. The assets and liabilities have 
been classified as current/non-current as per the Group’s 
normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Act. 
Based on the nature of products and the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in 
cash and cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its 
operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose of current/
non-current classification of assets and liabilities. The 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared 
under the indirect method.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied except 
where a newly issued accounting standard is initially adopted 
or a revision to an existing accounting standard requires 
a change in the accounting policy hitherto in use. The 
material accounting policy information used in preparation 
of the audited Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
discussed in the respective notes.
ii)	 Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Judgements
The preparation of Financial Statements is in conformity with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions. 
The estimates and the associated assumptions are based on 
historical experience, opinions of experts and other factors 
that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Significant judgements and estimates are made in areas 
relating to useful life of Property, Plant and Equipment, 
impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment, Investments, 
actuarial assumptions relating to recognition and 
measurement of employee defined benefit obligations 
and recognition of provisions and exposure of contingent 
liabilities relating to pending litigations or other outstanding 
claims etc.
c)	
Principles of Consolidation  
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements have been 
prepared on the following basis :
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
197
AtmaNirbhar AIS
i)	
The Group combines the Financial Statements of the 
parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding together 
like items of assets, liabilities, equity income and 
expenses.
ii)	
Intra group transactions, balances and unrealised 
gains on transactions between group companies are 
eliminated. 
iii)	
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the 
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
transferred asset.
iv)	
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group. 
v)	
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements have 
been prepared using uniform accounting policies 
for like transactions and other events in similar 
circumstances and are presented to the extent possible 
in the same manner as the Company’s separate Financial 
Statements. 
vi)	
Non Controlling Interest in the net income and net 
assets of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements 
is computed and shown separately.
vii)	 Investments in associate companies have been 
accounted under the equity method as per Ind 
AS 28 “Investment in Associates” and accordingly 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements include the 
Company’s share of profit or loss of the associates.
d)	
Property, Plant and Equipment-Tangible Assets  
Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost, net 
of recoverable taxes, trade discounts and rebates less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any. 
Such cost includes purchase price, borrowing cost and any 
cost directly attributable to bringing the assets to its working 
condition for its intended use, net changes on foreign 
exchange contracts and adjustments arising from exchange 
rate variations attributable to the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount 
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the entity and the cost can be measured 
reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss during the reporting period in 
which they are incurred.
An item of Property, Plant and Equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from continued use of asset.
	
Depreciation Method and Estimated Useful Life
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method on 
a pro-rata basis from the date on which each asset is put to 
use to allocate their cost ,net of their residual values, over 
their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are 
those prescribed under Schedule II to  the Companies Act, 
2013 except in respect of the following assets, where useful 
life is different than those prescribed  in Schedule II (based 
on technical evaluation):
i)
Carpeted roads-other than RCC - Auto SBU
15 years
ii)
Carpeted roads-other than RCC - Float SBU
25 years
iii) Fences (Boundary Walls) - Float SBU
25 years
iv) Plant and Equipment
a)	 Tooling, Utility, Forklifts, Testing 
Equipments - Auto SBU
20 years
b)	 Continuous Process Plant and Electrical 
Installations forming part thereto - Float 
SBU
18 years
c)	 Float Glass Melting Furnace
15 years
d)	 Other parts of Plant and Equipment 
(where cost of a part asset is significant to 
total cost of the asset)
25 years
v)
Electrical Installations- Auto SBU
25 years
vi)	
Fixed assets not represented by physical assets owned 
by the Group are amortised over a period of five years.
vii)	 Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount and such 
gains or losses are recognised as income or expense in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
viii)	 Cost of items of Property, Plant and Equipment not 
ready for intended use as on the Balance Sheet date is 
disclosed as capital work in progress. Advances given 
towards acquisition of Property, Plant and Equipment 
outstanding at each Balance Sheet date are disclosed 
as Capital Advance under Other Non Current Assets.
e)	
Intangible Assets and Amortisation  
	
Intangible assets are stated at cost, net of recoverable taxes, 
trade discounts and rebates less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment loss, if any. 
	
The cost comprises of purchase price, borrowing costs and 
any cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to its 
working condition for the intended use. 
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are recognised as 
income or expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
Cost of items of intangible assets not ready for intended use 
as on the Balance Sheet date is disclosed as intangible assets 
under development. 
	
An intangible asset is derecognised  when no future benefits 
are expected from use.
	
Amortisation Method and Estimated Useful Life  
	
Amortisation is charged on a straight line basis over 
the estimated useful life. The estimated useful life and 
amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
198
annual reporting period with the effect of any changes in 
the estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. 
f)	
Impairment 
	
Tangible and Intangible assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs of disposal and value in use. Non financial assets that 
suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of 
the impairment at the end of each reporting period.  
g)	
Leases  
	
Group as a lessor:  
	
The Group classifies the leases as either a finance lease or an 
operating lease depending on whether the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of an underlying asset are transferred 
and recognises finance income over the lease term. 
	
Group as a lessee:
	
In accordance with Ind AS-116, the Group assesses whether 
a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. At the 
date of commencement of the lease, the Group recognises a 
“Right of Use” asset and a corresponding liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for leases 
with a term of twelve months or less (short term leases) and 
low value leases. For these short term and low value leases, 
the Group recognises the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
The right of use assets are depreciated using the straight 
line method from the commencement date over the shorter 
of lease term or useful life of right to use asset. The lease 
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in 
the lease or if not readily determinable, using the incremental 
borrowing rates. Lease Liabilities are re measured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related right of use asset if 
the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise 
an extension or termination option.  
h)	
Financial Instruments
	
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are recognised when 
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the relevant instrument. Since the transaction price does not 
differ significantly from the fair value of the financial asset or 
financial liability, the transaction price is assumed to be the 
fair value on initial recognition. Transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 
assets and financial liabilities are added to or deducted from 
the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or 
financial liabilities. Purchase and sale of financial assets are 
recognised using trade date accounting.
	
i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
Financial assets include Trade Receivables, Advances, 
Security Deposits, Cash and Cash Equivalents etc., which 
are classified for measurement at amortised cost. The 
Group accounts its investments in associates at cost. 
However all other equity investments are measured 
at fair value, with value changes recognised in “Other 
Comprehensive Income”.
	
	
Management determines the classification of an asset at 
initial recognition depending on the purpose for which 
the assets were acquired. The subsequent measurement 
of financial assets depends on such classification.
	
	
Impairment:
	
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether 
a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) are 
tested for impairment based on available evidence or 
information. Expected credit losses are assessed and 
loss allowances recognised if the credit quality of the 
financial asset has deteriorated significantly since initial 
recognition.
	
	
De-recognition:
	
	
Financial assets are de-recognised when the right 
to receive cash flow from the assets has expired, or 
has been transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
	
	
Income Recognition:
	
	
Interest income is recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss using the effective interest method. Dividend 
income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
when the right to receive the same is established.
	
ii)	
Financial Liabilities:
	
	
Borrowings, Trade Payables and Other Financial 
Liabilities are initially recognised at the value of 
the respective contractual obligations. They are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
	
	
For trade and other payables maturing within one year 
from the Balance Sheet date, the carrying amounts 
approximate fair value due to short maturity of these 
instruments.
	
	
De-recognition: 
	
	
Financial Liabilities are de-recognised when the liability 
is extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation 
is discharged, cancelled and on expiry.
i)	
Inventories  
	
Inventories are valued at lower of cost or net realisable 
value except waste and scrap which is valued at estimated 
realisable value as certified by the management. The basis 
of determining cost for various categories of inventories as 
follows:
Stores, Spare Parts, 
Packing Materials 
and Raw Materials
Weighted moving average method except 
stores segregated for specific purposes and 
materials in transit valued at their specific cost.
Work in Progress 
and Finished Goods 
Material cost plus appropriate share of 
production overheads.
Stock in Trade 
First in First Out method based on actual cost.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
199
AtmaNirbhar AIS
j)	
Revenue  
Revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is 
satisfied by transferring promised goods or services (i.e. an 
asset) to a customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the 
customer obtains control of that asset. Revenue is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable 
net of discounts, taking into account contractually defined 
terms and excluding taxes and duties collected on behalf 
of the Government. Interest income is accrued on time 
proportion basis, by reference to the principal outstanding 
and the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income 
from investments is recognised when the right to receive 
payment has been established. Rental income from 
investment properties is recognised on a straight line basis 
over the term of the relevant leases. Income from services is 
accounted over the period of rendering of services.
k)	
 Foreign Currency Transactions 
i)	
Items included in the Financial Statements are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates. The 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements are presented 
in Indian Rupee (INR) which is Group’s functional and 
presentation currency. 
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions.  Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at year end exchange rates are generally recognised 
in statement of profit and loss except on transactions 
entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks. 
	
Exchange gains or losses of foreign currency borrowings 
taken prior to 1st April, 2017 which are related to the 
acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are 
adjusted in the carrying cost of such assets. 
ii)	
Derivative Financial Instruments 
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Group uses 
certain financial instruments to reduce business risks 
which arise from its exposure to foreign exchange 
rate risks, commodity price risks and interest rate 
fluctuations. The instruments are confined mainly to 
forward contracts, certain other derivative financial 
instruments and interest rate swaps.
	
Derivatives are initially accounted for and measured at 
fair value from the date derivatives contract is entered 
into and subsequently remeasured to their fair value at 
the end of each reporting period.
l)	
Cash and Cash Equivalents  
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of Cash 
Flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents includes cash in hand, 
demand deposits with banks, short term balances, highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk 
of changes in value.  Book overdrafts are shown within Other 
Financial Liabilities in the Balance Sheet and form part of cash 
and cash equivalents in the Cash Flow Statement. 
m)	
Taxes on income
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax 
and deferred tax. 
Current tax charge is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss because some items of income or expense 
are taxable or deductible in different years or may never be 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using Indian tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted by the reporting date. 
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority. 
The Group periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
in the future arising from temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability 
is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are off set against 
each other and the resultant net amount is presented in the 
Balance Sheet if and only when the Group currently has a 
legally enforceable right to set off the current income tax 
assets and liabilities. 
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) 
paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, to the extent it 
would be available for set off against future current income 
tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax 
asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured 
reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit 
associated with the asset will be realised.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit or Loss, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or directly 
in Equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income or directly in Equity respectively.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
200
n)	
Employee Benefits  
	
i)	
Short Term Employee Benefits  
	
Short term employee benefits are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised 
for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has 
a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this 
amount as a result of past service provided by the 
employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
	
ii)	
Post Employment Benefits
	
	
Defined Contribution Plans  
	
The Group’s defined contribution plans are 
Superannuation and Employees Provident Fund and 
Employees Pension Scheme (under the provisions of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 1952) since the Group has no further 
obligation beyond making the contributions. The 
Group’s contributions to these plans are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred. 
	
	
Defined Benefits Plans 
	
Liability for defined benefit plans is provided on the 
basis of valuations as at the Balance Sheet date, carried 
out by an independent actuary. 
	
	
Gratuity  
	
The gratuity fund benefits are administered by a Trust 
recognised by Income Tax Authorities through Group 
Gratuity Schemes. The liability for gratuity at the end 
of the each financial year is determined on the basis 
of actuarial valuation carried out by the Insurer’s 
Actuary. The method used for measuring the liability for 
Gratuity is Projected Unit Credit Method. Actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income in the period of occurrence 
of such gains and losses. The obligations for gratuity 
are measured at the present value of estimated future 
cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the prevailing 
market yields of Indian Government securities as at 
the Balance Sheet date for the estimated term of the 
obligations. The estimate of future salary increases 
considered takes into account the inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors. The expected 
rate of return of plan assets is the Group’s expectation 
of the average long term rate of return expected on 
investments of the fund during the estimated term of 
the obligations. Plan assets are measured at fair value 
as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
iii)	
Other Long Term Benefit Plans  
	
The liabilities for earned leave are not expected to be 
settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service. They are therefore measured as the present 
value of expected future payments to be made in 
respect of services provided by employees up to the 
end of the reporting period using the Projected Unit 
Credit Method. The benefits are discounted using the 
market yields at the end of the reporting period that 
have terms approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation. Re-measurements as a result of experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. 
iv)	
The expenditure on voluntary retirement scheme is 
charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year 
in which it is incurred.  
o)	
Earnings Per Share  
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit 
for the period attributable to the owners of Group by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period and for all periods 
presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other 
than the conversion of potential equity shares that have 
changed the number of equity shares outstanding without 
a corresponding change in resources. For the purposes of 
calculating diluted earnings per share the profit for the period 
attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the period is 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. 
p)	
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale 
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a 
sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is 
considered highly probable. They are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. 
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised while 
they are classified as held for sale. 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the Balance Sheet. 
q)	
Exceptional Items  
When items of income or expense are of such nature, size 
and incidence that their disclosure is necessary to explain the 
performance of the Group for the year, the Group makes a 
disclosure of the nature and amount of such items separately 
under the head “Exceptional Items”.
r)	
Segment Reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (CODM).  The Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company has been identified as 
CODM and is responsible for allocating the resources, 
assesses the financial performance of segments and position 
of the Group and makes strategic decisions. 
The Group has identified two reportable segments 
“Automotive Glass” and “Float Glass” based on the 
information reviewed by the CODM.  Refer Note 36. for 
segment information presented.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
201
AtmaNirbhar AIS
s)	
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities 
A provision is recognized if as a result of a past event, the 
Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) 
that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the 
obligation. Provisions are recognized at the best estimate of 
the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at 
the Balance Sheet date. If the effect of time value of money 
is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre tax 
rate that reflects, when appropriate the risks specific to the 
liability.  
A contingent liability exists when there is a possible 
obligation arising from past events, the existence of which 
will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the 
control of the Company or a present obligation that arises 
from past event where it is either not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be utilized to settle the obligation  or a 
reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made. Contingent 
liabilities do not warrant provisions but are disclosed unless 
the possibility of outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits is remote. Contingent assets are neither recognized 
nor disclosed in the  Financial Statements. However, when the 
realization of income is virtually certain, then the related asset 
is not a contingent asset and its recognition is appropriate. 
The Company uses significant judgements to assess 
contingent liabilities. The Company faces litigations and 
claims from various authorities and parties which are 
connected with a degree of uncertainty. Such litigations 
comprise complex issues which can only be resolved over 
extended time periods. Accordingly, the assessment of 
whether an obligation exists on the Balance Sheet Date as 
a result of an event in the past and whether a future cash 
outflow is likely and the obligation can be reliably estimated, 
largely depends on estimations by the Management 
including past precedents based on similar facts, opinions 
and consultation with experts handling the litigations and 
similar other weighing factors. 
t)	
Research and Development 
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Product 
development costs are capitalised when technical and 
commercial feasibility of the products is demonstrated, 
future economic benefits are probable, the Company has an 
intention and ability to complete and use or sell the product 
and the cost can be measured reliably. In other cases such 
development costs are taken to the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. The costs which can be capitalised include the cost 
of material, direct labour, overhead costs that are directly 
attributable to preparing the asset for its intended use.
u)	
Rounding of Amounts  
All amounts disclosed in the Financial Statements and 
accompanying notes have been rounded off to the nearest 
lakhs as per the requirement of Schedule III of the Companies 
Act, 2013, unless otherwise stated.  
v)	
Dividends  
Dividend proposed (including income tax thereon) is 
recognised in the period in which interim dividends are 
approved by the Board of Directors or in respect of final 
dividend when approved by Shareholders.
w)	
Borrowing Cost 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or 
construction of qualifying assets are capitalised as part of the 
cost of such assets. A qualifying asset is one that necessarily 
takes substantial period of time to get ready for its intended 
use. All other borrowing costs are charged to the Statement 
of Profit and Loss for the period for which they are incurred.
x)	
Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a 
reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attached to them and the grants will be received.
Government grants related to expenses, are recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss on a systematic basis over 
the periods in which the Group recognises as expense the 
related cost for which the grants are intended to compensate.
Government grants related to income under State Investment 
Promotion Scheme linked with Goods and Services Tax (GST) 
payment, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
on the event they become receivable.
Government grants related to an asset, are recognised on a 
systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the related 
assets. 
Government grants related to an asset, are recognized on a 
systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the related 
assets. MOOWR benefits arising from deferment of Custom 
Duty and Goods & Services Tax on import of capital goods 
under Manufacturing & Other Operations in Warehouse 
Regulation (MOOWR) Scheme are netted off from Property, 
Plant & Equipment.
y)	
Royalty
The Group pays/accrues for royalty in accordance with the 
relevant licence / technical collaboration agreements.
z)	
Recent pronouncements
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new Standards 
or amendments to the existing Standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to 
time. For the year ended 31st March, 2025, MCA has notified 
Ind AS-117 “Insurance Contracts” and amendments to Ind 
AS-116 “Leases” relating to sale and leaseback transactions, 
applicable to the Group w.e.f 1st April, 2024. The Group 
has reviewed the new pronouncements and based on 
its evaluation has determined that it does not have any 
significant impact in its financial statements. 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
202
2.	
Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
	
 As At 31st March, 2025
(` Lakhs)
Description
Gross Block
Depreciation/Amortisation and Impairment
Net Block
As At 
1st April, 
2024
Additions
Other 
Adjustments
Deductions/ 
Retirement
As At
31st March, 
2025
As At
1st April, 
2024
For
the Year
Deductions/
Adjustments
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
a) Property, Plant 
and Equipment
Freehold Land
33070
 - 
 - 
 - 
33070
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
33070
33070
Buildings
73220
18744
3294
17
95241
15138
2573
 5 
17706
77535
58082
Plant and Equipment
171182
103034
18226
1250
291192
69187
12060
1102
80145
211047
101995
Electrical Installations 
and Fittings
15055
6045
1177
12
22265
4386
801
 3 
5184
17081
10669
Furniture and Fixtures
2597
288
-
6
2879
920
 254 
 3 
1171
1708
1677
Office Equipments
3571
819
1
2
4389
2415
 352 
 1 
2766
1623
1156
Data Processing 
Equipments
2640
838
4
3
3479
1725
 390 
 2 
2113
1366
915
Vehicles
2876
662
-
177
3361
1138
 330 
 124 
1344
2017
1738
304211
130430
22702
1467
455876
94909
16760
1240
110429
345447
209302
b) Intangible Assets
Software
940
91
-
-
1031
721
 82 
 - 
803
228
219
Goodwill on 
Consolidation
10547
-
-
-
10547
-
 - 
 - 
-
10547
10547
License Fee
222
1
-
-
223
141
 16 
 - 
157
66
81
11709
92
-
-
11801
862
98
-
960
10841
10847
c) Right of Use Assets
Leasehold Land
38196
45
-
-
38241
3561
 563 
 - 
4124
34117
34635
Buildings
10147
6881
-
1871
15157
3586
1827
1235
4178
10979
6561
Plant & Equipment
158
3054
-
-
3212
25
 111 
 - 
136
3076
133
48501
9980
-
1871
56610
7172
2501
1235
8438
48172
41329
Total
364421
140502
22702
3338
524287
102943
19359
2475
119827
404460
261478
Previous Year
325182
40572
958
2291
364421
85826
17760
643
102943
261478
-
Notes :
1.	
Buildings include cost of shares of ` 500 (previous year ` 500) in a Co-operative Society.
2.	
Other Adjustments (Gross Block) include Interest capitalised `1556 lakhs, `9411 lakhs, `665 lakhs, `4 lakhs and `1 lakh 
(previous year `116 lakhs, `264 lakhs, `38 lakhs, `Nil and `Nil) in Buildings, Plant and Equipments, Electrical Installations and 
Fittings, Data Processing Equipments and Office Equipment respectively.
3.	
Electrical Installations and Fittings include `636 lakhs (previous year `636 lakhs) paid to State Electricity Board not represented 
by physical assets owned by the Group.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
203
AtmaNirbhar AIS
3.	
Capital Work-In-Progress
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Buildings under construction 
10281
9233
Plant and Equipment under Installation 
42583
63066
Electrical Installations under erection 
1517
4520
Expenditure Incurred in the course of construction or acquisition 
1553
5639
Others 
270
147
Total 
56204
82605
	
The capital work-in-progress (CWIP) ageing schedule as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 is as follows:
Particulars
Amount in CWIP for a period of 
Total 
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
48211
6958
954
44
56167
 (78570)
 (3696)
 (256)
 (46)
 (82568)
Projects temporarily suspended 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 37 
 37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (37)
 (37)
Total
 48211 
 6958 
 954 
 81 
 56204 
 (78570)
 (3696)
 (256)
 (83)
 (82605)
	
For capital-work-in progress, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan, the project 
wise details of when the project is expected to be completed is given below as of 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024:
Projects in Progress
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
Auto Projects
13716
33
-
-
 (4798)
 - 
-
-
Float Projects
 - 
-
-
 - 
 - 
-
-
Mining Projects
 - 
 - 
-
-
 - 
 - 
Total
 13716 
 33 
-
-
 (4798)
 - 
-
-
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
204
4.	
Investments 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Number
Face Value (`)
Amount
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
As At 
31st March, 
2025
As At 
31st March, 
2024
i)	
In Associate Companies
	
Long Term - Trade
	
Equity Instruments
	
Unquoted (measured at cost)
	
	
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited
-
11874378
-
10
-
3054
	
	
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
1595562
1500000
10
10
(88)
(70)
	
	
Under Par Sports Technologies Private Limited
170000
170000
10
10
4
10
(84)
2994
ii)	 Others (designated at fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income)
	
Quoted
	
Jamna Auto Industries Limited
825000
825000
1
1
620
1092
620
1092
	
 Unquoted
Beta Wind Farm Private Limited
322924
322924
10
10
61
61
Green Infra Clean Wind Farms Limited
8352000
8352000
10
10
835
835
AMP Energy C and I Two Private Limited
362500
362500
10
10
36
36
Kamachi Sponge and Power Corporation Limited*
332000
332000
-
-
-
-
Vishakha Glass Private Limited
28076000
28076000
10
10
2808
2808
Continuum Wind Energy (India) Private Limited
180664
180664
10
10
18
18
Avaada Mhbuldhana Private Limited
3500000
3500000
10
10
350
350
4108
4108
In Compulsorily Convertible Debentures
AMP Energy C and I Two Private Limited
32625
32625
1000
1000
327
327
327
327
Total
4971
8521
Aggregate amount of quoted investments and 
market value thereof
620
1092
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
4351
7429
	
* Impaired
5.	
Other Financial Assets
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Bank Deposits with more than 12 Months Maturity 
1137
49
Security Deposits 
	
a)	 Related Party*
45
45
	
b)	 Others 
4090
3732
Total 
5272
3826
	
* ` 45 lakhs (previous year ` 45 lakhs) due from R.S. Estates Private Limited. 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
205
AtmaNirbhar AIS
6.	
Other Non-Current Assets (Unsecured Considered Good)
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Capital Advances
6369
19025
Prepaid Expenses
87
119
Total
6456
19144
7.	
Inventories 
Raw Materials
36573
33018
Work-in-Progress
8482
8850
Finished Goods
38371
31335
Stock-in-Trade
2637
2344
Stores, Spares and Loose Tools
24871
22846
Others
- Waste, Scrap and By Product etc.
1006
1016
Total
111940
99409
Inventories include Material-in-Transit:
Raw Materials
6917
2667
Stock-in-Trade
41
48
Stores, Spares and Loose Tools
270
191
Note: Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value except waste and scrap which is valued at estimated realisable 
value.
8.	
Trade receivables
Trade Receivables Considered Good-Secured
247
282
Trade Receivables Considered Good-Unsecured
43930
35068
Trade Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
-
27
Trade Receivables-Credit Impaired
606
439
44783
35816
Allowance for Trade Receivables-credit impaired
(606)
(466)
Total
44177
35350
	
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total 
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
6 months- 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years 
More than 
3 years
i)	
Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
26811
13100
1782
633
84
1039
43449
(24445)
(7673)
(714)
(106)
(-) 
(1601)
(34539)
ii)	
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
- 
-
-
47 
27 
52 
126 
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(23)
(23)
iii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
- 
-
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(12)
(-)
(16)
(28)
iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivables– 
considered good
- 
-
-
13 
88 
627 
728 
(-)
(-)
(-)
(121)
(6)
(684)
(811)
v)	
Disputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
- 
-
3 
12 
3 
21 
39 
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(4)
(4)
vi)	 Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
-
1
5
18
15
402
441 
(-)
(1)
(1)
(18)
(21)
(370)
(411)
Total
26811 
13101 
1790 
723 
217 
2141 
44783 
(24445)
(7674)
(715)
(257)
(27)
(2698)
(35816)
Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables
- 
1 
8 
77 
45 
475 
606 
(-)
(1)
(1)
(30)
(21)
(413)
(466)
Total Trade Receivable
26811 
13100 
1782 
646 
172 
1666 
44177 
(24445)
(7673)
(714)
(227)
(6)
(2285)
(35350)
Note: 
1.	The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 37.
2.	Figures in ( ) above are in respect of previous year.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
206
9.	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
i)	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
a)	 Balances with Banks
	
	
Current Accounts
3475
7324
	
	
Deposits With Original Maturity Upto Twelve Months (Including Interest Accrued)
12376
10085
	
b)	 Cheques and Drafts on Hand
156
4
	
c)	
Cash on Hand
24
42
	
d)	 Others - in Post Office Saving Account*
-
-
ii)	 Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
	
Unpaid Dividend Accounts
423
398
	
Fractional Entitlement Account
-
9
Total
16454
17862
	
* Rounded off to Nil 
10.	 Loans
a)	 Loans Receivables Considered Good-Unsecured
3166
2426
b)	 Loans Receivables which have significant increase in Credit Risk
 - 
 - 
c)	
Loans Receivables-Credit Impaired
 - 
 - 
Total 
3166
2426
11.	 Other Financial Assets	
Security Deposits*
616
312
Total
616
312
	
*Include interest accrued on Government Deposits of `82 lakhs (previous year `79 lakhs)
12.	 Current Tax Assets (Net)
Advance Income Tax & Tax Deducted at Source
1093
1422
Total
1093
1422
13.	 Other Current Assets (Unsecured Considered Good)
Advances
Against Supply of Goods and Services
Considered Good
7877
6650
Considered Doubtful
3
63
Provision for Doubtful Advances
(3)
(63)
7877
6650
Advances to Government Authorities
14326
9563
Prepaid Expenses
1838
1264
Total
24041
17477
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
207
AtmaNirbhar AIS
14.	 Equity Share Capital	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Authorised
500000000 Equity Shares of par value `1/- each 
5000
5000
600000 Preference Shares of par value ` 100/- each
600
600
9000000 Preference Shares of par value ` 10/- each 
900
900
Total
6500
6500
Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid Up
243089931 Equity Shares of par value ` 1/- each 
2431
2431
Total
2431
2431
	
a)	
Movements in Equity Share Capital:
	
	
Reconciliation of the Equity Shares Outstanding:
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
Amount
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance at the beginning of the year
243089931
2431
243089931
2431
Issued during the year
-
-
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
243089931
2431
243089931
2431
	
b)	
Terms and Rights Attached to Equity Shares:
	
	
The Company has only one class of issued equity shares having a par value ` 1/- per share. Each Shareholder of equity shares 
is eligible to one vote per share held.
	
c)	
Details of Shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Name of Shareholder
As At 31st March, 2025
As At  31st March, 2024
No. of Shares
% held
No. of Shares
% held
AGC Inc.
53990400
22.21
53990400
22.21
Maruti Suzuki India Limited
26995200
11.11
26995200
11.11
Mr. Sanjay Labroo
29230761
12.02
29210761
12.02
	
	
Shares held by Promoters as at 31st March 2025
Promoter Name*
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
% change during 
the year
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
AGC Inc.
53990400
22.21
53990400
22.21
-
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd
26995200
11.11
26995200
11.11
-
Sanjay Labroo
29230761
12.02
29210761
12.02
0.07
Leena S Labroo
3517467
1.45
3483767
1.43
0.97
Pradeep Beniwal
816000
0.34
816000
0.34
-
Nisheeta Labroo
717586
0.30
717586
0.30
-
Aneesha Labroo
642086
0.26
642086
0.26
-
Tarun R Tahiliani
563148
0.23
563148
0.23
-
Bharat Roy Kapur
400000
0.16
400000
0.16
-
Satya Nand
364800
0.15
364800
0.15
-
Malathi Raghunand
306423
0.13
306423
0.13
-
Uma R Malhotra
347719
0.14
347719
0.14
-
Sabina Agarwal
210400
0.09
210400
0.09
-
Ashok Kanhayalal Monga
124000
0.05
124000
0.05
-
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
208
Promoter Name*
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
% change during 
the year
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
No. of Shares
% of total 
shares
Dinesh K. Agarwal
201640
0.08
201640
0.08
-
Krishna Chamanlal Tiku
163689
0.07
173689
0.07
(5.76)
Sushma Aggarwal
126150
0.05
126150
0.05
-
Charat Aggarwal
65862
0.03
113016
0.05
(41.72)
Dr Manjula Milind Pishawikar
60000
0.02
60000
0.02
-
V D Nanda Kumar
84077
0.03
84077
0.03
-
M Lakshmi
64000
0.03
64000
0.03
-
Tanya Kumar
63000
0.03
63000
0.03
-
Riva Agarwal
56800
0.02
56800
0.02
-
Abhinav Agarwal
55700
0.02
55700
0.02
-
M N Chaitanya
50800
0.02
50800
0.02
-
Ashok Kapur
40170
0.02
40170
0.02
-
Praveen Kumar Tiku
40000
0.02
40000
0.02
-
Padma N Rao
25600
0.01
25600
0.01
-
Rajeev Khanna
18240
0.01
18240
0.01
-
Daryao Singh
10000
0.00
10000
0.00
-
Kanta Gupta
1750
0.00
1750
0.00
-
Bhupinder Singh Kanwar
712
0.00
712
0.00
-
Ajay Labroo
255963
0.11
338008
0.14
(24.27)
Sanjaya Kumar
267519
0.11
267519
0.11
-
Sundip Kumar
316160
0.13
316160
0.13
-
Essel Marketing Private Limited
4026889
1.66
4026889
1.66
-
Allied Fincap Services Private Limited
400000
0.16
400000
0.16
-
Rajeev Khanna Tradelinks LLP
290624
0.12
290624
0.12
-
Anuradha Mahindra
3333486
1.37
3333486
1.37
-
Yuthica Keshub Mahindra
96000
0.04
96000
0.04
-
Anil Monga
160000
0.07
160000
0.07
-
Shashi Palamand
1550000
0.64
1550000
0.64
-
Suryanarayana Rao Palamand
1550000
0.64
1550000
0.64
-
Uma Ranjit Malhotra
65000
0.03
65000
0.03
-
Anjali Dhar
80000
0.03
80000
0.03
-
	
	
*Promoter here means promoter as defined in the Companies Act, 2013.
	
d)	
Dividends:
	
	
The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to 
the approval of Shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting except in case of interim dividend.
	
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of the equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. However no such preferential amounts exist currently. 
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the Shareholders.
	
	
Details of dividend paid
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
i)	
Equity Shares
Dividend for the year ended 31st March, 2024 of `2 (previous year `2) per fully paid equity share
4862
4862
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
209
AtmaNirbhar AIS
15.	 Other equity 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Amount
Amount
Amount
Amount
a)	 Capital Reserve
	
Opening Balance
38
38
	
Closing Balance
38
38
b)	 Capital Redemption Reserve
	
Opening Balance
1395
1395
	
Closing Balance
1395
1395
c)	
Securities Premium
	
Opening Balance
23862
23862
	
Closing Balance
23862
23862
d)	 Amalgamation Reserve
	
Opening Balance
637
637
	
Closing Balance
637
637
e)	 General Reserve
	
Opening Balance
9989
9989
	
Closing Balance
9989
9989
f)	
Retained Earnings
	
Opening Balance
197177
169341
	
Ind AS Adjustments
25
(100)
	
Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company
37127
32798
	
Dividend on Equity Shares
(4862)
(4862)
	
Closing Balance
229467
197177
g)	 Other Reserves Fair Value through Other 
Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI)
	
Opening Balance
(184)
(240)
	
Movement in OCI (Net) during the year
(735)
56
	
Closing Balance
(919)
(184)
Total
264469
232914
	
Description of Reserves
	
a)	
Capital Reserve: Capital Reserve represents reserve of the Company which is not available for distribution as dividend.
	
b)	
Capital Redemption Reserve: Capital Redemption Reserve is reserve created on redemption of preference shares.
	
c)	
Securities Premium: Securities Premium represents excess amount received by the Company over the face value of its share 
to be utilised for specific purposes only as per Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
d) 	
Amalgamation Reserve: Amalgamation Reserve is reserve created on amalgamation of erstwhile Float Glass India Limited 
with the Company.
	
e) 	
General Reserve: General Reserve is free reserve of the Company which is kept aside out of Company’s profits to meet 
future requirements as and when they arise. The Company had transferred a portion of the Profit After Tax to General Reserve 
pursuant to earlier provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to General Reserve is not required under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
f) 	
Retained Earnings: Retained Earnings are the accumulated profits of the Company after reduction of dividend and Income 
tax on dividend.
 	
g) 	
Other Reserves - FVTOCI: Other Comprehensive Income represents actuarial gain/loss on remeasurement of defined benefit 
obligation and fair valuation of Investments.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
210
16.	 Borrowings - Non-current  
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Secured Term Loans from Banks
Rupee Term Loans
174665
111515
Secured Term Loans from Others
Rupee Term Loans
12573
16555
Unsecured Term Loans from Banks
Rupee Term Loans
9980
-
Total
197218
128070
	
a)	
Details of Securities given and Terms of Repayments of Borrowings
Name of Bank / Others
As At 31st March, 2025
Security Given
Instalments 
Outstanding
Maturity
Non-
Current
Current
Secured Term Loans from 
Banks
Rupee Term Loans
HDFC Bank Limited
-
382
First Pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
1
Jun-25
AXIS Bank Limited
-
1874
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
3
Nov-25
MUFG Bank Limited
-
492
First Pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
1
Jun-25
Bank of Baroda
-
723
First Pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
2
Jul-25
HDFC Bank Limited
1218
813
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
10
Sep-27
Bank of Baroda
-
2496
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
4
Mar-26
EXIM Bank
2925
1663
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Oct-27
Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait 
B.S.C.
1875
1500
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
9
Jun-27
MUFG Bank Limited
3100
1760
First pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Dec-27
IDFC First Bank Limited
3746
1500
Subservient charge on current assets & movable 
fixed assets of the Company
7
Sep-28
Shinhan Bank Limited
2083
1249
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
8
Mar-27
Bank of Baroda
11701
772
First pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Dec-29
EXIM Bank
22327
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Mar-33
Central Bank of India
21218
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Mar-33
ICICI Bank Limited
15474
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
28
Jul-33
HDFC Bank Limited
7781
1796
First pari-passu charge on T-7 Taloja Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Apr-29
The Federal Bank Limited
8746
1248
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Jul-29
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
211
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Name of Bank / Others
As At 31st March, 2025
Security Given
Instalments 
Outstanding
Maturity
Non-
Current
Current
The Federal Bank Limited
6804
1816
First pari-passu charge on Patan Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
19
Dec-29
AXIS Bank Limited
4562
1036
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
19
Dec-29
MUFG Bank Limited
29400
-
First pari-passu charge on Soniyana Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
24
Jun-32
Shinhan Bank Limited
4372
623
First pari-passu charge on Chennai Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Sep-29
Citi Bank
8750
5000
Subservient charge on current assets & movable 
fixed assets of the Company
11
Oct-27
ICICI Bank Limited
6667
3333
First charge on T-16 Taloja Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
12
Jan-28
HDFC Bank Limited
11916
-
First pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
16
Feb-30
The Federal Bank Limited
-
9
First charge on all current assets and movable fixed 
assets of GX Glass Sales & Services Limited both 
present and future
21
Mar-26
Total
174665
30085
Secured Rupee Term 
Loans from Others
Bajaj Finance Limited
2823
1777
First Pari-passu charge on Roorkee Plant movable 
and immovable fixed assets both present and future
11
Mar-27
Bajaj Finance Limited
2200
800
Exclusive charge on Anantapur and Pune Sub 
Assembly Units movable fixed assets
15
Oct-28
Bajaj Finance Limited
6167
2000
First Pari-passu charge on Rewari Plant movable and 
immovable fixed assets both present and future
49
Apr-29
Bajaj Finance Limited
688
250
Exclusive charge on immovable and movable Fixed 
Assets of AIS Glass Solutions Ltd. Roorkee Plant both 
present and future
15
Oct-28
Bajaj Finance Limited
695
200
Exclusive charge on immovable and movable Fixed 
Assets of AIS Glass Solutions Ltd. Roorkee Plant both 
present and future
18
Sep-29
Total
12573
5027
Unsecured Term Loans 
from Banks
The Federal Bank Limited
9980
-
12
Mar-29
Total
9980
-
197218
35112
17.	 Other Financial Liabilities
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Deposits from Customers
2284
2358
Total
2284
2358
(` Lakhs)
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
212
18.	 Deferred Tax Liabilities/(Assets) (Net) and Movement in Deferred Tax Balances
Particulars
Net Balance As 
At 1st April, 2024
On 
Acquisition 
of 
Subsidiaries
Recognised in 
Profit or Loss
Recognised 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Net Balance As At 
31st March, 2025
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Difference in Book Net Value and Tax Net 
Value of Property, Plant and Equipment 
and Intangible Assets
15108
-
3670
-
18778
Investments
-
-
113
(29)
84
Borrowings
139
-
11
-
150
15247
-
3794
(29)
19012
Deferred Tax Assets
Unabsorbed Depreciation/ Carried 
Forward Losses under Tax Laws
5122
-
576
-
5698
Expenses Allowed for Tax Purpose on 
Payment Basis
1186
-
(63)
98
1221
Provision for Doubtful Debts and 
Advances
129
-
12
-
141
MAT credit recoverable
45
-
-
-
45
Investments
561
-
(561)
-
-
Unabsorbed Capital Loss
59
-
(59)
-
-
Others
(262)
-
36
-
(226)
6840
-
(59)
98
6878
Total
8407
-
3853
(127)
12134
	
Note: Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset as they relate to the same governing laws.
19.	 Provisions
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Provision for Employee Benefits
	
Leave Encashment
1031
755
	
Gratuity
395
321
Total
1426
1076
20.	 Borrowings
Loans Repayable On Demand
Secured
From Banks *
1218
6920
Unsecured
From Banks
19500
15512
Current Maturities
Long Term Borrowings
35112
37352
Total
55830
59784
	
*`1218 lakhs (previous year `6920 lakhs) are secured by first pari-passu charge on current assets of the Company.
(` Lakhs)
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
213
AtmaNirbhar AIS
21.	 Trade Payables
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
(a) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises*
4556
1478
(b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises*
95980
83981
Total
100536
85459
	
*including unbilled dues
	
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule (due for payment) for the year ended as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 3 years
Total
(i) MSME
4554
-
2
-
4556
(1472)
(4)
(1)
(1)
(1478)
(ii) Others
27507
134
56
523
28220
(30321)
(152)
(254)
(243)
(30970)
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
-
106
129
289
524
(-)
(297)
(172)
(309)
(778)
Total
32061
240
187
812
33300
(31793)
(453)
(427)
(553)
(33226)
Add: Accrued Expenses (including 
unbilled dues)
67236
(52233)
Grand Total
100536
(85459)
22.	 Other Financial Liabilities
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Interest Accrued
1244
390
Unclaimed Dividend*
423
398
Fractional Share Entitlement
 - 
9
Book Overdraft
163
247
Creditors for Capital Goods
12152
9945
Other Payables
Deposits from Customers/Vendors 
150
253
Payable to Employees
3159
3171
Technical Fee / Royalty Payable
409
372
Total
17700
14785
	
*There are no amounts due for payment to the Investor Education and Protection Fund under Section 125(1) of the Companies Act, 2013
23.	 Other Current Liabilities
Advances from Customers and Others
6047
3929
Other Payables
 	
Statutory Dues
4491
3954
Total
10538
7883
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
214
24.	 Provisions
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Provision for Employee Benefits
	
Leave Encashment
139
111
	
Gratuity
376
20
	
Superannuation
30
30
Total
545
161
25.	 Revenue From Operations 
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Sale of Products
451735
428517
Sale of Services
2241
2084
Other Operating Revenues
	
Scrap Sale
3439
3458
	
Government Grants (Refer Note 45(a))
2010
-
Total
459425
434059
26.	 Other Income 
Interest Income
1362
659
Profit on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
925
-
Liabilities and Provisions Written Back
23
561
Dividend received on Long Term Investments carried at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive 
Income
684
16
Net Gain on Foreign Currency Transaction and Translation
-
1052
Miscellaneous
228
239
Total
3222
2527
27.	 Changes in Inventory of Finished Goods, Work-In-Progress, Stock-In-Trade and Others
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Inventory at the Beginning of the Year
Finished Goods
31335
32506
Work-in-Progress
8850
6903
Stock-in-Trade
2344
602
Others - Waste, Scrap and By Product etc.
1016
43545
998
41009
Inventory taken-over on acquisition of Subsidiaries
Finished Goods
-
103
Work-in-Progress
-
100
Stock-in-Trade
-
-
2026
2229
Inventory at the end of the year
Finished Goods
35861
31198
Work-in-Progress
8482
8850
Stock-in-Trade
2637
2344
Others - Waste, Scrap and By Product etc.
1006
47986
1016
43408
Total
(4441)
(170)
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
215
AtmaNirbhar AIS
28.	 Employee Benefits Expense  
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Salaries, Wages, Allowances and Bonus
35576
30299
Contribution to Provident and Other Funds
1867
1623
Staff Welfare Expenses
4448
4026
Total
41891
35948
29.	 Finance Costs  
Interest Expenses 
11668
13414
Other Borrowing Costs
1162
175
Total 
12830
13589
30.	 Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
 Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment 
17219
16234
 Depreciation of Right of Use Assets
1835
1315
 Amortisation of Intangible Assets 
98
135
 Total 
19152
17684
31.	 Other Expenses 
Consumption of Stores and Spares
38133
35054
Power, Fuel, Water and Utilities (Refer Note 45(b))
65813
63658
Payments to Auditors
	
As Auditor
120
95
	
 For Other services
10
13
	
 For Reimbursement of expenses
3
5
Packing
6847
6468
Forwarding
28668
28068
Repairs and Maintenance
8114
8009
Net Loss on Foreign Currency Transaction and Translation
82
-
Profit/Loss on Sale and Discard of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net)
-
170
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
1133
919
Miscellaneous*
24214
19232
Total
173137
161691
	
*Including ` 800 Lakhs being contribution to a political party
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
216
32.	 Disclosure as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income taxes’ 
	
a)	
Income Tax Expense 
	
	
i)	
Income Tax Recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Current Tax Expense
Current Year
(10631)
(11786)
Adjustment For Earlier Years
(63)
(10)
(10694)
(11796)
Deferred Tax Expense
Origination and Reversal of Temporary Differences
(3853)
44
Total
(14547)
(11752)
	
	
ii)	
Income Tax Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Before Tax
Tax 
(Expense)/ 
Benefit
Net of Tax
Before Tax
Tax 
(Expense)/ 
Benefit
Net of Tax
Net Actuarial Gains/(Losses) on 
Defined Benefit Plans
(389)
136
(253)
(250)
87
(163)
Net Gains/(Losses) on Fair Value of 
Equity Instruments
(473)
(9)
(482)
273
(54)
219
Total
(862)
127
(735)
23
33
56
	
	
iii)	
Reconciliation of Tax Expense and the Accounting Profit Multiplied by India’s Domestic Tax Rate
Particulars
 Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
 Profit Before Tax 
50151
43472
 Tax Using Domestic Tax Rate of 25.168 
12622
10941
 Tax Effect of
 Non-Deductible Tax Expenses 
640 
354 
 Non Taxable Income 
(181)
(73)
 Tax savings on Long Term Capital Gain
(612)
- 
 Earlier Year Tax Adjustments 
63 
10 
 Others 
794 
776 
 Adjustment Pertaining to Subsidiaries 
1094 
(289)
 Total Tax Expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss
14420
11719
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
217
AtmaNirbhar AIS
33.	 Related Party Transactions
	
a)	
Related Parties under Ind AS-24 with whom transactions have taken place during the year:
	
	
i)	
Associates:
	
	
	
1)	
TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited  (upto 23rd December, 2024)
	
	
	
2)	
Fourvolt Solar Private Limited
	
	
	
3)	
Under Par Sports Technologies Private Limited
	
	
ii)	
Enterprises owned or significantly influenced by KMPs or their Relatives:
	
	
	
1)	
R.S. Estates Private Limited
	
	
	
2)	
Niana
	
	
	
3)	
University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India
	
	
	
4)	
Automotive Components Manufacturers Association of India	
	
	
	
5)	
Rudra Wood Pack Private Limited	
	
	
iii)	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and their Relatives: 	
	
 	
1)	
Mr. Sanjay Labroo	
	
	
	
	
	
Chairman and Managing Director
2)	
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo		
	
	
	
	
Non Executive Director
3)	
Mr. Masao Fukami	
	
	
	
	
	
Dy. Managing Director-Technical and CTO (Auto)
4)	
Mr. Masahiro Takeda		
	
	
	
	
Non Executive Director
5)	
Dr. Satoshi Ishizuka (upto 31st March, 2025)	
Non Executive Director
6)	
Mr. Yoji Taguchi (upto 1st April 2024)	 	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
7)	
Mr. Setsuya Yoshino (w.e.f.	1st April 2024)	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
8)	
Ms. Sheetal Kapal Mehta	 	
	
	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
9)	
Mr. Kamaljit Kalkat (w.e.f. 6th August, 2024)		
Non Executive Independent Director
10)	 Mr. Ravin Khosla (w.e.f. 16th December, 2024)	 Non Executive Independent Director
11)	
Mr. Rahul Rana (upto 5th August, 2024)	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
12)	 Ms. Shradha Suri (upto 31st March, 2025)	
	
Non Executive Independent Director
13)	 Mr. Shailesh Agarwal		
	
	
	
	
Chief Financial Officer
14)	 Mr. Gopal Ganatra	
	
	
	
	
	
Company Secretary
iv)	
Others:
	
	
	
1)	
AGC Inc. and its Group Companies
	
	
	
2)	
Maruti Suzuki India Limited and its Subsidiary
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
218
	
b)	
Transactions with the Related Parties are as follows: 
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
Associates
Enterprises owned or 
significantly influenced by Key 
Management Personnel
Key Management 
Personnel and 
their Relatives
Others
2024-25 2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25 2023-24
1)	 Expenses
Purchase of Raw Materials And Power and Fuel
192
1544
-
-
-
-
68039
61034
Stores and Spares
647
688
-
-
-
-
2157
1812
Purchase of Stock-in-Trade
-
-
-
-
-
-
1287
598
Purchase of Packing Material
-
-
659
456
-
-
-
-
Remuneration to Directors and KMP
-
-
-
-
1411
1159
-
-
Sitting Fee and Commission to Non-Executive 
Directors
-
-
-
-
10
7
2
1
Miscellaneous Expenses
-
-
33
59
-
-
-
-
Rent Paid
-
-
64
47
-
-
-
-
Repairs and Maintenance
12
-
-
-
-
-
304
90
Royalty / Technical Fee
-
-
-
-
-
-
5191
3797
Interest Paid/Payable
-
31
-
-
-
-
132
211
2)	 Income
Sale of Goods etc.
-
20763
-
-
13
-
100646
75432
Sale of Capital Goods
-
-
-
-
-
2
1106
622
Interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
6
Miscellaneous Income
-
297
-
-
-
-
-
-
3)	 Purchase of Capital Goods
153
68
-
-
-
-
2260
1562
4)	 Loan Received
-
850
-
-
-
-
-
-
5)	 Loan Repaid
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
c)	
Outstanding Balances with Related Parties are as follows:
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Amount Recoverable towards Advances
From Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
45
45
Amount Recoverable other than above
From Associates
 - 
 - 
From Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
-
 146 
From Others
5419
6509
Amount Payable
To Associates
170
188
To Key Managerial Personnel
-
243
To Enterprises Owned or Significantly Influenced by Key Management Personnel
101
 1 
To Others
13663
11436
	
d)	
Related Party Relationship is as identified by the Group on the basis of available information and accepted by the Auditors 
as correct.		
	
	
	
	
	
34.	 Disclosure as per Ind AS 33 ‘Earnings per Share’
	
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share
Particulars
Year Ended 
31st March, 2025
Year Ended 
31st March, 2024
Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share (`)
15.27
13.49
Nominal Value per Share (`)
1
1
a)	 Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (Used as Numerator)
	
Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (` lakhs)
37127
32798
b)	 Weighted Average Number of Equity Shares (Used as Denominator)
	
Opening Balance of issued Equity Shares of `1 each
243089931
243089931
	
Effect of Shares issued during the Year, if any
-
-
Weighted Average Number of Equity Shares Outstanding at the End of the Year for 
calculation of Basic and Diluted EPS
243089931
243089931
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
219
AtmaNirbhar AIS
35.	 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Contingent Liabilities 
(As identified and provided by the management and accepted by the auditors as correct)
a)	 Claims against the Group not Acknowledged as Debts*
	
i)	
Excise, Custom Duty** and Service Tax
31992
4564
	
ii)	
Disputed Income Tax Demand
541
497
	
iii)	 Disputed Sales Tax Demand
3467
3636
	
iv)	 Goods & Services Tax (GST)
2142
1428
	
v)	 Others
27
15
b)	 Guarantees
	
i)	
Bank Guarantees and Letters of Credit Outstanding
18111
18563
	
ii)	
Corporate Guarantees
6450
6450
	
iii)	 Bonds Executed in favour of Government Departments***
17123
6837
c)	
Other money for which the Group is Contingently Liable
	
i)	
Channel Financing from Banks
8825
9549
	
ii)	
Bills Discounted
23568
17469
	
iii)	 Others
1
 27 
Commitments
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for 
excluding Capital Advances
17228
59874
	
* The Group has been advised that the demands are likely to be deleted and accordingly no provision is considered necessary.
	
** Contingent Liability-Custom Duty include:
	
The Group has received several show-cause/demand notices from Custom Authorities alleging mis-classification of imported items. The Group is 
vehemently contesting such notices on legal grounds through expert consultants, and in the past in similar cases, such matters have been decided 
in favour of the Group. The Group is in the process of filing appeals/writ petition against the above notices. Therefore, the Group does not foresee 
any significant liability on such matters. Some of the above notices pertain to overlapping demands of Rs.15377 Lakhs, which has been excluded 
from the above.
	
*** As on 31-03-2025, the Group has a Contingent Liability of Rs.17123 Lakhs towards Custom Duty and Goods & Services Tax for capital goods imported 
under Manufacturing & Other Operations in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) Scheme. The Group’s liability towards such Custom Duty and Goods & 
Services Tax shall be contingent upon at the time of filing of Bill of Entry for home consumption. The event of such contingency occuring is remote.
36.	 Segment Information:
a)	
Primary Segment Information
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Segment Revenue
External
298972
126655
32481
-
458108
264527
149226
20922
-
434675
Inter Segment Sales
2122
6589
39546
(48257)
-
2074
3515
12160
(17749)
-
Other Income
-
-
4539
-
4539
-
-
1911
-
1911
Total Revenue (Gross)
301094
133244
76566
(48257)
462647
266601
152741
34993
(17749)
436586
Segment Result
36033
20082
(617)
-
55498
31534
26417
(610)
-
57341
Unallocated Income 
(net of expenses)
-
-
7247
-
7247
-
-
(154)
-
(154)
Operating Profit
36033
20082
6630
-
62745
31534
26417
(764)
-
57187
Interest expense
-
-
(12830)
-
(12830)
-
-
(13589)
-
(13589)
Interest income
-
-
1362
-
1362
-
-
659
-
659
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
220
Particulars
Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended 31st March, 2024
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Automotive 
Glass
Float
Glass
Unallocable
Eliminations
Total
Tax Expense
- Current Tax
-
-
(10631)
-
(10631)
-
-
(11786)
-
(11786)
- Deferred Tax
-
-
(3853)
-
(3853)
-
-
44
-
44
- Adjustments Related 
to Earlier Years(Net)
-
-
(63)
-
(63)
-
-
(10)
-
(10)
Net Profit/(Loss)
36033
20082
(19385)
-
36730
31534
26417
(25446)
-
32505
Capital Expenditure
25114
99265
2419
-
126798
20178
65285
4646
-
90109
Depreciation / 
Amortisation
12412
4417
2323
-
19152
11564
4488
1632
-
17684
b)	
Other information
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
 Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended  31st March, 2024
Automotive 
Glass
Float 
Glass
Unallocable
Total
Automotive 
Glass
Float 
Glass
Unallocable
Total
Segment assets
302291 
333229 
43460 
678980 
276516 
227624 
45821 
549961 
Deferred Tax Assets
 - 
 - 
- 
- 
 - 
 - 
- 
- 
Total assets
302291 
333229 
43460 
678980 
276516 
227624 
45821 
549961 
Segment liabilities
103487 
31988 
26220 
161695 
81027 
28061 
19940 
129028 
Share capital and reserves
 - 
 - 
266900 
266900 
 - 
 - 
235345 
235345 
Minority Interest
 - 
 - 
(2663)
(2663)
 - 
 - 
(2266)
(2266)
Secured and unsecured loans
 - 
 - 
253048 
253048 
 - 
 - 
187854 
187854 
Total liabilities
103487 
31988 
543505 
678980 
81027 
28061 
440873 
549961 
c)	
Secondary Segment Information
Revenue by Geographical Market
 Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Year Ended  31st March, 2024
India
Outside India
Total
India
Outside India
Total
External
503815 
7089 
510904 
446811 
7524 
454335 
Inter segment sales 
(48257)
(48257)
(17749)
(17749)
Total
455558 
7089 
462647 
429062 
7524 
436586 
Notes:
i)	
The Group’s Operating Segments are established on the basis of the information that is evaluated by the “Chief Operating 
Decision Maker” of the Company as defined in Ind AS 108 - Operating Segments in deciding how to allocate resources and in 
assessing performance. The segments have been identified taking into account nature of products and services,production 
processes,risks and returns and the internal business reporting systems.
	
ii)	
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two major operating divisions - Automotive Glass and Float Glass. 
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
	
iii)	
All segment assets and liabilities are directly attributable to the segment. Segment assets include all operating assets used 
by the segment and consist primarily of fixed assets, inventories, trade receivables, advances and operating cash and bank balances. 
Segment liabilities include all operating liabilities and consist primarily of creditors and accrued liabilities. Investments, tax related assets, 
loans and other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed as unallocable.
	
iv)	
Segment revenues and segment results include transfers between business segments. Pricing is decided by marketing and 
logistics department. These transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
	
v)	
Joint expenses are allocated to business segments on a reasonable basis. All other revenues and expenses are directly 
attributable to the segments. They do not include interest income on inter corporate deposit and interest expense.
	
vi)	
There are no non current assets located outside India.
	
vii)	 Revenue derived from a single external customer amounting to more than 10% of the entity’s revenue attributable to 
Automotive glass segment - ` 65693 Lakhs (Previous Year ` 57189 Lakhs).
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
221
AtmaNirbhar AIS
37.	 Financial Risk Management 
	
The Group’s activities expose it to foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any 
adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward 
contracts and foreign currency/commodity swaps are entered into by the Group to hedge certain foreign currency and commodity 
exposure. Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging and not as trading or speculative instruments.
	
The Group is exposed to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
a)	
Credit Risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
b)	
Liquidity Risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c)	
Foreign Currency Risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
d)	
Interest Rate Risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
a)	
Credit Risk  
	
	
Credit risk arises from the possibility that the counter party may not be able to settle their obligations. To manage trade 
receivable, the Group periodically assess the financial reliability of customers, taking into account the financial conditions, 
economic trends, analysis of historical bad debts and ageing of such receivables. 	
	
	
i)	
Exposure to Credit Risk 
	
	
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 
the reporting date was:
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using 12 months Expected Credit 
Losses 
 Non-Current Investments 
4971
8521
 Other Financial Assets 
5272
3826
 Trade Receivables 
44177
35350
 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
16031
17455
 Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents 
423
407
 Current Loans 
3166
2426
 Other Financial Assets
616
312
74656
68297
	
ii)	
Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables
	
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables is as below:
Particulars
Ageing
 Not due
 Less than 
Six Months
 More than 
Six Months 
Total
 Gross Carrying Amount As At 31st March, 2025
26811
13100
4266
44177
 Gross Carrying Amount As At 31st March, 2024
24445
7673
3232
35350
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
222
	
	
(iii)	 Reconciliation of Impairment Loss Provisions  
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of financial assets during the year was as follows:
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
 Trade 
Receivables 
Loans
Advances
Others
Total
Balance As At 31st March, 2024
466 
 - 
63 
 - 
529
(409)
(-) 
(63)
(-) 
(472)
Impairment Loss Recognised 
 187 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 187 
 (57)
(-)
(-)
(-)
 (57)
Amounts Written Off 
 47 
 - 
 60 
 - 
 107 
(-) 
(-)
(-)
(-)
(-)
Balance As At 31st March, 2025
606 
 - 
3 
 - 
609
(466)
(-)
(63)
(-)
(529)
	
	
	
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that, apart from the above, no impairment allowance is necessary 
in respect of any other assets as the amounts are insignificant.	
	
	
	
	
	
b) 	
Liquidity Risk
	
	
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management 
is to maintain sufficient liquidity and to ensure funds are available for use as per the requirements.	
	
	
	
The Group has an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of short, medium and long term 
funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves, 
banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching 
the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.	
	
	
	
	
i) 	
Financing Arrangements
	
	
	
The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:	
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Fixed-Rate Borrowings
-
-
Floating-Rate Borrowings
	
Bank Overdraft
46177
29911
	
Rupee Term Loans
26037
69416
Total
72214
99327
	
	
ii)	
Maturities of Financial Liabilities
	
	
	
The following are the contractual maturities of derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities, based on contractual 
cash flows:
Contractual Maturities of Financial Liabilities
Contractual Cash Flows
Less than 
One Year
More than 
One Year
Total
31st March, 2025
Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities
Rupee Term Loans from Banks
30085
174665
204750
Rupee Term Loans from Others
5026
12573
17599
Unsecured Term Loans from Banks
 - 
9980
9980
Lease Liabilities
1480
15052
16532
Trade and Other Payables
100536
 - 
100536
Other Financial Liabilities
17700
2284
19984
Short Term Borrowings
20718
 - 
20718
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
223
AtmaNirbhar AIS
(` Lakhs)
Contractual Maturities of Financial Liabilities
Contractual Cash Flows
Less than 
One Year
More than 
One Year
Total
31st March, 2024
Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities
Rupee Term Loans from Banks
29409
111515
140924
Rupee Term Loans from Others
5357
16555
21912
Foreign Currency Loans from Banks
2586
 - 
2586
Lease Liabilities
1367
7532
8899
Trade and Other Payables
85459
 - 
85459
Other Financial Liabilities
14785
2358
17143
Short Term Borrowings
22432
 - 
22432
	
c)	
Foreign Currency Risk
	
	
The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk on account of its payables and receivables in foreign currency which are 
mitigated through regular reviews by the management. The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to mitigate 
the foreign currency risk and interest rate risk including,	
	
	
a)	
forward foreign exchange contracts for foreign currency risk mitigation	
	
	
	
	
	
	
b)	
foreign currency interest rate swaps to mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk on foreign currency loan.
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are as below:	
Particulars
USD
EUR
JPY
RUB
AED
INR 
Equivalent
31st March, 2025
Financial Assets
Trade and Other Receivables
22
40
0
20
0
5601
22
40
0
20
0
5601
Financial Liabilities
Foreign Currency Term Loans
0
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
0
Others
543
4
 - 
 - 
 - 
46789
Trade Payables and Other Financial 
Liabilities
181
58
1665
11
0
21752
724
62
1665
11
0
68541
Net Exposure
(702)
(22)
(1665)
9 
0 
(62940)
31st March, 2024
Financial Assets
Trade and Other Receivables*
41
128
71
 - 
 - 
14954
41
128
71
-
-
14954
Financial Liabilities
Foreign Currency Term Loans
31
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2586
Others
422
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
35196
Trade Payables and Other Financial 
Liabilities
176
37
918
 - 
 - 
18506
629
37
918
 - 
 - 
56288
Net Exposure
(588)
91 
(847)
- 
- 
(41334)
	
	
*Rounded off to Nil
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
224
	
	
Sensitivity Analysis
	
	
The Group is mainly exposed to JPY, USD and EURO.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table provides details of the Group’s sensitivity to a 2% increase and decrease in the INR against the relevant 
foreign currencies. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items as 
tabulated above and adjusts their translation at the Year end for a 2% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis 
includes external loans. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity and vice-versa. 
(` Lakhs)
2% Movement
Profit and Loss (Before Tax)
Profit and Loss (Before Tax)
Strengthening
(Weakening)
Strengthening
(Weakening)
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
INR/USD
1200 
(1200)
981 
(981)
INR/EUR
(40)
40 
164 
(164)
INR/JPY
19 
(19)
9 
(9)
Total
1179 
(1179)
1154 
(1154)
	
d)	
Interest Rate Risk  
	
	
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk arising mainly from long term borrowings with floating interest rates. The Group 
is exposed to interest rate risk because the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes 
in interest rates. The Group manages the interest rate risks by entering into different kinds of loan arrangements with varied 
terms (eg. fixed, floating, rupee, foreign currency etc.).	
	
	
	
	
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed-Rate Instruments 	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
	
The Group’s fixed rate instruments are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk, since 
neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.	
	
	
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable-Rate Instruments	
	
	
	
	
	
A change of 50 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the previous year.		
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Profit or Loss (Before Tax)
50 bp Increase
50 bp Decrease
31st March, 2025
Foreign Currency Loans
 - 
 - 
Short Term Loans
(102)
102 
Rupee Term Loans
1154 
(1154)
1052 
(1052)
31st March, 2024
Foreign Currency Loans
 - 
 - 
Short Term Loans
(112)
112 
Rupee Term Loans
(816)
816 
(928)
928 
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
225
AtmaNirbhar AIS
38.	 Fair Value Measurements		
	
a)	
Financial Instruments by Category
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
Fair Value 
through Profit 
and Loss 
(FVTPL)
Fair Value 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
(FVTOCI)
Amortised Cost
Fair Value 
through Profit 
and Loss 
(FVTPL)
Fair Value 
through Other 
Comprehensive 
Income 
(FVTOCI)
Amortised Cost
Financial Assets
Investments
Equity Instruments
-
4728
(84)
-
5200
2994
Compulsorily 
Convertible Debentures
-
327
-
-
327
-
Trade Receivables
-
-
44177
-
-
35350
Loans
-
-
3166
-
-
2426
Cash and Cash Equivalents
-
-
16031
-
-
17455
Other Bank Balances
-
-
423
-
-
407
Other Financial Assets
-
-
5888
-
-
4138
Total Financial Assets
-
5055
69601
-
5527
62770
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
-
-
253048
-
-
187854
Lease Liabilities
-
-
16532
-
-
8899
Trade Payables
-
-
100536
-
-
85459
Payable for Capital 
Expenditure
-
-
12152
-
-
9945
Other Financial Liabilities
-
-
7832
-
-
7198
Total Financial Liabilities
-
-
390100
-
-
299355
	
b)	
Fair Value Hierarchy  
	
This Section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are 
(a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 
Financial Statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group 
has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each 
level follows underneath the table.	 	
	
Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair 
Value- Recurring Fair Value Measurement
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
As At 31st March, 2025
Financial Assets:
Investments in Quoted Equity Instruments
620
-
-
620
Investments in Unquoted Equity Instruments
-
4108
-
4108
Investments in Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures
-
327
-
327
Total
620
4435
-
5055
As At 31st March, 2024
Financial Assets:
Investments in Quoted Equity Instruments
1092
-
-
1092
Investments in Unquoted Equity Instruments
-
4108
-
4108
Investments in Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures
-
327
-
327
Total
1092
4435
-
5527
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
226
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques 
as follows:
Level 1: Hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investments in quoted equity 
instruments. Quoted equity instruments are valued using quoted prices on recognised stock exchange.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant 
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is determined in accordance with generally accepted 
pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer 
quotes of similar instruments. This level includes derivative MTM assets/liabilities. Fair value of derivative assets/liabilities 
such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques, which employs 
the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap 
models and present value calculations.
There have been no transfers in either direction for the years ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024
The fair value of the financial assets are determined at the amount that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly 
transaction between market participants. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c) 	
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost	
	
	
	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 31st March, 2025
As At 31st March, 2024
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Financial Assets
Investments
(84)
(84)
2994
2994
Loans
3166
3166
2426
2426
Trade Receivables
44177
44177
35350
35350
Cash and Cash Equivalents
16031
16031
17455
17455
Other Bank Balances
423
423
407
407
Other Financial Assets
5888
5888
4138
4138
69601
69601
62770
62770
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
253048
253048
187854
187854
Lease Liabilities
16532
16532
8899
8899
Trade Payables
100536
100536
85459
85459
Payable for Capital Expenditure
12152
12152
9945
9945
Other Financial Liabilities
7832
7832
7198
7198
390100
390100
299355
299355
	
	
The carrying amounts of short term trade receivables, trade payables, creditors for capital goods and cash and cash equivalents 
are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.  For financial assets & liabilities that are 
measured at fair value, the carrying amounts are equal to the fair value.	
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
227
AtmaNirbhar AIS
39	 Key Financial Ratios as per the Schedule III requirements:	
Particulars
Formula
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Variance
Reason for 
Variance
Current Ratio
Current Assets / Current Liabilities
1.08
1.03
5%
Not Applicable
Debt Equity Ratio
Total Debt/ Total Equity
0.96
0.81
(19%)
Not Applicable
Debt Service Coverage 
Ratio
Earnings available for Debt Service/ Debt 
Service
1.44
1.26
15%
Not Applicable
Return on Equity Ratio
Profit After Tax/ Average Total Equity
14.93%
14.96%
0%
Not Applicable
Inventory Turnover Ratio
Cost of goods sold (Raw Material 
Consumed + Purchases of stock in trade + 
change in inventories + Employee Benefit 
+ Depreciation & Amortisation) / Average 
inventory
2.17
2.15
0%
Not Applicable
Trade Receivables 
Turnover Ratio
Revenue from Operations/ Average Trade 
Receivables
11.55
12.57
(8%)
Not Applicable
Trade Payables Turnover 
Ratio
(Raw Material Consumed + Purchases 
of stock in trade + Other Manufacturing 
Expenses) / Average Trade Payables
3.06
3.18
4%
Not Applicable
Net Capital Turnover Ratio
Revenue from operations/ Working Capital
30.92
90.07
(66%)
Due to 
increase in Net 
Current Assets
Net Profit Ratio
Profit after tax/ Revenue from Operations
8.08%
7.56%
7%
Not Applicable
Return on Capital 
Employed Ratio
EBIT/ Capital Employed
11.78%
13.74%
(14%)
Not Applicable
Return on Investment
Income generated from invested funds/ 
Average invested funds in treasury 
investments
10.14%
0.16%
6144%
High Dividend 
Income 
received from 
an Associate
	
ROI = (Gross Return - Cost of Investment)/Cost of Investment
40.	 Capital Management	
	
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to:
	
safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for 
other Stakeholders and maintain an appropriate capital structure of debt and equity.
	
The Board of Directors of Group Companies has the primary responsibility to maintain a strong capital base and reduce the cost 
of capital through prudent management in deployment of funds and sourcing by leveraging opportunities in domestic and 
international financial markets so as to maintain investors, creditors and markets confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which is defined as result from operating activities divided 
by total Shareholders’ equity. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to Equity Shareholders.
	
Under the terms of major borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the financial covenants as may be prescribed 
by the lenders. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest bearing borrowings.
	
The Group monitors capital, using a medium term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally 
used by industry and by the rating agencies. The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
228
	
The Group monitors capital using gearing ratio which is net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises of long term and 
short term borrowings less cash and cash equivalent. Equity includes equity share capital and reserves that are managed as capital. 
The gearing ratio at the end of the reporting period was as follows:	
(` Lakhs)
Particulars
As At 
31st March, 2025
As At 
31st March, 2024
Total Debt
253048
187854
Cash and Cash Equivalent
(15868)
(17208)
Net Debt
237180 
170646 
Equity
266900
235345
Net Debt to Equity Ratio
0.89
0.73
41.	 The Group has used the borrowings from Banks and Financial Institutions for the specific purposes, for which it was taken at the 
Balance Sheet date.
42.	 The Group has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment or Intangible Assets during the year.
43.	 No Loans or Advances in the nature of loans are granted to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under 
the Companies Act 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, that are repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment.
44.	 The Group does not hold any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the Rules 
made thereunder.
45.	 a)	
Government Grants represents Incentives/Subsidies under State Investment Promotion Schemes of `2010 Lakhs 
(previous year NIL).
	
b)	
Power, Fuel, Water & Utilities are net of subsidy received, under State Investment Promotion Schemes of `712 Lakhs 
(previous year `600 Lakhs).
46.	 Exceptional Item represents Profit on sale on Non-Current Investment in the shares of TGPEL Precision Engineering Limited, an 
Associate of the Group.
47.	 The quarterly returns/ statements of current assets filed by the Group with Banks/ Financial Institutions in respect of borrowings 
from Banks/Financial Institutions on the basis of security of current assets are generally in agreement with the books of accounts.
48.	 The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any Bank/Financial Institution/other lender.
49.	 The Group does not have any transaction with companies struck off under Section 248 of Companies Act, 2013/ Section 560 of 
Companies Act, 1956.
50.	 The Group does not have any layers prescribed under Clause (87) of Section 2 of the Act, read with Companies (Restriction on 
number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
51.	 No Scheme of Arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of Companies Act, 2013.
52.	 The Group’s four entities namely AIS Glass Solutions Limited, GX Sales & Services Limited, AIS Distribution Services Limited and 
AIS Adhesives Limited have filed a Composite Scheme of Arrangement before NCLT for their amalgamation with the surviving 
entity, AIS Glass Solutions Limited. The filing also includes a proposal for subsequent Capital Reduction in the Transferee Company. 
The Composite Scheme of Arrangement, upon its approval by NCLT will have a positive impact on the financial parameters and 
operational performance of the merged entity including its functioning thereof.
53.	 The Group has not advanced/loaned/invested funds(either borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) to any other person(s) or entity(ies) including foreign entities (intermediaries) with understanding (whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise) that the intermediary shall
	
i)	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any other matter whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
ii)	
Provide any guarantee or security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Statements
229
AtmaNirbhar AIS
54.	 The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall
	
i)	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any matter whatsoever by or on behalf of Funding 
Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
ii)	
Provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of Ultimate Beneficiaries.
55.	 The Group does not have any transaction not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
56.	 Amount in the Financial Statements are presented in ` lakhs except for per share data and as other-wise stated. Previous years 
figures have been regrouped/rearranged wherever considered necessary.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For V S S A & Associates
Sanjay Labroo
Masao Fukami
Chartered Accountants
Chairman and Managing Director 
Deputy Managing Director 
(Firm Registration No. 012421N)
DIN 00009629
DIN 09811031
Samir Vaid
Partner
Membership No. 091309
Shailesh Agarwal
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director and
Executive Director
Place: New Delhi
Place: Gurugram
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Dated: 14th May, 2025
Dated: 14th May, 2025
ICAI M. No. 091255
ICSI M. No. F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
230
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
231
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Notice
NOTICE is hereby given that the Fortieth Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) of Members of Asahi India Glass Limited will be held on 
Wednesday, the 10th day of September, 2025 at 3:00 P.M. through 
Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”). 
No physical meeting of members will be held, however, the 
meeting will be deemed to have been held at the Registered 
office of the Company at A-2/10, 1st Floor, WHS DDA Marble Market, 
Kirti Nagar, New Delhi – 110 015. Following businesses shall be 
transacted at the meeting:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
a.	
the audited Financial Statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 together with 
Reports of the Auditors and the Board of Directors 
thereon; and
b.	
the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 
together with Reports of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To declare final dividend, for the financial year ended 
31st March, 2025, of ₹ 2.00/- on each equity share of the 
Company.
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Masao Fukami 
(DIN: 09811031) who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re‑appointment.
4.	
To appoint a Director in place of Ms. Nisheeta Labroo 
(DIN: 10040978) who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers herself for re‑appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
5.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“Resolved that in accordance with provisions of 
Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 and Companies 
(Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re‑enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), the remuneration of 
₹ 1,75,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Seventy Five Thousand 
Only) per annum, as approved by the Board of Directors 
of the Company, on the recommendation of Audit & 
Risk Management Committee, at its meeting held on 
30th July, 2025, to be paid to M / s. Ashish & Associates, Cost 
Accountants (Firm Registration No. 103521) appointed as the 
Cost Auditor of the Company for audit of the cost accounting 
records of the Company for the financial year ending 
31st March, 2026, be and is hereby ratified and approved.”
6.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), read with Section 204 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and other applicable 
laws / statutory provisions, if any, as amended from time to 
time, Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, FCS, Company Secretary 
in Practice and proprietor of M/s. SKP & Co., Company 
Secretaries, (Firm Registration No. S2005DE077900, 
Peer Review Certificate No. 1323/2021) be and is hereby 
appointed as Secretarial Auditor of the Company for a term 
of five consecutive years commencing from FY 2025-26 till 
FY 2029-30 based on the recommendation of Audit & Risk 
Management Committee, at such fees, plus applicable taxes 
and other out-of-pocket expenses as may be mutually agreed 
upon between the Board of Directors of the Company and 
the Secretarial Auditor.”
7.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation(s) 2(1)(zc) and 23(4) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“LODR”), 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the rules framed thereunder (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment made thereof for the 
time being in force), Company’s Policy on Related Party 
Transaction(s) and pursuant to approval of Audit & Risk 
Management Committee & Board of Directors of the 
Company, the consent of Members is hereby accorded 
for entering into and / or carrying out and / or continuing 
with existing, contract(s) / arrangement(s) / transaction(s) 
(whether by way of an individual transaction or transactions 
taken together or series of transactions or otherwise), or 
modification(s) of earlier contract(s) / arrangement(s) / the 
transaction(s) (whether by way of an individual transaction 
or transactions taken together or series of transactions or 
otherwise) as mentioned in the explanatory statement with 
AGC Asia Pacific Pte. Limited, a promoter group company 
of Asahi India Glass Limited and accordingly a related party 
under Regulation 2(1)(zb) of LODR, on such terms and 
conditions as may be agreed between the Company and 
AGC Asia Pacific Pte. Limited, for an aggregate value of upto 
` 750 Crore entered into / to be entered during FY 2025-26, 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
232
as per the details provided in the explanatory statement, 
subject to such contract(s) / arrangement(s) / transaction(s) 
being carried out at arm’s length and in the ordinary course 
of business of the Company.
Resolved further that the Board of Directors of the Company, 
be and is hereby severally authorised to do and perform all 
such acts, deeds, matters and things, as may be necessary, 
including finalising the terms and conditions, methods 
and modes in respect thereof and finalising and executing 
necessary documents, including contract(s), scheme(s), 
agreement(s) and such other documents, file applications 
and make representations in respect thereof and seek 
approval from relevant authorities, including the Registrar 
of Companies and / or Central Government and / or any other 
Governmental / Regulatory Authority(ies), as applicable, in 
this regard and deal with any matters, take necessary steps 
as the Board may, in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
desirable or expedient, in order to give effect to this 
resolution and to settle any question that may arise in this 
regard and incidental thereto, without being required to seek 
any further consent or approval of the Members or otherwise 
to the end and intent that the Members shall be deemed to 
have given their approval thereto expressly by the authority 
of this resolution.
Resolved further that the Board be and is hereby authorized 
to delegate all or any of the powers herein conferred, to any 
Director(s) or its Committee(s) thereof or Company Secretary 
or Chief Financial Officer or any other Officer(s) / Authorised 
Representative(s) of the Company, to do all such acts and 
take such steps, as may be considered necessary, desirable 
or expedient to give effect to this Resolution.
Resolved further that all actions taken by the Board or any 
person so authorized by the Board, in connection with any 
matter referred to or contemplated in any of the foregoing 
resolutions, be and are hereby confirmed, ratified and 
approved in all respects.”
8.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation(s) 2(1)(zc) and 23(4) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“LODR”), 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the rules framed thereunder (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment made thereof for the 
time being in force), Company’s Policy on Related Party 
Transaction(s) and pursuant to approval of Audit & Risk 
Management Committee & Board of Directors of the 
Company, the consent of Members is hereby accorded 
for entering into and / or carrying out and / or continuing 
with existing, contract(s) / arrangement(s) / transaction(s) 
(whether by way of an individual transaction or transactions 
taken together or series of transactions or otherwise), or 
modification(s) of earlier contract(s) / arrangement(s) / the 
transaction(s) (whether by way of an individual transaction 
or transactions taken together or series of transactions or 
otherwise) as mentioned in the explanatory statement with 
Maruti Suzuki India Limited, a promoter group company of 
Asahi India Glass Limited and accordingly a related party under 
Regulation 2(1)(zb) of LODR, on such terms and conditions 
as may be agreed between the Company and Maruti Suzuki 
India Limited, for an aggregate value of upto ` 1,000 Crore 
entered into / to be entered during FY 2025-26, as per the 
details provided in the explanatory statement, subject 
to such contract(s) / arrangement(s) / transaction(s) being 
carried out at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of 
business of the Company.
Resolved further that the Board of Directors of the Company, 
be and is hereby severally authorised to do and perform all 
such acts, deeds, matters and things, as may be necessary, 
including finalising the terms and conditions, methods 
and modes in respect thereof and finalising and executing 
necessary documents, including contract(s), scheme(s), 
agreement(s) and such other documents, file applications 
and make representations in respect thereof and seek 
approval from relevant authorities, including the Registrar 
of Companies and / or Central Government and / or any other 
Governmental / Regulatory Authority(ies), as applicable, in 
this regard and deal with any matters, take necessary steps 
as the Board may, in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
desirable or expedient, in order to give effect to this 
resolution and to settle any question that may arise in this 
regard and incidental thereto, without being required to seek 
any further consent or approval of the Members or otherwise 
to the end and intent that the Members shall be deemed to 
have given their approval thereto expressly by the authority 
of this resolution.
Resolved further that the Board be and is hereby authorized 
to delegate all or any of the powers herein conferred, to any 
Director(s) or its Committee(s) thereof or Company Secretary 
or Chief Financial Officer or any other Officer(s) / Authorised 
Representative(s) of the Company, to do all such acts and 
take such steps, as may be considered necessary, desirable 
or expedient to give effect to this Resolution.
Resolved further that all actions taken by the Board or any 
person so authorized by the Board, in connection with any 
matter referred to or contemplated in any of the foregoing 
resolutions, be and are hereby confirmed, ratified and 
approved in all respects.”
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
233
AtmaNirbhar AIS
9.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to provisions of Section(s) 149, 
150, 152, Schedule IV and other applicable provisions 'if 
any' of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and 
Regulation(s) 16(1)(b), 17 and 25 of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
("LODR") (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), 
Ms. Sheetal Mehta (DIN: 06495637), Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company, who has submitted a declaration 
that she meets the criteria of Independence as provided in 
the Act, Rules & Regulations made thereunder and who is 
eligible for re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed 
as an Independent Director of the Company to hold office 
for second term of 5 (five) consecutive years with effect from 
4th November, 2025.”
10.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to provisions of Section(s) 149, 
150, 152, Schedule IV and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, 
Regulation(s) 16(1)(b) , 17 and 25 of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”) (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the 
time being in force) and the Articles of Association of the 
Company and any other laws prevailing for the time being 
in force, Ms. Avanti Birla (DIN: 01127008), who has submitted 
a declaration that she meets the criteria of Independence as 
provided in the Act, Rules & Regulations made thereunder and 
who was appointed as an Additional Director in the capacity of 
Non-Executive Independent Director by Board of Directors 
of the Company with effect from 25th June, 2025, based on 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and who hold office upto the date of this General 
Meeting or 3 months, whichever is earlier, and in respect of 
whom the Company has received a notice in writing under 
Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 from a Member 
proposing her candidature for office of Director, be and is 
hereby appointed as a Non-Executive Director in the capacity 
of Independent Director of the Company, not liable to retire by 
rotation, to hold office for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years.
Resolved further that the Board be and is hereby authorized 
to delegate all or any of the powers herein conferred, to any 
Director(s) or its Committee(s) thereof or Company Secretary 
or Chief Financial Officer or any other Officer(s) / Authorised 
Representative(s) of the Company, to do all such acts and 
take such steps, as may be considered necessary, desirable 
or expedient to give effect to this Resolution.”
11.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following Resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“Resolved that pursuant to provisions of Section(s) 149, 152, 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, Regulation 17 and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being 
in force) and the Articles of Association of the Company 
and any other laws prevailing for the time being in force, 
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya (DIN: 11205921), who was appointed 
as an Additional Director in the capacity of Non-Executive 
Director, by Board of Directors of the Company, based on 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, with effect from 1st August, 2025 and who 
shall hold office up to the date of this General Meeting or 
3 months, whichever is earlier, be and is hereby appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, liable to retire 
by rotation.
Resolved further that the Board of Directors, be and are 
hereby severally authorized to delegate all or any of the 
powers herein conferred, to any Director(s) or its Committee(s) 
thereof or Company Secretary or Chief Financial Officer or 
any other Officer(s) / Authorised Representative(s) of the 
Company, to do all such acts and take such steps, as may be 
considered necessary, desirable or expedient to give effect 
to this Resolution.”
By order of the Board
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director
Dated: 30th July, 2025
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Place: Gurugram
Membership No.: F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
234
1.	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, vide its Circular No. 
14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, Circular No. 17/2020 dated 
13th April, 2020, Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020, 
Circular No. 02/2022 dated 5th May, 2022, Circular No. 
10/2022 dated 28th December, 2022, Circular No. 09/2023 
dated 25th September, 2023 and Circular No. 09/2024 dated 
19th September, 2024 (“MCA Circulars”) and Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/ HO/CFD/CMD1/ CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May, 2020, 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFO/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 
15th January, 2021, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/
CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May, 2022, Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/PoD2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January, 2023, Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated 
7th October, 2023 and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated 3rd October, 2024 (“SEBI Circulars”), 
permitted the holding of Annual General Meeting through 
Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual Means 
(OAVM) and has dispensed with the personal presence of 
the Members at the meeting. In terms of the said Circulars, 
the 40th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Members 
of the Company will be held through Video Conferencing 
(VC) / Other Audio Visual Means (OAVM). There will be no 
physical meeting of Members, however, Members can attend 
and participate in the AGM through VC / OAVM. The deemed 
venue for the 40th AGM shall be the Registered Office of the 
Company.
2.	
Participants connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or 
through Laptop via Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio 
/ Video loss due to Fluctuation in their respective network. 
It is therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN 
Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
Members can login and join 30 (thirty) minutes prior to 
the scheduled time, window for joining shall be kept open 
throughout the meeting.
3.	
Since, the AGM is being held pursuant to above MCA and SEBI 
Circulars through VC / OAVM, physical presence has been 
dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of 
proxies by the members will not be available for AGM and 
Proxy Form & Attendance Slip including route map of the 
venue of the meeting are not annexed to this Notice.
4.	
The recorded transcript of this meeting shall, as soon as 
possible, be made available on the website of the Company.
5.	
Corporate Members attending the meeting through their 
authorized representatives pursuant to Section 113 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) are requested to send to 
the Company, at least 48 hours prior to the start of voting, 
scanned copies of the following documents through email 
at investorrelations@aisglass.com:
(i)	
a certified copy of the Board resolution authorizing their 
Representatives
(ii)	
photograph of the Representative
6.	
Members are requested to intimate change, if any, in their 
address (with PIN Code), e-mail ID, nominations, bank details, 
mandate instructions, National Electronic Clearing Service 
(“NECS”) mandates, etc. under the signature of the registered 
holder(s) to MUFG Intime India Private Limited, Registrar to an 
Issue and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) of the Company (email 
ID rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com) and their respective 
Depository Participants.
7.	
Queries, if any, on the Annual Report and operations of the 
Company, may please be sent at investorrelations@aisglass.
com at least seven days prior to the date of AGM; the Member 
must mention his name, demat account number / folio 
number, e-mail ID, mobile number with the query; so that 
relevant query may be replied by the Company suitably at 
the meeting.
8.	
In compliance with aforesaid circulars, Notice of the AGM and 
the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 are being 
sent only through electronic mode to those members whose 
e-mail IDs are registered with the Depository Participant(s) 
and / or RTA. Any member, who has not registered his 
/ her email ID, may register itself at Company’s email ID 
investorrelations@aisglass.com at least seven days prior to the 
date of the AGM. Additionally, in accordance with Regulation 
36(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, the Company is also sending 
a letter to Members whose E-mail IDs are not registered with 
Company / RTA / DP providing the weblink of Company’s 
website from where the Annual Report for financial year 
2024-25 can be accessed. Members attending AGM through 
VC / OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
9.	
Information or details pertaining to the Directors 
proposed to be appointed or re-appointed pursuant to 
Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial 
Standard 2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India at Item Nos. 3 and 4 of Ordinary Business and Item 
Nos. 9 to 11 of Special Business are provided as Annexure - 1 
to this Notice.
10.	
Explanatory Statement in respect of Special Business, as 
required under Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 is 
enclosed as ‘Annexure’ to this Notice.
11.	
The Dividend on Equity Shares, if declared at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on or after 
16th September, 2025 to those Members:
i.	
whose names appear on the Company’s register of 
members, after giving effect to all valid share transfers 
in physical form lodged with MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company on or before 3rd September, 2025; and
NOTES:
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
235
AtmaNirbhar AIS
ii.	
whose names appear in the list of beneficial owners on 3rd September, 2025 furnished by National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) for this purpose.
12.	
In accordance with the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 (“IT Act”) as amended from time to time, read with the provisions of 
the Finance Act, 2020, applicable from 1st April, 2020, dividend declared by the Company is taxable in the hands of the members 
and the Company is required to deduct tax at source (“TDS”) on dividend at the applicable rates.
Members may take note of the below TDS provisions and information / document requirements for each member:
A)	 RESIDENT MEMBERS:
i)	
No tax shall be deducted on payment of dividend to the resident individual members, if the total dividend for a financial year 
does not exceed ₹ 10,000 (Rupees Ten Thousand).
ii)	
Tax shall be deducted from Dividend paid to resident members (other than category prescribed above) as per the details 
provided below:
Particulars
Applicable rate of Tax
Declaration / documents required
Where valid PAN is updated with the Depository Participant (in 
case shares are held in dematerialized form) or with Company’s 
Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”) i.e. MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Link Intime India Private Limited) (in 
case shares are held in physical form) and no exemption is sought 
by the resident member
10%
N.A.
No PAN / Invalid PAN with the Depository Participant or RTA
20%
N.A.
Where lower / nil tax deduction certificate is issued by Income Tax 
Department under Section 197 of the Act
Rate 
specified 
in 
Lower tax withholding 
certificate obtained from 
Income Tax Department
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Copy of lower tax withholding 
certificate obtained from Income Tax 
Department
iii.	
No tax shall be deducted on Dividend paid to resident members if the members submit documents mentioned in the below 
table with the RTA:
Particulars
Declaration / documents required
Member 
(other 
than 
a 
Company or a Firm) furnishing 
Form 15G / 15H
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Form 15G (applicable to any person other than a Company or a Firm) / Form 15H (applicable to an 
Individual above the age of 60 years), provided that all the required eligibility conditions are met. 
Format of Form 15G and 15H are given in the link below
Submitting 
Order 
under 
Section 197 of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (Act)
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Self-declaration along with lower / NIL withholding tax certificate obtained from tax Authority
Members (e.g. LIC, GIC) for 
whom Section 194 of the Act 
is not applicable
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Self-declaration along with adequate documentary evidence to the effect that no tax withholding is 
required pursuant to the provisions of Section 194 of the Act
Category I and II Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF)
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Self-declaration that the AIF is registered with SEBI as per SEBI Regulations along with copy of 
registration certificate and that their income is exempted from Tax
Persons 
covered 
under 
Section 196 of the Act (e.g. 
Mutual Funds, Govt.)
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Self-declaration along with documentary evidence that the person is covered under said Section 196 
of the Act
Shareholders whose income 
is 
unconditionally 
exempt 
under Section 10 of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 and 
covered by the CBDT circular 
no. 18/2017 dated 29th May, 
2017
•	
Copy of PAN card
•	
Self-attested copy of registration certificate
•	
Self-declaration stating that the shareholder is
-	
unconditionally exempt under Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (“Act”) and statutorily not 
required to file its Return of income as per Section 139 of the Act;
-	
covered by the circular no. 18/2017 dated 29th May 2017; and
-	
has full beneficial interest with respect to the shares owned by it.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
236
B.	
NON-RESIDENT MEMBERS: 
As per Section 90 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 the non-resident member has the option to be governed by the provisions of the 
Double Tax Avoidance Treaty between India and the country of tax residence of the member, if they are more beneficial to them. 
Please refer to the below table for the details of documents to avail Tax Treaty benefits:
Particulars
Applicable rate
Declaration/documents required
Non-resident 
Members 
(including 
Foreign 
Institutional Investors (FIIs) 
/ Foreign Portfolio Investors 
(FPIs))
20% 
plus 
a p p l i c a b l e 
surcharge and 
cess 
OR 
Tax 
Treaty 
Rate 
(whichever 
is 
lower)
If the member wants to avail the tax rates as per the tax treaty, following documents would 
be required:
•	
Self-attested copy of the Permanent Account Number (PAN) allotted by the Indian 
Income Tax authorities
•	
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) issued by the competent authority 
of the country of member’s residency, evidencing and certifying the tax residency status 
of the member in the country of residency during the Financial Year 2025-26
•	
Completed and duly signed and electronically filed Form 10F
•	
Self-declaration in the format given in the link below, certifying that –
	
i)	
You will continue to remain a tax resident of the country of your residency during the 
Financial Year 2025-26;
	
ii)	
You are eligible to claim the beneficial DTAA rate for the purposes of tax withholding 
on dividend declared by the Company;
	
iii)	 You have no reason to believe that your claim for the benefits of the DTAA is impaired 
in any manner;
	
iv)	 You are the beneficial owner of your shareholding in the Company and dividend 
receivable from the Company; and
	
v)	 You do not have a taxable presence or a permanent establishment in India
Submitting 
Order 
under 
Section 197 of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (Act)
Rate 
provided 
in the Order
Lower / NIL withholding tax certificate obtained from tax authority
Non-Resident 
Shareholders 
who are tax residents of 
Notified Jurisdictional Area as 
defined under Section 94A(1) 
of the Act
30%
NA
Sovereign Wealth Funds and 
Pension funds notified by 
Central Government under 
Section 10(23FE) of the Act
NIL
•	
Copy of the notification issued by CBDT substantiating the applicability of Section 
10(23FE) of the Act issued by the Government of India.
•	
Self-Declaration that the conditions specified in Section 10(23FE) have been complied 
with.
Subsidiary of Abu Dhabi 
Investment Authority (ADIA) 
as prescribed under Section 
10(23FE) of the Act
NIL
•	
Self-Declaration substantiating the fulfilment of conditions prescribed under section 
10(23FE) of the Act
Application of beneficial DTAA Rate shall depend upon the 
completeness and satisfactory review by the Company / RTA, 
of the documents submitted by Non Resident members
The forms for tax exemption can be downloaded 
from RTA’s website https: //web.in.mpms.mufg.com/
client-downloads.html. On this page select the General 
tab. All the forms are available under the head “Form 
15G/15H/10F”. The aforementioned documents (duly 
completed and signed) are required to be sent at Company's 
email ID investorrelations@aisglass.com on or before 
3rd September, 2025. No communication would be accepted 
from members after 3rd September, 2025 regarding tax 
withholding matters. All communications / queries in this 
respect should be addressed to our RTA, MUFG Intime India 
Private Limited to its email ID rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.
com or on Company's email ID investorrelations@aisglass.
com.
14.	
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(hereinafter referred to as “IEPF Rules”), (including any 
statutory modification(s) and or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), the amount of dividend remaining 
unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 7 (seven) years are 
required to be transferred by the Company to the IEPF 
established by the Central Government within a period of 
thirty days of such dividend becoming due to be transferred.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
237
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Further, according to the said IEPF Rules, shares in respect of 
which dividend has not been claimed by the shareholders for 
7 (seven) consecutive years or more shall also be transferred 
to the demat account of the IEPF Authority within a period of 
thirty days of such shares becoming due to be so transferred.
Details of Unclaimed Dividend and equity shares 
transferred to IEPF
Financial Year
Amount of unclaimed 
dividend transferred (₹)
Number of shares 
transferred
2016-17
34,72,681
11,06,652
Further, the Company is required to transfer Final Dividend 
2017-18 of such Shareholders who have not claimed 
the same for continuous period of seven years along 
with the underlying shares of such Shareholders during 
financial year 2025-26. Details of the unclaimed dividend 
and shares which are liable to be transferred to the IEPF 
Authority are available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.aisglass.com/for-investors/unclaimed/. Hence, 
in this financial year, the Company would be transferring 
unclaimed final dividend amount for the financial year 2017-
18 due as on 15th September, 2025 to the IEPF within 30 days.
The Company had transferred ₹ 28,05,517 towards dividend 
for the financial year 2023-24 to IEPF on 6th November, 2024 
with respect to the shares transferred to IEPF under the 
provision of IEPF Rules.
The dividend amount and shares transferred to the IEPF 
can be claimed by the concerned Members from the IEPF 
Authority by making an application in Form IEPF-5 to the 
IEPF authority after complying with the procedure prescribed 
under the IEPF Rules. The details of the unclaimed dividends 
and underlying shares are available on the Company’s 
website at www.aisglass.com and the said details have 
also been uploaded on the website of the IEPF Authority at 
www.iepf.gov.in.
15.	
SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) by every participant in securities market. 
Members holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, 
requested to submit their PAN to their Depository Participants 
with whom they are maintaining their demat accounts. 
Members holding shares in physical form can submit their 
PAN to the Company / Registrar & Share Transfer Agents.
16.	 SEBI has vide amended Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations 
mandated that from 1st April, 2019 onwards securities can be 
transferred only in dematerialized form. However, Members 
may continue holding shares in physical form. Transfer of 
securities in demat form will facilitate convenience and ensure 
safety of transactions for investors. Members holding shares 
in physical form are requested to convert their holding(s) 
to dematerialized form to eliminate all risks associated with 
physical shares. SEBI has also clarified that the share transfer 
deed(s) once lodged prior to 31st March, 2019 and returned 
due to deficiency in documents submitted, may be re-lodged 
for transfer.
17.	
Relevant documents referred to in the accompanying Notice, 
Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and 
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which Directors 
are interested are open and available for inspection at the 
Registered Office and Corporate Office of the Company 
during the business hours on all working days, except 
Saturdays, Sundays and National Holidays up to the date of 
40th Annual General Meeting of the Company.
18.	 Members desirous of getting any information on the accounts 
or operations of the Company are requested to forward their 
queries to the Company at least seven working days prior to 
the meeting, so that the required information can be made 
available at the meeting.
19.	
Members are requested to immediately notify any change in 
their address either to the Company or its Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agents. In case the shares are held in dematerialised 
form, this information should be sent by the Members to their 
respective Depository Participants. Members are requested 
to quote their folio numbers / DP-ID and Client-ID numbers 
in their correspondence with the Company.
20.	 In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, facility 
for making nominations is available to individual Members 
of the Company. Members holding shares in physical form 
can make their nomination in the specified Nomination Form 
which can be obtained from the Company or its Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent. Members holding shares in 
dematerialised form should approach their Depository 
Participants for nomination.
21.	
In case of change in residential status of Non-Resident Indian 
Shareholders, the same should be immediately informed to 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Company along 
with particulars of their bank account maintained in India 
with complete name, branch, account type, account number 
and address of the bank.
22.	 Members are requested to get registered their e-mail IDs 
with the Company or the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
for further communication by sending their request to 
investorrelations@aisglass.com or rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.
mufg.com respectively.
23.	 Members may also note that the Notice of 40th Annual General 
Meeting and the Annual Report for 2024-25 are available 
on the Company’s website i.e. www.aisglass.com and on 
CDSL website www.evotingindia.com for download. The 
Notice can also be accessed from the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com 
respectively.
24.	 Submission of questions or queries prior to AGM / 
Registration of Speakers Members of the Company who 
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
238
would like to speak or express their views or ask questions 
during the AGM may register themselves as a speaker by 
sending their request from their registered email address 
mentioning their name, DP ID and Client ID / folio number, 
mobile number along with their questions at Company’s 
email address investorrelations@aisglass.com atleast 
7 days in advance from the date of AGM i.e. by Wednesday, 
3rd September, 2025. Only those Members who have 
registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to 
speak / express their views / ask questions during the AGM. 
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of 
speakers depending on the availability of time at the AGM.
25.	 Voting through electronic means
I.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 read 
with the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Amendment Rules, 2015 read with SEBI Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 
9th December, 2020 and Regulation 44 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the 
Company is pleased to provide Members facility to 
exercise their right to vote on resolutions proposed 
to be considered at the 40th Annual General meeting 
(AGM) by electronic means. The facility of casting 
the votes by the Members using an electronic voting 
system (“remote e - voting”) will be provided by Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited.
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their 
mobile number and email ID in their demat accounts in 
order to access e-voting facility.
Currently, there are multiple e-voting service providers 
(ESPs) providing e-voting facility to listed entities in 
India. This necessitates registration on various ESPs and 
maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the 
shareholders.
In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, 
pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided 
to enable e - voting to all the demat account holders, 
by way of a single login credential, through their 
demat accounts / websites of Depositories / 
Depository Participants. Demat account holders 
would be able to cast their vote without having to 
register again with the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also enhancing ease and 
convenience of participating in e - voting process.
II.	
Procedure to cast vote electronically is as under:
A.	
Login method for e - voting and joining virtual meetings for Individual shareholders holding securities in Demat mode
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Login Method Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in Demat mode 
with CDSL Depository
1)	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user ID and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e - voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on 
login icon & My Easi New (Token) Tab.
2)	 After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e - voting option for eligible 
companies where the e - voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking 
the e - voting option, the user will be able to see e - voting page of the e - Voting service provider for 
casting your vote during the remote e - voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e - voting Service Providers, 
so that the user can visit the e - voting service providers’ website directly.
3)	 If the user is not registered for Easi / Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login & My Easi New (Token) Tab and then click on registration option.
4)	 Alternatively, the user can directly access the e - voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e - voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. 
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e - voting option where the e - voting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e - voting Service Providers.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
239
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL 
Depository
1)	 If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open 
web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer 
or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon 
under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter 
your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e - voting services. 
Click on “Access to e - voting” under e - voting services and you will be able to see e - voting page. Click 
on company name or e - voting service provider name and you will be re-directed to e - voting service 
provider website for casting your vote during the remote e - voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
2)	 If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.
nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS “Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3)	 Visit the e - voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e - voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder / Member’ section. A 
new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number 
hold with NSDL), Password / OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e - voting page. 
Click on company name or e - voting service provider name and you will be redirected to e - voting 
service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e - voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
4)	 For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp. 
You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client ID, PAN No., Verification code and generate OTP. 
Enter the OTP received on registered email ID / mobile number and click on login. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e - voting page. 
Click on company name or e - voting service provider name and you will be re-directed to e - voting 
service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e - voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
Depository Participants 
(DP)
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL / CDSL for e - voting facility. After Successful login, you will be able to see e - voting 
option. Once you click on e - voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e - voting feature. Click on company name or e - voting 
service provider name and you will be redirected to e - voting service provider website for casting your vote 
during the remote e - voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website. 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. CDSL and NSDL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in Demat 
mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at  
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in Demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at  
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
240
B.	
Login method for e - voting and joining virtual meeting for 
shareholders other than individual shareholders holding in 
Demat form & physical shareholders.
i.	
The shareholders should log on to the e - voting website 
www.evotingindia.com.
ii.	
Click on Shareholders / Members.
iii.	
Now Enter your User ID
a.	
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID,
b.	
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits 
Client ID,
c.	
Members holding shares in Physical Form should 
enter Folio Number registered with the Company.
iv.	
Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click 
on Login.
v.	
If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged 
on to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier 
voting of any company, then your existing password is 
to be used.
vi.	
If you are a first time user, follow the steps given below:
For Members holding shares in Demat Form 
other than individual and Physical Form
PAN
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN issued 
by Income Tax Department (Applicable for 
both demat shareholders as well as physical 
shareholders)
•	
Members who have not updated their PAN 
with the Company / Depository Participant 
are requested to use the sequence number 
sent by Company or contact Company.
Dividend 
Bank 
Details 
OR Date 
of Birth 
(DOB)
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth 
(in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your 
demat account or in the company records in 
order to login.
•	
If both the details are not recorded with the 
depository or company please enter the 
member ID / folio number in the Dividend 
Bank details field.
vii.	
After entering these details appropriately, click on 
“SUBMIT” tab.
viii.	 Members holding shares in physical form will then 
directly reach the Company selection screen.
However, members holding shares in demat form will 
now reach ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are 
required to mandatorily enter their login password in 
the new password field. Kindly note that this password 
is to be also used by the demat holders for voting for 
resolutions of any other company on which they are 
eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e - voting 
through CDSL platform. It is strongly recommended not 
to share your password with any other person and take 
utmost care to keep your password confidential.
ix.	
For Members holding shares in physical form, the 
details can be used only for e - voting on the resolutions 
contained in this Notice.
x.	
Click on the EVSN of Asahi India Glass Limited.
xi.	
On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION 
DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option 
“YES / NO” for voting. Select the option YES or NO as 
desired. The option YES implies that you assent to the 
Resolution and option NO implies that you dissent to 
the Resolution.
xii.	
Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to 
view the entire Resolution details.
xiii.	 After selecting the resolution you have decided to 
vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box will be 
displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on 
“OK”, else to change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and 
accordingly modify your vote.
xiv.	 Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
xv.	
You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on 
“Click here to print” option on the page.
xvi.	 If Demat account holder has forgotten the changed 
password, then enter the User ID and the image 
verification code and click on Forgot Password & enter 
the details as prompted by the system.
xvii.	 There is also an optional provision to upload BR / 
POA if any uploaded, which will be made available to 
Scrutinizer for verification.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
241
AtmaNirbhar AIS
xviii.	Note for Non – Individual Shareholders and Custodians 
– For remote voting only.
•	 Non-Individual 
shareholders 
(i.e. 
other 
than 
Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodian are required 
to log on to www.evotingindia.com and register 
themselves as Corporates.
•	 A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the 
stamp and sign of the entity should be emailed to 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
•	 After receiving the login details a compliance user 
should be created using the admin login and password. 
The Compliance user would be able to link the account(s) 
for which they wish to vote on.
•	 The list of accounts linked in the login will be 
mapped automatically and can be delink in case of 
any wrong mapping.
•	 A scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of 
Attorney (POA) which they have issued in favour of the 
Custodian, if any, should be uploaded in PDF format in 
the system for the scrutinizer to verify the same.
•	 Alternatively Non Individual shareholders are required 
mandatory to send the relevant Board Resolution / 
Authority letter etc. together with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorized signatory who are 
authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer and to the Company 
at the email address viz; investorrelations@aisglass.com, 
if they have voted from individual tab & not uploaded 
same in the CDSL e - voting system for the scrutinizer to 
verify the same.
xx.	 PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE 
EMAIL ADDRESSES ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH 
THE 
DEPOSITORIES 
FOR 
OBTAINING 
LOGIN 
CREDENTIALS FOR E - voting FOR THE RESOLUTIONS 
PROPOSED IN THIS NOTICE:
a)	
For Physical shareholders - please provide necessary 
details like Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), PAN 
(self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR 
(self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by 
email to Company / RTA email ID.
b)	
For Demat shareholders - Please update your email 
ID & mobile no. with your respective Depository 
Participant (DP)
c)	
For Individual Demat shareholders - Please 
update your email ID & mobile no. with your 
respective Depository Participant (DP) which 
is mandatory while e - voting & joining virtual 
meetings through Depository.
A.	
The remote e - voting period begins on Saturday, 
6th September, 2025 at 9:00 a.m. IST and ends on 
Tuesday, 9th September, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. IST During 
this period, shareholders of the Company holding 
shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, 
as on the cut-off date (record date) i.e. Wednesday, 
3rd September, 2025 may cast their vote electronically. 
At the end of remote e - voting period, the e - voting 
module shall be disabled by CDSL for voting thereafter. 
Once the vote on a resolution is cast by the Member, the 
Member shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
B.	
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and 
become Member of the Company after sending of the 
Notice and holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e. 
Wednesday, 3rd September, 2025 may follow the same 
instructions as mentioned above for e - voting.
C.	
The voting rights of shareholders shall be in proportion 
to their shares of the paid up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date i.e. Wednesday, 
3rd September, 2025. In case of joint holders attending 
the AGM, only such joint holder who is higher in the 
order of names will be entitled to vote at the AGM.
D.	
Members may send e-mail at investorrelations@aisglass.
com for any grievances connected with electronic 
means.
E.	
The Company has appointed Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, 
Membership No. F6136 and Certificate of Practice No. 
6575, proprietor of SKP & Co., Company Secretaries, as the 
Scrutinizer who will conduct the remote e - voting process 
in a fair and transparent manner.
F.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
voting unblock the votes cast through remote e - voting in 
the presence of at least two witnesses not in employment 
of the Company and make a Scrutinizer’s Report of the 
total votes cast in favour or against, if any, forthwith to the 
Chairman & Managing Director or a person authorized 
by him in writing who shall counter sign the same and 
declare the result of the voting forthwith.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
242
G.	
As per the provisions of Regulation 44(3) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the results of the e - voting are to be submitted 
to the Stock Exchange(s) within two working days 
of the conclusion of the AGM. The results declared 
along with Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the 
Company’s website www.aisglass.com and on CDSL’s 
website www.evotingindia.com.
H.	
In case you have any queries or issues regarding 
attending AGM & e - voting from the CDSL e - voting 
system, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions 
(“FAQs”) and e - voting manual available at www.
evotingindia.com under help section or write an email 
to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll 
free no. 1800 21 09911.
All grievances connected with the facility for 
voting by electronic means may be addressed to 
Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. Manager, (CDSL,) Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited, A Wing, 25th Floor, 
Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M Joshi 
Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 or send an 
email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
toll free no. 1800 21 09911.
Important Communication to Members
A)	
PHYSICAL SHAREHOLDERS – Please provide your e-mail ID to the Company urgently at investorrelations@aisglass.com or fill the 
“Member’s Response Form” (as provided in this Annual Report) to enable you to receive prompt and safe delivery of important 
communications from the Company.
B)	
DEMAT SHAREHOLDERS – Please provide your e-mail ID immediately to your Depository Participant (DP) where you have your 
demat account to enable you to receive prompt and safe delivery of important communications from the Company.
Such section also confirms and supports the “Green Initiative” of Corporate Governance initiated by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs as 
per the Rule 18 of Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 which allows companies to send any notice / document 
(including Annual Report) to its Members via e-mail.
NOTE:
As per amended Regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations, transfer of security shall not be processed unless the securities are held 
in dematerialised form with a depository, hence, shareholders are requested to kindly dematerialise their shareholding.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
243
AtmaNirbhar AIS
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 102 OF THE
COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 5
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30th July, 2025, on 
the recommendation of Audit & Risk Management Committee, 
approved the appointment of M/s. Ashish & Associates, Cost 
Accountants, (Firm Registration No. 103521) as the Cost Auditor 
for audit of the cost accounting records of the Company for 
the financial year ending 31st March, 2026, at a remuneration of 
₹ 1,75,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Seventy Five Thousand Only). 
In terms of the provisions of Section 148(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 and Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force), the remuneration payable to 
Cost Auditor is required to be ratified by the shareholders of the 
Company. 
Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought for approving 
the Ordinary Resolution for ratification of remuneration payable 
to Cost Auditor for conducting the audit of cost records of the 
Company for the financial year ending 31st March, 2025. The Board 
recommends passing of Resolution at Item No. 5. 
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives 
are concerned or interested in the proposed Ordinary Resolution 
as set out at Item No. 5 of this Notice.
Item No. 6
The Board at its meeting held on 30th July, 2025, based on 
recommendation of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, has 
approved the appointment of Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, FCS, 
Company Secretary in Practice and proprietor of M/s. SKP & Co., 
Company Secretaries, (Firm Registration No. S2005DE077900, Peer 
Review Certificate No. 1323/2021) as Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company for a term of five consecutive years commencing from 
FY 2025-26 till FY 2029-30, subject to approval of the Members.
The appointment of Secretarial Auditors shall be in terms of the 
amended Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations vide 
SEBI Notification dated 12th December, 2024 and provisions of 
Section 204 of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar, a fellow member of ICSI, is the 
founder of SKP & Co. who has rich experience of more than 
two decades in the field of Corporate Laws, Secretarial Practice, 
Compliance Management & IPR laws. He is also the co-founder and 
Managing Partner of SPNK & Associates LLP.
The proposed fee to be paid to Mr. Sundeep Kumar Parashar for 
conducting secretarial audit has been determined by the Board at 
₹ 75,000/- (Rupees Seventy Five Thousand only), plus goods and 
services tax as applicable and reimbursement of out-of-pocket 
expenses incurred.
M/s. SKP & Co. has confirmed that the firm is not disqualified 
and is eligible to be appointed as Secretarial Auditors in terms 
of Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The services 
to be rendered by M/s. SKP & Co. as Secretarial Auditors is 
within the purview of the said regulation read with SEBI circular 
no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated 31st December, 2024.
In addition to the secretarial audit, M/s. SKP & Co. shall provide such 
other services in the nature of certifications and other professional 
work, as approved by the Board of Directors. The relevant fees 
will be determined by the Board, as recommended by the Audit 
Committee in consultation with the Secretarial Auditors.
Your Board of Directors considered the same and recommends 
passing of the Resolution contained in Item No. 6 of this Notice.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
and their relatives are concerned or interested in this Resolution.
Item No. 7
The provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“LODR”), as amended by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, effective 1st April, 2022, mandates 
prior approval of shareholders of a listed entity by means of an 
ordinary resolution for all material related party transactions, even 
if such transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the 
concerned company and at an arm’s length basis.
Effective from 1st April, 2022, a transaction with a related party shall 
be considered as material if the transaction(s) to be entered into, 
either individually or taken together with previous transactions 
during a financial year, whether directly and / or through its 
subsidiary(ies), exceed(s) ` 1,000 Crore or 10% of the annual 
consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements 
of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
During the Financial Year 2025-26, as part of normal business 
operations, the Company is expected to enter into certain related 
party transaction(s) as mentioned below, on mutually agreed 
terms and conditions, and the aggregate of such transaction(s) 
are expected to cross the applicable thresholds as mentioned 
hereinabove.
Accordingly, as per the LODR, approval of the Members is being 
sought for all such arrangements / transactions proposed to be 
undertaken by the Company, either directly or along with its 
Subsidiary(ies). All the said transactions shall be in the ordinary 
course of business of the Company / its subsidiaries and on an 
arm’s length basis. The Audit & Risk Management Committee has, 
on the basis of relevant details provided by the management as 
required by the law, at its meeting held on 29th July, 2025, reviewed 
and approved the said transaction(s), subject to approval of the 
Members, while noting that such transaction shall be on arm’s 
length basis and in the ordinary course of business of the Company.
Your Board of Directors considered the same and recommends 
passing of the resolutions contained in Item No. 7 of this Notice.
S. 
No.
Particulars
% of Total Issued Capital
(1)
A summary of information provided by the management to the Audit & Risk Management Committee:
a)
Name of the related party and its relationship with the listed entity or its subsidiary, 
including nature of its concern or interest (financial or otherwise)
AGC Asia Pacific Pte. Limited is a promoter group 
company and a related party of Asahi India Glass 
Limited (AIS) as per Regulation 2(1)(zb) of LODR.
b)
Name of the director or key managerial personnel who is related, if any and nature of 
relationship
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya, Non-Executive Director of AIS
c)
Nature, material terms, monetary value and particulars of contracts or arrangement
The transaction involves Purchase of goods for 
business purpose, payment of interest and some 
other miscellaneous transactions with AGC Asia 
Pacific during FY 2025-26, aggregating up to 
` 750 Crores
d)
Value of the Transaction
Up to ` 750 Crores
e)
Percentage of annual consolidated turnover considering FY 2024-25 as the immediately 
preceding financial year
16.21%
(2)
Justification for the transaction
Transactions are in ordinary course of business
(3)
Details of transaction relating to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or 
investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
(i)	 details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed transaction
(ii)	 where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investments - nature of indebtedness; - cost of funds; and – tenure
(iii)	 applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment schedule, 
whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature of security
(iv)	 the purpose for which the funds will be utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such 
funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
(4)
A statement that the valuation or other external report, if any, relied upon by the listed 
entity in relation to the proposed transaction will be made available through registered 
email address of the shareholder
Not Applicable
(5)
Any other information that may be relevant
Nil
Item No. 8
The provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“LODR”), as amended by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, effective 1st April, 2022, mandates 
prior approval of shareholders of a listed entity by means of an 
ordinary resolution for all material related party transactions, even 
if such transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the 
concerned company and at an arm’s length basis. 
Effective from 1st April, 2022, a transaction with a related party shall 
be considered as material if the transaction(s) to be entered into, 
either individually or taken together with previous transactions 
during a financial year, whether directly and / or through its 
subsidiary(ies), exceed(s) ` 1,000 Crore or 10% of the annual 
consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements 
of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
During the Financial Year 2025-26, the Company is expected to 
enter into certain related party transaction(s) as mentioned below, 
on mutually agreed terms and conditions and further are expected 
to cross the applicable thresholds as mentioned hereinabove.
Accordingly, as per the LODR, approval of the Members is being 
sought for all such arrangements / transactions proposed to be 
undertaken by the Company, either directly or along with its 
Subsidiary(ies). All the said transactions shall be in the ordinary 
course of business of the Company / its subsidiaries and on an 
arm’s length basis. The Audit & Risk Management Committee has, 
on the basis of relevant details provided by the management as 
required by the law, at its meeting held on 29th July, 2025, reviewed 
and approved the said transaction(s), subject to approval of the 
Members, while noting that such transaction shall be on arm’s 
length basis and in the ordinary course of business of the Company.
Your Board of Directors considered the same and recommends 
passing of the resolutions contained in Item No. 8 of this Notice.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives, other than Mr. Shashank Srivastava, 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, are concerned or 
interested in this Resolution.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
244
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives, other than Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya, 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, are concerned or interested in this Resolution.
S. 
No.
Particulars
% of Total Issued Capital
(1)
A summary of information provided by the management to the Audit & Risk Management Committee:
a)
Name of the related party and its relationship with the listed entity or its subsidiary, 
including nature of its concern or interest (financial or otherwise)
Maruti Suzuki India Limited is a promoter company 
and a related party of Asahi India Glass Limited (AIS) 
as per Regulation 2(1)(zb) of LODR.
b)
Name of the director or key managerial personnel who is related, if any and nature of 
relationship
Mr. Shashank Srivastava, Non-Executive Director of 
AIS
c)
Nature, material terms, monetary value and particulars of contracts or arrangement
The transaction involves supply of goods & services, 
purchase of goods, services, toolings, moulds, stores 
& spares, etc. sale of fixed assets, payment & receipt 
of interest and other miscellaneous transactions for 
business purpose of the Company to MSIL during 
FY 2025-26, aggregating up to ` 1,000 Crores.
d)
Value of the Transaction
Up to ` 1,000 Crores
e)
Percentage of annual consolidated turnover considering FY 2024-25 as the immediately 
preceding financial year
16.21%
(2)
Justification for the transaction
Transactions are in ordinary course of business
(3)
Details of transaction relating to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or 
investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
(i)	 details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed transaction
(ii)	 where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investments - nature of indebtedness; - cost of funds; and – tenure
(iii)	 applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment schedule, 
whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature of security
(iv)	 the purpose for which the funds will be utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such 
funds pursuant to the RPT
Not Applicable
(4)
A statement that the valuation or other external report, if any, relied upon by the listed 
entity in relation to the proposed transaction will be made available through registered 
email address of the shareholder
Not Applicable
(5)
Any other information that may be relevant
Nil
Item No. 9
Ms. Sheetal Mehta, aged 64 years, is an Independent Director. She 
has been on our Board since 4th November, 2020. 
The Company has received a notice from a member under 
Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 signifying their intention 
to propose the appointment of Ms. Sheetal Mehta as Director of 
the Company. Ms. Mehta has consented to act as Director.
The Board considers it desirable to avail the expertise and 
guidance of Ms. Mehta on the Board as an Independent Director 
and recommends passing of the Resolution in Item No. 9. Copy of 
the draft letter of appointment of Ms. Sheetal Mehta setting out 
the terms and condition of appointment is available for inspection 
by the members at the registered office of the company.
The details / information pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard-II with 
respect to re-appointment of Director is detailed in Annexure-1 
to this Notice.
The company has also received declaration from Ms. Mehta that 
she meets the criteria of Independence as prescribed both under 
Section 149(6) of the Act and under Listing Regulations. Further, 
she is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director in terms 
of Companies Act, 2013.
Based on the outcome of performance evaluation of Independent 
Directors, on the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of the company 
at their meeting held on 30th July, 2025 have approved the 
reappointment of Ms. Mehta for the second term as provided in 
the resolution.
Except Ms. Sheetal Mehta and her relatives, none of the Directors 
or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or relatives of Directors and 
KMP of the Company are concerned with or interested in the 
proposed Resolution as set out in Item No. 9 of this Notice.
The Board recommended the Special Resolution forth at 
Item No. 9 of the Notice for approval of the Members.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
245
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Item No. 10
Consequent upon resignation of Ms. Shradha Suri on 
31st March, 2025, it is proposed to appoint Ms. Avanti Birla as 
an Additional Director in the capacity of Independent Director 
on the Board of Directors of the Company for a period of five 
consecutive years w.e.f. 25th June, 2025. Accordingly, the Board 
of Directors of the Company through circular resolution dated 
24th June, 2025 and on recommendation of Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee appointed Ms. Avanti Birla 
(DIN: 01127008), as an Additional Director, in the capacity of 
Non-Executive Independent Director, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section(s) 149, 150, 152, Schedule IV of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“LODR”) (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment made thereof for the time being in force) and 
Article 73 of the Articles of Association of the Company, for a 
period of up to five consecutive years with effect from 25th June, 
2025, subject to the approval of shareholders of the Company 
through Special Resolution.
The Company has received a declaration from Ms. Avanti Birla 
that she meets the criteria of independence as prescribed both 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and under Regulation 16(1)(b) of 
the LODR. Further, she is not disqualified from being appointed 
as a Director in terms of Companies Act, 2013 and is not debarred 
from holding the office of a Director by virtue of any Order passed 
by the SEBI or any other such authority and has also consented to 
act as Director of the Company.
Copy of the draft letter of appointment of Ms. Avanti Birla setting 
out the terms and condition of appointment is available for 
inspection by the Members at the registered office and corporate 
office of the Company.
The Company has received a notice from a member under 
Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 signifying her intention 
to propose the appointment of Ms. Avanti Birla as Independent 
Director of the Company. The details / information pursuant to 
Regulation 36(3) of Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard - 2 
with respect to appointment of Director is detailed in Annexure - 1 
to this Notice.
The details / information pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard-II with 
respect to appointment of Director is detailed in Annexure-1 to 
this Notice.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
and their relatives, other than Ms. Avanti Birla, are concerned or 
interested in this Resolution.
The Board considers it desirable to avail the expertise and guidance 
of Ms. Avanti Birla on the Board as an Independent Director and 
recommends passing of Special Resolution at Item No. 10.
Item No. 11
Pursuant to retirement of Mr. Masahiro Takeda (DIN: 
07058532) from AGC Inc., Japan (“AGC”), AGC has nominated 
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya (DIN: 11205921) as their Nominee Director 
on the Board of AIS. Consequently, it is proposed to appoint 
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya as Non-Executive Director of the Company 
with effect from 1st August, 2025.
Accordingly, on the recommendation of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of the 
Company, vide its resolution dated 30th July, 2025, have appointed 
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya (DIN: 11205921), as an Additional Director, in 
the capacity of Non-Executive Director, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section(s) 149, 152, 160, 161 and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, Regulation 17 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment made thereof for 
the time being in force and Article 73 of the Articles of Association 
of the Company, with effect from 1st August, 2025, liable to retire by 
rotation, subject to the approval of shareholders of the Company 
through Ordinary Resolution.
The Company has received a notice from a member under 
Section 160 of the  Companies Act, 2013 signifying their 
intention to propose the appointment of Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya as 
Non-Executive Director of the Company. Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya 
is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director in terms 
of Companies Act, 2013 and is not debarred from holding 
the office of a Director by virtue of any order passed by 
SEBI or any other authority and has also consented to act as 
Non-Executive Director of the Company. In terms of the provisions of 
Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya holds 
office up to the next Annual General Meeting (AGM) and as such 
the approval of the shareholders is required to be taken at the next 
AGM only. However, in terms of Regulation 17(1C) of the LODR, a 
listed entity shall ensure that the approval of its shareholders, for 
the appointment of a person on the Board of Directors, is taken at 
the next general meeting or within a time period of three months 
from the date of appointment, whichever is earlier.
The details / information pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the 
LODR and Secretarial Standard - 2 with respect to appointment of 
Director is detailed in Annexure-1 to this Notice. 
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company and their relatives, other than 
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya, is in any way concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in this Resolution. The Board considers 
it desirable to avail the expertise and guidance of Mr. Kazuo 
Ninomiya on the Board and accordingly recommends passing of 
this Ordinary Resolution, as set out in Item No. 11 of this Notice 
for your approval.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
246
ANNEXURE – 1
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS SEEKING APPOINTMENT / RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Regulation 36 of Securities and Exchange Board of India)
(Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirement) Regulations, 2015 and SS-2)
Name of the Director
Mr. Masao Fukami
Director Identification Number (DIN)
09811031
Date of joining the Board
01/01/2023
Profile of Director
Mr. Masao Fukami, aged 57 years, is a Fine Materials Engineer from 
Shinshu University, Japan. He has held various senior positions during his career of 
32 years in the field of automotive glass. Prior to his joining at AIS, Mr. Fukami was 
working as Nominee Director of Automotive Glass Company, Global OEM Office at 
Toyota Global Unit since 2017.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointed as a Director liable to retire by rotation
Expert in specific Functional Area
Fine Materials Engineer
Chairmanships / Directorships of other Companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies)
Nil
Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees of other Public 
Companies (includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee)
Nil
No. of shares held in the Company
Nil
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
4 out of 4
Relationship with other Directors
None
Details of last drawn Remuneration
Last drawn remuneration is given in Corporate Governance section of Annual Report
Remuneration
Mr. Masao Fukami is entitled to such remuneration as approved by Shareholders via 
Postal Ballot Notice dated 17th February, 2023.
Name of the Director
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo
Director Identification Number (DIN)
10040978
Date of joining the Board
17/02/2023
Profile of Director
Ms. Nisheeta Labroo, aged 37 years, graduated from Wharton School, University 
of Pennsylvania (United States) in 2010 with specialisation in Economics and 
Management. She started her career as an Analyst, Management Consulting at 
Accenture India where she worked on a project for a large auto OEM that focused 
on improving customer satisfaction levels through the OEM’s dealer network. With a 
strong desire to contribute positively to the community, Ms. Nisheeta Labroo worked 
at “Save the Children India”, a not for-profit organization from July 2012 – December 
2014 as an Analyst in the CEO’s office. Her job entailed preparing CEO reports for Board 
meetings, monthly MIS reports for Senior Management meetings, developing the 4 
Year Organisation Strategy and contributing to education programs in Bihar and Delhi.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointed as a Director liable to retire by rotation
Expert in specific Functional Area
Economics and Management
Chairmanships / Directorships of other Companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies)
Nil
Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees of other Public 
Companies (includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee)
Nil
No. of shares held in the Company
7,17,586
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
4 out of 4
Relationship with other Directors
Daughter of Mr. Sanjay Labroo, Chairman and Managing Director.
Details of last drawn Remuneration
Last drawn remuneration is given in Corporate Governance section of Annual Report
Remuneration
Apart from sitting fee for attending the meetings of Board of Directors and 
Committees thereof, she may also be entitled to Commission on net profits, as 
approved by the Shareholders within the limits as set out in Companies Act, 2013.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
247
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Name of the Director
Ms. Sheetal Mehta
Director Identification Number (DIN)
06495637
Date of joining the Board
04/11/2020
Profile of Director
Ms. Sheetal Mehta, aged 64 years, is an Independent Director. She has been 
on our Board since 4th November, 2020. She is a Commerce Graduate from 
St. Xavier’s College, Mumbai and has extensive experience working in the Auto 
Industry. She is extremely passionate about Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
and is the Chairperson on AIS’s CSR Committee.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointed for a period of 5 years w.e.f. 4th November, 2025.
Expert in specific Functional Area
Marketing & Corporate Social Responsibility
Chairmanships / Directorships of other Companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies)
Nil
Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees of other Public 
Companies (includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee)
Nil
No. of shares held in the Company
Nil
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
4 out of 4
Relationship with other Directors
Nil
Details of last drawn Remuneration
Last drawn remuneration is given in Corporate Governance section of Annual Report
Remuneration
Apart from sitting fee for attending the meetings of Board of Directors and 
Committees thereof, she may also be entitled to Commission on net profits, as 
approved by the Shareholders within the limits as set out in Companies Act, 2013.
Name of the Director
Ms. Avanti Birla
Director Identification Number (DIN)
01127008
Date of joining the Board
25/06/2025
Profile of Director
Ms. Avanti Birla, aged 36 years, is the President of BirlaNu Ltd. (formerly known as HIL 
Ltd.). She plays a pivotal role in broadening the company’s portfolio and under her 
leadership, BirlaNu has successfully acquired companies like Parador: a hard-surface 
flooring company based in Europe with a global presence, and Topline: a popular 
brand of pipes and fittings in Eastern India. Ms. Birla drives superior customer 
experience, a digital first approach and innovation initiatives while leading BirlaNu’s 
diverse product portfolio. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, (USA), 
where she studied economics and finance. She previously worked at MasterCard in 
Singapore. She is a self-made family entrepreneur and is passionate about healthcare, 
particularly women’s health. Ms. Birla is also the Chairperson and Founder of CK Birla 
Healthcare, which includes the CK Birla Hospital brand—a chain of multi-specialty 
hospitals providing best-in-class clinical care and patient experience—and Birla 
Fertility & IVF, India’s fastest growing chain of world class clinics. These clinics provide 
comprehensive fertility care, aiming to transform the future of fertility globally 
through outstanding clinical outcomes, research, innovation and compassionate 
care.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointed for a period of 5 years w.e.f. 25th June, 2025
Expert in specific Functional Area
Economics and Finance
Chairmanships / Directorships of other Companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies)
1.	
SVTL Vanijya Limited
2.	
CK Birla Healthcare Private Limited.
Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees of other Public 
Companies (includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee)
Nil
No. of shares held in the Company
Nil
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
N.A.
Relationship with other Directors
None
Details of last drawn Remuneration
Nil
Remuneration
Apart from sitting fee for attending the meetings of Board of Directors and 
Committees thereof, she may also be entitled to Commission on net profits, as 
approved by the Shareholders within the limits as set out in Companies Act, 2013.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
248
Name of the Director
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya
Director Identification Number (DIN)
11205921
Date of joining the Board
01/08/2025
Profile of Director
Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya, aged 55 years, is a Science Graduate from Faculty of 
Science and Technology, Sophia University, Japan and has been working with 
AGC Inc., Japan (AGC) since April, 1993. Mr. Kazuo Ninomiya is currently a Director 
at AGC’s Corporate Planning Office and has vast experience in global Float Glass 
Industry.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointed as a Director liable to retire by rotation
Expert in specific Functional Area
Science
Chairmanships / Directorships of other Companies (excluding 
Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies)
Nil
Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees of other Public 
Companies (includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee)
Nil
No. of shares held in the Company
Nil
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
N.A.
Relationship with other Directors
None
Details of last drawn Remuneration
Nil
Remuneration
Apart from sitting fee for attending the meetings of Board of Directors and 
Committees thereof, he may also be entitled to Commission on net profits, as 
approved by the Shareholders within the limits as set out in Companies Act, 2013.
* Directorship and Committee Membership(s) in Asahi India Glass Limited is not included in the aforesaid disclosure. Membership(s) and Chairmanship(s) of 
Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of only Public Companies have been included in the aforesaid table.
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
249
AtmaNirbhar AIS
By order of the Board
Gopal Ganatra
Executive Director
Dated: 30th July, 2025
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Place: Gurugram
Membership No.: F7090
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
250
Asahi India Glass Limited
Member’s Response Form 2024-2025
Name: _________________________________________________________________________________________________
E-Mail ID: ______________________________________________________________________________________________
Address: ______________________________________________________________________________________________
Folio No.:_________________________________ No. of equity shares held: _________________________________________
I hereby authorise the Company to send all correspondence to me [statutory or otherwise] including the Annual Report [comprising of 
Balance Sheet, Profit & Loss Account, Auditors’ Report, Directors’ Report, Notices of General Meetings and Explanatory Statement, etc.] 
through e-mail, as per the e-mail address mentioned above, till such further notice from me.
______________________
Signature of Member
Notes :
1)	
Members are requested to address this ‘Member’s Response Form’ to:
Chief - Investor Relations
Asahi India Glass Limited
3rd Floor, Tower-D, Global Business Park,
Mehrauli – Gurugram Road,
Gurugram – 122 002
2)	
Members holding shares in dematerialised form may kindly update their e-mail address with their respective  
Depository Participants (DPs).
Annual Report 2024-25
Notice
251
AtmaNirbhar AIS
Shareholder’s Reference at a Glance
1)	
Status of Preference Shares
The 10% Non-Convertible Cumulative Redeemable 
Preference Shares’ were issued in accordance with the 
order of the High Courts of Delhi and Bombay, post-
merger of Floatglass India Limited (FGl) with AIS in 
September, 2003. These preference shares were to be 
redeemed at their face value after 12 months from the date of 
issue. Accordingly, these preference shares were redeemed on 
23rd September, 2004 at face value (₹ 10/- per share).
Hence, the preference shares stand cancelled post 
redemption as above and cannot be traded, transferred or 
dematerialized. Members who have these preference shares 
in their custody are requested to check their redemption 
payment status with their banks.
2)	
Status of Equity Shares of Floatglass India Limited
Floatglass India Limited (FGI) has merged with Asahi India 
Glass Limited (AIS) in the year 2003, in accordance with the 
order of the High Courts of Delhi and Bombay.
The following scheme was approved by the Hon’ble High 
Courts –
Every 8 (eight) shares of FGI to be exchanged for 3 (three) 
Equity shares of AIS of ₹ 1/- each fully paid up, and 4 (four), 
10% cumulative preference shares of ₹ 10 /- each. The original 
share certificates of AIS (both equity & preference) were 
dispatched to all eligible shareholders of FGI without calling 
back the original FGI share certificates as per the direction of 
the High Court.
Post-merger, FGI shares cannot be traded, transferred or 
dematerialized. In case of any further query shareholders 
may write to the Company / RTA.
3)	
Shareholder Grievances & its handling mechanism
AIS has a dedicated ‘Shareholder Grievance Cell’ (Mumbai) 
and all shareholder queries are resolved promptly. 
Shareholders are requested to contact the following to get 
their issues resolved promptly –
MUFG Intime India Pvt. Ltd., (Mumbai)
C-101, 247 Park, L B S Marg,
Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083
R & T Services - Shares and Interest on Bonds : (0) 810 811 6767
Toll-free number : 1800 1020 878
Alternatively, shareholders can also call our dedicated 
Shareholder Grievance Team at 0124 406 2212-19 or e-mail 
at – investorrelations@aisglass.com.
4)	
Nomination Facility
Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides the facility 
of nomination to the shareholders. This facility is mainly 
useful for individuals holding shares in sole name, especially 
those who are holding shares in sole name are advised to 
avail the nomination facility by submitting the prescribed 
Form SH-13. A copy of sample form is available under the 
Investor Relations section of the Company’s website - 
www.aisglass.com. However, if shares are held in 
dematerialized form, nomination has to be registered with 
concerned DP directly, as per the format prescribed by the 
DP.
5)	
Duplicate Shares
The loss of share certificate(s) should be reported immediately 
to AIS along with certificate nos. / folio no. and distinctive nos. 
to mark a precautionary stop transfer of such shares in the 
system. The request for issue of duplicate share certificate(s) 
should be sent to our RTA in the prescribed manner. For legal 
/ formal procedure with regard to the same, please write to 
our RTA.
6)	
Transmission of Equity Shares
In case of death of a shareholder, their legal heirs are entitled 
for the equity shares to be transmitted in their name. 
Detailed documents and formalities are required to effect 
transmission of shares. In the unfortunate event requiring 
transmission of shares, Members may please contact our RTA 
for the requisite formalities and assistance.
7)	
Mandatory Dematerialization of Shares
Pursuant to SEBI Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/24 
dated 8thJune, 2018 read with BSE Circular No. LIST/ 
COMP/15/2018-19 dated 5th July, 2018 and NSE Circular 
Ref. No: NSE/CML/2018/26 dated 9th July, 2018 issued to all 
Listed Companies, SEBI has directed for Dematerialization of 
Shares held in physical form. In order to dematerialize your 
share, please open a Demat Account with any of Depository 
Participants (DP) and submit your physical share certificate to 
DP along with necessary documents in this regard.
ASAHI INDIA GLASS LIMITED
252
Members may further note that SEBI vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
25th January, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to 
issue securities in dematerialized form only while processing 
service requests viz. issue of duplicate securities certificate; 
claim from unclaimed suspense account; renewal / exchange 
of securities certificate; endorsement; sub-division / splitting 
of securities certificate; consolidation of securities certificates 
/ folios; transmission and transposition. Accordingly, Members 
are requested to make service requests by submitting a duly 
filled and signed Form ISR-4, the format of which is available 
on the Company’s website https://www.aisglass.com/for-
investors/miscellaneous and on the website of the Company’s 
RTA’s at https://web.linkintime.co.in/KYCdownloads.html. It 
may be noted that any service request can be processed only 
after the folio is KYC Compliant.
8)	
Mandatory updation of PAN, KYC, Bank details 
and Nomination
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/73 dated 
20th April, 2018, has mandated Listed Entities to seek the 
subject details from the Shareholders holding shares in 
physical form with an objective to streamline the processes 
relating to maintenance of records, transfer of securities 
and seamless payment of dividend / interest / redemption 
amounts to the Shareholders.
Pursuant to SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSDPoD-1/P/ 
CIR/2023/37 dated 16th March, 2023, issued in supersession 
of earlier circulars issued by SEBI bearing nos. SEBI/HO/ 
MIRSD/MIRSD RTAMB /P/CIR/2021/655 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ 
MIRSD RTAMB/ P/CIR/2021/687 dated 3rd November, 2021 and 
14th December, 2021, respectively, SEBI has mandated all listed 
companies to record PAN, Nomination, Contact details, Bank 
A/c details and Specimen signature for their corresponding folio 
numbers of holders of physical securities. The folios wherein 
any one of the cited documents / details is not available on or 
after 1st October, 2023, shall be frozen by the RTA.
The securities in the frozen folios shall be eligible:
•	 To lodge any grievance or avail of any service, only 
after furnishing the complete documents / details as 
mentioned above;
•	 To receive any payment including dividend, interest 
or redemption amount (which would be only through 
electronic mode) only after they comply with the above 
stated requirements.
The forms for updation of PAN, KYC, Bank Details and 
Nomination viz., Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13 are available at 
Company’s website https://www.aisglass.com/for-investors/
miscellaneous and on the website of the Company’s RTA’s 
at https://web.linkintime.co.in/KYC-downloads.html. In view 
of the above, we urge Members holding shares in physical 
form to submit the required forms along with the supporting 
documents at the earliest. The Company has despatched a 
letter to the Members holding shares in physical form in 
relation to the above referred SEBI Circular. Members who 
hold shares in dematerialised form and wish to update their 
PAN, KYC, Bank Details and Nomination, are requested to 
contact their respective DPs.
Further, Members holding shares in physical form are 
requested to ensure that their PAN is linked to Aadhaar 
to avoid freezing of folios. Such frozen folios shall be 
referred by RTA / Company to the administering authority 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 
and / or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, after 
31st December, 2025.
Therefore, we request you to provide the details of PAN Card 
and Bank details to the Company / RTA.
9)	
Registration / Updation of Mobile No., Email ID 
and Address
Shareholders are requested to get their Mobile No., Email 
ID and Address registered / updated with the Company for 
direct and speedy communication.
For more details / information, shareholders are requested 
to kindly visit the website of the Company by clicking link 
https://www.aisglass.com/for-investors/faq/ .
3rd & 11th Floor, Tower D, Global Business Park,
Mehrauli - Gurugram Road, Gurugram - 122002 (Haryana)
Tel: (0124) - 4062212 - 18
Fax: (0124) - 4062244 /88
www.aisglass.com
Follow us on:
