   
 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Registered & Corporate Office:  
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079. India 
Tel: +91 7304575254 
W: www.crompton.co.in  CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254 
Email: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in  
 
 
Date: June 18, 2025 
 
To, 
BSE Limited (“BSE”), 
Corporate Relationship Department, 
2nd Floor, New Trading Ring, 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street, 
Mumbai – 400 001. 
To, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”), 
“Exchange Plaza”, 5th Floor, 
Plot No. C/1, G Block,  
Bandra- Kurla Complex Bandra (East), 
Mumbai – 400 051. 
BSE Scrip Code: 539876 
NSE Symbol: CROMPTON 
ISIN: INE299U01018 
ISIN: INE299U01018 
Our Reference: 36/2025-26 
Our Reference: 36/2025-26 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Intimation under Regulation 30 and 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Notice of the 11th Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual
Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 
 
We wish to inform you that the 11th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited (“the Company”) will be held on Friday, August 08, 2025, at 11:00 a.m. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) in compliance with the applicable circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), and that the 
deemed venue of the AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company situated at 05GBD, Godrej Business 
District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400079.  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to time, please find enclosed Notice convening the 11th AGM 
and the Integrated Annual Report of the Company, including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(“BRSR”) for the Financial Year 2024-25. 
 
In terms of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the said Notice of 11th AGM and the Integrated Annual 
Report including BRSR, is also available on the website of the Company and can be accessed at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports#AnnualReports and on the website of National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) at www.evoting.nsdl.com  
 
Further, in terms of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is 
providing facility to its Members to exercise their right to vote by electronic means, through remote e-Voting 
services of NSDL as well as e-Voting during the AGM. The e-Voting instructions and the process to join meeting 
through VC/ OAVM is set out in the AGM Notice. 
 
Further, in accordance with the applicable circular(s) issued by MCA and SEBI, the Notice of the AGM and the 
Integrated Annual Report of the Company, including BRSR for the Financial Year 2024-25, is being sent through 
electronic mode to only those Members of the Company whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company 
and/ or Depository Participant(s).  
 
Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company will be sending a 
letter to Shareholders whose e-mail addresses are not registered with Company/ DPs providing the weblink/ QR 
Code from where the Integrated Annual Report can be accessed on the Company’s website. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Registered & Corporate Office:  
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079. India 
Tel: +91 7304575254 
W: www.crompton.co.in  CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254 
Email: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in  
Information at a glance: 
Particulars 
Details 
Mode 
VC/ OAVM 
Time and date of AGM 
Friday, August 08, 2025, at 11:00 a.m. (IST) 
Participation through video conferencing https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 
Helpline number for VC participation 
1800 22 55 33 
Video recording and transcripts 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports#AnnualReports  
Dividend record date 
Thursday, July 24, 2025 
Dividend payment date 
On or after Friday, August 08, 2025, but within 30 (Thirty) days of AGM 
Cut-off date for e-Voting 
Friday, August 01, 2025 
Remote e-Voting start time and date 
Monday, August 04, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. (IST) 
Remote e-Voting end time and date 
Thursday, August 07, 2025, at 5:00 p.m. (IST) 
Remote e-Voting website of NSDL 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 
You are requested to take the above information on record. 
Thanking you, 
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Rashmi Khandelwal 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
ACS - 28839 
Encl: as above
Rashmi 
Khandelwal
Digitally signed by 
Rashmi Khandelwal 
Date: 2025.06.18 
22:45:28 +05'30'
NOTICE is hereby given that the 11th (Eleventh) 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (“the 
Company”) will be held on Friday, August 08, 2025 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/
Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) for which purpose 
the Registered Office of the Company situated at 
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai - 400079 shall be deemed as the venue 
for the Meeting and the proceedings of the AGM shall be 
deemed to be made thereat, to transact the following 
business(es):
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
Adoption of Financial Statements
	
To consider and adopt
	
a. 	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025, together with the Report of 
the Board of Directors (“the Board”) and the 
Auditors thereon; and
	
b. 	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025, together with the Report of the 
Auditors thereon.
2. 
Declaration of Dividend
	
To declare a dividend of I 3 (Rupees Three Only) 
per equity share of the face value of I 2 (Rupees 
Two Only) each for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025.
3. 
Appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Promeet 
Ghosh 
(DIN: 05307658) as a Director liable to 
retire by rotation
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Promeet Ghosh 
(DIN: 05307658) who retires by rotation, and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
	
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the approval of the Members 
of the Company be and is hereby accorded to 
re-appoint Mr. Promeet Ghosh (DIN: 05307658) as 
Director, who is liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4. 
Ratification of remuneration payable to 
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost 
Auditors of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rule 14 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (including any 
statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in 
force), the Company be and hereby ratifies the 
remuneration of I 6,50,000 (Rupees Six Lakh Fifty 
Thousand Only) (exclusive of applicable taxes and 
re-imbursement of out of pocket expenses) 
payable to M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, 
Cost Accountants (Firm Registration Number 
100392), who have been appointed by the 
Board of Directors, basis the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, as Cost Auditors of the 
Company, to conduct the audit of the cost records 
maintained by the Company as prescribed under 
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014, as amended, for the Financial Year ending 
March 31, 2026.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254
Registered Office & Corporate Office: 05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079.
Tel: +91 7304575254
Email: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
Website: www.crompton.co.in
NOTICE OF THE 11th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company (including its Committee thereof) 
be and are hereby severally authorised to do all 
such act(s), deed(s), matter(s) and thing(s) and 
take all such steps as may be necessary, proper, or 
expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
5. 
Appointment of Parikh & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (ICSI 
Unique 
Code 
P1988MH009800) 
as 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company and 
to fix remuneration
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 204(1) and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), 
Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and other 
applicable rules, if any, (including any statutory 
modification(s), amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force) read with 
Regulation 24A(1)(b) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
and based on the recommendations of the Audit 
Committee and the Board of Directors, Parikh & 
Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries (ICSI 
Unique Code P1988MH009800), be and is hereby 
appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Company, 
to hold office for a term of 5 (Five) consecutive 
years, commencing from April 01, 2025 up to 
March 31, 2030, at a remuneration of I 2,00,000 
(Rupees Two Lakh Only) plus reimbursement of 
out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes to 
conduct the secretarial audit for the Financial Year 
2025-26 and the Board of Directors of the Company 
be and are hereby authorised to increase and pay 
such Secretarial Audit fees as recommended by the 
Audit Committee and as they may deem fit for the 
remaining tenure of their appointment and as may 
be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors 
and the Secretarial Auditors.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Director(s) or 
the Key Managerial Personnel(s) of the Company, 
be and are hereby severally authorised to do all 
such act(s), deed(s), matter(s) and thing(s) as may 
be necessary to give full effect to the foregoing 
resolution.”
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office:
05GBD, Godrej Business District, 
Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400079
Date: May 15, 2025
Place: Mumbai
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
NOTES
1.	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide 
General Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 
19, 2024 (“MCA Circular”) and Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
dated October 03, 2024 (“SEBI Circular”) has 
provided relaxations from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the 
SEBI Listing Regulations”). In compliance with the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
(the “Act”), MCA Circulars, SEBI Circulars and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the AGM of the Company 
will be held through VC/ OAVM. Hence, Members 
can attend and participate in the AGM through 
VC/ OAVM only. The proceedings of the AGM will be 
deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office 
of the Company which shall be the deemed venue 
of the AGM.
2.	
An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 
102(1) of the Act relating to special business as 
stated under Item Nos. 4 and 5 of the Notice dated 
Thursday, May 15, 2025, is annexed hereto.
3.	
A statement providing additional details of a 
Director seeking re-appointment as set out 
in Item No. 3 of the Notice dated Thursday, 
May 15, 2025, is annexed herewith as required 
under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations as amended from time to time and 
Secretarial 
Standard-2 
(“SS-2”) 
on 
General 
Meetings issued by the Council of the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).
4.	
Since this AGM is being conducted through 
VC/ OAVM, physical attendance of Members has 
been dispensed with in line with the MCA Circulars. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of 
proxy(ies) by the Members will not be available at 
the AGM and hence the proxy form and attendance 
slip are not annexed to this notice.
5.	
Institutional/ 
Corporate 
Members 
(i.e. 
other 
than individuals/ HUF/ NRI, etc.) intending to 
authorize their representatives to attend the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM on its behalf and to 
vote 
through 
electronic 
voting 
(“e-Voting”), 
are requested to send a certified scanned copy 
(PDF/ JPG Format) of its Board or governing body 
resolution/ authorisation letter to the Scrutiniser 
by e-mail through its registered e-mail address at 
evoting@mehta-mehta.com with a copy marked 
at evoting@nsdl.com
	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUFs, NRIs etc.) can also upload their board 
resolution/ Authority Letter, etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution/ Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
6.	
The voting rights of Members shall be proportionate 
to their share of the paid-up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date.
7.	
The Members can join the AGM through VC/ OAVM 
mode 15 (Fifteen) minutes before and after the 
scheduled time of the commencement of the 
Meeting by following the procedure mentioned 
in the Notice. The facility of participation at the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM will be made available 
for 1,000 (One Thousand) Members on first come 
first serve basis. This will not include large Members 
(i.e. Members holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
and 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to 
attend the AGM without restriction on account of 
first come first serve basis.
8.	
Participation of Members attending AGM through 
VC/ OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
9.	
In accordance with the aforesaid MCA and SEBI 
Circulars, electronic copies of the Notice of the 
AGM along with the Integrated Annual Report for 
the Financial Year 2024-25, are being sent to the 
Members whose e-mail addresses are registered 
with the Company or the Depositories/ Depository 
Participants (“DPs”). In case any Member is desirous 
of obtaining physical copy of the Integrated 
Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25, 
kindly send a request to the Company by writing at 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
mentioning their folio number/ DP ID and Client ID.
	
The 
Notice 
calling 
the 
AGM 
has 
been 
uploaded on the website of the Company at 
www.crompton.co.in. The Notice can also be 
accessed from the websites of the Stock Exchanges, 
i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
Notice
2 - 3
of India Limited (“NSE”) at www.bseindia.com 
and www.nseindia.com respectively and is also 
available on the website of National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) (agency for providing 
the remote e-Voting facility), at www.evoting.nsdl.
com
10	
In compliance with the Circulars, the Integrated 
Annual Report for 2024-25, the Notice of the 11th 
AGM, and instructions for e-voting are being sent 
through electronic mode to those members whose 
email addresses are registered with the Company/ 
DP. A letter providing the web-link for accessing 
the Integrated Annual report, including the exact 
path, will be sent to those members who have not 
registered their e-mail address with the Company.
11.	 Members seeking any information with regard to 
the Accounts or any matter to be placed at the 
AGM, Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding maintained under 
Section 170 of the Act, Register of Contracts or 
Arrangements in which Directors are interested 
under Section 189 of the Act and relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying 
Notice and in the Explanatory Statement are 
requested to write to the Company on or before 
Friday, August 08, 2025, through e-mail on 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
the 
same will be replied by the Company suitably.
	
All documents referred to in the Notice will 
also be available electronically for inspection, 
without any payment by the Members from 
the date of circulation of this Notice up to 
the date of AGM. Members seeking to inspect 
such 
documents 
can 
send 
an 
e-mail 
to 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
12.	 To support the “Green Initiative”, Members 
who have not registered their e-mail addresses 
are requested to register the same with Kfin 
Technologies 
Limited, 
Company’s 
Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”)/ their DPs in 
respect of shares held in physical/ electronic 
mode, respectively.
13.	 Since the AGM will be held through VC/ OAVM, the 
Route Map is not annexed with this Notice.
14.	 In compliance with Section 108 of the Act, read 
with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended 
from time to time, Regulation 44 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated 
December 09, 2020, on e-Voting facility provided by 
listed companies, the Company is providing facility 
for voting by electronic means for all its Members 
to enable them to cast their vote electronically 
and the business may be transacted through such 
e-Voting.
	
For this purpose, the Company has availed the 
services of NSDL for facilitating voting through 
electronic means, as the authorised agency, for 
casting votes using remote e-Voting system on all 
the resolution(s) set forth in this Notice.
15.	 As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the 
facility for making a nomination is available for 
the Members in respect of the shares held by 
them. Members holding shares in physical form 
who have not yet registered their nominations are 
requested to register the same by submitting Form 
No. SH-13. If a Member desires to cancel their earlier 
nomination and record a fresh nomination, he/ she 
may submit the same in Form No. SH-14. The said 
form can be downloaded from the Company’s 
website at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
investors-relations#InvestorService Members are 
requested to submit the said form to their DP in 
case the shares are held in electronic form and to 
the Company or RTA in case the shares are held in 
physical form, quoting their folio numbers.
	
In case of joint holders, the Member whose name 
appears as the first holder in the order of names 
as per the Register of Members of the Company as 
on the cut-off date will be entitled to vote during 
the AGM.
16.	 Members are requested to check that the correct 
account number has been recorded with the 
Depository. Members holding shares in electronic 
form are requested to intimate any change in 
their addresses, e-mail IDs, signature(s) or bank 
mandates to their respective DPs with whom they 
are maintaining their demat accounts. Members 
holding shares in physical form are requested to 
intimate such changes to the RTA of the Company 
by furnishing Form No. ISR-1 and other forms 
pursuant to SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/SECFATF/P/CIR/2023/169 dated October 12, 
2023. The same are available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
investors-relations#InvestorService Members are 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
requested to note that any service request will be 
processed only if the folio is KYC compliant.
17.	
As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended, securities of listed companies can be 
transferred only in dematerialised form. Further, 
the transmission and transposition of securities 
shall also be effected only in dematerialised form. 
In view of this and to eliminate all risks associated 
with physical shares and for ease of portfolio 
management, Members holding shares in physical 
form are requested to consider converting their 
holdings into dematerialised form. Members can 
contact the Company or RTA for assistance in 
this regard.
18.	 SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-
1/P/ CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, and SEBI/HO/
OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 
2023, read with Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/145 dated July 31, 2023 
(updated as on August 11, 2023), has established a 
common Online Dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR 
Portal”) for resolution of disputes arising in the Indian 
Securities Market. Pursuant to above-mentioned 
circulars, post exhausting the option to resolve their 
grievances with the RTA/ Company directly and 
through existing SCORES platform, the Members can 
initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal 
(https://smartodr.in/login).
 
DIVIDEND AND IEPF RELATED INFORMATION
19.	 The Company has fixed Thursday, July 24, 2025, as 
the “Record date” for the purpose of determining 
the Members eligible to receive dividend for the 
Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
20.	 Members may note that the Board, at its meeting 
held on Thursday, May 15, 2025, has recommended 
a dividend of I 3 (Rupees Three Only) per share for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, which 
if approved at the ensuing AGM, will be paid, 
subject to deduction of tax at source (“TDS”), at 
the prescribed rates, within 30 (Thirty) days from 
the date of declaration to those persons or their 
mandates who holds shares:
	
i.	
In dematerialised (“Demat”) mode, based on 
the beneficial ownership details to be received 
from NSDL and Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited (“CDSL”) as at the close of 
business hours of Record Date;
	
ii.	
In physical mode, after giving effect to valid 
transmission and transposition in respect of 
valid requests lodged with the Company as of 
the close of business hours on Record Date.
21.	 If the final dividend is approved at the AGM, 
payment of such dividend shall be subject to TDS, 
as under:
	
i.	
To 
all 
Beneficial 
Owners 
in 
respect 
of 
shares held in dematerialised form as per 
the data as may be made available by the 
Depositories, as of close of business hours on 
Thursday, July 24, 2025;
	
ii.	
To all Members in respect of shares held in 
physical form after giving effect to valid 
transmission or transposition requests lodged 
with the Company as of the close of business 
hours on Thursday, July 24, 2025.
	
SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_ 
RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021 
(subsequently amended by Circular Nos. SEBI/
HO/ MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/687 dated 
December 14, 2021, SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2023/37 March 16, 2023 and SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/POD-1/P/ CIR/2023/181 November 17, 2023) 
has mandated that with effect from April 1, 2024, 
dividend to security holders (holding securities in 
physical form), shall be paid only through electronic 
mode. Such payment shall be made only after 
furnishing the PAN, choice of nomination, contact 
details including mobile number, bank account 
details and specimen signature.
22.	 Pursuant to the Income Tax Act, 1961, (“the IT Act”), 
as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend 
paid or distributed by the Company on or after 
April 01, 2020, shall be taxable in the hands of 
Members. For the prescribed rates for various 
categories, the Members are requested to refer 
to the Finance Act, 2020, and amendments 
thereof. The TDS/ withholding tax rate would vary 
depending on the residential status of the Member 
and documents submitted by them with the 
Company/ RTA/ DPs. The Members are requested 
to update their PAN with the Company/ RTA (in 
case of shares held in physical mode) by furnishing 
Form No. ISR-1 and with the DPs (in case of the 
shares held in Demat mode). The Company shall 
therefore be required to withhold/ deduct TDS, 
at the prescribed rates on the dividend paid to 
its Members.
Notice
4 - 5
23.	 A Resident individual Member with PAN and 
whose 
income 
does 
not 
exceed 
maximum 
amount not chargeable to tax or who is not 
liable to pay income tax, as the case may be, 
can submit a yearly declaration in Form No. 
15G/ 15H, to avail the benefit of non-deduction 
of tax at source by writing an e-mail at 
einward.ris@kfintech.com to the RTA of the 
Company 
or 
at 
crompton.investorrelations@
crompton.co.in on or before Friday, July 18, 2025. 
Members are requested to note that if the PAN is 
not correct/ invalid/ inoperative or have not filed 
their income tax returns, then tax will be deducted 
at higher rates prescribed under Sections 206AA or 
206AB of the Income-Tax Act, 1961, as applicable 
and in case of invalid PAN, they will not be able to 
get credit of TDS from the Income Tax Department.
	
Non-resident 
Members 
[including 
Foreign 
Institutional Investors (“FIIs”)/ Foreign Portfolio 
Investors (“FPIs”)] can avail beneficial rates under 
tax treaty between India and their country of 
tax residence, subject to providing necessary 
documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and 
Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency 
Certificate, Form 10F, any other document which 
may be required to avail the tax treaty benefits. For 
this purpose, the Member may submit the above 
documents (PDF/ JPG Format) by writing an e-mail at 
einward.ris@kfintech.com to the RTA of the Company 
or at crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
The aforesaid declarations and documents needs 
to be submitted by the Members on or before 
Friday, July 18, 2025.
24.	 SEBI has made it mandatory for all companies 
to use the bank account details furnished by 
the Depositories and the bank account details 
maintained by the RTA for payment of dividend 
to its Members electronically. Accordingly, the 
Company has extended the facility of electronic 
credit of dividend directly to the respective bank 
accounts of the Member(s) through Electronic 
Clearing Service (“ECS”)/ National Electronic 
Clearing Service (“NECS”)/ Automated Clearing 
House (“ACH”)/ Real Time Gross Settlement 
(“RTGS”)/ Direct Credit/ IMPS/ NEFT etc. In 
order to receive the dividend without any delay, 
the Members holding shares in physical form are 
requested to submit particulars of their bank 
accounts in Form No. ISR-1 along with the original 
cancelled cheque bearing the name of the Member 
to RTA/ Company to update their bank account 
details and all the eligible Members holding shares 
in demat mode are requested to update with their 
respective DPs before Thursday, July 24, 2025, 
their correct Bank Account Number, including 9 
Digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC Code, e-mail 
IDs and mobile no(s). Members holding shares in 
physical form may communicate these details to 
RTA having address at KFin Technologies Limited, 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032, 
on or before Thursday, July 24, 2025, by quoting the 
reference folio number and attaching photocopy 
of the cheque leaf of their active bank account and 
a self-attested copy of their PAN card.
	
Transfer of Unclaimed/ Unpaid amounts to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
25.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 
125 of the Act read with the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended from 
time to time (“the IEPF Rules”), all dividends, if not 
encashed for a period of 7 (Seven) years from the 
date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the 
Company, are liable to be transferred to the IEPF. 
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend 
has remained unclaimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive 
years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid 
dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF. 
In view of this, Members are requested to claim 
their dividends from the Company, within the 
stipulated timeline.
	
Adhering to the aforesaid statutory requirements, 
the cut-off date for claiming unpaid/ unclaimed 
dividend of Financial Year 2017-18 is Friday, 
August 22, 2025.
	
The Company has sent notices/ reminders to 
the Members whose dividends are unclaimed 
and are due for transfer to the IEPF and 
simultaneously 
published 
advertisement 
in 
newspapers accordingly.
	
The 
Company 
urges 
all 
the 
Members 
to 
encash/ claim their respective dividend of shares 
before the cut-off date.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the IEPF Rules, the 
Company has uploaded the details of unpaid/ 
unclaimed dividends amounts lying with the 
Company as on March 31, 2025, on the Company’s 
website at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
investors-relations#SharesIEPF as well as on the 
website of MCA.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
26.	 Members holding shares in electronic form are 
requested to ensure that correct bank particulars 
are registered against their respective Depository 
accounts which will be used by the Company for 
any payment of dividend in future. The Company or 
its RTA cannot act on any requests received directly 
from the Members holding shares in electronic 
form for any changes to bank details or mandates. 
Such changes are to be communicated to the DPs 
by the Members.
27.	
Members wishing to claim dividends that remain 
unpaid/ unclaimed are requested to correspond 
with the RTA as mentioned above, or with the 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer, at 
the Company’s registered office or at crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in
29.	 The 
instructions 
for 
Members 
for 
Remote 
e-Voting and Joining the AGM are as under:
	
The remote e-Voting period commences from 
Monday, August 04, 2025, at 9:00 A.M. and ends on 
Thursday, August 07, 2025, at 5:00 P.M. During this 
period, Members holding shares either in physical 
or dematerialized form, as on Friday, August 
01, 2025, (“cut-off date”), may cast their votes 
electronically through e-Voting system from any 
place (“remote e-Voting”). The remote e-Voting 
module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
thereafter. Members have the option to cast their 
vote on any of the resolutions using the remote 
e-Voting facility, either during the aforesaid period 
or during the AGM. Members who have voted on 
some of the resolutions during the said voting 
period are also eligible to vote on the remaining 
resolutions during the AGM. The voting right of 
Members shall be in proportion to their share in the 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on 
the cut-off date, being Friday, August 01, 2025.
 
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to the NSDL e-Voting system
	
Step 2: Cast your votes electronically on NSDL e-Voting system.
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
 
A) 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 09, 2020, on e-Voting 
facility provided by listed companies and as a part of increasing the efficiency of e-Voting process, 
individual Members holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and DPs. Members are advised to update their mobile number(s) and e-mail 
IDs in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL.
1.
2.
For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., 
Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/
mobile number and click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected 
to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name 
or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting 
& voting during the meeting.
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.
com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page 
click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ 
section, this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. 
Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., NSDL and you 
will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Notice
6 - 7
Type of Members
Login Method
3.
4.
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the 
home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e., your sixteen-digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/ OTP 
and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., NSDL and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
5.
Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the 
QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
1.
2.
3.
4.
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without 
any further authentication. The users to login Easi/ Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
user your existing my easi username & password.
After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of 
the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links 
provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit 
the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click 
on registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile Number & 
e-mail ID as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be 
able to see the e-Voting option where the e-Voting is in progress and also able to directly 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Members 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their DPs
1.
2.
3.
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL/ CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, 
you will be able to see e-Voting option.
Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature.
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed 
to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at above-mentioned website.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at toll free no.: 022 - 
4886 7000
Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or call at toll 
free no.: 1800 22 55 33
 
B) 
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Members other than Individual Members 
holding securities in demat mode and Members holding securities in physical mode.
 
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification Code 
as shown on the screen.
	
	
	
Alternatively, 
if 
you 
are 
registered 
for 
NSDL 
eservices 
i.e. 
IDEAS, 
you 
can 
login 
at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you login to NSDL e-services after 
using your login credentials, click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your 
vote electronically.
	
	
4.	
 Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) 
or Physical
Your User ID is
For Members who hold shares in demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is IN300***12******.
For Members who hold shares in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
your user ID is 12**************
For Members holding shares in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the 
company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 134020 
then user ID is 101456001***
	
	
5. 	
Password details for Members other than 
Individual Members are given below:
	
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for 
e-Voting, then you can user your 
existing password to login and cast 
your vote.
	
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system 
for the first time, you will need to 
retrieve the ‘initial password’ which 
was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ 
and the system will force you to 
change your password.
	
	
	
c)	
How 
to 
retrieve 
your 
‘initial 
password’?
	
	
	
	
i.	
If your e-mail ID is registered 
in 
your 
demat 
account 
or 
with the company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to 
you on your e-mail ID. Trace the 
e-mail sent to you from NSDL 
from your mailbox. Open the 
e-mail and the attachment i.e. 
a .pdf file. The password to open 
Notice
8 - 9
the pdf file is your 8 digit client 
ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits 
of client ID for CDSL account 
or folio number for shares held 
in physical form. The pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
	
ii.	
If your e-mail ID is not registered, 
please follow the steps outlined 
below in process for those 
Members whose e-mail ids are 
not registered.
	
	
6. 	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password:
	
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/ 
Password?” (If you are holding 
shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
	
	
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” 
(If 
you 
are 
holding 
shares 
in 
physical mode) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
c)	
If 
you 
are 
still 
unable 
to 
get 
the password by aforesaid two 
options, you can send a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your 
demat 
account 
number/ 
folio 
number, PAN, name and registered 
address etc.
	
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One 
Time Password) based login for 
casting the votes on the e-Voting 
system of NSDL.
	
	
7. 	
After entering your password, tick on 
Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by 
selecting on the check box.
	
	
8. 	
Now, 
you 
will 
have 
to 
click 
on 
“Login” button.
	
	
9. 	
After you click on the “Login” button, the 
home page of e-Voting will open.
	
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL 
e-Voting system.
	
	
1.	
After successful logging in following 
Step 1, you will be able to see all the 
companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle 
and General Meeting is in active status.
	
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you 
wish to cast your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period and casting your vote 
during the General Meeting. For joining 
virtual meeting, you need to click on 
“VC/ OAVM” link placed under “Join 
General Meeting”.
	
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the 
Voting page opens.
	
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate 
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/ modify 
the number of shares for which you wish to 
cast your vote and click on “Submit” and 
also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote 
cast successfully” will be displayed.
	
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes 
cast by you by clicking on the print option 
on the confirmation page.
	
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the 
resolution, you will not be allowed to 
modify your vote.
	
	
Process for procuring user id and password 
for e-Voting for those Members whose email 
IDs are not registered with the depositories/ 
Company and registration of e-mail ids for 
e-Voting on all the resolutions set out in 
this notice:
	
	
1.	
In case shares are held in physical 
mode please provide Folio No., Name 
of 
Member, 
scanned 
copy 
of 
the 
share 
certificate 
(front 
and 
back), 
self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card and Aadhar Card by email to 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.
co.in.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
	
	
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, 
please provide DP ID and Client ID 
(16 digit DP ID + Client ID or 16-digit 
beneficiary ID), Name of Member, client 
master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, self-attested scanned copy of 
PAN Card and Aadhar Card to crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in
	
	
	
If you are an Individual Member holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode, 
you 
are 
requested to refer to the login method 
explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method 
for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for 
Individual 
Members 
holding 
securities in demat mode.
	
	
3.	
Alternatively, Members may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id 
and password for e-Voting by providing 
above mentioned documents.
	
	
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 
9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided 
by 
Listed 
Companies, 
Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode are allowed to vote through 
their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. 
Members are required to update their 
mobile number and email ID correctly in 
their demat account in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
	
	
General Guidelines for Members
	
	
1.	
It is strongly recommended not to share 
your password with any other person and 
take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. Login to e-Voting website 
will be disabled upon 5 (Five) unsuccessful 
attempts to key in the correct password. In 
such an event, you will need to go through 
the “Forgot User Details/ Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to 
reset the password.
	
	
2.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for 
Members and the e-Voting user manual 
for Members available in the download 
section or call on toll free number 
022-24994200 or send a request to 
Mr. M Suketh Shetty, Assistant Manager - 
NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com
29.	 The instructions for Members for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM are as under
	
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned 
above for remote e-Voting.
	
2.	
Only those Members, who will be present in the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and have not 
casted their vote on the Resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred 
from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-Voting system in the AGM.
	
3.	
Members who have voted through remote 
e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. 
However, they will not be eligible to vote at 
the AGM.
	
4.	
The details of the person who may be 
contacted for any grievances connected 
with the facility for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
remote e-Voting.
30.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/ OAVM ARE AS UNDER
	
i.	
Members will be provided with a facility to 
attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM through 
the NSDL e-Voting system. Members may 
access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. 
After successful login, you can see link of “VC/ 
OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu 
against Company name. You are requested 
to click on VC/ OAVM link placed under Join 
Meeting menu. The link for VC/ OAVM will 
be available in Shareholder/ Member login 
where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the Members who do not 
have the user ID and Password for e-Voting 
or have forgotten the user ID and Password 
may retrieve the same by following the remote 
e-Voting instructions mentioned in the notice 
to avoid last minute rush.
	
ii.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
	
iii.	
Further, the Members will be required to allow 
Camera and use Internet with a good speed to 
avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
Notice
10 - 11
	
iv.	
Please note that participants connecting 
from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through 
Laptop 
connecting 
via 
Mobile 
Hotspot 
may experience Audio/ Video loss due to 
fluctuation in their respective network. It 
is therefore recommended to use Stable 
Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind 
of aforesaid glitches.
	
v.	
Members who would like to express their 
views or ask questions during the AGM 
may register themselves as a speaker by 
sending their request from their registered 
e-mail ID mentioning their name, DP ID and 
Client ID/ folio number, PAN, mobile number at 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
Those 
Members 
who 
have 
registered 
themselves as a speaker from Monday, 
July 28, 2025, to Sunday, August 03, 2025, 
up to 5:00 P.M. will only be allowed to express 
their views/ ask questions during the AGM. 
The Company reserves the right to restrict 
the number of speakers depending on the 
availability of time for the AGM.
	
vi.	
Members who would like to express their 
views/ 
have 
questions 
may 
send 
their 
questions in advance mentioning their name 
demat 
account 
number/ 
folio 
number, 
e-mail id, mobile number at crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in The same 
will be replied by the company suitably.
	
vii.	 Any person holding shares in physical form 
and non-individual Members, who acquires 
shares of the Company and becomes Member 
of the Company after the notice is sent 
through e-mail and holding shares as of the 
cut-off date, i.e. Friday, August 01, 2025, may 
obtain the login ID and password by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.com or Issuer/ 
RTA. However, if you are already registered 
with NSDL for remote e-Voting, then you can 
use your existing user ID and password for 
casting your vote. If you forget your password, 
you can reset your password by using 
“Forgot User Details/ Password” or “Physical 
User Reset Password” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33. In case of Individual Members 
holding securities in demat mode who acquire 
shares of the Company and become a Member 
of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the cut-off date, 
i.e. Friday, August 01, 2025, may follow steps 
mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under 
“Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
	
viii.	 A person who is not a member as on the 
cut-off date is requested to treat this Notice 
for information purposes only.
	
ix.	
A member will not be allowed to vote again 
on any resolution on which vote has already 
been casted.
	
x.	
Members attending the AGM who have not 
casted their votes on the resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred 
from doing so, shall be eligible to cast their 
votes through e-Voting during the AGM. The 
members who have casted their votes prior 
to the AGM may also attend/ participate in 
the AGM through VC/ OAVM but shall not be 
entitled to cast their votes again.
	
xi.	
The remote e-Voting module on the day of 
the AGM shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
after 15 (Fifteen) minutes of the conclusion of 
the AGM.
	
xii	
Any Member holding shares in physical form, 
and non-individual Members, who acquires 
shares of the Company and/ or become a 
Member after sending of the Notice and holds 
shares as on the cut-off date, may obtain their 
login ID and password by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com However, if he/ she 
is already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-Voting, then he/ she can use his/ her existing 
user ID and password for casting the vote.
	
xiii.	 In 
case 
of 
individual 
Members 
holding 
securities in demat mode, who acquires 
the shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after the Notice is 
sent and holding shares as of the cut-off date, 
may follow steps mentioned below under 
“Instructions for e-Voting”.
31.	 SCRUTINISER’S 
REPORT 
AND 
DECLARATION 
OF RESULTS
	
i.	
The Board of Directors of the Company has 
appointed Ms. Ashwini Inamdar (FCS 9409) 
or failing her Ms. Alifya Sapatwala (ACS 
24091) of M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Practicing 
Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code: 
P1996MH007500), 
as 
the 
Scrutiniser 
to 
scrutinize the e-Voting process during the 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
AGM and remote e-Voting in a fair and 
transparent manner.
	
ii.	
The 
Scrutiniser 
shall, 
immediately 
after 
the conclusion of the e-Voting at the AGM, 
first count the votes cast during the AGM, 
thereafter unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-Voting in the presence of at least 
2 (Two) witnesses not in the employment of 
the Company and provide, not later than 
48 (Forty Eight) hours of conclusion of the 
AGM, a consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report of the 
total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to 
the Chairman or a person authorised by him in 
writing, who shall countersign the same.
	
	
The results declared along with the Scrutiniser’s 
Report shall be placed on the Company’s 
website www.crompton.co.in and on the 
website of NSDL, i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com 
immediately after the submission with the 
Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the 
Company are listed. Subject to receipt of the 
requisite number of votes, the resolutions shall 
be deemed to have been passed on the date 
of the AGM, i.e. Friday, August 08, 2025.
32.	 NOTE TO MEMBERS
	
i.	
SEBI 
has 
mandated 
the 
submission 
of 
Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) by every 
participant in securities market. Members 
holding shares in dematerialised form are, 
therefore, requested to submit their PAN 
to the DPs with whom they maintain their 
demat accounts. Members holding shares in 
physical form should submit their PAN to the 
Company/ RTA.
	
ii.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if 
any, pertaining to their name, postal address, 
Email ID, telephone/ mobile numbers, PAN, 
mandates, nominations, power of attorney, 
bank details (such as name of the bank 
and branch details, bank account number, 
MICR code, IFSC code, etc.), with necessary 
documentary evidence, to their DPs in case 
the shares are held by them in dematerialised 
form and to the Company/ RTA.
	
iii.	
Members are requested to quote their Folio 
No. or DP ID - Client ID, as the case may be, 
in all correspondence with the Company or 
the RTA.
	
iv.	
To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members 
are advised to exercise due diligence and 
notify the Company of any change in address 
or demise of any Member as soon as possible. 
Members are also advised to not leave their 
demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic 
statement of holdings should be obtained 
from the concerned DP and holdings should be 
verified from time to time.
	
v.	
The Company has sent individual letters 
to all the Members holding shares of the 
Company in physical form for furnishing their 
PAN, KYC details and Nomination pursuant 
to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/ HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/ CIR/2021/655 dated November 03, 
2021. Attention of the Members holding shares 
of the Company in physical form is invited to go 
through the said important communication.
	
vi.	
To mitigate unintended challenges on account 
of freezing of folios, SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/181 
dated November 17, 2023, has done away with 
the provision regarding freezing of folios not 
having PAN, KYC, and Nomination details. 
	
	
Further, in compliance to the SEBI Circular 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
January 
25, 
2022, 
if 
the 
service 
requests are received by RTA (like Issue of 
duplicate securities certificate, claim from 
unclaimed 
suspense 
account, 
renewal/ 
exchange, endorsement, subdivision/ splitting, 
consolidation 
of 
securities 
certificates/ 
folios, 
transmission 
and 
transposition 
of 
securities) 
from 
those 
Members 
whose 
details, as mentioned in SEBI Circular dated 
November 03, 2021, are duly updated in the 
system, the RTA/ Company shall verify and 
process the service requests and issue a ‘Letter 
of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities 
certificate(s), to the securities holder/ claimant 
within 30 (Thirty) days of its receipt of such 
request after removing objections, if any, 
which shall be valid for a period of 120 (One 
Hundred and Twenty) days from the date of 
its issuance, within which the securities holder/ 
claimant shall make a request to the DP for 
dematerialising the said securities.
	
	
If 
the 
Members 
fail 
to 
submit 
the 
dematerialisation request within 120 (One 
Hundred and Twenty) days, then the Company 
Notice
12 - 13
shall credit those shares in the Suspense 
Escrow Demat account held by the Company. 
Members can claim these shares transferred 
to Suspense Escrow Demat account on 
submission of necessary documentation.
	
	
Members may please note that SEBI vide 
its 
Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022 
has mandated the listed companies to issue 
securities in demat form only while processing 
service 
requests 
viz. 
issue 
of 
duplicate 
securities certificate, claim from unclaimed 
suspense 
account, 
renewal/ 
exchange 
of 
securities 
certificate, 
endorsement, 
sub-division/ splitting of securities certificate, 
consolidation of securities certificates/ folios, 
transmission and transposition. Accordingly, 
Members are requested to make service 
requests by submitting a duly filled and 
signed Form No. ISR-4, the format of which is 
available on the Company’s website under the 
web-link 
at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/
pages/investors-relations#InvestorService 
Members 
holding 
equity 
shares 
of 
the 
Company in physical form are requested to 
get their equity shares converted into demat/ 
electronic form to get inherent benefits of 
dematerialisation and also considering that 
physical transfer of equity shares/ issuance 
of equity shares in physical form have been 
disallowed by SEBI.
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office:
05GBD, Godrej Business District, 
Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai 400079
Date: May 15, 2025
Place: Mumbai
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL FACTS CONCERNING AND RELATING 
TO THE SPECIAL BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT THE MEETING PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 4
Ratification of remuneration payable to 
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Auditors 
of the Company
Under the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time to time, the Company is required to 
have the audit of its cost records conducted by a Cost 
Accountant. Further, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration 
payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be ratified by 
the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company, 
basis the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
at their Meeting held on Thursday, May 15, 2025, has 
approved the appointment of M/s. Ashwin Solanki & 
Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
100392) as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the cost 
records maintained by the Company for the Financial 
Year ending March 31, 2026 at a remuneration I 6,50,000 
(Rupees Six Lakh Fifty Thousand Only) (excluding all 
taxes and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses, if 
any at actuals).
Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought by 
way of an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 
of the accompanying Notice for ratification of the 
remuneration amounting to I 6,50,000 (Rupees Six Lakh 
Fifty Thousand Only) plus applicable taxes and out of 
pocket expenses on actual basis payable to the Cost 
Auditor for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2026.
The Board recommends the resolution as set out at 
Item No. 4 of the Notice for the approval of the Members 
of the Company as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel(s) or 
their relatives are in any way concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
Item No. 5
Appointment of Parikh & Associates, Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
(ICSI 
Unique 
Code 
P1988MH009800) as a Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company and to fix remuneration
Under the provisions of Section 204(1) read with 
Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and Regulation 
24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as may be amended 
from time to time, every listed entity and its material 
subsidiaries incorporated in India is required to have the 
audit of its secretarial and related records conducted 
by a Secretarial Auditor.
Further, 
the 
SEBI 
had 
introduced 
significant 
amendments to the SEBI Listing Regulations on 
December 12, 2024, wherein pursuant to the provisions 
of Regulation 24A(1)(b), no listed Company can 
appoint or re-appoint a Secretarial Audit firm as 
secretarial auditor for more than 2 (Two) terms of 5 
(Five) consecutive years.
In view of the above and based on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors of 
the Company at their Meeting held on Thursday, 
May 15, 2025, has proposed the appointment of 
Parikh & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code P1988MH009800) as Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company, for the first term of 5 (Five) 
consecutive years commencing from April 01, 2025 up to 
March 31, 2030.
The proposed remuneration to be paid to Parikh & 
Associates for secretarial audit services for the financial 
year ending March 31, 2026, is I 2,00,000 Lakh (Rupees 
Two Lakh) plus applicable taxes and out-of-pocket 
expenses. The Board of Directors, in consultation with 
the Audit Committee, may alter and vary the terms and 
conditions of appointment, including remuneration, in 
such manner and to such extent as may be mutually 
agreed with Parikh & Associates.
Notice
14 - 15
Parikh & Associates has given their consent to act as 
the Secretarial Auditors of the company and confirmed 
that their aforesaid appointment (if approved) would 
be within the limits specified by Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India. Furthermore, in terms of the 
amended 
regulations, 
Parikh 
& 
Associates 
has 
provided a confirmation that they have subjected 
themselves to the peer review process of the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India and hold a valid peer 
review certificate.
The Board recommends the resolution as set out at Item 
No. 5 of the accompanying Notice for the approval of 
the Members of the Company as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Director(s) or Key Managerial Personnel(s) 
or their relatives are in any way concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office:
05GBD, Godrej Business District, 
Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai 400079
Date: May 15, 2025
Place: Mumbai
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
ANNEXURE A
Details of Director seeking appointment/ re-appointment in the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting
[In pursuance of Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (SS-2) and Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
Name of the Director
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Director Identification Number
05307658
Category
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (MD&CEO)
Date of Birth
September 05, 1968
Age
56 years
Nationality
Indian
Date of first appointment on the Board
August 16, 2016*
Relationship with Directors, Managers and 
KMPs
There is no relationship with other Directors on the Board, Managers 
and KMPs.
Brief Profile
Mr. Ghosh is a graduate in Engineering (Electrical & Electronics) from 
National Institute of Technology, Trichy and an MBA from Indian Institute 
of Management, Calcutta. He has served as Director on boards of various 
companies across sectors and very closely involved in designing the 
strategic and operational priorities of these companies along with driving 
performance and delivery. He was with DSP Merrill Lynch for 18 years and 
helped build its business in India. Thereafter, Mr. Ghosh was Deputy Head, 
Temasek India, leading the team on the ground for nearly a decade. 
During his tenure, Temasek’s direct India exposure grew significantly. 
After leaving the full-time role at Temasek in March 2022, he served as an 
advisor to Temasek India until March 2023.
Qualification
Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from Regional Engineering College, 
Trichy and MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta
Experience
32 years
Expertise in specific functional area
Wide managerial experience across multiple industries
Terms and Conditions of appointment or 
re-appointment
To be appointed as a Director Liable to retire by rotation Eligible for 
re-appointment
Remuneration sought to be paid
As may be approved by N&RC and Board from time to time.
Remuneration last drawn
Paid during Financial Year 2024-25
Total Remuneration paid in Financial Year 2024-25 is H 10,68,28,226 
(Rupees Ten Crore Sixty Eight Lakh Twenty Eight Thousand Two 
Hundred and Twenty Six Only) out of which variable pay is H 5,99,78,142 
(Rupees Five Crore Ninety Nine Lakh Seventy Eight Thousand One 
Hundred and Forty Two Only)
Number of shares held in the Company 
(directly or as a beneficial owner)
35,000 (Thirty Five Thousand)
Number of Meetings of the Board attended 
during the year
8 (Eight)
Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees 
of the Company
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee - Chairman
Stakeholder Relationship & Share Transfer Committee - Member
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Member  
Committee of Debentures- Member
Directorships held in listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Listed companies from which resigned in 
the past three years
NIL
Directorships held in other Companies 
(excluding foreign, private and Section 8 
Companies)
NIL
Membership/Chairmanship of Committees 
across other Public Companies (listed as 
well as unlisted)
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
• Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Chairman
• Risk Management Committee – Member
* Non-Executive Non Independent Director till April 23, 2023, appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as MD & CEO w.e.f. 
May 1, 2023.
Notice
16 - 17
Information at a glance:
Particulars
Details
Mode
VC/ OAVM
Time and date of AGM
Friday, August 08, 2025, at 11:00 A.M.
Participation through video-conferencing
https:/www.evoting.nsdl.com
Helpline number for VC participation
1800 22 55 33
Webcast and transcripts
https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/annual-report/
Dividend record date
Thursday, July 24, 2025
Dividend payment date
On or after Friday, August 8, 2025, but within 30 days of AGM
Cut-off date for e-Voting
Friday, August 01, 2025
e-Voting start time and date
Monday, August 04, 2025, at 9:00 A.M.
e-Voting end time and date
Thursday, August 07, 2025, at 5:00 P.M.
e-Voting website of NSDL
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
Name, address and contact details of 
e-Voting service provider
Contact details:
Mr. M Suketh Shetty - Assistant Manager
National Securities Depository Limited,
3rd floor, Naman Chambers, G Block, Plot No. C-32, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400051
E-mail ID: evoting@nsdl.com
Contact number: 022-24994200
Name, address and contact details of 
Registrar and Transfer Agent
Contact details:
Ms. Krishna Priya Maddula
Senior Manager – Corporate Registry
KFin Technologies Limited,
Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032
E-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Contact number: 1800-309-4001
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
INNOVATION 
THAT LISTENS
TECH 
THAT CARES
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals 
Limited is among    
    India’s leading   
consumer durables 
players with a strong 
presence in the 
Electrical Consumer 
Durables and 
Lighting segments.
What’s inside
04-17
Company Overview
 Financial Year 2024-25 highlights
04
About the report  
06
Who we are 
08
Where we operate  
14
How we create value 
16
18-43
Year in Review
Chairman's message
20
MD and CEO’s message 
24
#TechWithHeart
30
Manufacturing highlights 
32
Innovation highlights 
40
44-67
Business Review
a. Electrical Consumer Durables
44
i.
Fans & Pumps
45
ii.
Small Domestic Appliances
50
iii. Large Domestic Appliances
52
iv. Large Kitchen Appliances
54
b. Lighting
56
c. Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
60
Awards and accolades
62
68-85
Our Growth Strategy
Evolving market trends 
68
Crompton 2.0 strategy
72
Our growth enablers 
74
86-139
Value Creation for Stakeholders 
Engaging with our stakeholders 
86
Materiality assessment 
90
Investors
92
Consumers 
96
People 
102
Value chain partners
110
Communities
114
Environment 
128
140-167
Governance and Ethics 
Governance framework
140
Board of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel
152
Management team 
157
Policies
158
Risk management 
160
168-358
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
170
Board’s Report
188
Report on Corporate Governance
242
Corporate Governance Certificate
313
MD & CEO and CFO Certificate
314
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
316
359-547
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements
360
Consolidated Financial Statements
448
Independent Assurance Statement
538
GRI Content Index
544
Driven by consumer-centric innovation, 
we offer products with enhanced 
features, elegant designs, and 
superior quality that aspire to elevate 
everyday life through smart and 
innovative products.
The emphasis on improving consumer 
experience is exemplified through 
#TechwithHeart - where technology 
meets evolving consumer needs.
Rooted in sustainability and reliability, 
our focus lies on developing products 
and solutions that not only address 
today’s demands but also prepare us 
for tomorrow’s needs.
With stepped up R&D investment, our 
relentless efforts are dedicated to 
achieving breakthroughs that create 
new possibilities and enable us to invest 
in a sustainable future.
02 - 03
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Financial (standalone) 
I 716.04 Crore
Operating cash flow
I 563.18 Crore
Profit after tax
 20.7%
41.41%
Dividend payout ratio
H 7,028.29 Crore
Revenue from operations 
 10%
H 819.40 Crore
EBITDA
 19%
Non-financial
Y-o-Y Growth
Environment
Social
224 MT
Emission reduction
38.31%
Sustainable sourcing 
0.07
Lost time injury frequency 
rate (per million)
64,698
Manhours of training 
provided to employees
84,619
Total lives impacted 
9,418 KWH
Energy consumed from 
renewable sources 
26,854 KL
Water recycled  
Governance
77.78%
Board independence  
22.22%
Female representation 
on the Board 
FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25 HIGHLIGHTS
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
04 - 05
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Crompton's Financial Year 2024-25 Integrated Annual Report provides a 
comprehensive view of our financial and non-financial performance, governance, 
key risks, opportunities, and strategy. It showcases how our vision, purpose, and 
business model lead to value creation across the short, medium, and long term.
ABOUT THE REPORT
Scope of reporting 
Reporting period
The report is published annually for 
the period April 1, 2024,  
to March 31, 2025. 
Reporting boundary 
For financial disclosures
Standalone and Consolidated
For non-financial disclosures
Standalone
For non-financial parameters, we 
have covered Crompton and not 
its subsidiaries.
Targeted readers
This report is primarily intended 
to address the information 
requirements of long-term 
investors (our equity and 
preferential shareholders, 
bondholders and prospective 
investors). We have attempted 
to present information in a 
manner that is relevant to the 
way we create value for other 
key stakeholders, including our 
employees, customers, regulators 
and society.
Report alignment 
This report aligns with the 
principles and guidelines of the:
	Ȣ
International <IR> framework 
of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC) (known 
as IFRS Foundation) 
	Ȣ
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN-SDGs)
Feedback 
We welcome feedback on our suite of reports to ensure that we continue to disclose pertinent information that is conducive to 
stakeholder decision-making. Please refer queries or suggestions to crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in.
	Ȣ
In reference to the GRI (Global 
Reporting Initiative) Standards, 
2016, for reporting non-
financial performance
	Ȣ
United Nations Global Compact 
Principles (UNGC)
	Ȣ
The Companies Act, 2013 (and 
the rules made thereunder) 
	Ȣ
Indian Accounting Standards 
	Ȣ
Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
	Ȣ
Secretarial Standards issued 
by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI)
Board responsibility statement 
Our Board of Directors 
acknowledge their responsibilities 
to ensure the integrity of this 
We are led by 
Building on 
Purpose
Enriching life for generations with smart and responsible solutions 
Capitals 
Financial
Human 
F
H
Manufactured 
Social 
and Relationship 
M
S
Intellectual 
Natural 
N
I
Focusing on 
Material topics 
Raw materials 
and substances/ 
resource optimisation
Occupational 
health and safety
Business ethics 
and general 
business principles
M5
M1
M9
Data privacy 
and cybersecurity
M6
Product responsibility 
and safety
M2
Brand salience
M4
M12
Economic growth
Customer relationships
M8
Innovation 
and research
M10
Energy efficiency
M3
Talent development
M11
Employee well-being
M7
With sights on 
Opportunities
Risks
1
2
Enabled by
Strategy-Crompton 2.0
Enabled & Empowered 
Organisation 
Supply Chain  
Excellence 
Consumer need-led  
innovation 
Go-to-Market  
Excellence 
Premiumisation  
of portfolio 
Digital  
Enablement
1
4
2
5
3
6
Led by
Pillars
Protect and 
grow the core
Win in the 
Kitchen
Transform  
Lighting business
Foray into  
new segments
1
2
3
4
Creating 
value for 
Stakeholders 
Employees 
Community
1
Consumers
4
Government, 
regulatory authorities
6
2
Investors
5
Suppliers
3
Read more on 
  16
Read more on 
  73
Read more on 
  72
Read more on 
 160
Read more on 
  90
Read more on 
  82
Integrated Report. The Board has, 
accordingly, applied its collective 
knowledge and believes the report 
addresses all identified material 
issues, and presents the integrated 
performance of our Company and 
its impact fairly and accurately.
Assurance 
The management has conducted 
a thorough examination of the 
information and statements 
provided in the report to maintain 
their accuracy and reliability.  
This review process was undertaken 
to ensure that all the facts 
and qualitative information 
contained within the report 
were presented in an unbiased 
and transparent manner. We 
have engaged the services of 
TUV India Private Limited ("TUV 
India") to provide reasonable 
assurance for BRSR Core indicators 
and limited assurance for BRSR 
non-core indicators and non-
financial disclosures in the 
Integrated Annual Report. TUV 
India Private Limited conducted 
the assurance in accordance 
with International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits 
or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information, and ISAE 3410, 
Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statement, issued 
by the International Auditing and 
Standards Board.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
06 - 07
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
About Crompton
Crompton is a leading consumer durable company, with market leadership in 
fans and residential pumps categories and a strong position in Lighting and 
appliances categories. Leveraging the legacy of 85+ years and with  
award-winning products, the aim is to enhance the lives of every consumer 
while catering to evolving consumer needs.
To strengthen our leadership in the Electrical Consumer Durables segment, 
enhance our presence in kitchen appliances, and drive growth in lighting,  
our focus remains on consumer-led innovation to consistently deliver  
high-quality, smart, and energy-efficient products. We have dedicated 
significant efforts to sustainability, process, and cost excellence to strengthen 
our growth trajectory and build a responsible brand.
Crompton 2.0 strategy
Enabled and empowered  
organisation
Consumer  
need-led innovation
Premiumisation  
of portfolio
Go-to-Market  
excellence
Supply  
chain excellence
Digital  
enablement
Read more on    72
WHO WE ARE
Our mission 
We strive to create products that are safe, energy-efficient, dependable 
and environment-friendly by constantly improving our core technology.
Our purpose
Enriching life for generations with smart and responsible solutions.
Caring 
Respect people from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, act with 
empathy, demonstrate genuine concern, and proactively help others.
Responsible
Understand and align business priorities with long-term goals and 
consumer preferences to drive Crompton’s future-focused growth through 
innovation with purpose.
Entrepreneurial
Stay agile and adapt to ever-changing business landscapes, continuously 
experiment, courageously take risks, swiftly learn from failures, and make 
decisive, data-driven decisions.
Accountable
Set aspirational goals and high-quality standards, takes ownership and 
accountability for both self and teams’ performance, and establish 
a strong commitment to excellence, emphasising both outcomes 
and effectiveness.
Team Player
Collaborate to innovate, solve challenges, manage conflict, and leverage 
network to achieve shared objectives.
Ethical
Commit to authenticity, integrity, ethical conduct, and sustainability in 
all interactions with stakeholders, prioritising what is right for business, 
community, and the environment.
Our values
C.R.E.A.T.E.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
08 - 09
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Electrical  
Consumer 
Durables (ECD)
Business segments
76.15%*
10.95%*
12.90%*
*Revenue share
#3
Market Position (B2C)
H 1,018.29 Crore
Revenue
H 119.68 Crore
EBIT
Lighting
#3
Player
in South India
H 864.50 Crore
Revenue
H 42.16 Crore
EBIT
Butterfly#
H 928.33 Crore
EBIT
H 6,010.00 Crore
Revenue
WHO WE ARE
Market position*
#1 in  
 Fans
#1 in  
Residential  
Pumps
#6 in  
 Air  
Coolers
#5 in  
Water  
Heaters
*Source - Retail agencies and management estimates.
#Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited  
(listed subsidiary of Crompton)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
10 - 11
WHO WE ARE
ECD
Fans
 Large Domestic Appliances
Heavy-
duty exhaust
Industrial 
Air Circulators
Ceiling
 Luxian Cairo  
Table
Gale classic
Wall-mounted
SStorm 2 
Exhaust
Brisk Air Plus
Pedestal
HS Torpedo
Residential Surface
Residential Surface
 Win Plus I 
Agricultural Surface
 Monoblock
Residential Submersible
 Openwell- 
    Dry winding series
 Shallow Well Jet Plus
Agricultural Surface
 MB High Flow range
Speciality
 Higher HP Sewage
Solar Borewell
 Pump & controller
Air Cooler
Water heater
Room heater
Immersion Rod
Optimus
Insta Comfy
Solarium Care
1000/1500 W
Pumps
Large Kitchen Appliances
Chimney
Hob
  IntelliSense
 SensoSafe Plus
Dishwasher
  Voila
Butterfly
 New launches
Hob
  SensoSpark
  Flame Pro
Cooktop
Vortex wall
 Small Domestic Appliances
Dry Iron
Induction cooktop
Air Fryer
Kettle
OTG
Hand blender
 Instaglide
Instaserve 2100W
Tandoori Magic
Ameo Trio
NourishPro DG
Instadelight Mini
Ameo Pro
Fresh Mix Ultra
Mixer Grinder
Juicer
HDEF Exhaust Fan
Mixer Grinders
Elektra Food Processor
Gas Stoves
Duo Plus 2B
Wet Grinders
Magnum Plus
Pressure Cookers
Compact 1.5L
Lighting
LED Rope & 
Strip Light
  Galaxy RGB
LED lamps
 Immensa 
Smart Bulb
LED Ceiling Lights
 Infinia  
TrackLight
LED battens
 Infinia
B2B
Outdoor Lighting
Solarion 
Starlyt Prime 
Gate Lamp
Industrial Lighting
 Highbay
Discharge lamps
Mushroom 
Shaped E27 
Candle Lamp
Floodlights
 Sports Light 
B2C
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
12 - 13
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
WHERE WE OPERATE
Our pan-India distribution network ensures product availability in urban and rural 
areas. Efficient supply chain and optimum inventory management enable timely 
deliveries, and we are expanding our reach by strengthening our direct dealer 
network and strengthening alternate channels.
23
Branches
Pan-India 
sales footprint
6,100+
Channel Partners
2,36,000+
Retailers
860+
Authorised service centres
7
Manufacturing plants
Map not to scale.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
14 - 15
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Read more on    72
Read more on    73
Read more on    08
...we are ready to achieve  
our strategic pillars
	Ȣ
Protect and grow the core
	Ȣ
Win in the Kitchen
	Ȣ
Transform Lighting business
	Ȣ
Foray into new segments
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Inputs 
Equity: ` 128.76 Crore
Net worth: ` 3,604.05 Crore
Capital expenditure: ` 97.37 Crore 
Read more on    92
No. of manufacturing plants: 7
Fans: 15,65,000 units/month
Lighting: 
56,40,000 units/month
Pumps: 49,725 units/month
Read more on     32
No. of R&D professionals 
employed: 173
Permanent employees including 
permanent workers: 2,333
Manhours of training provided to 
employees: 64,698
Channel partners: 6,100+
Retailers: 2,36,000+
CSR expenditure: ` 13.37 Crore
Water consumed: 81,400 KL
Energy consumption: 36,166 GJ
Read more on    40
Read more on   102
Read more on   114
Read more on   128
How we work
Value generated
Outcomes
Inn
ov
ati
ve 
sol
uti
on 
 |  
Co
nsu
mer
 c
ent
ric
ity
  |  
Sus
tai
na
ble
 su
ppl
y c
ha
in 
 |  
Op
era
tio
na
l e
xc
elle
nc
e  |
  R
eli
abi
lity
 & 
tru
st
..a
nd
 b
us
in
es
s a
ct
ivi
tie
s |
 C
ust
om
er 
su
rv
ey 
For investors 
We deliver consistent, 
profitable and 
responsible growth.
For customers 
We enhance customer 
satisfaction with  
high-quality, 
durable products.
For our people 
We provide equal 
opportunities, continuous 
development and 
a safe, supportive 
work environment.
For suppliers 
We maintain an efficient 
supply chain, collaborating 
with suppliers for 
innovation, process 
improvements, and 
product excellence.
For communities 
We improve community 
well-being through 
impactful CSR initiatives 
and ensure our production  
processes are 
environmentally responsible.
Read more on   92
Read more on   96
Read more on     102  
Read more on   80
Read more on    114
Revenue: ` 7,028.29 Crore
EBITDA: ` 819.40 Crore
PAT: ` 563.18 Crore
EPS: ` 8.75
RoCE: 26.97%
Patents filed: 19
New products launched: 170
Revenue from new products  
launched: ` 710.6 Crore
LTIFR: 0.07
Employees associated for  
5+ years: 407
Total lives impacted: 84,619
1,323 youth trained
Water recycled: 26,854 KL 
Emissions reduced: 224 MT
Waste recycled: 1,684 MT
38.31%
Sustainable sourcing
58,673
Lives touched through water 
conservation efforts
F
F
I
I
H
H
N
Financial Capital 
M
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
N
Natural Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital
S
S
Guided by…
Purpose
Enriching life for generations with 
smart and responsible solutions.
Mission
We strive to create products 
that are safe, energy-efficient, 
dependable and environmentally 
friendly by constantly improving 
our core technology.
Values
  R
es
ea
rc
h 
&  
    
    
    
    
  
Ma
rk
et
in
g &
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
Pr
od
uc
ts
 
Ap
pli
an
ce
s   
Ap
pli
an
ce
s
    
   
M
an
uf
ac
tu
rin
g
	
	
	
    
 P
ro
cu
re
me
nt
	
	
   
Lo
gi
sti
cs
 &	
	
	
    
    
    
    
    
    
 A
fte
r
Fa
ns 
     
Pu
mp
s    
    
     
    
     
    
     
    
     
    
     
    
     
   
Lig
ht
in
g   
    
  H
om
e   
     
  K
itc
he
n
C	 Caring
R	
Responsible
E	
Entrepreneurial
A	
Accountable
T	
Team Player
E	
Ethical
…led by
Enabled and  
empowered  
organisation
Premiumisation 
of portfolio
Go-to-market  
excellence
Consumer  
need-led innovation
Digital  
enablement
Supply 
chain excellence
    
   
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 S
al
es
	
    
    
   
   
 D
ev
el
op
m
en
t	  
    
    
    
    
Br
an
di
ng
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   
    
    
 D
ist
rib
ut
io
n  
    
  
	
	
    
   s
al
es
 S
er
vi
ce
 
M
Manufactured Capital 
(units/ month)
Vadodara Plant: 56,40,000 
Bethora Plant: 7,50,000 
Kundaim Plant: 3,15,000 
Baddi Plant: 5,00,000
Ahilyanagar Plant: 49,725
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
16 - 17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
initiatives are expected to boost 
consumption going forward.
The year gone by reflects our transformational journey towards Crompton 2.0. 
Navigating a challenging and evolving macroeconomic environment marked 
by geopolitical tensions and moderate consumer demand, we remained 
steadfast in strengthening our fundamentals, enhancing process excellence, 
and building people capabilities to deliver robust performances." 
Dear Stakeholders,
I am pleased to present Crompton’s 
3rd Integrated Annual Report for 
Financial Year 2024-25, which 
provides a comprehensive look 
at our performance and the 
opportunities ahead. As we 
navigate an evolving industry 
marked by both challenges 
and opportunities, Crompton 
is proud to be at the forefront 
of its transformation journey. 
We continue to strive towards 
our purpose of enhancing lives 
through innovative and sustainable 
solutions that redefine the future of 
the consumer durables sector.
The Electrical Consumer Durables 
(ECD) industry in India is poised 
for significant growth, driven 
by premiumisation, a shift from 
unorganised to organised markets, 
and category expansion. Today, 
consumers are seeking greater 
value from brands through an 
emphasis on aesthetics, durability, 
performance and energy saving. 
These have been underpinned by 
an increased emphasis on adhering 
to regulatory standards governing 
energy efficiency and safety 
along with supportive government 
policies around renewable energy 
and ‘Make in India’.
We, at Crompton, are well 
positioned to leverage these 
emerging opportunities and focus 
on building consumer-centric 
products that enhance comfort, 
convenience and drive higher 
performance. We are backed by 
strong long-term macroeconomic 
fundamentals, despite some 
immediate and short-term 
impacts witnessed in consumption 
and discretionary spends during 
the year. We continue to closely 
track consumption patterns and 
the government stimulus via tax 
breaks, repo rate cuts and other 
Over the past year, 
we continued our 
Crompton 2.0 journey 
– accelerating revenue 
growth at healthy 
margins backed by our 
solid market positioning 
in key categories, 
transformation of the 
lighting segment and 
improving the kitchen 
appliances segment 
through structural 
interventions in Butterfly. 
We are now a leading 
player in the kitchen 
appliances segment 
with market share 
improvement in both 
online and offline 
channels."  
An important event last year was 
the launch of #TechWithHeart 
which emphasises our commitment 
to ‘Innovation that listens, Tech 
that cares’. This step reinforces 
our focus on consumer-centric 
products that are indigenously 
developed and manufactured 
and provides smart, energy-
efficient and high-performance 
solutions, placing consumers at 
the centre of every innovation, 
addressing the evolving needs and 
contributing to a more sustainable 
and responsible future. This bolsters 
our R&D efforts and accelerates 
our ability to introduce new 
products and patents for future 
development leveraging consumer 
insights and streamlining our 
processes to accelerate speed 
to market. Several new products 
were launched last year, including 
energy-efficient & premium 
products. We have scaled up 
our ceiling & decorative lighting 
portfolio and expanded our solar 
range across multiple categories 
given the government's push for 
renewable energy.
The government is increasingly 
prioritising energy efficiency, driven 
by evolving regulatory frameworks 
and the expansion of norms and 
standards to additional and newer 
categories. This growing focus 
reflects the country’s commitment 
to sustainability. As a company, 
we are committed to complying 
with the evolving regulations and 
leveraging our robust infrastructure 
and technical capabilities to 
unlock the full potential of 
this opportunity, contributing 
meaningfully to a more energy-
efficient future.
While our strong brand legacy of 
85+ years holds us in good stead, 
we continue to invest in our brand 
equity. This will further improve 
awareness, engagement and 
conversions of emerging categories 
such as large kitchen appliances, 
small domestic appliances, and 
home appliances. Backed by 
compelling value proposition for 
premium products, our targeted 
marketing campaigns are aimed 
at elevating consumer perception 
toward our premium offerings.  
This approach is integral to building 
a differentiated and premium 
portfolio aligned to shifting 
market trends.
20 - 21
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Regards,
D. Sundaram 
Chairman &  
Independent  
Director
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
We remain focused on 
expanding our product 
portfolio across all 
business segments and 
exploring opportunities 
in new geographies and 
markets. As we aim to 
create sustainable value 
for all our stakeholders, 
we are cognisant of 
the evolving regulatory 
landscape, including 
stricter energy efficiency 
and safety standards. 
These regulations are 
an opportunity for us 
to lead by example 
and continuously 
innovate to meet the 
highest standards of 
performance, safety,  
and energy efficiency.  
In line with the government's 
renewable energy push, solar is 
becoming increasingly critical 
across multiple categories. 
All our initiatives will fructify 
through the efforts of our 
employees who are the essence 
and backbone of our organisation. 
We promote a culture of 
excellence, inclusivity and diversity 
and a performance-driven 
culture with a high degree of 
empowerment and accountability. 
This has enabled us to embrace 
fresh talent at all levels to build 
strong capabilities and leadership 
succession that is ready to drive 
Crompton’s future trajectory. 
We also continue to develop a 
leadership team with next-gen 
skill sets and a joint vision to 
face tomorrow’s challenges and 
impediments head on.
At Crompton, we are committed 
to contributing to a sustainable 
future and tapping into this 
rapidly growing market. With the 
‘Make in India’ initiative gaining 
momentum, we are strengthening 
our domestic supply chain 
capabilities, reinforcing our support 
for India’s growth and enhancing 
our ability to deliver high-quality 
products efficiently. We have also 
established a robust governance 
framework and strengthened 
internal controls, ensuring integrity 
and accountability, thereby 
solidifying the foundation of a 
value-accretive business that is 
digitally powered and future ready.
Looking ahead, accelerating 
growth in the future will require 
us to be more consumer-led, 
with a disproportionate focus 
on high-growth segments while 
strengthening our frontend and 
backend operations.  
We continue to take critical steps 
towards practising collective 
behaviours that promote our 
purpose and empower teams to 
innovate and improve. At the same 
time, we strive to consistently 
create remarkable products and 
experiences by closely listening 
to our consumers and placing 
them at the front and centre of all 
our decisions.
Before I conclude, I would like to 
express my heartfelt gratitude 
to our consumers, channel 
partners, vendors, employees 
and shareholders. Your trust 
and faith have enabled us to 
strengthen our growth trajectory 
and aim for new milestones. Going 
forward, Crompton is strategically 
positioned to capitalise on 
opportunities, sustain its leadership 
in an increasingly competitive 
industry, and fulfil its purpose of 
“Enriching lives for generations 
with smart and responsible 
solutions.”
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
22 - 23
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MD AND CEO’S MESSAGE
To capitalise on these 
rapid shifts, we have 
stepped up our brand 
investments, involving 
multi-category 
campaigns, to broaden 
our reach. We are driving 
premiumisation through 
targeted product 
launches and consumer-
centric solutions 
supported by marketing 
campaigns that are 
focused on elevating 
consumer reach and 
experience."
In a fast-paced market where consumer needs are consistently evolving, 
we strive to stay ahead of the curve with cutting-edge innovations and 
smart solutions that shape the future. At Crompton, we are leading this 
transformation through #TechWithHeart, a philosophy that drives us to 
innovate in ways that matter most to our consumers by placing them at the 
core and directly addressing their needs by improving energy efficiency, 
enhancing comfort and performance, providing higher durability and superior 
design and contributing to a more sustainable future."
Driving strategic growth
Driven by the Crompton 2.0 
strategy, we remained focused 
on our transformative journey. 
Our aim of becoming an enabled 
and empowered organisation 
has allowed us to unlock the full 
potential of our people. Embedding 
innovation at the core of our 
growth agenda has led to the 
development of premium products 
across categories and accelerated 
growth in new-age channels with 
the leverage of brand strength and 
our legacy of 85 years. Crompton 
2.0 has been instrumental in 
adapting a forward-thinking 
approach, which is crucial for 
retaining a competitive edge, 
accelerating topline growth 
and absolute profits and driving 
operational excellence.
Elevating brand awareness
India’s expanding urban 
population, rising disposable 
income and consumer 
preference for user-friendly 
and sustainable products are 
driving a surging demand for 
technologically advanced and 
aesthetically pleasing consumer 
durables products. 
Innovating for tomorrow
Our R&D expenditure surpassed ₹ 
H 80 Crore last year, with our team 
size surpassing 173 (One Hundred 
and Seventy Three) experts 
focusing on consumer need-led 
innovations that deliver better 
experiences in existing categories 
and build unique first-time 
solutions. With the development 
of platforms like NUCLEUS, an in-
house advanced BLDC platform, 
and XTECH, the next-gen induction 
motor platform, we are setting 
benchmarks for performance, 
energy efficiency and reliability.  
It also reiterates our focus on 
‘Made in India, Built for the World’ 
– enabling us to develop products, 
indigenously, that meet the unique 
needs of the Indian market while 
being scalable for the global 
market. These products not only 
meet consumer expectations for 
high performance and energy 
savings but also keep sustainability 
at their core. We are consistently 
laying emphasis on functionalities 
that are ideal for modern and 
connected homes. In doing so, we 
are making every effort to listen 
to our consumers and embedding 
insights in developing smarter 
products and solutions.
Expanding reach
Last year was marked by a series 
of Go-to-market advancements 
that significantly enhanced our 
market reach. We intensified 
our engagement with channel 
partners, fostering stronger 
collaborations that drove mutual 
24 - 25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MD AND CEO’S MESSAGE
Our focus on digital transformation 
has empowered not only our 
internal teams but also our retailer 
network, allowing for improved 
engagement and actionable 
insights. We have simultaneously 
strengthened our cybersecurity 
infrastructure, adopting a 
proactive approach to safeguard 
our digital assets and maintain 
the trust of our customers amid 
evolving cyber threats.
People-led organisation
At Crompton, we believe in 
empowering our people with new- 
age skills and capabilities. Along 
with an emphasis on continuous 
learning and development, we 
have introduced leadership 
development programmes to 
cultivate leadership potential, 
improve strategic thinking and 
uncover new avenues of growth 
for Crompton. 
Our people-focused and purpose-driven culture 
enables us to thrive in a competitive market, 
attracting talent from diverse backgrounds with 
critical and next-gen skill sets. Focusing on building  
a great workplace, we aim to:
	Ȣ Foster a performance driven culture with  
growth-oriented mindset 
	Ȣ Align KPIs and incentives with short-term and  
long-term business goals 
	Ȣ Attract, nurture and retain talent
We achieved growth 
of 2%, in our lighting 
business, led by the 
strategic launches in 
the B2B & B2C product 
portfolio. This was further 
supported by scaling 
up of the e-commerce 
and modern trade 
channel. We secured 
large marquee 
projects contributing 
to nation building 
and simultaneously 
strengthened our 
presence in the industrial 
and commercial segment 
with an advanced 
portfolio designed for 
specialised applications."
Business performance
In Financial Year 2024-25 
we witnessed broad-based 
performance across categories 
with revenue growth of 10% and 
absolute profits of ₹H 563 Crore  
(Five Hundred and Sixty Three),  
21% increase compared to 
last year. 
ECD segment demonstrated robust 
performance led by introduction of 
innovative and premium products. 
We reported ECD revenue growth 
of 11% Y-o-Y.  
Non-ceiling fans underwent a 
smooth BIS transition. Calibrated 
pricing for premium fan models 
enabled us to report healthy 
margins. Pumps demonstrated 
strong revenue growth fuelled by 
robust execution of solar pump 
orders and the launch of new 
products in residential segment. 
The solar pumps category is poised 
to remain a vital growth category 
in coming years.  
The Appliances category continued 
its growth momentum driven by 
mixer grinders and air coolers. With 
balanced Go-to-Market strategy 
and operational efficiencies we 
have reduced the EBITDA losses in 
this category. 
Ensuring robust supply chain
We underscore our focus on 
quality through key initiatives like 
developing strategic sourcing 
footprint, increasing in-house 
production, like a 50% increase in 
our Baddi plant during the year. 
Furthermore, we drive industry-
leading quality and safety 
standards and foster a culture of 
excellence with stringent controls 
and robust practices. We have 
dedicated programmes such as 
‘Delight’ and ‘Udaan’ to drive these 
initiatives and further strengthen 
our supply chain.
Digital adoption at scale
We have made significant progress 
in advancing our digital strategy, 
which is vital for the future of 
our organisation. By integrating 
state-of-the-art technologies 
across our operations, we have 
optimised business processes and 
elevated customer, vendor and 
consumer experience.
Improving performance in H2 of 
Financial Year 2024-25 was backed 
by process intervention across 
areas, Butterfly exited Q4 Financial 
Year 2024-25 on a strong growth 
trajectory improving EBITDA 
margins by 60 bps to reach 13.1%. 
Key categories delivered healthy 
growth led by robust performance 
of channel and profitable scaleup 
of Ecom channel.
We continue to maintain our 
market leadership, retaining the 
#1 position in Fans and Residential 
pumps. Our growing strength as 
a leading mixer grinder brand 
has made us the fastest growing 
appliances company. We reported 
industry leading margins, 
accelerated revenue trajectory, 
strong cash generation and 
return ratios.
growth and innovation.  
At the same time, we focused on 
strengthening our salesforce to 
meet customer needs effectively. 
Our robust e-commerce business 
also thrived, expanding our reach 
and accessibility. Going forward, 
with the aid of technology, we seek 
to strengthen our trade channels, 
unlock the potential of modern 
trade, regional chain stores and the 
rural channel to drive robust sales. 
Our improving PAN-India service 
network and coverage allow us 
to provide timely support across 
the country, further solidifying 
our reputation as a trusted leader 
in the industry. Additionally, we 
have launched Crompton Assist+, 
a step forward in our journey of 
service excellence.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
26 - 27
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MD AND CEO’S MESSAGE
Regards,
Promeet Ghosh 
MD & CEO
Towards a sustainable future
Crompton’s commitment to 
sustainability is inculcated across 
every aspect of our business. We 
adopt a multifaceted approach to 
foster green innovation, minimise 
emissions and support responsible 
resource utilisation. We have 
ensured regulatory compliance 
ahead of time by developing 
products that adhere to BEE and 
BIS guidelines. Furthermore, our 
commitment to Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) ensures 
responsible management of 
products throughout their lifecycle. 
We are also proud to be one of the 
few Indian companies included 
in the S&P Global Sustainability 
Yearbook in Household Durable 
Category, with a score of 62 (well 
above the industry average of 34 
and 3rd rank in the sector), for our 
sustainability performance. 
We have also conducted 
the product carbon 
footprint assessment for 
representative products.
Received Green-Pro Certification 
(Type-I Ecolabel) from CII for 
Ceiling Fan. To fulfil our objective 
of driving sustainability across our 
processes, we have implemented 
best practices and encouraged key 
supply chain partners to integrate 
sustainable practices across 
their processes. 
Our water conservation projects 
such as rainwater harvesting, 
and watershed development 
demonstrate our commitment 
towards the communities we 
serve. We prioritise skill and 
entrepreneurship development, 
equipping youth and women 
with employable skills and 
providing upskilling opportunities. 
Furthermore, we also undertake 
initiatives for improving 
infrastructure in schools and 
facilitate access to essential 
government schemes for 
marginalised communities. We also 
encourage employee engagement 
in CSR activities, fostering a sense 
of social responsibility within 
the organisation.
The road ahead
We are progressing well and remain 
focused on the core tenets of 
Crompton 2.0.  
All our business segments are on 
track to deliver sustainable and 
profitable performance backed 
by continued investments in brand 
building, innovation, technology 
and people.
As we move forward, we will  
continue to leverage the power 
of #TechWithHeart, making use 
of technology and sustainable 
operations, to create value for our 
stakeholders. It is expected to fuel 
our passion for creating products 
that make a real difference to the 
lives of our consumers and, at the 
same time, have a positive impact 
on the world.
Thank you for your continuous 
support and encouragement. 
We remain grateful to all our 
stakeholders. Your faith in our 
ability gives us immense courage 
to shape a brighter future 
for Crompton. 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
28 - 29
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consumer-centric 
innovation rooted in 
deep insights
#TechWithHeart is not just a 
product launch; it represents 
a strategic shift by Crompton 
towards deeply understanding 
consumer needs and preferences 
to create solutions that simplify 
and enrich everyday life.  
Every product under this initiative: 
from high-performance fans to 
reliable water pumps; is designed 
with the consumer at its core. 
This approach ensures that 
Crompton’s offerings are not only 
technologically advanced but also 
highly relevant and accessible, 
delivering tangible benefits such 
as improved energy savings, 
durability, and smart connectivity. 
Indigenous development 
and ‘Made in 
India, Built for the 
World’ philosophy
A cornerstone of TechWithHeart 
is its foundation on indigenous 
research, design, and 
manufacturing. Crompton has 
significantly increased its R&D 
investments, now employing over 
180 dedicated personnel focused 
on developing next-generation 
technologies tailored to Indian 
conditions. The Company leverages 
India’s robust supply chain 
ecosystem to create products 
that are locally sourced yet 
globally competitive. This strategy 
enhances supply chain resilience, 
cost efficiency, and product 
scalability, positioning Crompton as 
a pioneer in the domestic electrical 
consumer durables industry with a 
global outlook. 
Cutting-edge platforms: 
NUCLEUS and XTECH
TechWithHeart introduces 
two advanced indigenous 
technology platforms:
	Ȣ
NUCLEUS platform:  
An in-house developed 
advanced BLDC (Brushless 
DC) motor platform that 
significantly enhances product 
performance, reliability, and 
energy efficiency.  
It integrates efficient motors, 
robust electronics, and smart 
connectivity features, tested 
rigorously across diverse 
climatic conditions. The 
platform’s scalability across 
multiple product categories 
underlines Crompton’s 
capability to innovate at scale. 
	Ȣ
XTECH platform: Building 
on decades of leadership in 
induction fan technology, the 
XTECH platform offers higher 
energy efficiency and durability. 
Designed and manufactured 
entirely in India, it reinforces 
Crompton’s commitment 
to sustainable innovation 
and a strong local supply 
chain network. 
Expanding market 
leadership and 
growth opportunities
Crompton’s TechWithHeart 
initiative is aligned with its broader 
strategic goals to expand its 
footprint in key categories such 
as residential and agricultural 
pumps, including solar-powered 
solutions. This is aimed to capture 
the growing domestic appliances 
segment, driven by consistent 
revenue growth in small domestic 
appliances, large kitchen 
appliances and home appliances.
Strategic investments 
fuelling future growth
The Company’s increased R&D 
spend, reflects its dedication to 
innovation-led growth. By investing 
in consumer insights and cutting-
edge technology development, 
Crompton aims to maintain and 
enhance its market leadership, 
drive profitability, and capture 
emerging opportunities in energy-
efficient and smart home solutions.
In a nutshell, TechwithHeart is 
transformative platform that 
encapsulates Crompton’s strategic 
vision for the future through:
	Ȣ
Reinforced market leadership: 
TechWithHeart strengthens 
Crompton’s position as a pioneer 
in energy-efficient and smart 
consumer electrical products, 
particularly in fans and pumps, 
where it already commands 
significant market share.
	Ȣ
Sustainable competitive 
advantage: Indigenous 
innovation platforms like 
NUCLEUS and XTECH provide 
Crompton with proprietary 
technology that differentiates 
its products on performance, 
durability, and energy savings.
	Ȣ
Consumer trust and brand 
equity: By focusing on 
'technology that cares,' 
Crompton deepens its 
connection with consumers, 
building trust through products 
that deliver real value 
and reliability.
	Ȣ
Growth and profitability: The 
initiative supports Crompton’s 
strategic focus on growth over 
profitability in the short term, 
setting the stage for  
long-term sustainable financial 
performance through innovation 
and market expansion.
	Ȣ
Contribution to India’s tech 
ecosystem: TechWithHeart 
exemplifies the 'Made in India, 
Built for the World' ethos, 
showcasing Crompton’s 
role in strengthening India’s 
manufacturing capabilities and 
technological self-reliance.
Driving crompton’s future with consumer-centric 
innovation and sustainable growth
In 2025, Crompton launched its flagship innovation platform, 
#TechWithHeart, marking a significant milestone in our journey towards 
strengthening its leadership  in smart, energy-efficient, and consumer-
focused electrical solutions. This initiative embodies our commitment to 
delivering technology that truly matters — technology that enhances 
comfort, convenience, and sustainability in Indian homes while reinforcing 
the company’s vision of 'Innovation that Listens, Tech that Cares.' 
#TechWithHeart
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
30 - 31
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, equipped with the best 
available technologies, enable us to consistently deliver innovative 
and superior-quality products that cater to evolving customer needs. 
With a strong emphasis on optimum resource utilisation, we have 
enhanced operational efficiency, streamlined production processes 
and reduced waste generation from our facilities.   
MANUFACTURING HIGHLIGHTS 
Key highlights 
7
Manufacturing locations 
15.8% 
Reduction in complaint rate 
PPR (Product Performance 
Report) over FY24 with 
22 quality improvement 
projects closed in FY25
CGCEL – Integrated 
Management System 
Certification (ISO 9001, 
14001, 45001) by TUV India 
for all Businesses including 
Design Scope
Butterfly – Separate 
certification (ISO 9001 by GIC, 
14001, 45001 by TUV India)
SAP QM (Quality Module) 
implemented across all CGCEL 
manufacturing plants for IQC, 
PDI, Deviation Management
3
Product lines
5,00,000
Manufacturing capacity 
(per month)
Baddi (Unit I, II, III)
Fans
4
Product lines
7,50,000
Manufacturing capacity 
(per month)
Bethora
Fans
Maintaining the best-in-class manufacturing while 
maturing our operational systems by strengthening 
quality control and safety procedure.
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Manufacturing facilities 
8
Product lines
1
Product lines
56,40,000
Manufacturing  
capacity  
(per month)
11,200
Manufacturing  
capacity  
(per month)
Vadodara
Lighting
Large Kitchen  
Appliances
32 - 33
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
3
Product lines
4
Product lines
3,15,000
Manufacturing capacity 
(per month)
49,725
Manufacturing capacity 
(per month)
Kundaim
Ahilyanagar
Fans
Pumps
MANUFACTURING HIGHLIGHTS
Enhancing 
operational 
excellence
We apply lean manufacturing 
principles to optimise our 
production processes, 
maximise productivity and 
minimise waste. This year, 
we have strengthened this 
approach by prioritising 
automation, cost reduction 
and workforce optimisation 
across our plants.
Key highlights
Automation and efficiency
	Ȣ
Kundaim: Semi automated 
riveting and stator  
transfer conveyor
	Ȣ
Vadodara: Upgraded SMT line 
for Nucleus PCB production 
and added an environment-
controlled storage room
	Ȣ
Baddi: Implemented automated 
grinding and winding machines 
with enhanced traceability
Workforce optimisation
	Ȣ
Bethora: Streamlined canteen 
operations to enhance  
cost-efficiency
	Ȣ
Vadodara: Optimised blue-
collar job allocation to decrease 
reliance on contract labour
	Ȣ
Baddi: Maintained a skilled 
workforce through a trainee 
programme for ensuring 
seamless operations
Quality and 
competitiveness
	Ȣ
Vadodara: Introduced a 2nd 
(Second) DIP test to reduce 
product failures and improve 
cost competitiveness in B2B 
driver manufacturing
	Ȣ
Ahilyanagar: Strengthened 
quality testing and enhanced 
packaging processes
EHS and infrastructure
	Ȣ
Baddi: Improved EHS standards, 
facilities, and undertook 
Kaizen programmes
	Ȣ
Vadodara: Improved 
plant hygiene
	Ȣ
Ahilyanagar: Implemented 
Zero Accident Plan to prioritise 
workplace safety
These initiatives, along with 
ongoing efforts like inventory 
management and Kaizen, reflect 
our dedication to continuous 
process improvements. We are also 
piloting a buffer-based  
replenishment system, 
(Project Uday) for our fans and 
appliances business, to optimise 
inventory management. 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
34 - 35
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Project Udaan
This project is a strategic 
initiative aimed at making 
our products available at the 
lowest possible cost while 
maintaining the highest 
standards of quality and 
service. Over a five-year 
period, the project aims to 
enhance manufacturing 
excellence, optimise  
‘Make vs. Buy’ and augment 
the supply chain in line 
with cost, quality and 
service levels. 
Key highlights
	Ȣ
~50% increase in Baddi plant's 
annual production capacity
	Ȣ
Higher capacity utilisation 
of Vadodara plant through 
line installation of large 
kitchen appliances
MANUFACTURING HIGHLIGHTS
Customer satisfaction is our top priority. Quality is key to 
customer loyalty and long-term success. At CGCEL, we all own 
quality and it is the way of life to create value to customer,  
deliver product and services on time with zero defects.
Mr. Shashi Kumar
Head – Quality
Supply chain  
and logistics
We remain focused on 
enhancing the efficiency 
and resilience of our supply 
chain. We are achieving 
this through standardised 
operating procedures (SOPs) 
and a rigorous vendor 
onboarding process. 
Our logistics network has been 
strategically enhanced to ensure 
seamless product delivery across 
diverse markets. We also led 
the consolidation of Butterfly 
warehouses with Crompton’s 
warehouses that not only improves 
delivery efficiency but also 
strengthens our ability to respond 
swiftly to market demands. 
Quality assurance
Our operational excellence 
is supported by a quality 
mindset being embedded 
across the value chain. 
This commitment is driven 
by a culture of continuous 
improvement, supported 
by programmes such as 
5S, Quality Circles, Daily 
Work Management and 
initiatives like ‘Glass Walls’ 
that promote transparency 
and accountability.
We also support this culture 
with initiatives like ‘Glass Walls’ 
that promote transparency and 
accountability in our processes. 
To tackle complex quality 
challenges and drive innovation, 
we equip our teams with 6 (Six) 
Sigma methodologies, ensuring 
continuous improvement and 
the delivery of exceptional 
value that consistently exceeds 
customer expectations.
To further enhance quality, we have 
implemented the vendor capability 
enhancement programme, which 
focuses on improving the processes 
and systems of our top suppliers. 
This collaborative approach 
contributes to both product 
excellence and cost optimisation.
Key highlights
	Ȣ
Reducing the Cost of Poor 
Quality (COPQ): We are actively 
reducing COPQ through four 
major projects targeting key 
product lines. 
	Ȣ
Internal audit capability: SQP 
and VPQ training programmes 
are in place to strengthen 
To refine our demand forecasting, 
we've implemented Project 
ForeSight to collaborate and carry 
forecast enrichment digitally. 
By leveraging this, we can align 
production schedules with 
anticipated demand, reducing 
stockouts and excess inventory 
in the future. As a result, our Sales 
and Operations Planning (SNOP) 
process has also undergone 
significant improvements. Our 
commitment to best-in-class 
inventory management is reflected 
in key investments such as 
warehouse modernisation, logistics 
digitalisation and automation 
across procurement, distribution, 
and business planning.
internal audit capabilities for 
quality management systems.
	Ȣ
Comprehensive training 
programme: A training 
programme, covering 6 (Six) 
Sigma, CAPA, and 7 QC Tools, is 
being used to equip employees 
with the necessary skills to drive 
quality improvements.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
36 - 37
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Goa - Bethora Plant won 
National Safety Award under 
Large Enterprises - Electrical 
Consumer Durables Section 
in 12th Global Safety Summit, 
New Delhi.
This prestigious accolade affirms 
our unwavering commitment 
to Health, Safety, Environment, 
and Sustainability (HSE&S) and 
our adherence to pre-eminent 
standards in workplace safety, 
environmental stewardship, and 
sustainable operational practices. 
This achievement highlights the 
dedication and hard work of our 
team, whose commitment keeps 
Crompton at the forefront of 
HSE&S excellence.
Under workplace safety excellence, 
Fan — Bethora has won the award the 
from GreenTech Foundation. 
MANUFACTURING HIGHLIGHTS
Environment, 
Health and Safety 
(EHS)
At Crompton, we prioritise 
the health and safety of our 
employees and strive to limit 
our environmental footprint 
through a comprehensive 
EHS  policy. This year, we 
focused on risk reduction, 
sustainability efforts and 
environmental compliance 
across all our operations.
Initiatives such as ‘KAVACH 
3.0’, have helped to improve 
hazard recognition and reduce 
workplace risks. Regular safety 
training, risk assessments and an 
EHS dashboard ensured ongoing 
monitoring and improvement  
of our safety performance.
Key highlights
	Ȣ
Critical to Safety Standard 
developed across the 
manufacturing sites like 
machine safety – level and 
ranking guideline, Contractor 
safety management, Hazard 
identification and risk 
assessment, Environment aspect 
and impact identification, 
Fire and safety, permit to 
work and safety observation 
standard development.
	Ȣ
Conducted internal EHS Audit 
and self-assessments for all 
manufacturing sites as per 
defined Check Sheet.
	Ȣ
Action plan on self - assessment 
has been initiated, for 100% 
adherence of standards by 
all plants. 
	Ȣ
Initiated EHS score card to 
healthy competition among 
manufacturing locations.
	Ȣ
Short and Long-term EHS action 
plan developed for creating 
safe workplace.
	Ȣ
Annual EHS awareness calendar 
designed to drive employee 
engagement at all levels.
	Ȣ
Initiated GreenCo 
with the support of 
Environment Champions.
	Ȣ
Relaunched EHS Sub 
Committee concept for 
employee engagement.
	Ȣ
Ensured 100% compliance 
with Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) obligations 
for both e-waste and 
plastic waste.
	Ȣ
EHS Audit – Internal and 
External which includes Safety 
Task Force action plan for 2024-
25 were completed without any 
major observation and all points 
are closed as scheduled per 
the calendar.
	Ȣ
GT audit completed without 
any major observation and 
point closed.
	Ȣ
Integrated Management 
System, comprising ISO 
9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 
45001, successfully achieved 
audit certification.
	Ȣ
Safety task force actions 
continued by deploying the 
methodology of hierarchy of 
control to lower the machine risk 
from high risk to medium and 
low risk.
	Ȣ
Undertook plant-wise job 
work identification and 
ensured legal compliance and 
workplace safety.
	Ȣ
RCFA (Root Cause Failure 
Analysis) Training Conducted 
for Incident Investigation 
root cause.
	Ȣ
'Zero Accident Plan' workshop 
was conducted at the Goa 
– Bethora Plant, involving all 
plant heads, HR heads, and 
safety professionals, to identify 
improvement opportunities 
for achieving zero accidents in 
manufacturing facilities.
	Ȣ
Vadodara unit has conserved 
approximately 31% of water 
over the last fiscal year.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
38 - 39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Crompton’s pioneering innovations have steered the 
Company’s success for over several years. We have seamlessly 
combined functionality with aesthetics, leading to the 
development of superior quality products that are attuned  
to evolving customer preferences.  
INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS
Innovation at Crompton is driven through consumer need 
and sustainable technology that enrich customer lives. 
Using technology and innovations, we transform pioneering 
concepts into innovative products and solutions that deliver 
sustainable impact.
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal
Chief Technology Officer (CTO) & Head – ESG
Key highlights 
19
Patents filed
173 
R&D team size
170
New products launched 
The next frontier 
for innovation
	Ȣ
Pioneering sustainable 
technologies: Recognising the 
urgent need for environmental 
responsibility, we prioritise R&D 
efforts in eco-friendly solutions 
across categories. From energy-
efficient motors to AI-powered 
smart homes, we empower 
consumers to contribute to the 
positive impact.
	Ȣ
Human-centric design: 
Empathy remains our guiding 
principle. We integrate user-
centric insights into every 
stage of product development, 
ensuring our innovations 
enhance daily lives with 
intuitive functionality and 
aesthetic appeal.
	Ȣ
Harnessing digital 
transformation: The evolving 
digital landscape redefines 
the way industries work. We 
embrace agile methodologies 
and invest in talent equipped 
to navigate the ever-evolving 
technological terrain.  
This ensures our intellectual 
capital remains future-proof, 
adaptable, and responsive to 
emerging trends.
New product development 
Our Innovation Centre plays an integral role in the development of new 
products. Every business segment features specialised teams focused on 
different elements of new product development (NPD), such as design, 
development, project management and product testing. In compliance 
with regulatory guidelines, engineering tools and software are used to 
create products that adhere to quality benchmarks related to safety, 
performance and reliability. In Financial Year 2024-25 170 (One Hundred 
and Seventy) new products were launched.  
40 - 41
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS
Consumer-centric  
innovation 
	Ȣ
Our consumer-centric 
approach manifests in several 
ways:  Prioritising consumer 
well-being: Introducing 
products like the anti-dust 
fan and antibacterial mixer 
grinder to meet wellness needs 
of customers. 
	Ȣ
Energy efficiency: 
More than 30% of our 
products are star-rated to 
conserve energy without 
compromising performance. 
	Ȣ
Intuitive design: User-friendly 
elements such as ergonomic 
knobs and spill-proof designs 
help to simplify daily chores. 
Sustainability in 
product innovation 
We follow life cycle assessment 
(LCA) approach to analyse the 
product’s environmental impact 
and strengthen our product 
sustainability efforts. 
We encourage new product 
innovations that minimise energy 
usage and limit environmental 
impact in the product use phase.
We have also launched a 
renewable energy based product in 
Lighting & Pump category. 
Key highlights
	Ȣ
Ceiling Fans: Through 
continuous improvement and 
innovation, we have achieved an 
average of 53% energy intensity 
reduction in induction  
motor-based ceiling fans.  
Our 5-Star BLDC Motor based 
Ceiling Fan has a power rating of 
35 watts, compared to 75 watts 
for a non-star ceiling fan.
	Ȣ
Water Heaters: Our storage 
water heaters now feature 
improved insulation, resulting in 
an average of 9% reduction in 
standing loss, aligning with the 
latest BEE Star rating upgrades.
	Ȣ
Lighting: Achieved an average 
of 42% energy savings by 
shifting from conventional 
HPSV to LED lamps and a 
further 28% saving through LED 
efficacy improvements.
R&D infrastructure
During the year, we implemented 
the following measures to 
streamline our processes and 
empower the R&D team:  
	Ȣ
Product Lifecycle Management 
(PLM) and Product Data 
Management (PDM) enhanced 
efficiency and transparency in 
product development, ensuring 
access to latest information 
for everyone. 
	Ȣ
Digital change management 
replaced manual change 
notifications with a digital 
workflow, facilitating faster 
approvals and execution.
Key priorities
	Ȣ
Product premiumisation: 
The focus is to drive better 
consumer experience in existing 
categories and building industry 
first products and solutions 
will continue.
	Ȣ
Future ready R&D: Strengthening 
core technology and incubating 
futuristic technology will be key 
factors driving long-term growth. 
Key focus areas include driving 
comfort, cooling and heating 
technologies, noiseless operation, 
and platform development 
for material technologies like 
Antidust, Antistain, Disinfectant. 
Also, we are spending time on 
innovating with new materials 
— light diffusion, heat and 
electrical conductivity.
	Ȣ
Enhancing systems and 
capabilities: Establishing an 
integrated product development 
process using digitalisation to 
fuel innovation and the NPD 
journey will be a key priority. In 
addition, we plan to digitalise our 
process further to increase rigour 
and drive post facto learning.
New products
Fans
•	
India's first 5-star induction 
ceiling fan, called HS 
Duro, was launched which 
consumes only 36W power. 
We also introduced India's 
first 3-star induction fan, 
named Avancer Swirl.
•	
We have launched 
Nucleus, an advanced 
Pumps
•	
Residential pumps portfolio 
was strengthened with the 
launch of WIN PLUS & WIN 
DURA series catering for  
2- storey application. 
•	
We launched industry first — 
patented dry winding series 
in open well pumps with plug 
and play convenience.
•	
To cater the industrial 
segment, we introduced 
Monoblock High Flow Series 
with efficient hydraulics and 
improved motor.
•	
Solar pumps range was 
strengthened with the cross 
functional collaboration. 
initiating installations at 
various locations.
Lighting
•	
The lighting R&D team 
introduced numerous 
products in the B2C 
lighting segment. 
Additionally, our B2B 
segment has been 
fortified with the launch of 
Solar Mast Products, High 
wattage Solar Standalone 
Street, Facade Lighting 
range with DMX Controller 
and High Ambient 
High Bay.
BLDC technology platform 
developed in-house. Under 
this platform, we introduced 
Nucleoid and Niteo, both 
consuming 30W power.  
Niteo fan features an intuitive 
user interface called Active 
Sight UI, which is the first of 
its kind.
•	
SilentPro Fluido has been 
recently launched, offering a 
sleek and modern design in 
plastic fans.
•	
We introduced Superflo, which 
features Turbo Boost airflow 
technology which significantly 
enhances the air delivery 
and performance of metal 
blade fans.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
42 - 43
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BUSINESS REVIEW
Our emphasis on the development 
of high-performance and premium 
fans has enabled us to increase 
our market share. Through the 
development of innovative 
and energy-efficient products, 
effective marketing campaigns 
and exceptional after-sales, we 
are steadily enhancing our revenue 
potential from this segment. 
Fans 
At the heart of our growth is a relentless focus on innovation, 
quality, and sustainability. By reimagining the everyday 
fan with performance, efficiency, and design, we meet the 
evolving aspirations of modern consumers. Rooted in consumer 
centricity, our digital push, strong R&D and commitment to 
satisfaction drive long-term value.
Mr. Anuj Arora
Product Line Head - Fans
Electrical
Consumer Durables
The segment includes a diverse 
range of products such as fans, 
pumps and appliances and remains 
a critical driver of the Company's 
revenue. Over the past several years, 
there has been a strategic segment 
expansion aimed at enhancing the 
product portfolio and catering to 
the increasing consumer preference 
for modern and efficient home 
and kitchen appliances. The efforts 
include introducing innovative 
products, improving distribution 
networks, and leveraging digital 
platforms to boost sales and 
consumer engagement.
Cairo
New launches
A fan sold 
every two 
seconds
Crompton sold over 2 Crore fans 
in FY25
Revenue growth over last year
11.46%
Niteo
Aura 2-4 Blade
Festo
Avancer Swirl
Superflo
Ameo
Rushwind 900
Super 
Briz Royale
Fluido Wave
5,392.18
FY 24
6,010.00
FY 25
11.46%
Y-o-Y growth
774.65
FY 24
928.33
FY 25
19.84%
Y-o-Y growth
Revenue(J in Crore)  
(standalone)
EBIT (K in Crore)  
(standalone)
44 - 45
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Pumps 
Key trends
Lifestyle statement
Consumers are increasingly 
prioritising products with an 
aesthetic appeal. As a result, 
the demand for designer fans 
has risen considerably. Colour, 
finish and materials are now 
key considerations alongside 
superior performance.  
The demand for non-ceiling fans 
also demonstrates a significant 
shift in consumer preference. 
Technological shift
As the demand for technologically 
advanced and innovative 
products rises, consumers seek 
fans enabled with IoT, remote 
and under light options to make 
them more versatile, increasing 
their comfort level. The market 
also shows a shift to more greener 
solutions and processes. 
Convenience
Consumers are focused on a 
complete, seamless experience, 
from purchasing to installation 
and after-sales service. Easy 
maintenance and effortless 
upkeep of the product post-
purchase are also important. 
To establish a positive image, 
we prioritise the 3 (Three) Cs — 
Convenience, Customisation, and 
Customer Support.
Plans for  
Financial Year  
2025-26  
	Ȣ
Upgrade to higher 
ratings in line with BEE 
2.0 norms and ensure 
seamless transition.
	Ȣ
Address evolving 
consumer needs through 
the integration of 
advanced features along 
with a focus on improving 
product performance.
	Ȣ
Drive more visibility for 
premium markets and 
products through in-shop 
displays and activities 
under Project Vistaar. 
	Ȣ
Increase awareness 
about new product 
launches and our  
Go-To-Market 
(GTM) strategy. 
	Ȣ
Further expand reach 
in < 1 lakh population 
town with new channel 
partner appointments.
	Ȣ
Market leadership 
with future-ready 
innovations through
	»
NUCLEUS platform
	»
XTECH platform
	Ȣ
High double-digit growth 
from NUCLEUS and 
XTECH platforms.
We are consistently working towards delivering consumer-centric 
solutions in Pumps, addressing consumer pain points with our 
innovative range of products. Our continuous endeavour is to 
provide energy-efficient pumps for Residential and Agricultural 
applications. We have also made rapid strides in Solar Pumps and 
looking forward to a major stake in speciality pumps too.
Mr. Rajat Chopra 
Business Unit Head – Home Electricals & Pumps
FAN CONTD...
We have focused on addressing 
consumer needs through an 
innovative product range and 
enhanced performance. We 
have launched products across 
all categories, driving consistent 
growth through new product sales.
New launches
Agriculture pumps
We expanded our agricultural pump portfolio with the launch of the 
High Flow Monoblock series, Higher HP Openwell series and 8W Borewell 
agricultural pumps. It is extremely durable and has the capability to 
maintain higher flow rates in demanding agricultural environments.
17 Lakh
Residential mini pumps sold
21
New products introduced 
5x 
Growth in solar pumps segment
MBG Eco series (0.5 to 2HP)
MB High Flow Series 
8W High Flow Series
OW Agri (10HP-30HP)
BUSINESS REVIEW
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
	Ȣ
Growth was fuelled by BLDC 
fans, premium induction fans and 
TPW fans.
	Ȣ
Enhanced our gross margins 
through targeted pricing 
strategies, increase in 
our vendor base and cost 
efficiency measures.
	Ȣ
Strengthened our portfolio in 
online platforms by launching 
channel exclusive models, gaining 
a substantial share, and expanding 
our digital footprint. 
	Ȣ
Achieved more than 40% energy 
efficiency with the launch of 
Niteo in BLDC category and 
High Speed 3 star & 5 star in the 
induction category.
	Ȣ
With an increasing focus on 
aesthetics, Avancer Swirl 3 Star 
launched emphasising on design, 
durability, and energy efficiency.
	Ȣ
Introduced several new models 
across categories such as Niteo, 
Nucleoid and Cookie IoT in BLDC, 
innovative induction models 
like Luxian Cairo, and SilentPro 
Enso induction, HS Duro 5-star 
induction fan alongside Avancer 
Swirl and Aura2 4-Blade in 
Duratech technology.
	Ȣ
Launched the #PicturePerfectFans 
multimedia campaign to highlight 
our focus on superior aesthetics.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
46 - 47
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Residential pumps
	Ȣ
We launched Win Plus Win Dura 
for two-storey homes in the 
Surefill series at a competitive 
price range, ensuring efficiency, 
reliability and optimal 
performance with lower 
energy consumption.
	Ȣ
Expanded our residential pumps 
portfolio with the SWJ Plus & 
SWJ Dura series and introduced 
the industry-first dry winding 
Openwell series, designed 
for enhancing durability and 
preventing winding failures.
	Ȣ
Introduced Marvel Plus & Elite 
Plus in Rapidfill & Turbofill range 
with enhanced performance to 
ensure higher water discharge in 
residential and urban areas.
Sewage Treatment Pump 
(STP)/Crompton Cutter 
Pump (CCP) series
	Ȣ
We introduced the Cutter pump 
series with Anti-Rust CED coating and 
a float switch, designed for handling 
fibrous solids and enhancing 
operational efficiency and longevity.
	Ȣ
Expanded the STP series with 10 HP 
Pump to deliver robust performance, 
handling solid particles up to 35mm 
size and double mechanical seal with 
increased operational efficiency and 
longer life.
Solar pumps
	Ȣ
Successfully launched 3HP and 
5HP agricultural solar pumps for 
irrigation systems, compliant 
with MNRE guidelines, providing 
sustainable energy solutions for 
efficient irrigation.
	Ȣ
Secured tender qualifications for 
Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, 
and Madhya Pradesh, in alignment 
with our efforts to increase the 
adoption of our solar pumps in 
different parts of the country. 
Cutter Pump CCPM Series
STP 10HP Pump
3HP & 5HP AC/DC Borewell
Marvel Plus I & II
Nile Dura I & II
Openwell- 
Dry winding series
Win Plus I & II
Elite Plus I & II
SWJ Plus
Win Dura I & II
DMB10D Plus
SWJ DURA 1HP
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
	Ȣ
We exhibited robust growth 
driven by strong traction in the 
Residential, Agricultural Borewell 
and Solar segments.
	Ȣ
Extension of our new brand 
architecture has helped improve 
premiumisation within the 
residential category, enhancing 
market penetration and 
customer satisfaction. 
	Ȣ
Installed 6000 (Six Thousand) 
solar pumps out of ~3 Lakh 
sanctioned under the  
PM-KUSUM Scheme.
	Ȣ
Introduced mini pumps for 
low-rise buildings to connect 
rural households under Jal 
Jeevan mission.
	Ȣ
Solar pumps: 
	»
Our foray into the Solar 
pumps business has also been 
successful, with us being 
empanelled for MEDA and 
MSEDCL tenders. 
	»
Obtained tender 
qualifications in Haryana, 
Rajasthan, Maharashtra 
and Madhya Pradesh for 
3HP, 5HP & 7.5HP AC/DC 
agricultural solar pumps for 
irrigation systems.
PUMPS CONTD...
BUSINESS REVIEW
Key trends 
Government initiatives
The government’s Jal Jeevan 
Mission has resulted in the growing 
demand for residential pumps. 
Besides, changes in BIS norms have 
led to the development of energy-
efficient pumps. Initiatives like the 
PM-KUSUM scheme are supporting 
farmers to install solar pumps for 
agriculture and Crompton has 
secured orders for the development 
of solar water pumping systems in 
the states of Haryana, Maharashtra, 
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
Development of 
advanced pumps
Consumer demand for pressure 
pumps in households is increasing, 
while growth in commercial and 
construction sectors drives the need 
for dewatering and sewage pumps.  
Demand for durability 
and performance
Agricultural pumps ownership 
costs have risen significantly due 
to increase in component and 
repair costs. This has led to higher 
expectations for warranties and a 
growing adoption of pump-sharing 
models among farmers. 
Plans for  
Financial Year  
2025-26
	Ȣ
Aim to double revenue 
growth in the solar 
pumps segment.
	Ȣ
Further strengthen 
leadership position 
in residential pumps 
and drive accelerated 
growth in agricultural 
pumps through timely 
launch of new products 
and stepping up 
marketing efforts.
	Ȣ
Faster execution of 
solar pump installations 
to capitalise on the 
growing demand.
	Ȣ
Continue building 
capabilities to 
execute larger orders 
and projects.
	Ȣ
Strategic focus on 
underpenetrated regions 
in West and South. 
	Ȣ
Bridging the portfolio 
gaps in Agricultural 
segment with robust 
range of Surface and 
borewell pumps.
	Ȣ
Ramp up the residential 
borewell segment.
7.5HP Motor
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
48 - 49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Small Domestic Appliances (SDA)
We are committed to addressing consumer needs and enhancing 
the user experience with products that blend innovation, 
convenience, and reliability. With growing awareness about 
nutrition and well-being, consumers today are actively seeking 
smarter, time-saving solutions with appliances that offer 
efficiency without compromising on quality. 
Mr. Ketan Chaudhari
Product Line Head – SDA
With growing demand for feature-
rich kitchen appliances, we are 
developing innovative solutions 
that make day-to-day chores 
easier and less time consuming.  
New launches  
2X
Growth in e-commerce
21 
New products introduced
Key trends 
Convenient cooking choices
Consumers are shifting from 
traditional cooking methods to 
efficient, time-saving cooking 
solutions. In response, we launched 
high-performance air fryers and 
nutri blenders.
Health and wellness
With busier lifestyles and a growing 
emphasis on wellness, there is an 
increased demand for convenient 
and healthy cooking options at 
home, alongside a growing interest 
in exploring new cuisines.  
To cater to these evolving consumer 
preferences, we introduced nutri 
blenders, juicers and mixers 
designed to simplify healthy 
meal preparation and support 
culinary experimentation.
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
	Ȣ
We introduced new grinder 
designs with enhanced 
capabilities, gaining strong 
traction across India, 
particularly during key 
e-commerce events and 
the festive season. It has led 
to double-digit growth for 
the segment.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Plans for  
Financial Year  
2025-26
	Ȣ
Focus on creating 
products that meet 
emerging consumer 
needs with innovation and 
design excellence.
	Ȣ
Leverage ongoing 
U&A study to improve 
functionality and appeal 
and meet evolving 
consumer demands.
	Ȣ
Broaden product range 
to cater to diverse 
demographics and 
market segments.
	Ȣ
Strengthen distribution and 
refine initiatives to align 
with consumer needs.
	Ȣ
Engage regularly with 
partners across India 
to adapt to changing 
market dynamics.
Nigella Classic 
Mixer Grinder
Duro Elite 1000W 
Mixer Grinder
Instadelight 
Mini Kettle
Ameo Blend 400W 
Nutri Blender
FabriMagic Neo 
Steam Iron
Fresh Mix Ultra 500W  
Juicer
	Ȣ
Launched a 1000W mixer for 
heavy-duty needs, while the 
500W mixer gained traction. 
The Nutri-Blender category is 
also gaining share, driven by 
health awareness.
	Ȣ
We continued expanding our 
reach in under-represented 
trade channels and 
scaleing up e-commerce 
channels significantly.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
50 - 51
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Large Domestic Appliances (LDA) 
We are focused on increasing customer touch points across 
channels and delivering innovative products based on 
consumer demand.
Mr. Malhar Vadke
Product Line Head – LDA
Key trends 
Energy efficiency
With rising living costs, demand for 
high-performance, budget-friendly 
and energy-efficient appliances like 
air coolers, water heaters and room 
heaters are on the rise. 
Preference for 
smart appliances
Increasing preference for 
connected app-controlled and 
voice-enabled appliances offering 
convenience and customisation.
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
	Ȣ
Increased traction in 
e-commerce and Modern Retail 
channels helped to improve 
performance during the year.  
Air cooler and room heater sales, 
even during the  
off-season, further  
contributed to our growth.
	Ȣ
Achieved a 270-bps 
improvement in premium 
product saliency by strong sales 
in premium segments. We have 
also successfully transitioned to 
BIS norms, ensuring compliance 
with regulatory guidelines.
	Ȣ
Introduced the Amica Pro and 
Solarium Clx water heaters in 
the premium segment, Avancer 
and Aura air coolers in the non-
premium segment and the top-
rated Optimus and Ozone air 
coolers to further strengthen our 
offerings across key categories.
	Ȣ
Improved inventory utilisation 
and optimised stock supply to 
enhance operational efficiency.
	Ȣ
Strategic advertising campaigns 
enhanced visibility of the brand 
and improved the reach of 
water heaters and air coolers.   
Our home appliances range are 
designed to meet diverse consumer 
needs. This year, we focused on 
driving growth through expansion 
of our product range and the 
launch of innovative products that 
add convenience to life.
New launches  
#5
In water heaters
28
New products introduced
270 bps 
Improvement in premium saliency
#6 
In Air coolers
BUSINESS REVIEW
Plans for  
Financial Year  
2025-26
	Ȣ
Increase synergy 
with other key 
business segments.
	Ȣ
Expand offerings with 
new categories and 
exclusive models for 
greater market reach 
and addressability.
	Ȣ
Enhance profitability 
by focusing on Exclusive 
brand Outlets (EBO) 
and Multi-Brand Outlets 
(MBO) to drive targeted 
consumer engagement.
Solarium Clx  
(10/15/25)
Aura 
(70/90/110)
Amica Pro  
(10/15/25)
Rapidjet 
(10/15)
Avancer 
(65/80/95)
Classic DLX  
(6/10/15/25)
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
52 - 53
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Large Kitchen Appliances (LKA)
The business is on a growth trajectory, especially on the 
e-commerce platforms, where we have more than doubled 
our turnover, exiting March at No.3 position in chimneys 
on Amazon. Our focus on developing products, addressing 
consumer pain points via Smart features and delight- 
targeting installation and after-sales support has helped us 
drive penetration across geographies and beyond the metros.
Ms. Aarushi Agarwal
Product Line Head – Large Kitchen Appliances and New Businesses
Our large kitchen appliances range 
are designed to meet diverse 
consumer needs. This year, we have 
focused on building a portfolio 
derived from detailed consumer 
insights, focusing on product 
differentiation, premiumisation 
and delivering consumer delight.
New launches  
43 
New products introduced
SensoSafe Plus
IntelliMotion & IntelliSense Curve
IntelliSense Range
FlamePro Cooktop
Key trends 
Kitchen as a  
'place of pride'
Preference for premium kitchen 
appliances such as chimneys and 
hobs is on the rise among the 
affluent as well as the middle-class 
consumer with the rise of open and 
modular kitchens.  
Evolving consumer needs in 
Tier 2 markets
Kitchen appliances, notably 
chimneys, are transitioning from 
discretionary purchases to essential 
household items, reflecting a shift in 
consumer needs not just in metros 
but Tier 2 towns as well.
Prioritisation of wellness and 
smart features
Consumers are demonstrating a 
growing preference for appliances 
equipped with wellness-enhancing 
features, such as quieter operation  
and smart functionalities like 
automatic shut off, post cooking  
and are willing to pay a premium 
for such attributes.  
Emphasis on aesthetics
The aesthetic appeal of appliances 
and their seamless integration with 
kitchen designs are increasingly 
becoming important factors for 
influencing consumer choices.   
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
	Ȣ
We witnessed strong growth 
in the chimney category, led 
by sales on e-commerce and 
modern trade channels along 
with a higher contribution 
from new product sales. The 
business achieved stable 
growth and substantial 
EBITDA improvement, driven 
by strategic initiatives and 
effective response to evolving 
consumer demand.    
	Ȣ
We introduced new products 
that cater to evolving consumer 
preferences for wellness and 
smart functionality, particularly 
within the hobs range.    
	Ȣ
Sales through Croma and 
Reliance retail channels also 
witnessed an uptick. Exclusive 
Brand Outlets (EBOs) with 
emphasis on premium offerings 
and e-commerce channels 
catering to the mid-premium 
segment saw healthy growth. 
We also increased market 
penetration in Tier 2 cities.  
BUSINESS REVIEW
Plans for  
Financial Year  
2025-26
	Ȣ
Prioritising local 
sourcing to mitigate 
risks associated with 
fluctuations in the global 
market and promote  
'Made in India' as part of 
Crompton philosophy.    
	Ȣ
Significant expansion of 
point-of-sales by 200-
300% and reach a wider 
consumer base.   
	Ȣ
A consumer First 
approach to the business 
across touch points 
to become 'A loved 
and preferred Kitchen 
appliance' Brand.   
	Ȣ
Based on consumer 
insights, launch of a range 
of new and innovative 
products with a focus on 
enhanced aesthetics and 
smart, AI led functionality
	Ȣ
Further expansion of 
product portfolio by 
venturing into categories 
such as Gas cooktops 
with Smarter, insight 
based designs.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
54 - 55
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Lighting
Our lighting solutions are engineered for energy 
efficiency, offering optimal light quality and 
comfort for diverse environments. Through 
innovation in both Business to Consumer (B2C) 
and Business to Business (B2B) segments, we have 
expanded our market presence while responding 
proactively to consumer needs.
Flood 50w 
Decorative 
street light
COB range
Well Glass
LED battens
Infinia 
Deco Batten
LED battens
DeskMate 
Table Lamp
LED battens
Solar Mast  
Standalone
BUSINESS REVIEW 
New launches 
B2B
B2C
A widened portfolio, increased investment behind the brand 
and strong growth in e-commerce and Modern Retail have 
helped the business grow in the face of high price erosion. 
In the year ahead, we seek to accelerate growth through 
premiumisation and consumer - centric lighting solutions for 
the B2C space. Besides, we look forward to scaling up our 
offerings for emerging segments like Industrial, Facade and 
Solar lighting solutions, in the B2B space. 
Mr. Shaleen Nayak
Business Unit Head – Lighting
Highbay
Decorative Wall Lights
Tunnel light
RGB  
Strp light
Floodlight
3X
Growth in 
e-commerce
28
New B2B 
products launched 
32
New B2C 
products launched
Revenue growth over last year
2.22%
56 - 57
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Key trends
B2C  
Preference for functionality 
and aesthetics
The preference for ceiling lights 
continues to increase, driven by 
new home decor trends and the 
availability of lights at attractive 
price points. Customised lighting 
solutions that meet the demand for 
aesthetics as well as functionality 
continue to drive growth. 
Adoption of smart features
Growing preference for connected 
lighting systems with features like 
adjustable colour temperature, 
dimming, smart control and 
Bluetooth functionality is 
driving customer demand in 
different markets.
Durability and performance
Demand for durable,  
high-performance outdoor lighting 
solutions is increasing, driven by 
the rapid pace of urbanisation and 
the need for better illumination in 
public spaces.
B2B 
Rapid infrastructure development
Continued investment in 
infrastructure, especially in 
sectors like NHAI, airports, metro 
systems, railways and ports, 
is driving demand for reliable 
lighting solutions.
Demand for sustainable solutions
Sustainability is a key focus area, 
with increased government 
support for solar street lighting 
and other eco-friendly solutions. 
It has increased the demand 
for energy-efficient options like 
LED streetlights, particularly in 
government projects.
Usage of specialised applications
Demand for advanced lighting 
solutions continues to grow in 
the industrial, commercial and 
infrastructure sectors, including 
increased adoption of sensor-
based luminaires, floodlights and 
specialised lighting for applications 
like sports facilities.
996.20
FY24
1,018.29
FY25
2.22%
Y-o-Y growth
Revenue (K Crore) (standalone)
105.36
FY24
119.68
FY25
13.59%
Y-o-Y growth
EBIT (J Crore) (standalone)
LIGHTING CONTD...
BUSINESS REVIEW
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance
B2C 
	Ȣ
New product launches drove 
growth, particularly in outdoor 
lighting, ceiling lights, battens 
and accessories. Strong volume 
and value growth was achieved, 
especially in ceiling lights 
and battens. 
	Ȣ
Higher share of outdoor lighting 
solutions contributed to an 
improved product mix along 
with additions of new products 
in the garden and outdoor wall 
lighting category. It resulted 
in significant revenue increase 
from e-commerce and modern 
retail channels. Within general 
trade, the direct dealer network 
emerged as the top-performing 
sub-channel.
	Ȣ
The focus remained on expanding 
higher-wattage and premium 
product offerings, including 
connected lighting products. 
B2B 
	Ȣ
The industrial segment reported 
fair performance despite 
challenges in government-
funded infrastructure projects, 
particularly in the second 
half of the year. Highmast 
and flame proof lighting 
also demonstrated strong 
performance during the year.
	Ȣ
We have won 4 (Four) projects 
National Highways Infra Trust 
(NHIT), Noida Jewar Airport 
and Ramanagar Smart City) 
along with a large street 
light order from Bruhat 
Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike 
(BBMP) Bangalore.
	Ȣ
Launched a new range of Well 
Glass, Flood Lights and a full 
range of sensor-based indoor 
luminaires. New offerings were 
also introduced in solar, tunnel, 
sports and flameproof lighting.
	Ȣ
Major gains were made in 
the highmast and flood 
lighting sectors.
Plans for  
Financial Year 2025-26
B2C
	Ȣ
Expansion of the ceiling 
portfolio with new offerings 
targeting both mass-market 
and premium segments.
	Ȣ
Strengthening of the outdoor 
lighting range through 
innovation, including the 
introduction of a solar range.
	Ȣ
Leverage effective brand 
building strategies to 
maximise reach across all 
distribution channels.
B2B
	Ȣ
Renew focus on securing 
large wins in the 
streetlight segment.
	Ȣ
Aggressively pursue portfolio 
expansion and growth 
in industrial, solar and 
facade lighting.
	Ȣ
Expand distribution networks 
to increase reach for the Trade 
range of products used in the 
B2B space.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
58 - 59
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Key interventions 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
With over 4 (Four) decades of industry expertise, we have fulfilled 
evolving customer preferences and continuously upgraded our 
portfolio of high-quality kitchen and electrical appliances to 
introduce new and innovative products to the market.
Butterfly undertook several interventions to drive profitable 
business scale-up which resulted in improved performance in the 
second half of the year. It has  
repositioned and rebranded itself to build brand distinction 
through the new tagline 'Celebrate Change'. These efforts 
align with the long-term journey of becoming a consumer-
led organisation and commitment to innovation and 
responsiveness to  
evolving consumer needs.
BUSINESS REVIEW 
Financial Year  
2024-25 performance 
	Ȣ
Business exited the year on a 
growth momentum with strong 
H2’25 performance wherein 
key categories delivered 
healthy growth.
	Ȣ
Retail channel with highest 
revenue saliency remained 
strong and alternate channel 
remained strong.
	Ȣ
Structural interventions during 
the year, including pricing 
actions, product laddering, 
streamlining online platform 
processes and optimised A&P 
spends, helped profitable 
business revival with a 7.2% 
EBITDA margin (620 bps 
improvement).
	Ȣ
The contribution from premium 
and higher value products 
improved during the year 
which was supported by 
festive campaigns like ‘Gifts 
of Diwali’ and cause based 
marketing for Onam festival — 
#FromKeralaWithLove.
The kitchen is the heart of every home, and we aspire to be 
synonymous with quality and excellence in this vital space. 
Our strategic roadmap is anchored in developing strong 
relationships with our customers and creating products that 
not only meet functional needs but also enrich lives. As we 
continue on this journey, we remain committed to our vision of 
transforming our brand into a household name in the Indian 
kitchen segment. Our primary objective, last year was to 
establish the right foundations that would allow us to thrive  
in an ever-evolving market.
Ms. Swetha Sagar G
Manager & Chief Business Officer - Butterfly
Scaled up Ecom 
profitably
Optimised 
commercial 
value chain 
management
Launched quality 
focused project 
‘Good for Lifetime’
Strengthened 
marketing and R&D 
capabilities
Outlined product 
roadmap
Rolled out 
employee health 
and wellness 
initiatives
Plans for Financial Year 2025-26
	Ȣ
Grow share in South  
Go-to-Market initiatives 
including premiumisation 
strategy, sales digitisation 
and commercial hygiene.
	Ȣ
Strengthen brand equity 
and work towards building 
brand distinction.
	Ȣ
Introduce new products 
in line with roadmap 
finalised basis strategic 
category play.
	Ȣ
Continue profitable scale-up 
of E-Com channel.
	Ȣ
Step up investment in people 
and process capability.
Increase in EBIT  to 
J 42 Crore despite a 
revenue dip
4x
60 - 61
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
Crompton has been honoured with the 
prestigious Green-Pro Certification for its 
ceiling fans in the Consumer Products category 
at the CII Annual Green-Pro Summit 2024. 
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at the 
Annual Green-Pro Summit 2024
Crompton SilentPro Blossom Smart has been 
honoured with the prestigious Good Design 
Award, Japan 2024. 
Good Design Awards 2024
Red dot design award Germany for Silentpro 
fluido wave induction model 2025.
Best Audit committee Award 2023-24 presented 
in 11th Asia Business responsibility summit.
62 - 63
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
Crompton wins the prestigious 
National Safety Award 2024 
at the 12th Global Safety 
Summit organised by the Fire 
and safety forum and United 
Nations Global Compact 
Network India.
Crompton has been conferred with Best Website 
Award at the recently held e4m Maverick 2024 for 
the most exceptional and user-friendly website 
with engaging content. 
Silver Trophy in the Best Use of Search 
Marketing category at e4m’s Indian Marketing 
Awards 2024 highlighting the critical role of 
search in driving visibility and engagement.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at the 
Annual Green-Pro Summit 2024
Crompton won Silver for Best Website at the 
15th IAMAI India Digital Awards, recognised for 
its seamless navigation, modern interface, and 
enhanced user experience among 300 applicants.
15th IAMAI India Digital Awards
Best CSR Initiative towards Water Conservation 
under the programme Jal Jeevan at Vibrant 
Rotary CSR Conclave and Awards 2024, 
felicitated by Shri Piyush Goyal, Union Minister 
of Commerce and Industry. 
Honoured with the CSR Award from the 
Honourable governor of Maharashtra for 
our efforts in women’s empowerment through 
the Saksham Women Electrician Programme 
and the Jal Jeevan initiative supporting 
women farmers.
Awarded India’s Best Annual Report 2024 
by Free Press Journal in the Fast-moving 
Electric Goods (FMEG) sector.
CareEdge Celebrating Transparency & Trust
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
64 - 65
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
Outstanding Procurement of the year, 
Procurement India Leadership Forum and 
Awards 2024.
Recognised by Jombay as a WOW 
Workplace of 2025 in the Manufacturing & 
Allied category.
A Workplace Built on People, Purpose and Progress
Safety awards
OHSSAI Leader Award 
won by Plant Head of 
Goa – Kundiam and 
Pump Ahilyanagar.
OHSSAI Mentor Award 
Won by Safety Officer  
of Goa –  
Kundiam and Pump  
Ahilyanagar.
Outstanding Performance 
in Safety Award from the 
Green Triangle Society 
Safety Award 2024.
Outstanding Performance 
in Safety Award from the 
Green Triangle Society 
Safety Award 2024.
Greentech Work Place 
Safety Award won by 
Goa – Bethora Plant.
Outstanding Performance 
in Safety Award from the 
Green Triangle Society 
Safety Award 2024.
Goa – Bethora Plant won 
the ESG Global Awards 
2024 in safety category.
Fan-Kundain, Goa and Pump-Ahilyanagar, Maharashtra plants 
won Gold in safety category at the 9th OHSSAI Annual HSE 
Excellence & ESG Global Awards 2024.
Ranked among the top three 
companies globally in the household 
consumer durables industry, in the 
S&P Global Corporate Sustainability 
Assessment 2024. 
For the first time, Crompton 
has been featured in the S&P 
Global Sustainability Yearbook 
2025, placing it among the top 
sustainability performers. 
Crompton’s Shera Khabar won 2 awards at 
the prestigious e4m Neons OOH Awards. 
Crompton has been honoured with best 
procurement strategy and India’s Supply 
Chain Champion for Consumer Discretionary 
Sector from the Institute of Supply Chain 
Management (ISCM).
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
66 - 67
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
EVOLVING MARKET TRENDS
We operate in a rapidly evolving market. While urbanisation, rising disposable 
income and the demand for technologically fortified products are growing, we 
notice a considerable shift in consumption patterns. With our expertise in the 
ECD sector, we are continuously capitalising on emerging opportunities to fulfil 
the demands of an aspirational nation.
600 Million
India’s urban population by 2036
Source: World Bank
41.7%
FLFPR by 2024
Source: PLFS, Annual Report 2023-24
28.8
Median age by 2025
Source: UN World Population Prospects
Rising disposable income
India's growing economic potential 
is significantly influenced by 
positive demographic trends. 
The Economic Survey for 2024-25 
highlights the consistent increase 
in the Female Labour Force 
Participation Rate (FLFPR) over 
the past 7 (Seven) years, a primary 
driver for rising household income 
and shifting consumption trends. 
Moreover, India's favourable 
demographics, with a median 
age of 28.8 years and 65% of the 
population under 35, the country 
has a young and aspirational 
working population with growing 
disposable income. This has 
often led to discretionary spends 
on technologically advanced 
products, including those that add 
comfort and convenience to life.
Consumption trends
Growing urbanisation
With a projected urban population 
of 600 (Six Hundred) million by 
2036 in India, representing 40% of 
the population and contributing 
nearly 70% to GDP, growing 
urbanisation presents substantial 
opportunities for businesses to 
cater to the evolving needs of 
customers. Rapid urbanisation is 
expected to increase the demand 
for housing and related amenities 
that enhance the comfort and 
convenience of people. It is also 
expected to bolster the demand 
for feature-rich electrical 
consumer durables that add 
comfort and convenience to life. 
The rise in consumption trends 
in tier 2 and tier 3 cities will also 
be instrumental, with lower 
operational costs, emerging 
markets, and strong government 
support driving this transformation.
	Ȣ
Invest in R&D to develop 
products that meet or exceed 
energy efficiency standards, 
ensuring compliance with 
regulations and certifications.
	Ȣ
Investments in technology 
and people to become 
future-ready.
	Ȣ
Focus on high-quality 
premium range to fulfil 
aspirational demand of 
young India. 
	Ȣ
Scaling R&D capabilities 
to allow rapid. 
product innovation 
	Ȣ
Strengthen investments in 
brand and new age channels.
Our response
Our response
80%
Consumers are willing to pay 
more for sustainable products
Source: World Bank
Increased demand for 
sustainable products
Indian consumers are increasingly 
prioritising sustainability and 
are willing to pay a premium for 
sustainably produced goods, even 
amidst cost-of-living concerns. 
The latest research indicates a 
willingness to spend an average 
of 9.7% more on such goods. This 
trend is driven by the fact that 
85% of consumers have personally 
experienced the disruptive effects 
of climate change. Despite 
inflation and rising costs, 80% of 
consumers express a willingness to 
pay more for sustainable products. 
They are focused on tangible 
attributes like production methods, 
recycling, eco-friendly packaging, 
and a positive impact on nature 
and water conservation.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
68 - 69
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Demand for 
premium products
The consumer durables sector 
is experiencing rapid growth, 
primarily driven by the demand 
for premium products. Increasing 
demand for energy-efficient and 
connected appliances, coupled 
with government initiatives such 
as the PLI scheme continues to 
support this trend. Moreover, an 
expansion in the number of credit 
card users, surge in domestic and 
international tourism and growing 
vehicle ownership indicate a large 
consumer base that is keen to 
adopt premium products. As a 
result, the future growth trajectory 
of the consumer durable industry 
will be significantly influenced by 
premiumisation, the introduction 
of new product categories and a 
rapid transition from unorganised 
to organised retail channels. India’s 
affluent population, forecast to 
hit 100 Million in three years, is also 
predicted to drive stronger growth 
for premium goods companies 
compared to the broader market.
~65% & ~70% 
upper-mid & high-income 
respondents feel that 
premiumisation and 
category expansion will drive 
consumption patterns
Source: DSG Consumer Partners, 2023
Rise of 
omnichannel business
India’s retail sector is undergoing 
a significant transformation 
towards omnichannel retail, 
driven by its expanding digital 
infrastructure and a burgeoning 
consumer market. India has 
already established itself as the 
third-largest e-commerce market 
globally, with the fastest growth 
rate in Asia. This shift is fuelled by 
changing consumer behaviour 
that demands unified experiences, 
$ 55 Billion
market size of India’s 
omnichannel business
Source: IBEF
EVOLVING MARKET TRENDS
Government initiatives
Public infrastructure is vital for 
economic development in India. 
Significant progress has been made, 
with a budget allocation of  
H 11.21 Lakh Crore for Financial 
Year 2025-26. The PM Gati Shakti 
initiative integrates infrastructure 
planning, improving connectivity 
and efficiency. The government 
is also focused on expanding the 
national highway network, which 
currently spans 146,145 km. These 
infrastructure developments are 
expected to drive economic growth 
and improve the quality of life. 
Furthermore, initiatives like the PM-
KUSUM Scheme’ for solar pumps, 
‘Housing for All,’ ‘Power for All’, and 
rural electrification are expected to 
play a pivotal role in advancing the 
consumer durable industry.
Proliferation of IoT, AI, 
connected tech
Digitalisation and the use of IoT 
and AI will considerably transform 
businesses, including the ECD 
sector. Along with the ability to 
enhance reach and accessibility of 
products through online channels, 
companies have introduced smart 
technology to bolster the form 
and functionality of products. 
This has led to the development 
of innovative products that are 
smarter, energy-efficient and 
equipped with advanced features 
that enhance ease and comfort 
of usage. 
H 11.21 Lakh Crore 
Budget allocation  
for infrastructure in FY25
Source: Ministry of Information 
& Broadcasting
25-35%
CAGR of India’s AI market
Source: Ministry of Electronics & IT
	Ȣ
Foster strong 
relationships with officials 
and regulatory bodies to 
understand the policies, 
impact and opportunities.
	Ȣ
Participate in trade 
associations and industry 
groups to stay updated 
on collective insights and 
advocacy efforts.
	Ȣ
Focus on R&D to 
innovate products and 
prepare supply chain 
that meet emerging 
regulatory standards.
	Ȣ
Implement a risk 
management strategy 
to address potential 
challenges stemming 
from regulatory changes.
Our response
	Ȣ
Conduct thorough 
research to understand 
trends, consumer 
needs, and potential 
applications for IoT in 
your sector.
	Ȣ
Implement advanced 
cybersecurity measures 
to protect data. 
	Ȣ
Conduct and  
participate in innovation 
tie up programmes 
to understand 
new concepts. 
Our response
	Ȣ
Strengthen efforts to 
gather consumer insight. 
	Ȣ
Create new product 
categories to target 
unfulfilled consumer needs.
	Ȣ
Launch innovative 
products in existing 
categories to meet evolving 
consumer preferences.
Our response
	Ȣ
Accelerated presence on 
E-commerce and Quick 
Commerce platforms.
	Ȣ
Enhanced product 
visibility through improved 
discovery, comparison, 
and review mechanisms 
on marketplaces.
	Ȣ
Higher investment in 
performance marketing and 
targeted digital advertising.
	Ȣ
Expanded rural reach to drive 
deeper market penetration 
and coverage.
Our response
rapid infrastructure development, 
supportive government policies, 
a competitive landscape where 
leading retailers are increasing 
their omnichannel presence and 
technological advancements 
enabling personalised and 
seamless operations.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
70 - 71
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON 2.0 STRATEGY
Crompton 2.0
Accelerated growth 
at healthy margins to 
deliver strong TSR
Protect  
and grow 
the core
Foray  
into new  
segments
Fans: Strengthen the core and increase share in premium.
Large Domestic Appliances: Market leading growth.
Pumps: Redefine position and increase agri-footprint while 
also focusing on driving faster adoption and development of 
solar pumps.
Win in 
the kitchen
Small Domestic Appliances: Leverage mutual strengths to grow 
share and reach.
Large Kitchen Appliances: Create a differentiated product 
portfolio with emphasis on higher value extraction and 
market expansion.
Butterfly: Leverage the combined strength of Crompton and 
Butterfly to grow market share and reach.
Transform 
Lighting  
business
Product innovation and positioning: Improve product portfolio and 
market positioning.
Focused GTM and sales process enhancement: Enhance  
go-to-market strategy and sales processes.
Range expansion: Grow the product range across panels and other 
key lighting segments like B2B contribution towards nation building; 
separate Sales team carved out for lighting; enterprise team created 
for B2B to participate in more govt. tenders for marquee infra projects.
Whitespace Expansion: Enter 2-3 high-potential whitespace 
areas that align with the company’s long-term growth and market 
diversification strategy while leveraging existing strengths of brand 
and distribution.
To accelerate our growth, 
Crompton 2.0 was launched 
in June 2023 with a renewed 
focus on consumer centricity, 
business growth and profitability 
through innovations. Revolving 
around consumer need-based 
innovations, it aims to expand 
the core product portfolio while 
introducing new and advanced 
products to the market through 
focused R&D efforts, thereby 
enhancing reach into new markets 
and creating opportunities for 
higher value extraction. 
With Crompton 2.0, we are 
working towards shifting from 
a capability-out innovation to 
consumer-centric innovation.
Enablers
02
01
04
03
Enabled and 
empowered 
organisation
Read more on 
  74
Read more on 
  80
Read more on 
  76
Read more on 
  82
Read more on 
  78
Read more on 
  84
Premiumisation of 
portfolio
Go-to-Market
excellence
Digital 
enablement
Supply chain
excellence
Consumer  
need-led innovation
Pillars
Overview
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
72 - 73
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
Key highlights 
	Ȣ
Introduced the Crompton 
Leadership Competency 
Framework, aligned with 
our CREATE values, to drive 
leadership excellence and 
organisational growth.
	Ȣ
Re-envisioned and re-launched 
the flagship CLDP and FLDP 
programmes to nurture a 
future-ready leadership pipeline 
at Crompton. 
	Ȣ
Administered the Pulse 
Employee Engagement Survey 
(Survey partner - Gallup Q12) 
covering all employees and 
communicated the results 
organisation wide, along with 
focused group discussions at 
Business Unit/Department Level 
to co-create the action plans 
for enhancing engagement 
and fostering a more 
connected workforce.
	Ȣ
The ‘Values Café’ campaign 
cascaded the CREATE Values 
and the aligned Leadership 
Competency Framework across 
all Crompton and Butterfly 
locations. Workshops clarified 
each CREATE value within the 
Crompton context and outlined 
expected behaviours. To further 
reinforce these values, employee 
performance will be evaluated 
against them during mid-year 
and annual assessments.
	Ȣ
Conducted Women’s 
Safety Workshops across all 
Crompton locations, ensuring 
comprehensive coverage for 
644 (Six Hundred and Forty Four) 
female employees (blue and 
white collar on-roll and off-roll)
	Ȣ
Launched ‘Compass’ – The 
People Manager Capability 
Building Workshop, structured 
into two levels:
	»
Level 1: Crompton@
Navigate – Designed for 
mid-level people managers 
with 0-8 years of managerial 
experience, focusing 
on foundational people 
management skills, covering 
38 people managers.
	»
Level 2: Crompton@Enabler 
– Tailored for senior-level 
people managers with 
8+ years of experience, 
equipping them to navigate 
complex team dynamics and 
leadership challenges,  
to be launched in Financial 
Year 2025-26.
	Ȣ
Prioritised employee  
well-being and safety through 
health programmes, hygiene 
workshops, comprehensive 
safety training (electrical 
hazards, first aid) and specific 
women's safety workshops.
	Ȣ
Building on our well-being 
focus, we launched ‘Happy To 
Help’, an Employee Assistance 
Programme (EAP) that supports 
the holistic well-being of our 
employees and their families, 
reinforcing our commitment 
to their overall health 
and happiness. 
	Ȣ
Our 'SpeakUp' initiative 
fosters a fair, responsible and 
transparent workplace by 
providing a confidential channel 
for all employees to directly 
share escalation queries, 
organisational concerns or 
suggestions with the CHRO.
	Ȣ
Strengthened the Performance 
Management System (PMS) to 
make the process more robust 
and have incorporated Values 
assessment derived from 
CREATE Values.
	Ȣ
Launched ‘Enrich’ – Crompton 
Onboarding & Assimilation 
At Crompton, we have always 
strived to foster a culture that 
aligns with our core values — 
CREATE, enabling us to fulfil our 
purpose of ‘Enriching Life for 
Generations with Smart and 
Responsible Solutions’. This year, 
our focus has been on defining 
our leadership competencies 
in line with these values and 
strengthening the capabilities that 
bring our values to life.
As part of this journey, we 
reimagined and launched our 
senior and mid-level leadership 
development programmes 
– Crompton Leadership 
Development Programme (CLDP) 
and Functional Leadership 
Development Programme (FLDP). 
These flagship initiatives are 
designed to create leaders who 
not only embody our values but 
also drive a culture where they 
are lived and practised every day. 
We reimagined and launched our 
Recognition programme – ‘Pride & 
Glory’ to reinforce our values and 
positively impact our culture. 
Enabled and empowered organisation
We are deeply committed to fostering a positive and engaging work environment that 
attracts and retains top talent. Our talent acquisition strategy is closely aligned with 
our business objectives and organisational values, enabling us to create a workforce 
where every member is empowered to fulfil professional aspirations.  
programme to ensure a 
seamless experience for our 
new hires.
	Ȣ
Launched HR Shared Services to 
centralise HR operations. 
	Ȣ
Strengthened our HR digitisation 
journey with introduction of 
SyncUp, introduction of new 
payroll partner, offboarding 
module, contractual labour 
management system, 
automated attendance 
with face readers, sales 
incentive automation.
Key focus areas
	Ȣ
Strengthen our HR digitisation 
journey by institutionalising 
contractual labour 
management system and sales 
incentive programme. 
	Ȣ
Launch new learning 
management system, 
applicant tracking system and 
digital immersive onboarding 
module data lake containing 
all employee information for 
better insight.
	Ȣ
Maintain zero loss workdays 
through proactive industrial 
relations in various plants.
	Ȣ
Career development and 
capability enhancement for 
L band.
	Ȣ
Functional capability building 
through the introduction of 
functional academies.
	Ȣ
Support new businesses and 
greenfield projects.
	Ȣ
Strengthen the organisation 
structure through job 
evaluation, re-basing and 
pyramid structure.
	Ȣ
Succession planning for 
leadership team and key roles.
	Ȣ
Drive performance driven  
culture.
	Ȣ
Create a feed pipeline of ready 
to hire sales force through 
Dakshata — The Sales Skill 
School initiative. 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
74 - 75
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
	Ȣ
Emphasis on kitchen, bathroom, 
and entryway hygiene.
Consumer-centric design 
	Ȣ
Improvement of comfort and 
convenience in product designs. 
	Ȣ
Addition of exciting features to 
existing products. 
	Ȣ
Focus on redefining user 
perceptions through 
innovative design.
Key focus areas
	Ȣ
Pioneering sustainable 
technologies: Recognising the 
urgent need for environmental 
responsibility, we prioritise R&D 
efforts in eco-friendly solutions 
across categories. From energy-
efficient motors to AI-powered 
smart homes, we empower 
consumers to contribute to the 
positive impact.
	Ȣ
Human-centric design: 
Empathy remains our guiding 
principle. We integrate  
user-centric insights into 
every stage of product 
development, ensuring our 
innovations enhance daily lives 
with intuitive functionality and 
aesthetic appeal.
	Ȣ
Harnessing digital 
transformation: The evolving 
digital landscape redefines 
the way industries work. We 
embrace agile methodologies 
and invest in talent equipped 
to navigate the ever-evolving 
technological terrain.  
This ensures our intellectual 
capital remains future-proof, 
adaptable, and responsive to 
emerging trends.
FlamePro Cooktops with a 
patented burner.
	Ȣ
The SilentPro Blossom Smart Fan 
received the prestigious Good 
Design Award, Japan 2024.
	Ȣ
Awarded the Green-Pro 
Certification for ceiling fans.
	Ȣ
The SilentPro Fluido Wave Fan 
has been honoured with the 
prestigious Red Dot Award 2025.
	Ȣ
Preparations are underway to 
meet the new BIS requirements.
173
R&D team size
H 710.6 Crore 
Revenue from new products
19
Patents filed
170
Products launched
	Ȣ
Filed 19 (Nineteen) patents 
across technologies and their 
applications. Granted 4 (Four) 
patents in Financial Year  
2024-25.
	Ȣ
Introduced 170 new products 
across various categories, 
including pumps, fans, cooktops, 
and lighting.
	Ȣ
Launched the Solarium CLX 
range of water heaters to 
drive premiumisation.
	Ȣ
Introduced Avancer Swirl 
and Santos Fans, and 
Our new products are driven 
by our focused themes:
Energy efficiency
	Ȣ
Focus on reducing power and 
water consumption.
	Ȣ
Use of energy-efficient  
materials. 
	Ȣ
Implementation of energy loss 
detection and  
energy-saving measures.
	Ȣ
Smart connectivity. 
	Ȣ
Integration of smart 
home technologies. 
	Ȣ
Enhancement of appliances 
with smart capabilities. 
	Ȣ
Addition of smart product 
converters/adapters and 
intelligent features.
Healthy living 
	Ȣ
Development of antibacterial 
and antifungal surfaces.
	Ȣ
Features that kill viruses 
and promote pollution-
free environments. 
Consumer need-led innovation
Understanding and surpassing consumer expectations is at the heart of our R&D 
strategy. We focus on creating products that blend functionality with aesthetic 
appeal, ensuring they seamlessly integrate into consumers’ lives. This approach is 
evident in several initiatives undertaken during the year.
As part of our strategic 
transformation, Crompton’s 
marketing is undergoing a 
fundamental shift—from a 
traditionally product - and 
competition-focused approach to 
one led by deep consumer insight 
and need-based innovation. At 
the heart of this evolution is a 
sharper focus on understanding 
and addressing the aspirations of 
today’s modern, tech-savvy Indian 
consumers. This shift is driving the 
rejuvenation of Brand Crompton, 
making it more contemporary, 
premium, and emotionally relevant 
across every touchpoint. This 
transformation is also enabling 
a more purposeful innovation 
process—one that starts with real 
consumer needs and insights, and 
translates into meaningful features, 
intuitive design, and smarter 
technologies across our product 
portfolio. While we continue to 
build on our strong legacy of 
trust and performance, we are 
actively repositioning Crompton 
to lead with premiumisation 
across categories. To support this, 
we are expanding our marketing 
ecosystem beyond conventional 
platforms by integrating earned 
media through PR, experience-
led initiatives, and a strong 
service offering.  These efforts 
are designed to ensure Crompton 
shows up meaningfully wherever 
our consumers are — seamlessly 
blending utility with aspiration.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
76 - 77
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
Key highlights
Fans
	Ȣ
Key launches in the premium segment, such 
as Swirl, Aura, and Santos, enhanced the 
product mix.
	Ȣ
Pricing adjustments were implemented 
for select premium fan models to 
optimise profitability.
	Ȣ
Focused festive campaigns effectively 
highlighted the premium features and benefits 
of key product categories. 
Pumps
	Ȣ
Critical new products launched in Residential 
pumps fueled the growth in this category. 
	Ȣ
Phase 2 Solar Pump launched in 3HP & 5HP 
AC/DC gave a much-needed traction in 
Solar business.
	Ȣ
The key launches in Agri segment will further 
boost the revenue in Agri category.
Lighting
	Ȣ
Growth in lighting was primarily driven by 
premium products, particularly in the ceiling 
light category, with a 310 bps Y-o-Y increase in 
premium saliency.
	Ȣ
Portfolio premiumisation, coupled with an 
extension into outdoor and accessory products, 
fuelled growth in the B2C segment.
Key focus areas
	Ȣ
Continually focusing on strengthening distribution 
network and improving range of higher 
premium products. 
	Ȣ
Drive better consumer experience in existing 
categories and build unique first-time solutions in 
the market.
Appliances
	Ȣ
The premium saliency of large domestic 
appliances improved substantially, primarily 
driven by increased sales of premium 
Air Coolers.
	Ȣ
3 (Three) new premium models of water heaters 
were launched.
	Ȣ
Festive season campaigns focused on the 
premium range of chimneys.
	Ȣ
Consumer offers emphasised premium ovens 
and microwaves.
Premiumisation of portfolio
We are focused on developing premium products that offer exceptional value and 
convenience to our consumers. We gather consumer insights to identify and address 
their specific needs and preferences, enabling us to strategically position our 
offerings across diverse channels. We also recognise the growing consumer demand 
for wellness and smart appliances, incorporating innovative features that enhance 
user experience and well-being.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
78 - 79
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
304
245
203
336
FY24
FY23
FY22
FY25
Cost saving (J in Crore)
to educate them on and 
facilitate the adoption of our 
sustainability processes.
	Ȣ
To ensure statutory compliance, 
we mandated our vendors to 
adhere to all necessary consents 
and submissions, especially in 
light of the numerous regulatory 
changes in the Bureau of Energy 
Key focus areas 
	Ȣ
Vendor Capability Development
	Ȣ
De-risking of supply chain
	Ȣ
Reducing time to market
	Ȣ
Digitalisation of procurement 
processes and reports
	Ȣ
Agile Supply chain
	Ȣ
Improving forecast accuracy
This year, we strengthened our supply chain by enhancing vendor 
partnerships through capability building and performance 
evaluations, driving shared success. Our commitment to an ethical 
and sustainable supply chain has been reinforced by prioritising 
local partnerships and rigorous processes, optimising costs and 
mitigating risks. With advances in digitalisation and supply chain 
excellence, we are ensuring our supply chain remains a competitive 
advantage, delivering efficiency, quality and value with agility.
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Supply chain excellence
Supply chain excellence is a critical component of our organisation’s overall success, 
driving efficiency, agility, and customer satisfaction by ensuring the right product, 
the best quality and minimum cost. By integrating advanced technologies, and best 
practices, we have streamlined our processes from procurement to delivery, ensuring 
timely fulfilment of customer demands. 
Our commitment to collaboration with suppliers and partners has fostered stronger relationships 
and enhanced transparency across the supply chain. Continuous improvement initiatives, fuelled 
by Crompton 2.0 guiding principles, enable us to identify areas for optimisation and reduce costs 
while maintaining high-quality standards. As we look to the future, our focus on sustainability and 
resilience will not only strengthen our supply chain but also align with our corporate values and social 
responsibility goals, positioning us for long-term success in a dynamic market.
partners for a resilient and cost 
competitive supply chain.
	Ȣ
To promote sustainability 
throughout our operations, we 
have implemented a thorough 
GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions 
assessment and conducted 
specialised training sessions 
for our business partners 
Key highlights
	Ȣ
Improved supplier and vendor 
capabilities through training 
programmes such as Project 
Saksham. COPQ reduction 
projects were executed across 
various product categories. 
	Ȣ
Supply Risk mitigation by 
initiatives like multi-sourcing 
and introduction of new business 
Efficiency (BEE) and the Bureau 
of Indian Standards (BIS).  
Our business partners 
successfully complied with these 
evolving regulations, reinforcing 
our commitment to regulatory 
adherence throughout our 
supply chain.
	Ȣ
We have identified key 
capabilities among our strategic 
vendors and assessed our 
vendor base to foster long-term 
collaborations. By consolidating 
our tail-end spending, we 
have achieved significant 
cost savings.
	Ȣ
We have streamlined our 
processes for new product 
development, significantly 
reducing time to market and 
driving business growth. It has 
also strengthened supply chain 
coordination through NPD and 
tooling teams to ensure timely 
launch of new products.
Driving operational 
excellence 
through digitisation
	Ȣ
Launched in-house 
collaborative Sales and 
Operations Planning (S&OP) 
web application tool aimed 
at streamlining the planning 
process by integrating real-
time data and enhancing 
collaboration across teams, thus 
improving forecasting accuracy.
	Ȣ
Streamlined cross-functional 
communication and document 
tracking for seamless supplier 
coordination and improved 
supplier relationships.
	Ȣ
Standardised and digitised cost 
sheets for products for improved 
accuracy and consistency in 
pricing. The use of standardised 
formats for cost comparison 
across products allows us to 
effectively identify potential 
cost-saving levers.
	Ȣ
Established stable price visibility 
and predictability mechanisms.
392
FY24
554
FY23
601
FY22
359
FY25
Vendor base
98
FY24
114
FY23
106
FY22
93
FY25
Supplier base
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
80 - 81
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
We ensure product availability 
through an expansive dealer 
network. Recognising opportunities 
in rural markets, we have extended 
our network to areas with a 
population of less than 10,000.  
Our contemporary retail visibility 
is also increasing with substantial 
increase in branded stores by 
creating multiple visibility touch 
points in the store. We have 
increased our D2C presence 
through online platforms, 
especially for the appliances, 
lighting and fans business.  
We have started partnering with 
major quick commerce players 
for increased convenience of the 
consumer. This comprehensive 
approach has also resulted in 
better consumer experience.
GTM growth pillars
Channel strategy and synergy
1.  Adopted a multi-channel strategy 
tailored to customer profiles and 
regional demographics.
2.  Expanded channel 
presence in high-potential and 
underserved markets.
3.  Strengthened market working 
norms to enhance channel 
efficiency and productivity.
4.  Implemented agile practices to 
manage seasonality and ensure 
business continuity.
5.  Focused on channel partner 
alignment to drive sustainable and 
profitable growth.
Sales force capability building
1.  Enhanced frontline capability 
through structured training and 
certification programmes.
2.  Introduced digital tools and 
analytics to drive data-led  
decision-making in the field.
3.  Strengthened performance 
management with clear KPIs and 
productivity metrics.
4.  Fostered a learning culture 
through continuous coaching and 
skill development.
5.  Aligned salesforce incentives 
with business priorities and 
channel performance.
6. Improved market responsiveness 
through agile and empowered 
field teams.
Channel and 
retailer engagement
1.  Strengthened relationships 
through regular engagement 
programme s and partner meets.
2.  Launched loyalty and reward 
initiatives to drive retailer motivation 
and retention.
3.  Rolled out digital platforms for 
seamless communication.
4.  Provided trade marketing support 
to boost in-store visibility and  
sell-through.
5.  Ensured transparent and 
timely schemes, claims, and 
payout mechanisms.
Automation and digitalisation
1.   Streamlined key business 
processes through end-to-end 
digital automation like Sales 
Incentive tool, retailer connect app
2.  Implemented AI-driven analytics 
for real-time insights and smarter 
decision-making.
3.  Enhanced digital capabilities 
for service operations to enhance 
speed, accuracy, transparency and 
consumer delight.
Consumer focus – Visibility 
and influencer activations
1.  Enhanced brand visibility through 
high-impact in-store and outdoor 
branding initiatives.
2.  Conducted targeted 
influencer and electrician 
engagement programmes to drive 
brand advocacy.
Key highlights 
1.  Segmented approach in key 
geographies in select categories.
2.  Focus on premiumisation 
using segmented offerings to 
channel partners.
3.  Enabling Sales force though 
automation, capability development 
and training.
Key focus areas
1.  Focus towards building Secondary 
sales driven culture.
2.  Increase effective market coverage.
3.  Visibility improvement.
4.  Drive aggressive growth in channels 
of future.
5.  Leverage digital capabilities for data 
driven decision making.
We remain committed to accelerating sales growth and 
expanding our distribution network through GTM Excellence 
(Projects) that ensure a strong presence, deepen customer 
engagement, and unlock new market opportunities — bringing 
us closer to consumers. Our focus extends to enhancing 
capabilities within our team and among our partners to drive 
premiumisation effectively. Additionally, we are prioritising 
quick commerce to elevate the consumer experience.
Anand Kumar 
Group Sales & Service Head
Go-to-Market excellence
We are committed to driving growth through a multipronged approach that 
encompasses channel expansion, salesforce development and better engagement 
with consumers and retailers. We are actively expanding into new channels such as 
e-commerce, modern retail and institutional channels to foster growth across all 
business units.
3.  Deployed digital and social media 
campaigns to amplify product 
awareness and engagement.
4.  Activated retail-level demos and 
experience zones to strengthen 
consumer trust.
Premiumisation/upselling  
1.  Focused on shifting the product 
mix towards premium and  
high-margin categories.
2.  Introduced feature-rich SKUs 
to cater to evolving aspirational 
consumer needs.
3.  Trained sales teams and retailers 
on value-selling techniques to drive 
upselling and deployed promoter on 
premium outlets.
4.  Deployed visual merchandising 
to highlight premium offerings 
at point of sale through Inshop/ 
Dummies display.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
82 - 83
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR GROWTH ENABLERS
We are building tomorrow’s 
digital capabilities today, 
ensuring our organisation 
remains agile, resilient, 
and ready for the 
opportunities ahead.
Mr. Vikram Sridharan
Chief Digital Officer (CDO)
Quality management  
implementation
The integration of SAP quality 
management digitises and 
captures quality parameters across 
all manufacturing processes, 
underscoring our dedication to 
maintaining high standards.
Cloud-based data lake  
transition
Our transition to a cloud-based 
data lake has bolstered our data 
analytics capabilities, supporting a 
strategic shift towards data-driven 
decision-making.
Generative AI environment
We have established a secure 
generative AI environment 
that enables employees to 
explore internal resources while 
maintaining compliance with 
cybersecurity standards, fostering 
innovation and experimentation.
Key focus areas
Our strategic focus includes 
improving compliance with safety 
regulations, advancing people 
management practices and 
adopting cloud-based applications 
for enhanced operational 
efficiency and scalability. 
Improving the quality and 
governance of our master data and 
democratising analytics to further 
support accelerated decision-
making. We are continuously 
enhancing cybersecurity measures 
to safeguard sensitive data and 
maintain customer trust amid 
evolving cyber threats.
Cybersecurity 
To combat the rising frequency 
of cyber threats and protect our 
digital infrastructure, we have 
implemented a robust strategy to 
mitigate potential risks.
To address the increasing 
frequency of cyber 
threats, our cybersecurity 
strategy encompasses:
Zero trust security
We adhere to a Zero Trust 
framework, verifying all 
access requests to strengthen 
network security.
Threat intelligence and 
advanced detection
Our advanced security solutions 
enable real-time threat detection  
and response, ensuring 
proactive protection.
Security by design
Security is embedded into 
every project from inception 
through deployment.
Compliance and privacy
We prioritise user privacy and 
data protection with solutions 
Key initiatives 
Sales incentives 
application launch
Launched a sales incentive 
platform to streamline and 
automate incentive planning 
and configuration processes, 
enable region-specific strategies, 
enhance sales performance by 
increasing awareness of targets 
and achievements and provide 
immediate access to leader boards 
and performance reports.
CRM and HR 
systems upgrade
By upgrading our Customer 
Relationship Management 
(CRM) systems and optimising 
human resources applications, 
we have markedly improved user 
Digital enablement
We significantly advanced our digital enablement strategy, integrating cutting-edge 
digital technologies to optimise business processes, elevate customer experiences, and 
empower our dealer-retailer network. Through the rollout of mobile applications, we 
have enabled our channel partners to access critical information, engage effectively 
with customers, and leverage actionable data insights.
experiences and operational 
efficiency across the board.
Track and trace
The first phase of traceability 
measures implemented across our 
manufacturing processes ensures 
product integrity and establishes 
end-to-end traceability, 
reinforcing our commitment 
to quality.
Dealer and vendor 
portal enhancements
We made significant improvements 
to our dealer and vendor portals, 
resulting in enhanced user 
experience, greater transparency, 
more effective communication, 
streamlined order and scheme 
management, and strengthened 
partner relationships.
for data leakage protection 
and master data management, 
alongside a continuous data 
privacy programme.
Collaborative defence
Collaboration with the cyber 
security community and industry 
partners enhances our threat 
intelligence capabilities and 
collective efforts against  
cyber crime.
Employee education
Ongoing phishing simulations 
and periodic awareness training 
sessions educate our employees on 
cybersecurity best practices and 
enhance their vigilance.
Through these comprehensive 
measures, we continue 
to strengthen our digital 
infrastructure and cybersecurity 
capabilities, ensuring resilience 
against the challenges of the 
digital landscape.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
84 - 85
      
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
O
u
r 
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
Response  
analysis 
	Ȣ
Collate responses 
from stakeholders
	Ȣ
Identify key material 
topics based 
on responses
	Ȣ
Determine the 
materiality matrix
Material topic  
identification 
	Ȣ
Prepare a list of 
material topics
	Ȣ
Discuss with 
management to 
determine priorities
	Ȣ
Consolidate 
the list of most 
prioritised topics
Engagement 
with stakeholders 
	Ȣ
Develop a 
questionnaire 
for internal and 
external stakeholders
	Ȣ
Organise the exercise 
with selected 
stakeholder groups
	Ȣ
Engage with 
stakeholders 
and record 
their responses
Stakeholder  
identification 
	Ȣ
Identify and 
list stakeholders
	Ȣ
Classify as internal 
or external
	Ȣ
Prioritise based on 
impact and relevance
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 
Crompton’s strong position in the consumer durables sector is built on its presence 
across categories, diverse competencies, and direct consumer engagement.  
This market-oriented strategy, combined with transparent stakeholder 
communication, enables the company to integrate valuable insights, stay ahead of 
trends, and drive data-driven growth, delivering consistent value to shareholders 
through robust operational and financial results and effective leadership.
Crompton prioritises regular engagement with stakeholders to ensure transparent communication, build stronger 
relationships and derive valuable insights. Our proactive engagement enables us to stay ahead of the market, 
retain our competitive edge and accelerate growth through data-driven decisions that deliver tangible outcomes.
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
86-87
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
How we engage
Purpose 
We actively engage with our 
investors to provide updates 
on our business model, key 
developments and strategic 
priorities. We clearly communicate 
our capital allocation plans and 
address any investor queries 
regarding operational and 
financial performance.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
High return on investment
	Ȣ
Efficient capital allocation
	Ȣ
Increased investment in brand 
building, R&D, and people under 
Crompton 2.0 strategy
	Ȣ
Enhanced ESG impact
	Ȣ
Transparent disclosure for 
informed investment decisions
Mode of engagement
	Ȣ
One-on-one interactions 
and calls
	Ȣ
Group meetings
	Ȣ
Investor conferences
	Ȣ
Non-deal roadshows
	Ȣ
Quarterly results declaration
	Ȣ
Media releases
Frequency of engagement
Ongoing
Capitals impacted
F  
S
Value created
H 3
Dividend per share
26.97%
Return on capital employed
Purpose 
We collaborate closely with 
our suppliers to build strategic 
partnerships that ensure seamless 
operations and a resilient supply 
chain. Through these collaborative 
relationships, we optimise our 
sourcing strategies and promote 
effective procurement practices.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
Long-term partnerships
	Ȣ
Transparent practices
	Ȣ
Reliable payment schedules
	Ȣ
Timely redressal of queries
	Ȣ
Cost efficiency
Mode of engagement
	Ȣ
One-to-one meetings
	Ȣ
Regular operational reviews
	Ȣ
Vendor meets
Frequency of engagement
Continuous
Capitals impacted
S  M
Value created
H 1,569 Crore
Inhouse buying spend
Purpose 
We engage our employees to 
foster dedication and expertise, 
aligning their commitment with 
our strategic goals. We empower 
them to drive competitive 
advantage, market leadership, and 
sustainable growth.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
Employee benefits
	Ȣ
Safe working environment
	Ȣ
Career progression
	Ȣ
Equal opportunities 
and treatment
	Ȣ
Learning and growth
	Ȣ
Work-life balance
	Ȣ
Fair rewards and recognition
	Ȣ
Innovation and adaptability
	Ȣ
Digital transformation
Mode of engagement
	Ȣ
Meetings/ Town hall briefings
	Ȣ
Employee engagement surveys
	Ȣ
Team building, workshops, 
and training
	Ȣ
Annual appraisals
	Ȣ
Employee newsletters
	Ȣ
Conversation Forums
	Ȣ
Rewards and recognitions
	Ȣ
Robust people policies
Frequency of engagement
Continuous
Capitals impacted
H  M
Value created
64,698
Manhours of training
Purpose 
We actively engage with 
consumers to understand their 
evolving needs and preferences, 
enabling us to tailor our 
offerings and enhance customer 
satisfaction. This customer-centric 
approach is crucial to our strategy 
and success.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
Anticipating evolving needs 
	Ȣ
Innovative product 
solutions to meet changing 
consumer demands
	Ȣ
Creating service delight with 
faster turnaround times
Mode of engagement
Launch of Crompton Assist+
	Ȣ
Multi channel care support
	Ȣ
Customer service 
satisfaction survey
Frequency of engagement
Continuous
Capitals impacted
S  
I
Value created
91.06%
Complaints resolved in 1 day
Purpose 
We are committed to 
strengthening communities 
and promoting social progress, 
recognising their importance 
for our long-term sustainability. 
Through various upliftment 
initiatives, we aim to build 
lasting relationships and create 
a meaningful impact. We also 
prioritise gender equality by 
creating supportive infrastructure 
and policies that foster a diverse 
and inclusive workplace.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
Provide opportunities for  
self-sustenance 
and empowerment
	Ȣ
Develop infrastructure 
and policies to enable 
more women to work in 
manufacturing facilities
Mode of engagement
	Ȣ
CSR initiatives
	Ȣ
Community interactions 
with NGOs
	Ȣ
Volunteering
	Ȣ
Training programmes
Frequency of engagement
Monthly
Capitals impacted
S  H  N
Value created
84,619
Total lives impacted
Purpose 
We actively engage with 
government agencies and 
regulatory bodies to ensure 
compliance with industry 
standards and regulations, thereby 
facilitating smooth and ethical 
business operations.  
This collaboration is essential for 
obtaining necessary registrations 
and regulatory approvals, which 
support our continued business 
growth and responsible practices.
Strategic priorities
	Ȣ
Compliance with rules and  
regulations
	Ȣ
Timely reporting through various 
compliance-based forms
Mode of engagement
	Ȣ
Disclosures and filings for 
compliance reporting
	Ȣ
Meetings with authorities for 
permissions/approvals
Frequency of engagement
Need-basis
Capitals impacted
F  
S  
Value created
	Ȣ
Timely tax payment
	Ȣ
High compliances with  
regulations
	Ȣ
Support government initiatives
Investors
Suppliers
Employees
Consumers
Community
Government/ 
Regulatory authorities
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
88 - 89
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Our materiality assessment is a vital tool for understanding both our internal 
operations and the external environment to ensure that our priorities are 
aligned for optimal value creation. We employ a rigorous, closed-loop process 
of identification, prioritisation, strategising, feedback, and integration to 
identify topics material to our stakeholders and our value-creation journey. 
This systematic approach, conducted annually, allows us to authenticate our 
business model and make informed decisions.
Top priorities
These issues are of the greatest 
importance to both stakeholders 
and Crompton. An effective and 
externally visible management 
response to these issues is vital 
for long-term business success.
Priority issues
These issues are of medium to 
high importance to stakeholders 
and to Crompton. An effective 
and externally visible 
management response to these 
issues should be a high priority.
Hidden value creators
Although not high on the 
agenda of stakeholders, these 
issues are important to the 
business. Crompton should 
consider raising awareness 
with stakeholders to educate 
them about the relevance to 
the business.
Hygiene factors
These issues are of high 
importance to stakeholders 
but low impact on the business. 
Crompton needs to balance 
responding to stakeholder 
concerns without incurring 
substantial cost.
Monitoring issues
These issues are less important 
to stakeholders with 
limited impact on business 
performance. Best practice 
suggests that Crompton should 
monitor these issues as they 
may become more impactful 
over time.
Materiality Matrix
Importance to internal stakeholders
Supplier screening on ESG
Community engagement
Climate change
adaptation
Circular economy
Protection of human rights
Water stewardship
Consumer relationships
Employee well-being
Occupational health and safety
Data privacy and 
cybersecurity
Brand salience
Innovation and research
Corporate 
governance
Energy efficiency  
Business ethics & integrity
Product responsibility and safety
Fair and inclusive workplace
Responsible supply chain/
Green supply chain
Raw material and substances
Transparancey and reporting
on ESG performance
Economic growth
Grievance management
Risk management
Tax strategy
Industry 4.0
Talent and development
Importance to internal stakeholders
Low
Medium
High
Material 
topics 
M12
M6
Economic growth
Data privacy 
and cybersecurity
M1
Occupational health 
and safety
M2
Product responsibility 
and safety
M3
Energy  
efficiency
M4
Brand salience
M5
Raw materials and 
substances/resource  
optimisation
M7
Employee well-being
M10
Innovation 
and research
M11
Talent 
 development
M9
Business ethics and 
general business 
principles
M8
Consumer relationships
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
90 - 91
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Performance
We achieved a standalone revenue 
of H 7,028 Crore, representing a 10% 
Y-o-Y growth. This was primarily 
driven by  our Electrical Consumer 
Durables (ECD) segment, which 
recorded H 6,010 Crore in revenue, 
also a 11% increase year-on-year. 
Growth in our fan category was 
led by the TPW segment, and 
we successfully transitioned our 
non-ceiling fan portfolio to meet 
BIS requirements. Our pumps 
and small domestic appliances 
segments also experienced growth. 
The lighting business achieved 
a standalone revenue of ₹ 1,018 
Crores, representing 2% Y-o-Y 
growth, maintaining stable margins 
despite higher A&P spends. We are 
prepared for upcoming regulatory 
changes across various categories. 
We maintain a strong focus on financial 
stewardship, driving sustainable long-term 
growth and profitability. Our robust balance 
sheet, resulting from effective cost optimisation 
and access to diversified, cost-effective funding, 
positions us to capitalise on emerging opportunities 
within the dynamic business environment.
STAKEHOLDERS
Investors 
7,864
Revenue
888
EBITDA
564
PAT
737 Crore
Operating cash flow
87.39%
Cash conversion ratio 
F
Material issues
M12
M9
Capitals
(J in Crore)
Key risks considered
IT
R7
Supply
R2
SDGs Impacted
Despite a tough macro 
economic scenario, we 
have balanced our growth 
agenda with margin 
resilience. We continue to 
drive cost efficiencies while 
investing in our brands 
and strategic initiatives to 
create long-term value for 
all shareholders.
Mr. Kaleeswaran A
Group Chief Financial Officer – 
(Group CFO) & Head of Strategy
Consolidated financial metrics
573
FY24
612
FY23
724
FY21
752
FY22
756
FY25
Profit Before Tax (PBT) (K in Crore)
7,313
FY24
6,870
FY23
4,804
FY21
5,394
FY22
7,864
FY25
Revenue (K in Crore)
442
FY24
476
FY23
617
FY21
578
FY22
Profit After Tax (PAT) (K in Crore)
564
714
FY24
770
FY23
720
FY21
769
FY22
888
FY25
9.76
FY24
11.21
FY23
15
FY21
14.26
FY22
11.29
FY25
6.88
FY24
7.29
FY23
9.83
FY21
9.21
FY22
8.64
FY25
FY25
EBITDA (K in Crore)
EPS (K)
EBITDA margin (%)
92 - 93
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
 
INVESTORS
Financial metrics
FY24
FY23
FY21
3,000
2,660
1,931
2,453
FY22
3,390
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
3
3
5.5
2.5
FY22
3
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
46.64
41.82
30.77
38.73
FY22
52.66
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
17,184
18,635
24,700
23,683
FY22
22,765
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
1,970
1,991
926
2,001
FY22
2,044
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
85.96
204.11
60.11
166.18
FY22
65.41
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY21
13.48
15.02
36.29
22.39
FY22
15.46
FY25
Net worth (K in Crore)*
Market Capitalisation (K in Crore)
Dividend per share (K)
Book Value per Share (K)*
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) (%)
Net Fixed Asset (K in Crore)
Return on Equity (ROE) (%)
*Excluding non-controlling interest
Payments to Providers of Capital 
(K in Crore)
260.67
FY24
238.32
FY25
Community Investments (K in Crore)
13.81
FY24
13.37
FY25
4,412.91
FY24
4,760.88
FY25
Operating Costs (K in Crore)
Economic value distributed
474.21
FY24
534.89
FY25
Employee benefits and expense  
(K in Crore)
Economic value contribution (Standalone)
6,388
FY24
7,028
FY25
Revenue (K in Crore) (Standalone)
Economic value generated
Bringing economic value 
to stakeholders
Crompton is dedicated to 
ethical and responsible business 
practices, implementing top-tier 
standards and regularly assessing 
its performance, considering both 
financial and non-financial factors.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
94 - 95
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
We rely on in-depth consumer insights to 
develop products that directly address evolving 
needs, preferences and challenges faced by 
consumers. It not only enhances consumer 
engagement but also drives consumer 
satisfaction and empowers us to foster 
innovation, adopt new technologies and remain 
relevant in a changing business landscape. 
STAKEHOLDERS
Consumers
Brand excellence 
Crompton has been a symbol of 
trust and reliability in Indian homes 
for over 85 years. This legacy, built 
on performance, durability, and 
consumer confidence, continues to 
be our foundation. In Financial Year 
2024-25, we have taken significant 
strides to not only preserve this 
heritage but elevate it by making 
Crompton more aspirational and 
future-ready.
Our focus on premiumisation has 
led to the introduction of smarter, 
aesthetically refined, and energy-
efficient products that cater to 
evolving consumer preferences 
and modern lifestyles. By blending 
innovation with contemporary 
design and intuitive functionality, 
we are reshaping how consumers 
experience Crompton, thus 
making it not just a dependable 
choice, but a desirable one. As we 
continue to strengthen our core, 
we remain committed to enriching 
life for generations, ensuring that 
Crompton stays trusted, relevant, 
and meaningful across time.
Building on our legacy of over 
85 years, we are dedicated to 
nurturing a consumer-centric 
culture, keeping the consumer at 
the heart of everything we do. Our 
commitment to brand excellence is 
driven by deep consumer insights. 
Through extensive research, 
we decode evolving consumer 
preferences and identify unmet 
needs to craft solutions that 
enrich the lives of customers. This 
consumer-first approach ensures 
that our innovations are not only 
relevant but also meaningful.
We strengthen our brand through 
consumer-focused communication 
across relevant channels. This 
approach drives engagement 
and has significantly improved 
brand metrics. We are committed 
to enhancing brand affinity and 
reinforcing our leadership with 
future-ready innovations that 
prioritise our customers.
Consumer insights
Our innovation is driven by a deep 
understanding of our consumers. 
We conducted extensive research, 
engaging with over 15,000 
individuals to understand diverse 
consumer needs and behaviours. 
Our data-driven approach refines 
our marketing mix for relevance, 
impact and efficiency, which 
forms the bedrock of our product 
development and communication 
strategies, ensuring every offering 
resonates with real-world 
consumer experiences.
Brand proposition
Our brand is built on understanding 
consumer needs through data-
backed research. We address key 
needs and track competition to 
create meaningful propositions, 
building trust and category 
leadership. As market leaders, 
we drive premiumisation in Fans, 
position ourselves as India’s 
number one in Water Heaters with 
energy-efficient performance, 
and meet the need for rapid 
cooling in Air Coolers with our ‘Jaldi 
Cooling’ proposition.
Media excellence
We use a balanced, data-driven 
media strategy to maximise 
reach and influence consumer 
decisions. This includes a mix 
of traditional and new-age 
platforms, with strategic digital 
integrations like our Air Coolers 
campaign on Cricbuzz to optimise 
impact. Innovative formats, such 
as influencer collaborations and 
high-frequency OOH, enhance 
campaign memorability and 
maintain top-of-mind awareness.
Brand
Supply
Disruption
SDGs Impacted
R1
R2
R3
91.06%
1-day TAT to 
resolve complaints
4.1
Customer Satisfaction
95.4
EHS
Culture
People
R4
R5
R6
Key risks considered
F
S
Material issues
M1
Capitals
Happy Code
96 - 97
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
 
At Crompton, our enduring legacy of over 85 years is not just a 
testament to our trust and performance — it is the foundation 
on which we continue to innovate for the future. Our approach 
is deeply rooted in understanding the evolving needs of our 
consumers through rigorous insights and data-driven strategies. 
From enhancing product relevance to crafting compelling 
narratives across platforms, we focus on creating experiences 
that are meaningful, differentiated, and built to last. Today, we 
are not just building brand visibility — we are building brand value, 
driving preference, and ensuring Crompton remains a trusted 
part of every Indian home.
Mr. Tanmay Prusty 
Chief Marketing Officer (CMO)
Future-ready 
marketing ecosystem
Today’s consumer journey 
seamlessly blends online and 
offline experiences, with digital 
discovery driving physical 
interactions. Recognising this 
fluidity, we are building an 
integrated marketing ecosystem 
that connects digital and physical 
touchpoints, delivering a distinctive 
brand experience.
Our digital strategy focuses on 
effortless discoverability through 
optimised SEO and SEM, driving 
traffic to our online platforms. 
Concurrently, we enhance 
offline retail with immersive 
product experiences.
By leveraging technology 
and digitisation, we create 
a connected, omnichannel 
journey that exceeds consumer 
expectations, ensuring our 
brand’s relevance and impact in a 
dynamic market.
17%
Increase in website traffic 
over last year
~60%
of our target audiences reached 
through marketing campaigns 
launched across all categories
Key highlights
	Ȣ
Conducted extensive consumer 
research across 9 (Nine) key 
product categories to understand 
critical usage patterns 
and behaviours.
	Ȣ
Strengthened brand memorability 
across core categories:
	»
‘Picture Perfect Fans’ 
campaign for fans
	»
Highlighted India’s leading 
energy-efficiency status for 
water heaters,
	»
Reinforced ‘Jaldi Cooling’ for 
air coolers 
CONSUMERS
	»
Leveraged a high-profile 
celebrity influencer campaign 
for kitchen appliances 
promoting ‘Secret of  
Fine Taste’.
	Ȣ
Strategically deployed  
multi-platform media 
campaigns resulting in 
significant improvements in 
brand awareness and consumer 
consideration scores.
	Ȣ
 Successfully launched the 
#TechwithHeart PR platform to 
elevate corporate imagery.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
98 - 99
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Approach towards 
customer complaints
We prioritise customer complaints 
and are committed to resolving 
them efficiently and to the 
customer’s satisfaction through 
agility, transparency and  
solution-oriented action. We 
strive for excellence in  response, 
speed and quality. Our effective 
complaint handling process is built 
on the following key principles:
Proactive listening and 
quick acknowledgement
	Ȣ
Acknowledging of complaints 
promptly through multiple 
channels (Call, Web, WhatsApp 
BOT, E-mail and social media).
	Ȣ
Maintaining a dedicated 
support team to respond swiftly 
and empathetically.
	Ȣ
Using AI chatbots or automated  
replies for instant  
acknowledgement.
Transparency and empathy 
in communication
	Ȣ
Training the customer care 
team and service team to 
listen actively and empathise 
with customers.
	Ȣ
Providing clear timelines and 
updates on resolution progress.
	Ȣ
Owning the issue rather than 
deflecting blame.
Structured 
resolution process
	Ȣ
Categorising complaints based 
on priority and impact.
	Ȣ
Implementation of a robust 
CRM system for tracking and 
resolving complaints efficiently.
	Ȣ
Ensuring cross-functional 
collaboration (sales, service, 
technical teams) to resolve 
complex issues.
Root cause analysis & 
continuous improvement
	Ȣ
Conducting periodic analysis 
of complaints to identify 
recurring issues.
	Ȣ
Implementing CAPA (corrective 
and preventive actions) such 
as product improvements, 
service enhancements or 
policy changes.
	Ȣ
Gathering feedback 
post-resolution (through 
Instant Happy Code & 
C-Sat Survey) and driving 
improvement actions to ensure 
customer satisfaction.
Turning complaints into 
brand loyalty
	Ȣ
As a part of the Consumer 
Delight programme, we have a 
plan to offer compensation or 
goodwill gestures (discounts, 
free service, upgrades) 
when applicable.
	Ȣ
Following up to ensure the 
consumer is satisfied with 
the resolution (Closure 
Confirmation).
	Ȣ
Using resolved complaints as 
case studies to train our teams 
and enhance service quality.
CONSUMERS
Improving consumer 
experience at the Point 
of Sale (PoS)
Although we are optimising our 
A+ content for marketplace 
platforms, we acknowledge that 
approximately 90% of our sales 
are generated through offline 
channels where consumers 
engage directly with our products. 
Consequently, we are committed 
to enhancing the brand experience 
within physical retail environments 
by deploying appropriate 
promotional assets.
Retail transformation
Under Project VISTAAR Crompton 
has upgraded the appearance 
of the stores (Retailers & Dealers) 
to ensure a more consistent 
and positive brand experience 
for consumers.
Product availability
It’s our endeavour to ensure 
widespread availability of our 
products across store formats 
and geographies, simplifying the 
searching and purchase process for 
our products.
Customer service
Investment and training in 
customer service have equipped 
our representatives to deliver 
excellent post-sales service, and 
it has enhanced brand recall 
and loyalty.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
100 - 101
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
We foster a safe and motivating work environment 
that encourages learning and growth, cultivating a 
culture of innovation, values and thought leadership. 
It empowers us to attract and retain talent from 
diverse backgrounds and equip our people with skills 
required to thrive in a dynamic industry. 
STAKEHOLDERS
People
SDGs Impacted
Key risks considered
I
F
Material issues
M7
Capitals
M11
M1
H
0.07
LTIFR
64,698
Training manhours
2,333
Permanent  
employees + 
permanent workers
People
R7
Culture
R6
EHS
R5
We aim to create a meritocratic organisation that empowers employees to make 
informed business decisions. 
At Crompton, our success is powered by our Values – CREATE 
– the driving force behind every action we take. Anchored in 
our Purpose of 'Enriching life for generations with smart and 
responsible solutions', we foster a culture where every individual 
takes ownership, drives innovation, and embraces agility.  
By deeply caring for our people and nurturing their growth as 
future leaders, we turn challenges into opportunities, creating 
lasting value and achieving exceptional results together.
Mr. Prasanth Nair
Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO)
that bring our values CREATE 
to life, while providing growth 
opportunities in the form of micro 
and macro-learning and on-the-
job training. As part of this journey, 
we reimagined and launched our 
Senior and Mid-Level Leadership 
Development Programmes – 
CLDP and FLDP. These flagship 
initiatives are designed to cultivate 
leaders who not only embody 
our values but also drive a culture 
where they are lived and practised 
every day. We reimagined 
and launched our recognition 
programme – Pride & Glory to 
reinforce our values and positively 
impact our culture.
Investing in continuous 
skill development
Our goal is to build a team of 
high-performing, empowered 
individuals who are not only deeply 
committed to our organisational 
values but also exemplify 
exceptional behaviour.
At Crompton, we have always 
strived to foster a culture that 
aligns with our core values - 
CREATE, enabling us to fulfil our 
purpose of Enriching Life for 
Generations with Smart and 
Responsible Solutions. This year, 
our focus has been on defining 
our leadership competencies 
in line with these values and 
strengthening the capabilities 
11
6
1
16
71
18
11
78
76
532
57
82
583
197
906
19
77
1045
4
246
190
51
389
Top Management
Middle Management
Senior Management
Junior Management
Non-Executives
Category
Gender
Age Group
Less than 30 years
Between 30-50 years
Female
Male
Above 50 years
102 - 103
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Employee well-being
At Crompton, we place a strong 
emphasis on employee health 
and safety. Caring being one of 
our values, we launched various 
initiatives for employee safety, 
physical and mental wellbeing. 
	Ȣ
We launched Happy To Help 
– an Employee Assistance 
Programme (EAP) in partnership 
with a third-party provider, 
dedicated to supporting 
the overall well-being of our 
employees and their families. 
This programme emphasises 
physical, mental, emotional, and 
financial wellness, ensuring a 
holistic approach to employee 
care. Importantly, it extends 
beyond employees to include 
their families, reinforcing our 
commitment to a healthier and 
happier employees.
Employee engagement
We launched the Employee 
Engagement Survey, Pulse, to 
gain valuable insights into our 
employees’ experiences.  
Our survey partner, Gallup Q12, 
helped us assess the results, which 
were shared organisation wide.  
To further validate the findings, 
we held focused group discussions. 
The insights gathered from the 
survey and discussions were used 
to develop both group-level and 
business unit/function-level action 
plans. These plans were proactively 
communicated to employees, and 
a robust governance and tracking 
system has been established to 
ensure we fulfil the commitments 
outlined in the Pulse Survey action 
plan. This process has been 
instrumental in identifying areas for 
improvement and enhancing our 
overall employee experience.
Further engaging with our 
people and giving them a 
platform to voice their feedback 
helps us create a supportive 
work environment. Through 
consistent communication, we 
encourage greater enterprise-
wide collaboration, continuous 
learning and open and transparent 
dialogue. Our employee 
engagement programmes 
include various activities such 
as celebrations, sports events, 
PEOPLE
Leadership 
development programmes
Re-envisioned and re-launched 
the flagship CLDP and FLDP 
programmes to nurture a future-
ready leadership pipeline at 
Crompton. These programmes 
are designed to empower leaders 
by strengthening competencies 
rooted in our CREATE values:
	Ȣ
CLDP: Focused on developing 
strategic and operational 
leadership capabilities at 
the senior leadership level, 
equipping leaders to effectively 
manage business complexities.
	Ȣ
FLDP: Designed to enhance 
functional leadership skills at 
the mid-management level, 
enabling participants to  
inspire and lead  
high-performing teams.
Enrich
Enrich is an onboarding and 
assimilation platform, fostering 
a sense of pride and belonging 
by proactively equipping new 
employees with a thorough 
understanding of Crompton’s 
context, systems and processes, 
ensuring they become job-ready  
quickly and effectively.  
The programme is based on  
the 3A approach: 
Assimilate 
To facilitate cultural integration 
and help new employees 
understand Crompton 2.0, a 
signature digital experience 
— Crompton@Byte — will be 
designed in Financial Year 2025-26. 
This initiative aims to familiarise 
new hires with the company’s 
brand, culture, and processes, 
thereby strengthening alignment 
from the outset.
Affiliate 
To provide a structured roadmap 
to navigate internal networks and 
gain insight into organisation and 
team dynamics.
Accelerate 
To provide employees with the 
right set of tools and information 
to hit the ground running and move 
towards swifter on the job success.
Capability Assurance
In Financial Year 2025-26, we plan 
to continue to build Behaviour 
Capability Assurance programmes 
for our junior, mid and senior 
level, that will be anchored to 
our leadership competency 
framework. Our focus is on building 
accountability with consumer 
focus. Some of the signature 
programmes at each level will be
	Ȣ
Junior Level - Know Crompton 
2.0 (business acumen series), 
consumer focus, problem 
solving, being inclusive etc. 
	Ȣ
Mid-Level - Know Crompton 
2.0 (business acumen series), 
consumer centricity, Compass@
Navigate encompassing people 
manager programme, problem 
solving and decision making etc.
	Ȣ
Senior Level - Know Crompton 
2.0 (business acumen 
series), consumer insights, 
macroeconomics trends FMCD 
outlook, Crompton@Empower 
encompassing seasoned people 
manager programme etc.
Functional Capability Assurance 
programme will aim to build key 
functional skills and technical and 
functional capability, create SMEs 
and COEs within function and hold 
masterclasses to build core role 
capabilities. These programmes will 
largely focus on Entry, Junior and 
Mid Manager Employees.  
These programmes will be 
launched through various 
functional academies that will 
be built for business units and 
departments. The programmes 
will be aligned to functional 
competencies for each unique role.
	Ȣ
 We also conducted a Women’s 
Safety Workshop across all 
Crompton locations, ensuring 
comprehensive coverage for 
644 (Six Hundred and Forty 
Four) female employees (blue & 
white collar on-roll and off-roll), 
reinforcing our commitment  
to women's safety and well-
being both at and outside  
their workplace.
	Ȣ
‘SpeakUp’ initiative was 
designed and launched to 
foster a fair, responsible and 
transparent workplace for 
everyone. Through ‘SpeakUp’ 
one can confidentially share 
any escalation queries, 
organisational concerns, or 
suggestions directly with CHRO.
talent shows, health and wellness 
initiatives, communication 
channels, employee surveys, 
wedding benefits, and rewards 
and recognition programmes. 
The initiative aims to boost 
productivity, improve teamwork, 
promote work-life balance, and 
enhance employee delight. 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
104 - 105
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Emerging leadership 
development programme 
(ELDP)
The ELDP is designed to equip 
Area Sales Managers (ASMs) with 
essential skills to navigate complex 
business landscapes, enhance 
team performance and drive 
sustainable growth. A key focus of 
this programme is to strengthen 
negotiation skills, interpersonal 
skills and emotional intelligence, 
enabling ASMs to build strong 
relationships with various internal 
and external stakeholders, 
and achieve superior business 
outcomes. We covered 130 (One 
Hundred and Thirty) ASMs under 
this initiative.
Health and 
safety performance
Our dedication to safety and 
well-being has yielded exceptional 
results, with 1 (One) reportable 
injury. Our EHS policy is deeply 
embedded throughout the 
organisation, and Corporate EHS 
team has further strengthened 
this commitment by enhancing 
EHS orientation and conducting 
rigorous safety system assessments 
across all manufacturing sites. 
We have proactively revised 
and developed comprehensive 
Standard Operating Procedures 
(SOPs), including those for Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment, 
Environmental Impact Assessment, 
Work Permitting, Contract Safety 
Management and Incident 
Investigation, ensuring robust EHS 
management across all operations.
We ensure continuous safety 
engagement through regular 
Safety Committee Meetings, 
comprehensive training (including 
fire drills and Safety Week), and 
robust induction programmes. 
Rigorous internal audits drive 
improvements, with EHS leaders 
acting on all recommendations.
competencies, optimising channel 
management and strengthening 
interpersonal skills through  
case-studies, role-plays and 
interactive group-activities. We 
covered 500 (Five Hundred) TSM 
under this intervention.
New leader assimilation 
(NLA) programme
NLA is designed for new senior 
leadership hires, helping them 
seamlessly integrate into 
Crompton’s ways of working.  
It enables them to build strong 
connections with their teams, 
understand their needs and 
expectations and align with 
stakeholder and manager 
priorities. The programme  
also guides them in crafting a  
30-60-90-day roadmap, 
leveraging support from managers 
and stakeholders to accelerate 
their transition and success in their 
role and the organisation.
Grow with Crompton
Grow with Crompton is a 
specialised training programme 
designed to enhance the 
capabilities of Territory Sales 
Managers (TSM). This programme 
focuses on building essential sales 
Develop critical 
negotiation skills to 
maximise value in 
sales interactions and 
stakeholder engagements
Empower ASMs to 
lead with confidence, 
adaptability and strategic 
thinking in a dynamic 
market environment
Handle objections 
and conflicts
Influence and Persuasion
Practical application 
through role-play and 
various activities
Key objectives of the session
01
02
03
04
05
Develop advanced selling 
skills to enhance customer 
acquisition, retention and 
business growth.
Strengthen channel 
management to optimise 
distributor engagement.
Enhance interpersonal 
skills to build stronger 
relationships with 
channel partners and 
other stakeholders.
Key objectives of the session
01
02
03
PEOPLE
Safety programmes implemented
	Ȣ
Rigorous tracking and review 
of EHS indicators at plant and 
corporate levels.
	Ȣ
Fire Equipment Operation 
Awareness and Training with 
regular mock fire drills.
	Ȣ
Corporate EHS campaigns 
on road safety, World 
Environment Day, electrical 
safety, machine safety, 
fire safety, near-miss 
reporting, and hand/finger 
injury prevention.
	Ȣ
Successful IMS ISO 14001, ISO 
45001 and ISO 9001  
re-certification audits 
completed at Goa and 
Baddi units.
	Ȣ
Relaunching of EHS Structure 
with Sub Committee - EHS 
Sub Committees formation 
on various topics with cross 
functional representation.
	Ȣ
Zero Accident Plan initiated at 
all Manufacturing Locations.
6
Total recordable incidents
18
First aid cases
815
Near misses
0.07
Lost time injury frequency rate 
(Per Million)
1
High-consequence work related 
injury (excluding fatalities)
0
Fatal
2024-25 safety dashboard
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
106 - 107
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
By fostering learning ecosystems, 
breaking barriers and empowering 
individuals, we are building a 
culture that does not just adapt to 
change but leads it.
Human rights
Respect for human rights, ethical 
and environmentally responsible 
business practices, fair and safe 
working conditions, and employee 
well-being are the cornerstones of 
our culture and identity. We embed 
human rights principles directly 
into our policies, procedures, and 
ethics training, ensuring continuous 
awareness and proactive 
prevention of any related concerns.
Inclusive workspace
Crompton  is committed to building 
a truly inclusive workplace, where 
diversity is valued and celebrated. 
This commitment is evident in our 
focused approach to diverse hiring, 
particularly through our campus 
recruitment programmes. We 
achieved significant milestones, 
including 100% female hiring in 
our Graduate Engineer Trainee 
and a 48% female intake in our 
management trainee programme, 
demonstrating our dedication to 
gender diversity. 
To further strengthen our 
commitment, we have introduced 
policies that support and ensure 
the well-being of our employees. 
These include an improved travel 
policy for women employees 
to ensure their safety. Besides, 
special allowances are offered 
to new mothers for keeping 
caretakers, helping them balance 
their professional and personal 
responsibilities. As an organisation, 
creating an equitable and 
empowering environment within 
Crompton, with our consumers, and 
across our business partnerships 
continues to be a top priority.
Employee awareness
Hiring strategy
Talent integration
Supporting policies
Pillars supporting 
diversity and inclusion
6C 2.0: Playbook for a 
learning organisation
As the world evolves at an 
unprecedented pace, we 
are transforming boldly and 
purposefully to stay ahead.  
Our 6C Cultural Framework (Care, 
Connect, Collaborate, Co-Create, 
Conquer, Celebrate) has been the 
foundation of our growth, shaping 
the way we work and lead.
But now, we are going further. 
6C 2.0 – Playbook for a Learning 
Organisation is our next leap, 
embedding our culture into 
platforms that fuel innovation, 
and collaboration.
We are launching a series of 
capability-building clubs, each 
led by our senior leaders, designed 
to unlock potential, inspire 
fresh perspectives, and drive 
transformational change:
PEOPLE
We are launching a series 
of capability-building 
clubs, each led by our senior 
leaders, designed to unlock 
potential, inspire fresh 
perspectives and drive 
transformational change
Design Thinking & Six Sigma Club 
Driving problem-solving and 
operational excellence.
TED Talk Series 
Showcasing inspiring ideas 
from within and beyond.
Know-how Book Review Series 
Learning from thought-
provoking literature.
Gen Z Coaching Club  
Reverse mentoring for 
cross-generational learning.
Mindfulness Club 
Cultivating focus, emotional 
well-being and resilience.
Kintsugi Art Club 
Transforming setbacks into strengths 
through collaboration.
Blue Ocean Club 
Discover new market spaces and 
redefine possibilities.
Playback Theatre Club  
Using storytelling to strengthen 
communication and self-awareness.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
108 - 109
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brand
Supply
Disruption
SDGs Impacted
R2
R3
R4
73%
Direct spend accessed  
on ESG parameters
EHS
Culture
People
R5
R6
R7
Key risks considered
I
M
N
Material issues
M9
Capitals
STAKEHOLDERS
Value chain partners
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
The Supplier Performance Index 
(SPI) and Vendor Performance 
Index (VPI) continue to be crucial 
instruments for assessing and 
improving vendor efficiency. 
Through ongoing evaluation and 
structured feedback, it has been 
mutually beneficial, helping us to 
improve the quality of our products 
while enhancing the technical 
prowess of our partners. 
Supply chain 
With an emphasis on ethical 
sourcing and rigorous selection 
standards, we make sure that our 
suppliers share our commitment 
to a sustainable future. It also 
plays an integral role in promoting 
ethical, eco-conscious and socially 
beneficial practices across the 
value chain. To achieve this goal, 
we collaborate with third parties 
to improve supplier procedures 
and ensure compliance with 
industry standards. We have also 
resorted to local sourcing and 
initiatives for multi-sourcing of 
essential components to decrease 
our dependence on imports and 
single source.
We have evolved with the New 
Product Development (NPD), 
procurement excellence and 
tooling specialised team focusing 
on process stabilisation and 
enhancing the capabilities 
to develop network synergy 
for optimising the time from 
manufacturing to market. To align 
with our mission, we aspire to have 
best-in-class vendor and supplier 
base integrated with our system. 
Strategic priorities
Strengthen sourcing  
capability 
	Ȣ
Combining the collective 
strength of Crompton and 
Butterfly, we aim to refine our 
sourcing footprint to achieve 
the lowest total delivered cost 
while maintaining exceptional 
product quality. This involves 
optimisation of our procurement 
processes to enhance efficiency 
and cost-effectiveness.
	Ȣ
Revising our supplier selection 
criteria by referencing industry 
best practices, past learnings 
and key capabilities required 
which will help us build the 
value chain for the future, few 
elements of the revised selection 
process are as follows:
	»
Innovation and 
Design Capability
	»
Manufacturing capabilities 
driven by robust quality 
performance and  
on-time delivery
	»
Multi-product capability
	»
Compliance with regulatory 
and EHS guidelines 
	»
Readiness to participate 
in sustainable supply chain 
management programme
	»
Total landed 
cost competitiveness 
	»
Strong financial health 
assured through continuous 
performance mapping 
	»
Management capability, 
multi-location presence, 
after sales service and size 
of business
We organised a sourcing fair to provide vendors 
with the opportunity to present new products and 
technologies that align with our growth goals. The 
Saksham programme was also launched to enhance 
the capability of vendors and suppliers, utilising 
external consultants to evaluate and refine their 
processes based on industry benchmarks. 
110 - 111
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
 
VALUE CHAIN PARTNERS
Optimisation of vendor/ 
supplier base 
	Ȣ
Build long-term relationships 
with strategic vendors who 
have multi-business unit 
manufacturing capabilities.
	Ȣ
Implement a consolidation 
strategy through a third-party 
aggregator to streamline the 
supply chain for increased 
efficiency and effectiveness.
	Ȣ
Redefine our vendor strategy 
through multi-sourcing 
and the promotion of 
capable vendors, evaluated 
through a comprehensive 
assessment process.
Simplification and 
digitalisation of the process 
	Ȣ
Committed to driving 
visibility and reducing 
manual interventions by 
simplifying and digitising 
procurement processes.
	Ȣ
Utilise technology to enhance 
transparency, streamline 
workflows and reduce the 
need for manual oversight, 
thereby improving overall 
operational efficiency.
Co-create
In May 2024, we successfully 
concluded our Supplier Meet, 
'Co-create', which reinforced 
our collaboration with 87 (Eighty 
Seven) valued suppliers and 
resulted in an impressive turnout 
of 240 (Two Hundred and Forty) 
participants. This event was 
instrumental in defining our 
priorities and setting strategic 
business directives for the future.
During the meet, we recognised 
supplier excellence across key 
areas such as quality, cost, 
delivery, transformation, agility, 
and Innovation. We seized the 
opportunity to share our growth 
journey and transformation 
initiatives while addressing the 
concerns of our suppliers.
Co-create underscored our 
unwavering commitment to 
being the partner and customer 
of choice. We believe in driving 
continuous improvement 
towards achieving our shared 
strategic objectives, fostering 
a robust and collaborative 
ecosystem that enhances our 
competitive advantage.
Key highlights
Business presentation 
Our leadership team presented 
the achievements and strategic 
goals for current fiscal year 
providing a roadmap for our 
collaborative efforts.
Code of Conduct launch
Launched our Code of Conduct, 
reinforcing our commitment to 
ethical business practices.
Award ceremony
Outstanding suppliers were 
recognised for their exceptional 
performance in various areas.
Supply chain initiatives – 
Product fair
Discussed our efforts to build 
a resilient, local, and efficient 
supply chain, including 
transitioning from ODM to OEM 
and multi-sourcing.
Thematic presentations
Sessions focusing on 
sustainability, efficient Supply 
chain, and cost reduction 
highlighted key market insights 
and underlined the strategic 
importance of these initiatives.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
112 - 113
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
At Crompton, we believe in making a difference 
to lives, going beyond our business objectives. It 
empowers us to undertake holistic initiatives that 
strengthen the foundation for responsible growth, 
for people as well as communities. To amplify the 
impact of our projects, we also encourage the active 
participation of our employees. This comprehensive 
approach has enabled us to undertake initiatives 
focusing on water conservation, skill and 
entrepreneurship development and community care 
— aiming to address critical needs that ensure social 
and economic development of people.
Brand
Supply
Disruption
SDGs Impacted
R2
R6
R7
13.37 Crore
CSR expenditure
84,619
CSR beneficiaries
Key risks considered
S
Material issues
M9
Capitals (in ₹J)
STAKEHOLDERS
Communities
Our Key Focus Areas
Water  
conservation
Community 
care
Employee  
engagement
Skill and  
entrepreneurship  
development
Jal Jeevan
The Jal Jeevan initiative has 
helped to implement projects 
for rainwater harvesting, 
groundwater replenishment and 
watershed development. It has 
supported people to engage in 
water conservation practices and 
ensured water security in targeted 
areas, leading to climate resilient 
farming practices. 
We also take steps to empower 
women to lead these projects 
and ensure recognising role of 
women farmers. The  project 
has empowered nearly 500 (Five 
Hundred) farmers with sustainable 
agricultural practices, while bringing 
approximately 300 (Three Hundred) 
hectares of land under horticulture 
plantation, projecting annual 
income opportunities of H 80 Lakh. 
Furthermore, Crompton is driving 
community-managed sustainable 
water security measures across 
225 (Two Hundred and Twenty Five) 
villages in the Sirohi and Pali, an 
aspirational district of Rajasthan, 
while in Ahilyanagar, our efforts are 
focused on cultivating a supportive 
ecosystem for the adoption of 
sustainable agricultural practices.
We recognise the critical role 
water plays in sustaining life, 
agriculture, and community 
development. Through 
targeted initiatives, we aim 
to improve the availability of 
water and promote climate 
resilient agriculture.
Water  
conservation
Rajasthan
Maharashtra
Ahilyanagar
Sirohi
Pali
114 - 115
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
 
The Dashparni 
ark initiative
Since 2022, Crompton and 
 
 
 
 
 
n. 
It involved training of women 
from Self-Help Groups (SHGs) for 
the production of Dashparni Ark, 
a natural bio-pesticide.  
The field team conducted 
awareness sessions to highlight 
the financial and environmental 
advantages of using natural pest 
control, motivating women to 
reduce reliance on expensive 
chemical pesticides. Through 
collaborative effort and 
Empowering farmers
The initiatives aim to improve 
agricultural practices, allowing 
farmers to adopt better irrigation 
facilities, improve yield and 
build resilience against climate 
variability. These projects have 
delivered key agricultural benefits, 
primarily by increasing cropping 
intensity and overall agricultural 
production. These improvements 
are fundamental to supporting 
livelihoods dependent on 
agriculture and increasing food 
security in the region.
Community engagement 
and education 
Crompton’s community 
engagement centres on multi-level 
education and empowerment. 
This includes Village Water and 
Sanitation Committee (VWSC) 
trainings on groundwater and 
water usage decisions, 'Pani 
Mitra' sessions on water security 
plans, and crop training for 
farmers on yield and resource 
optimisation. Panchayati Raj 
Institution (PRI) workshops 
further educate participants on 
water budgeting for effective 
resource management.
250 acres
of additional land 
under cultivation
20%
Increase in farmer’s income
1,004
Women self help groups trained
81%
Women involved in 
water management and 
agricultural practices
116
Water conservation structures 
rejuvenated in FY25, improving 
water availability
58,673
Residents across Ahilyanagar and 
Rajasthan benefitted
1,935.16 TCM
Potential water storage created
Increasing availability of water
Our initiatives help to improve 
groundwater levels, increase 
availability of water for agriculture 
and support climate resilient 
agriculture. These initiatives focus 
on securing water resources, 
enhancing drought resilience and 
revitalising local water bodies to 
support sustainable agricultural 
practices and community needs. 
We focus on
Case study
expert guidance, the women 
successfully produced and 
applied Dashparni Ark in their 
farms.  
This initiative led to significant 
financial savings H 90,000 
(Rupees Ninety Thousand) to  
H 1,00,000 collectively (Rupees 
One Lakh) and improved crop 
Case study
Making a difference
In  the water-scarce Ahilyanagar 
district of Maharashtra, villages 
like Agadgaon and Ratadgaon 
suffered from various hardships.  
Focusing on Area Treatment with 
Continuous Contour Trenches 
(CCTs), the project strategically 
carved rainwater-capturing 
trenches into the slopes to 
combat water scarcity and soil 
erosion. These small CCTs, 5 
(Five) meters long, 0.30 meters 
deep, and 0.60 meters wide, 
proved to be powerful tools 
for recharging groundwater 
and visibly transforming the 
landscape from barren to green. 
The project’s success is illustrated 
by the contrasting water levels 
in treated wells. Water level at 
Machhindra Pingare’s well, for 
instance, rose significantly after 
the monsoon, in comparison 
to untreated wells like that of 
Bhanudas Salunkhe’s.  
health by reducing pest attacks. 
Encouraged by their success, 
women from the SHGs now plan 
to expand this as a community 
enterprise, producing Dashparni 
Ark for wider use, promoting 
sustainable farming practices 
and improving people’s lives.
This initiative served as a 
sustainable and scalable 
blueprint for addressing 
water scarcity and promoting 
ecological balance in areas 
facing similar problems.
Before
After
COMMUNITIES
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
116 - 117
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COMMUNITIES
We aim to bridge skill gaps 
and improve livelihoods 
through initiatives that 
empower youth with 
employable skills, provide 
women with opportunities for 
economic participation and 
upskill existing technicians. 
Our aim is to empower 
people, regardless of their 
socio-economic background, 
enabling them to reach their 
full potential and contribute 
to sustainable growth. 
Skill and  
entrepreneurship 
development
Nayi Disha
This initiative is dedicated 
to empowering the youth 
around our manufacturing 
units by equipping them with 
employable skills. Through 
behavioural transformation, 
knowledge enhancement and 
skill development, we support 
individuals to become self-reliant 
and financially independent. 
Technical training
Our skill centres in Ahilyanagar, 
Goa and Vadodara offer a 
comprehensive three-month 
training programme that blends 
technical expertise with soft 
skills, equipping young people 
with employable skills relevant to 
manufacturing units. This training 
focuses on mechanical, electrical 
and plumbing skills. In line with 
Encouraging women’s 
participation in 
manufacturing industry 
To facilitate women’s 
participation, we have adapted 
our manufacturing infrastructure 
to accommodate women in 
the workforce and launched a 
pioneering all-women electrician 
programme. This programme 
focuses on developing a 
skilled female workforce in the 
traditionally male-dominated 
Mechanical, Electrical, and 
Plumbing (MEP) sectors, inspiring 
women to pursue non-traditional 
career paths and become 
financially independent.
our commitment to inclusivity, we 
enrolled two batches of women 
cohorts for roles related to these 
areas. We also work closely with 
government ITIs through our 
‘Campus to Industry’ programme, 
making formal education more 
relevant for industrial applications 
and upskilling existing ITI students.
We focus on
Case study
Empowered to make 
a difference
Sahil Kumar, from Nalagarh, 
used the C2IC programme 
to merge his ITI training with 
real-world skills. He gained 
confidence and practical 
experience, enabling him to 
secure a trainee position at 
a local company. Earning a 
salary of H 12,000 (Rupees 
Twelve Thousand) per 
month, he is grateful for 
the opportunity offered by 
Crompton to support his family. 
70%
Trained youth secured job
1,383
Youth trained
H 14.2 Crore
Income opportunities generated  
Youth from Padra-Bajwa 
skill centre completed skill 
development programmes 
in electrical work
Empowered youth from 
local villages
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
118 - 119
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COMMUNITIES
COMMUNITIES
Samrudhi
To seamlessly integrate technicians 
into the unorganised sector, our 
initiatives focus on upskilling 
technicians with new or improved 
skill sets. It helps them to adapt to 
an evolving business environment 
and enhances their relevance in a 
competitive industry. The projects 
help technicians to learn more 
about emerging technologies and 
industry trends, providing them 
with the knowledge necessary for 
increasing productivity, improving 
job satisfaction and enhancing 
organisational competitiveness. 
Along with technical training, 
we aim to improve the socio-
economic status of the technicians. 
They are offered Recognition of 
Prior Learning (RPL) to validate 
informal training and are provided 
access to state-of-the-art tools 
and equipment to improve  
Saksham
Project Saksham, Crompton’s 
flagship CSR initiative, is breaking 
down barriers and empowering 
women through a comprehensive, 
all-women electrician skill 
development programme. This 
initiative supports women to take 
bold steps towards pursuing non-
traditional careers, providing  
them with high-quality,  
hands-on training to become 
certified Assistant Electricians. Our 
commitment to quality training has 
resulted in 100% job placement in 
reputed companies. 
Beyond individual empowerment, 
Saksham aims to make the 
manufacturing sector more 
inclusive and gender-ready, with 
Crompton setting an example as 
their capability. Moreover, medical 
camps are also organised for the 
early detection and prevention of 
diseases. The technicians also gain 
access to social welfare benefits 
and government schemes such as 
medical insurance programmes 
like Pradhan Mantri Ayush Bharat 
Yojana, to safeguard their health 
and well-being.
an industry mover in this space. 
The success of these women stands 
as a powerful testament to the 
transformative impact of Project 
Saksham, impacting lives and 
defying conventional norms.
4,921+
Technicians trained
1,462
Students impacted  
19
Schools benefitted
52.8%
Increase in learning curve
At Crompton, we remain 
committed to make a 
difference to the lives of 
people residing near our 
manufacturing units.  
To ensure holistic well-being 
of people, we undertake 
several need-based and 
customised projects focused 
on promoting education and 
livelihood opportunities.
Community  
care
Patang
Since 2021, Patang, our school 
transformation programme, has 
been initiated across government 
schools of Himachal Pradesh, Goa, 
Maharashtra and Gujarat.  
It focuses on improving the learning 
curve of students and reducing 
school dropout rates. 
To achieve this, we address learning 
gaps, particularly in maths and 
language, and create a conducive 
learning environment to motivate 
We focus on
children to attend school.  
Through interventions for 
improving school infrastructure, 
implementation of remedial 
classes and the use of innovative 
and engaging teaching methods, 
we strive to make learning fun-
filled and engaging. The project’s 
effectiveness is regularly measured 
through a rigorous assessment 
process, employing baseline 
assessments of the learning 
curve before implementation 
and subsequent assessments to 
quantify the impact of our work.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
120 - 121
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COMMUNITIES
COMMUNITIES
Impacting lives
Jainav Jaan, grade 3 student 
from a low-income family in 
Himachal Pradesh, initially 
struggled with academics. 
Through Programme Patang’s 
tutoring remedial classes, she 
showed significant improvement 
in both language and maths. 
Her progress highlights the 
project’s positive impact on her 
educational journey as well as 
personal growth. 
Story
98.28
Beginning to read simple 
words and sentences
Area of Improvement (%)
98.28
Writing 
simple sentences
93.10
Learning basic punctuation 
and capitalisation rules
82.76
Engaging in 
basic conversations
29.31
Learning 
simple vocabulary
100
Addition
100
Subtraction
100
Number recognition, ascending & 
descending order up to 100
89.66
Place value
70.69
Shapes
Umang
Umang is our merit-based 
scholarship programme designed 
to empower girls. We provide 
scholarships to girls from  
low-income families to pursue 
higher education. The project 
also helps girls to rise above social 
pressure to fulfil their aspirations.
Many Umang scholars are  
first-generation learners, and the 
programme aims to create an 
ecosystem where these girls can 
become breadwinners and agents 
of change within their communities. 
To achieve this, Umang provides 
holistic support, covering not just 
educational fees but also expenses 
for hostel accommodation, books 
and English language classes, 
supporting them every step of the 
way to pursue their dreams and 
lead a fulfilling life. 
53
Students availed scholarship
Suvidha
Suvidha is a dedicated programme 
that aims to make government 
welfare schemes easily accessible 
to underserved community.  
It focuses on facilitating access to 
existing government entitlements 
to ensure welfare of families and 
communities. This initiative has 
connected 4,000 (Four Thousand) 
individuals with over 8,000 (Eight 
Thousand) government schemes, 
providing access to crucial 
documents and programmes 
including the Building and Other 
Construction Workers (BOCW) 
Construction Labour Card, Digital 
Health ID Card, E-shram Card, and 
the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan 
Arogya Yojana.
4,241
Villagers availed 
Government schemes
36.87 Crore
Worth of benefits ensured 
through various social 
security schemes
Towards a better life
Narayan Shinde, 44, from 
Ahilyanagar, Maharashtra, 
earned J 5,000 (Rupees 
Five Thousand) in a month. 
The Building and Other 
Construction Workers (BOCW) 
card changed his life.  
It provided J 50 lakh insurance, 
health checkup benefits, a 
kitchen set, safety gear, and 
scholarships for his children, 
offering assurance for a 
better life.
Story
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
122 - 123
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COMMUNITIES
Changemaker Grant
The Changemaker Grant, now in 
its third edition, is a distinctive 
initiative that empowers Crompton 
employees to propose and lead 
social impact projects aligned 
with causes close to their hearts. 
Through this programme, we 
are encouraging employee 
engagement in CSR initiatives and 
providing a platform to transform 
their ideas into social impact. 
The Changemaker Grant process 
is designed to identify and support 
the most impactful projects. 
Employees submit their project 
proposals and are asked to explain 
their ideas to teammates and 
other colleagues. All employees 
have the opportunity to vote for 
the projects. The top 10 projects 
which receive the highest number 
of votes receive CSR grants and 
implementation support from 
Crompton. This voting process 
not only ensures transparency 
but also fosters excitement, 
collaboration and team building 
among employees around social 
causes. The Changemaker Grant, 
therefore, creates ‘changemakers’ 
who create a ripple effect of 
positive change within society, while 
also deepening their long-term 
engagement with Crompton’s social 
responsibility efforts.
We focus on
150+
Ideas received
30+
Projects shortlisted
1,394
Employees voted 
1,000
Lives impacted
10
Changemakers elected through 
employee votes
FIT Crompton movement  
The Fit Crompton Movement is an employee engagement initiative that creates awareness about health, 
wellness and social responsibility. It links fitness with philanthropy to strengthen the foundation of a healthier 
society and a more engaged workforce. Employees participated in walks to raise funds for Crompton's NGO 
partners, supporting causes like:
Support child education
The ‘Support child education’ 
programme focuses on providing 
school kits to 1,000 students 
in Anganwadis and other rural 
educational settings.  
The objectives are to instil a sense 
of achievement in rural children, 
fulfil their basic educational 
needs, and foster a better 
learning environment.
Move for midday meals
Through our participation in walks 
and workouts, we will provide 
‘Happiness Boxes’ containing 
ration and stationery items to 
underprivileged children.  
This initiative addresses the 
education and hunger gap.
Grow trees
The ‘Grow Trees’ project aims to 
plant 1,500 trees in villages.  
These fruit trees will not only 
enhance greenery but also serve as 
an additional source of income for 
the farmers in the long run.  
The initiative promotes both 
ecological and economic well-
being.
Inclusive education
Focuses on children with special 
needs, who are often neglected 
and misunderstood. Provides the 
adequate knowledge and skills that 
enhance their development.
10,000
Sanitary care distributed among 
adolescent girls in rural areas
230
Specially abled children to 
receive nutritional support
1,074
Employees participated
1,000
School children 
received school kits
1,300
Happiness boxes distributed 
among underprivileged children
89 Lakh
Calories burnt
1500
Trees planted
130
Children provided hearing 
aid batteries
H 14 Lakh
Raised to support 6 causes
Walk for her
Our 'Walk for Her' initiative focuses 
on providing essential sanitary 
care to adolescent girls in rural 
areas, ensuring that menstruation 
doesn't become a barrier to their 
education. It directly contributes 
to helping girls stay in school 
and empowers them to pursue 
their dreams.
For better nutrition
Children from marginalised 
communities suffer from a lack 
of nutritious meals. Due to large 
family sizes, parents struggle 
to provide adequate care and 
nutritious meals, impacting 
children’s health and growth.
At Crompton, our 
employees are the driving 
force behind our CSR 
initiatives. Their active 
participation inspires us to 
do more and demonstrates 
a deep sense of corporate 
responsibility. Through a 
range of initiatives, we 
engage our employees 
and nurture a deeper 
connection with the 
communities we serve.
Crompton Care
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
124 - 125
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
COMMUNITIES
‘Be my Santa’ campaign
During the Christmas of 2024, 
we conducted the ‘Be My Santa’ 
campaign, which offered employees 
an opportunity to bring joy to 50 
critically ill children. It allowed the 
Crompton family to connect with 
the young champs, offering them 
moments of happiness and hope 
during the festive season. Some of 
these children wished for cycles, 
playhouses, toys, gaming consoles, 
sports kits and other gifts that were 
close to their hearts and we made 
sure to fulfil their wishes.  
The Crompton CSR Foundation 
matched the donation made by 
employees, enhancing the impact of 
the initiative manifold. 
Kerala flood relief
In response to the devastating 
landslide and floods that struck 
Wayanad on July 30, 2024, 
Crompton promptly launched relief 
efforts. we distributed essential dry 
ration kits and sanitation kits to 
over 100 affected households in the 
Wayanad district. This immediate 
support aimed to provide 
crucial aid and alleviate the 
hardships faced by the disaster-
stricken communities.
Donation of old toys
During 2024, we organised a 
company-wide Toy Collection Drive, 
encouraging employees to donate 
pre-loved toys, books, games, 
stationery and sports equipment 
for underprivileged children. The 
initiative aimed to instil values of 
sharing and empathy within the 
organisation. Awareness was raised 
through internal communication 
and collection points were 
established for convenient drop-
offs over a 15 to 25-day period. We 
collected a significant number of 
toys and other items which were 
distributed among children through 
our partners.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
126 - 127
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
At Crompton, we act responsibly to build the 
foundation of a sustainable future. It inspires us 
to create products that limit our environmental 
footprint, inculcate practices for resource 
conservation, energy efficiency, water and 
waste management.
Product
EHS
SDGs Impacted
R1
R5
Key risks considered
F
N
S
Material issues
Capitals
STAKEHOLDERS
Environment
M5
M3
M2
10.26%
Reduction in energy 
consumption
26,854 KL
Water recycled
1,684 MT
Waste recycled
224 MT
Reduction in emission 
(GHG Scope 1 & 2)
Sustainability is intrinsically integrated into our innovation 
strategy. We are committed to proactively advancing beyond 
established paradigms, employing cutting-edge technologies 
to engineer intelligent, sustainable, and user-focused products 
that effectively mitigate environmental impact and enhance 
consumer well-being.
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal 
Chief Technology Officer (CTO) & Head – ESG
4th
Green-Pro 
certification
Featured
Awards and Collaterals
62/100 
128 - 129
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Focus areas
Our manufacturing facilities employ energy, water, and waste management systems to optimise resource utilisation 
and support sustainable operations. We also utilise cradle-to-grave product life cycle assessment approach to drive 
continuous improvement in product sustainability.
Energy 
management
	Ȣ
Energy conservation 
& efficiency 
improvement drive 
through Process 
Improvement, Low 
Cost Automation, 
Technology Up-
gradation. 
	Ȣ
Use of Alternate 
Energy Sources.
Read more on 
 133
Reducing 
GHG emissions
	Ȣ
Established & 
maintained 
a centralised 
environmental 
performance parameter 
monitoring dashboard, 
facilitating long-term 
value creation.
	Ȣ
Energy Efficient Product 
Use, Adapt Energy 
Efficient Processes,
	Ȣ
Use of Renewable 
Energy Source.
Read more on 
 134
Water 
management
	Ȣ
Implementing 
rainwater 
harvesting 
practices and 
promoting water 
conservation 
through 
consumption 
reduction, recycle 
& reuse.
Read more on 
 135
Waste 
management
	Ȣ
Promote circular 
economy 
to minimise 
waste generation.
Read more on 
 137
Major environmental 
sustainability initiatives 
	Ȣ
Product carbon footprint 
assessment for representative 
products: We have performed 
Product Carbon Footprint 
(PCF) assessment through 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) 
approach to as per ISO 
14067 guidelines. The PCF 
assessment has been carried 
out for major representative 
products in Cradle to Grave 
assessment boundary. The full 
LCAs were conducted through 
external third-party subject 
matter expert. 
	Ȣ
Ceiling fan energy efficiency 
improvement: We prioritise 
energy efficiency in our ceiling 
fans, meeting BEE star ratings 
through continuous innovation. 
Our efforts have resulted in a 
53% average energy intensity 
reduction for 5-Star Induction 
Motor fans (35W vs. 75W  
non-star), and a 63% reduction 
for 5-Star BLDC fans (28W vs. 
75W non-star).
	Ȣ
Product ecolabel certification 
(Type-I Ecolabel): We 
successfully achieved Type-I 
Ecolabel certification, namely 
CII Green-Pro (a Global 
Ecolabelling Network accredited 
programme), for our HS 
Highspeed 48 ceiling fan, as part 
of our product sustainability 
initiative. This achievement 
followed a stringent evaluation 
of the product’s environmental 
performance across 
various criteria.
	Ȣ
Renewable energy-based 
products: We are dedicated 
to design, develop, and 
promote products that harness 
renewable energy sources, 
contributing to a cleaner 
and more sustainable energy 
landscape. Solar water pumps 
Ceiling fan type
UoM
1 Star
Non-
star
3 Star
5 Star
5 Star
BLDC 
fan
Induction motor fan
Rated power
Watt
75
55
45
35
28
Energy 
intensity 
reduction &  
GHG  
avoidance
%
Base
27%
40%
53%
63%
lead our renewable  
energy-based product portfolio.
	Ȣ
Introduced solar water 
pumps for agricultural & 
residential application 
	Ȣ
Online monitoring system 
established for solar pump 
performance tracking
	Ȣ
All operational pumps 
connected to dashboard
	Ȣ
Performance parameter 
continuously tracked 
& monitored
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
130 - 131
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
9,418 KWH
Renewable energy generated
100%
Fan models certified under BEE 
star ratings
ENVIRONMENT
ESG dashboard 
Established and maintained 
a centralised environmental 
performance parameter 
monitoring dashboard, facilitating 
long-term value creation through:
	Ȣ
Enhanced transparency 
and accountability
	Ȣ
Improved stakeholder  
engagement
	Ȣ
Data-driven decision-making
ESG reporting - S&P 
global score:
CGCEL S&P Global ESG Score
62/100 | (Industry Average 34/100)
48
2023
34
2022
9
2021
62
2024
As of December 2024, our ESG 
performance within the DHP 
Household Durables sector of 
Consumer Discretionary shows 
strong progress. We've significantly 
improved across all areas: our 
Environmental score rose from 
21 in 2022 to 61, well above the 
industry average of 36; our social 
score increased from 41 to 63, 
surpassing the average of 32; 
and our Governance & Economic 
score climbed from 36 to 60, 
nearly double the average of 33.  
This indicates we are consistently 
outperforming our peers in 
ESG metrics.
Our dedication to sustainability 
has been validated in the S&P 
Sustainability Yearbook 2025, 
where we have achieved the 
number one ranking in India for 
the Household Durables Industry. 
Globally, we have also been 
recognised for our efforts, securing 
the third position amongst our 
peers in the same sector.  
These rankings affirm our 
leadership and the significant 
progress we've made in 
sustainability, both domestically 
and internationally.
Energy, water and 
waste management at 
manufacturing facilities 
Our manufacturing facilities are equipped 
with comprehensive energy, water, and waste 
management systems, ensuring responsible resource 
consumption, and minimising environmental impact.
Energy management 
As a manufacturing enterprise, a substantial 
portion of our Company's carbon emissions arises 
from energy consumption. Therefore, enhancing 
energy efficiency is crucial. We have developed 
a performance-based energy management plan 
aimed at curbing energy consumption, incorporating 
renewable energy sources, and adopting  
energy-efficient practices.
Our strategic energy management framework 
guides our actions towards energy conservation 
GHG reduction.
Strategic energy management
E
n
e
r
g
y
 
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
 
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
  
(
C
o
n
t
i
n
u
a
l
 
e
n
e
r
g
y
 
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
c
y
 
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
)
E
n
e
r
g
y
 
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
 
o
f
f
s
e
t
 
(
U
s
e
 
o
f
 
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
e
 
r
e
n
e
w
a
b
l
e
 
s
o
u
r
c
e
)
Low-cost  
automation
Technology 
upgradation
Process  
improvement
Renewable  
energy 
Alternate 
fuel
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
132 - 133
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENT
	Ȣ
Energy loss reduction:  
By optimising process set points 
and eliminating idle running of 
machines, such as load-unload 
pressure set point optimisation 
at compressors,  
we actively reduce energy losses 
in our operations.
	Ȣ
Technology upgradation:  
We are committed to improving 
the efficiency of existing 
facilities and process equipment 
through technology upgrades. 
Examples include retrofitting 
with energy efficient motors and 
installing Variable Frequency 
Drives (VFDs) to enhance overall 
energy efficiency.
	Ȣ
Low-cost automation: 
Our approach to energy 
conservation involves the 
implementation of low-cost 
process automation.  
This includes the use of sensors 
to control lighting, ventilation, 
and air-conditioning operations, 
ensuring optimal energy usage 
while minimising waste.
	Ȣ
Alternate energy sources: 
To further mitigate our 
environmental impact, we are 
actively involved in planning 
and utilising renewable 
energy sources. This strategic 
initiative aligns with our 
commitment to sustainability 
and aims to reduce our 
dependence on conventional 
energy sources with adverse 
environmental effects.
	Ȣ
Energy efficient ventilation 
system – HVLS Fans
	Ȣ
Roof skylight sheet to 
improve effective natural 
light utilisation
	Ȣ
Energy efficient BLDC fans 
at process assembly area 
	Ȣ
Conveyorised material 
movement to fossil fuel 
consumption in internal 
material transfer
	Ȣ
Timer & occupancy sensors 
for lighting & ventilation 
system control
Key initiative implemented
Water management
Water is a necessary resource 
in the operation of our facilities 
and for our communities. It is 
therefore becoming increasingly 
important for us to be committed 
to responsible water stewardship 
for both current and future 
generations. We are enhancing our 
water management practices in 
our operations while extending our 
community outreach efforts. 
Reducing GHG emissions
 We understand the potential 
consequences of climate change 
caused by the emission of 
Greenhouse Gases (GHGs).  
We are earnest in our attempt to 
reduce our carbon footprint at 
the operational level. Our carbon 
footprint is closely linked to energy 
consumption and the source of 
energy we depend on. 
Therefore, we aim to reduce our 
emissions through a multifaceted 
strategy that includes green 
innovation, enhanced operational 
efficiency and waste reduction.
GHG Scope-1 reduction observed 
is the result of our strategic 
business transition towards 
efficient technology product 
portfolio (conventional lighting 
to LED). Avoided gas-based 
process heating & captive power 
generation at our Vadodara 
manufacturing Plant.
3,660
FY24
768
FY25
3,927
FY24
6,595
FY25
GHG Scope-1
GHG Scope-2
Emission in MT CO2 eq.
Emission in MT CO2 eq.
7,587
FY24
7,363
FY25
GHG Scope 1 & 2
Emission in MT CO2 eq.
Management of scope 3 emissions
Environmental sustainability is a 
key priority at Crompton. To further 
demonstrate our commitment 
to climate accountability, we are 
undergoing a comprehensive 
analysis of our Scope 3 emissions 
assessment. This assessment focused 
on evaluating the environmental 
impact of our business value chain, 
encompassing both upstream and 
downstream activities.
W
a
t
e
r
 
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
REDUCE 
Consumption 
REUSE 
Reuse treated water
RECHARGE  
Rainwater harvesting 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
134 - 135
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENT
Water saving aerator
STP treated water for gardening
Rainwater recharge well
	Ȣ
Water consumption reduction: 
Implementation of low-flow 
fixtures and water-saving 
aerators has significantly 
reduced water consumption in 
our facilities. 
	Ȣ
Drip and sprinkler irrigation 
systems: Our commitment 
extends to water conservation 
in external spaces, where 
we have adopted drip and 
sprinkler irrigation systems 
for gardens and landscapes, 
minimising water usage while 
maintaining greenery.
Reduce
Reuse of STP-treated water: 
Treated water from Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STP) is efficiently 
reused in our facilities. Health 
faucets flush through plumbing 
modifications, ensuring that 
treated water serves a valuable 
purpose in the system.
Reuse 
Rainwater harvesting: We actively 
promote rainwater harvesting 
through the installation of recharge 
wells. This sustainable practice not 
only conserves water resources 
but also contributes to the 
replenishment of groundwater.
Recharge
B rating
on CDP for water
81,400 KL
Water consumption
26,854 KL
Water recycled
84,126 KL
Water withdrawal  
	Ȣ
Low-flow fixtures, water-
saving aerators implemented 
for wash basin across 
manufacturing facilities 
and offices
	Ȣ
Pressure regulator to 
control flow and optimise 
water consumption
	Ȣ
Waterless urinal at washroom
	Ȣ
Water distribution piping 
network to reuse STP 
treated water for gardening 
and landscape
	Ȣ
Process and piping 
improvement to optimise 
water consumption
Key initiative implemented
W
a
s
t
e
 
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
 
Reusable 
packaging material
Take-back & 
reuse initiative
C
o
-
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
 
&
 
r
e
c
y
c
l
i
n
g
 
Waste for  
co-processing
Waste 
for recycling
Reusable 
packaging material
Employing reusable 
polypropylene boxes 
optimises cardboard 
packaging waste.
Take-back & reuse initiative
Implemented RM packaging 
take-back & reuse initiative. 
Helps to improve recovery 
& multiple use of RM 
packaging material
Waste for co-processing
Process oil contain residue 
waste is directed to  
co-processing, thereby 
enhancing material 
circularity and promoting 
sustainable waste 
management practices.
Key initiative implemented
Waste management
We prioritise waste segregation and resource conservation at our 
facilities and strive to minimise waste generation. We analyse the 
environmental impact of our products throughout the product lifecycle, 
from raw material selection to end-of-life management. Our product 
development focuses on material efficiency, eco-friendly packaging, and 
waste recycling.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
136 - 137
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENT
Year
2024-25
2023-24
Surface water
-
-
Ground water
34,915
39,169
Third party water
49,211
28,561
Seawater/Desalinated water
-
-
Others
-
-
Total water withdrawn
84,126
67,730
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
Year
2024-25
Plastic waste (Tonnes)
111
E-waste (Tonnes)
19
Hazardous waste (Tonnes)
262
Bio medical waste (Tonnes)
0.01
Battery waste (Tonnes)
0
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Sustainable packaging: 
We are embracing sustainable 
packaging by utilising recycled 
materials, minimising the 
environmental impact of 
packaging while promoting a 
circular economy. 
Usage of raw material
We believe that responsible 
sourcing is key to delivering  
high-quality products while 
minimising our environmental 
impact. We, therefore, prioritise 
local suppliers to reduce transport-
related emissions and offer support 
to local economies.  
Our sourcing strategy balances 
cost-effectiveness with high quality 
and service levels, enabling us to 
uphold our commitment to ethical 
and sustainable practices.
Local sourcing
 We prioritise local 
sourcing of materials 
and have been 
able to incorporate 
local sourcing into 
our operations.
Actions
01
EPR
We are committed to Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
principles, demonstrating 
responsible environmental 
stewardship and sustainable waste 
management. Having secured EPR 
authorisation from the Central 
Pollution Control Board (CPCB), 
we effectively manage plastic 
and e-waste obligation Target as 
defined by CPCB for collection, 
channelisation and recycling.
100% compliance under 
EPR - E-Waste and Plastic 
Waste Management.
Raw material  
optimisation
We have optimised the 
weight of raw materials 
by 10-12% through 
value engineering, 
contributing to a more 
resource-efficient 
production process. 
02
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
138 - 139
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Our governance framework, guided by our Board, reflects our 
commitment to ethical conduct, transparency and accountability. 
We prioritise the integration of global best practices into our growth 
strategy, ensuring sustainable value creation for all stakeholders. 
STAKEHOLDERS
Governance 
framework
The Company's corporate governance is founded on ethical practices and core values, driving wealth 
creation while aligning business decisions with stakeholder expectations. We prioritise fairness and 
transparency in managing our company affairs, embedding these governance principles across all 
business functions. Board meetings include in-depth discussions on critical areas such as Compliance, 
Enterprise Risk Management, Supply Chain, Manufacturing Excellence, Innovation, Digitisation and 
Succession Planning, ensuring comprehensive governance aligned with our strategic goals.
Core principles 
of governance 
Strategic oversight
We continually evaluate and 
adjust our long-term strategy 
to ensure that the Company 
remains competitive and well-
positioned in the marketplace. 
Stakeholder engagement
The Company possesses a 
highly resilient stakeholder 
management framework that 
catalyses fostering productive 
communication and engagement 
with our diverse range 
of stakeholders. 
Trusteeship 
We recognise that we hold the 
Company's resources in trust 
for future generations and are 
committed to utilising them 
responsibly and sustainably.
Sustainability
We prioritise environmental 
sustainability and seek to reduce 
our carbon footprint through 
efficient resource usage and 
waste reduction.
Reinforcing a risk culture
We maintain a culture of risk 
awareness and actively identify 
and mitigate potential risks to our 
business operations.
Compliance with laws 
and regulations
We adhere to all applicable 
laws and regulations to ensure 
that our business practices are 
ethical and transparent.
Corporate 
Social Responsibility
We prioritise the well-being of 
our employees, consumers and 
the communities in which we 
operate and regularly engage in 
philanthropic initiatives.
Accountability
We take responsibility for our 
actions and decisions and are 
committed to transparency 
and open communication with 
all stakeholders.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
140 - 141
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Key strategic decisions 
and focus area of the 
board in Financial Year 
2024-25
	Ȣ
Provide continued oversight 
and strategic guidance for 
the implementation and 
execution of the Crompton 
2.0 strategy, with a focus on 
adapting the strategy to 
evolving market dynamics and 
consumer preferences.
	Ȣ
Direction and monitor progress 
toward maintaining and 
expanding Crompton’s market 
leadership position in the Fans 
and Pumps categories.
	Ȣ
Drive growth and profitability 
in the Kitchen appliances 
segment, with a focus on the 
Butterfly turnaround and market 
share expansion.
	Ȣ
Lighting business turnaround 
was led by the strategic 
launches in the B2B & B2C 
product portfolio and 
supported by scaling up of 
the e-commerce and modern 
trade channel.
	Ȣ
Approved R&D investment 
strategies, monitor the progress 
of key R&D initiatives and 
We are committed to continuously enhancing our governance 
framework to align with global standards, focusing on ethical 
conduct, board effectiveness, and transparency. By embedding 
robust governance into our ESG strategy, we ensure responsible 
oversight, transparent decision-making, and accountability, 
driving sustainable value for all stakeholders. 
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Memberships and collaborations
Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations
	Ȣ
Pump Manufacturers 
Association (IPMA)
	Ȣ
Consumer Electronics 
and Appliances 
Manufacturers Association 
	Ȣ
Electric Lamps and  
Components 
Manufacturers of  
India (ELCOMA)
	Ȣ
Federation of Indian 
Chambers of Commerce & 
Industry (FICCI)
	Ȣ
Indian Fan 
Manufacturers 
Association (IFMA)
	Ȣ
Indian Society of 
Lighting Engineers
	Ȣ
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
	Ȣ
The Advertising 
Standards Council 
of India
	Ȣ
Bureau of Indian 
Standards (BIS)
	Ȣ
Bureau of Energy 
Efficiency (BEE)
	Ȣ
Indian Society 
of Advertisers
Related 
party transactions
All transactions with related 
parties are conducted in strict 
adherence to applicable laws and 
governance standards, ensuring 
both transparency and equitable 
treatment. Decisions regarding 
these transactions are exclusively 
made by Independent Directors, 
actively engage in deliberations 
and voting procedures.
Strictures and penalties
During the review period, Directors 
and Key Management Personnel 
maintained full compliance, with 
no regulatory actions or penalties 
imposed by stock exchanges, the 
Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI), or any other capital 
market regulatory authorities.
Donations and 
political contributions
In alignment with the Code 
of Conduct’s commitment to 
political neutrality, Crompton 
maintains a strict policy 
against political donations and 
involvement in political campaigns. 
Furthermore, we discourage 
employees from engaging in any 
political promotions.
A balanced governance structure
2
3
1
Board Committees 
Management
Management
Board of  
Directors
	Ȣ
Formulating and 
ensuring the execution 
of long-term 
business strategies
	Ȣ
Enhancing shareholder 
value and safeguarding 
the interests of 
all stakeholders
	Ȣ
Overseeing specialised 
operational areas
	Ȣ
Delivering expert 
recommendations to 
drive informed  
decision-making processes
	Ȣ
Enacting policies and 
procedures that govern 
daily operations
	Ȣ
Ensuring the smooth and 
effective functioning of 
the organisation
platforms like NUCLEUS and 
XTECH, and ensure alignment 
of innovation efforts with 
sustainability goals.
	Ȣ
Implementation of initiatives to 
enhance supply chain resilience, 
optimise vendor relationships, 
promote local sourcing, and 
mitigate potential disruptions.
	Ȣ
Take part in company’s talent 
acquisition, development, 
and retention strategies, with 
a focus on fostering a strong 
organisational culture aligned 
with the CREATE values.
Internal 
control framework
To ensure the protection of our 
assets and uphold operational 
excellence, we have established 
a robust internal control system. 
This comprehensive framework 
includes controls across financial, 
operational, compliance and 
information technology domains, 
coupled with risk management 
policies and systems. We maintain 
well-integrated risk management 
processes within our business 
operations that assist us in 
identifying, evaluating, recording 
and monitoring significant 
risks effectively.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
142 - 143
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
MD & CEO remuneration
The remuneration for the 
Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer comprises both 
fixed and variable components. 
Variable pay, determined annually 
by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee (N&RC), is contingent 
upon the achievement of 
predefined individual Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
and the Company's overall 
performance. The current 
remuneration structure does not 
include a clawback provision, nor 
does it mandate equity ownership 
for the MD & CEO.
Familiarisation programme 
for Directors
The Company maintains a 
comprehensive induction and 
familiarisation programme for 
its Directors. When appointed, 
Directors are issued a detailed 
Letter of Appointment that outlines 
their appointment terms, duties, 
responsibilities and obligations, 
as well as the Code of Conduct 
for Prevention of Insider Trading. 
Additionally, they are regularly 
informed about business matters 
and new initiatives.
Regular presentations and 
updates on relevant statutory 
changes encompassing economic 
outlook; market trends; peer 
trends; changes in laws where 
Company is operating are made 
to the Directors at regular Board 
Meetings of the Company.  
The Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer and the 
Leadership Team provide updates 
on the Company's performance 
and strategic initiatives.
37
Programmes
315
Hours
Right to participate in and to 
be sufficiently informed of, 
decisions concerning fundamental 
corporate changes;
Opportunity to participate 
effectively and vote in 
shareholder meetings;
Being informed of the rules, 
including voting procedures 
that govern general 
shareholder meetings;
Opportunity to ask questions 
to the Board of Directors at 
general meetings; 
Effective shareholder 
participation in key corporate 
governance decisions such as 
the election of members of the 
board of directors;
Exercise of ownership rights 
by all shareholders, including 
institutional investors;
Adequate mechanism to 
address the grievances of 
the shareholders; 
Protection of minority 
shareholders from abusive 
actions by, or in the interest of, 
controlling shareholders acting 
either directly or indirectly and 
effective means of redress;
To receive Dividends and other 
corporate benefits like rights, 
bonuses etc. once approved;
To inspect statutory registers and 
documents, including minutes 
books of the general meetings, as 
permitted under the law; any other 
rights as specified in the statutory 
enactments from time to time;
Succession planning
Succession planning is an integral component of our human resource strategy. It is incorporated 
into our annual talent review process, during which individual development plans are created and 
discussed, and key talent is identified and prepared for potential advancement to leadership roles. 
Rights 
of shareholders
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
144 - 145
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Board architecture
Our Board comprises distinguished 
experts from diverse fields, 
providing a breadth of knowledge 
and experience to guide the 
Company’s strategic direction.  
The Board maintains an 
appropriate balance of 
Independent Directors, 
ensuring objectivity and sound 
governance. Directors possess 
varied professional backgrounds, 
encompassing manufacturing, 
sales, marketing, sustainability, 
finance, technology, cybersecurity, 
human resources, mergers and 
acquisitions, management, 
operations, risk management, 
and academia. This expertise is 
effectively channelled through 
specialised sub committees that 
support strategic execution.
Role of the Board 
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring the ongoing pursuit of its long-term strategic 
objectives. A core responsibility of the Board is to oversee the alignment of business activities with the Company’s 
vision and mission. This alignment process reinforces the Company’s strategic focus and supports responsiveness 
to evolving market conditions. The Board plays a fundamental role in ensuring robust corporate governance by:
ZERO
Fatalities
100%
Indian nationality
95.83%
Average 
attendance rate at 
Board meetings
5.04 years
Average tenure of 
Independent Director
7
Independent 
Directors on 
the Board
22.22%
Independent Directors 
on the Board
4.23 years
Average tenure of Board
65.03 years
Median 
Director age
Social development
The Board is deeply committed to 
social development, focusing on 
initiatives that benefit communities 
and contribute to societal  
well-being. This includes overseeing 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) programmes that 
address education, health, and 
community development. 
Feedback and course correction
Periodically monitors the 
alignment of our Company with 
its vision and mission, which 
helps to maintain strategic focus 
and ensures that the Company 
remains relevant and responsive 
to changing circumstances.
Voluntary dissemination 
of quarterly results to 
the shareholders 
Initiated voluntary dissemination 
of the quarterly results through 
e-mails to all the shareholders.
Adaptation and evolution 
The Board periodically reviews and 
rationalises the vision and mission 
in line with evolving changing 
market conditions, stakeholder 
expectations, and internal factors.
Setting expectations
The Board defines a strategic 
framework that guides the 
Company’s decision-making,  
goal-setting, and overall direction. 
The Board identifies what the 
Company aspires to achieve and 
how it intends to get there.
ESG
The Board oversees 
Crompton’s commitment to 
ESG principles, ensuring that 
environmental stewardship, 
social responsibility, and ethical 
governance are embedded in all 
business operations.
Sustainability
Sustainability is a key focus area 
with the Board being responsible 
for ensuring that Crompton 
operates in an environmentally 
sustainable manner, reducing its 
carbon footprint and minimising 
environmental impact.
Appointing the 
right management
The Board is involved in the 
rigorous process of recruiting and 
appointing senior executives who 
align with Crompton’s strategic 
goals and corporate culture. 
This ensures a leadership team 
capable of driving performance 
and innovation while adhering 
to the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
Transparency 
and accountability
Progress showcased with 
transparency and the 
leadership held accountable 
for the operations, thereby 
strengthening trust among 
its stakeholders.
Succession planning
The Board plays a critical role in 
ensuring leadership continuity. 
This involves identifying and 
developing internal candidates 
with potential to fill key business 
leadership positions in the future.
Strategic planning
The Board is often involved in 
the strategic planning process, 
ensuring that the strategic goals 
and initiatives are consistent with 
the organisation’s purpose.
Regular reporting
The MD & CEO and respective 
Business Heads provide 
periodic updates to the Board 
at their respective meetings, 
demonstrating how the 
Company’s activities and 
performance are aligned with the 
vision and mission.
Risk assessment
The Board assesses any risks 
or potential conflicts that 
could hinder alignment and 
takes appropriate actions to 
mitigate them. This also includes 
overseeing compliance with 
regulations, assessing strategic 
risks, and ensuring appropriate 
risk management practices are 
in place.
Awarded  
India’s Best  
Annual 
Report 2024  
by Free Press Journal in 
the Fast-Moving Electric 
Goods (FMEG) sector
Shortlisted in  
top 4  
companies in ICSI 
National Awards
Professional  
Skills
Sector specific  
skills
 Metallurgical  
Engineering
 Finance
 Mechanical  
Engineering
 Mergers 
and Acquisition
 Master of Business  
Administration
 Telecommu 
nications
 Electrical and  
Electronics
 Banking
 Chartered  
Accountants
 Consumer  
Goods
 Economics
 Healthcare
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
146 - 147
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Diverse expertise 
The Board comprises individuals with extensive expertise and diverse backgrounds, each contributing unique 
insights and innovative strategies. Their collective competence spans governance, technical matters, and financial 
and strategic domains, ensuring comprehensive and effective oversight.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
33.33
3
Cyber security
Strategy & Operations
No. of Directors
% of Directors
66.67
6
General Management
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
No. of Directors
% of Directors
33.33
3
Sustainability  
and ESG
Compliance  
and Risk
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Sales and 
Marketing
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Board Service  
and Governance
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Mergers 
and Acquisitions
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Innovation 
& Technology
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Mentoring Ability
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Talent Development
No. of Directors
% of Directors
44.44
4
Leadership
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Gender, Nationality,  
or other Diversity
No. of Directors
% of Directors
22.22
2
Financial
No. of Directors
% of Directors
88.89
8
Industry Acumen
No. of Directors
% of Directors
88.89
8
ESG ratings
Present tenure 
of Directors
Board gender diversity
5
> 5 years
1
50-60 years 
2
2-5 years 
5
60-70 years
2
<2 years 
3
70 years +
7
Male 
2
Female 
4.23 years 
Average tenure of Board  
5.04 years 
Average tenure of 
Independent Director
1.92 years 
Average tenure of 
Executive Director  
Industry exposure
Board age diversity
7
25-35 years 
2
> 35 years 
ESG ratings
76.3
SES – Core ESG Score  
9.16%   
62
DJSI score  
29.16%  
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
148 - 149
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Board evaluation
Performance evaluations are 
conducted annually for the 
Board of Directors, its various 
committees, and individual 
Directors. These evaluations assess 
several key factors, including the 
Board's structure, the Director 
selection process, and a mutual 
understanding of Directors' duties 
and responsibilities. Additional 
criteria include an assessment of 
the Board's independence and 
management effectiveness.  
As part of the overall evaluation 
framework, a summary of 
Board members' attendance at 
Board and committee meetings 
is provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Board committees 
The Board constitutes committees 
to examine specific areas, as 
required by regulatory provisions 
or delegated by the Board 
itself. The mandate, powers, 
responsibilities, and composition 
of these committees are outlined 
in their terms of reference, which 
are included in the report on 
Corporate Governance which 
forms part of our Integrated Annual 
Report. The Chairperson of each 
committee reports to the Board 
on the main points of discussion at 
committee meetings.
Committee meeting minutes 
are provided to the Board for 
review, and inter-committee 
communication is encouraged to 
ensure coordination. Committee 
Chairpersons also present 
the Board with summaries of 
committee deliberations and 
recommendations. During the 
year, the Board has endorsed all 
recommendations of mandated 
committees. Committee 
terms of reference adhere to 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Companies Act, and related 
rules, and are accessible on our 
company website.
Ethics and compliance
Crompton is committed to 
ethical conduct, guided by the 
Crompton’s Code of Conduct. 
Our ethics framework is built on 
strong leadership, with oversight 
from Board and management 
committees. We foster an 
open culture through clear 
communication and ethics training 
with compliance being ensured 
through robust systems and 
digital platforms. We regularly 
communicate ethics principles 
through discussions and training for 
employees and business partners. 
The Compliance function 
at Crompton maintains a 
comprehensive programme that 
addresses regulatory changes, 
stakeholder expectations, and 
drives continuous improvement, 
aligning with the Company’s 
strategic goals and values.  
It is crucial in fostering a culture 
of integrity, transparency, and 
accountability, while prioritising 
fairness, safety, and ethical 
conduct. Acting as a second line 
of defence, it assesses compliance 
gaps, guides the implementation 
of internal controls, and provides 
key insights to management. 
Beyond ensuring adherence to 
relevant laws and regulations, the 
function serves as a trusted advisor, 
offering guidance and training 
to the business on meeting its 
compliance obligations.
Audit  
Committee 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee (CSR)
4 
Members 
4
Members 
5 
Meetings
1
Meeting
4
Independent Members
2 
Independent Members
100% 
Attendance rate
100% 
Attendance rate
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee (N&RC)
Risk Management 
Committee (RMC)
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee (SRC)
Environmental, Social 
and Governance 
Committee (ESG)
3
Members 
1 
Meeting
2
Independent Members
100% 
Attendance rate
3
Members 
5
Meetings
3
Independent Members
86.67% 
Attendance rate
3 
Members 
2 
Meetings
3 
Independent Members
100% 
Attendance rate
4 
Members 
1
Meeting
2
Independent member
100% 
Attendance rate
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
150 - 151
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNELS
Chairman & Independent Director
Appointed – August 26, 2015
Mr. D.  
Sundaram
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Sundaram’s expertise 
encompasses corporate finance, 
business performance, operational 
monitoring, governance, 
mergers and acquisitions and 
talent management. His career 
at Hindustan Unilever Limited 
(HUL) commenced in 1975 as a 
management trainee, progressing 
to roles including Commercial 
Officer at Unilever, London, and 
subsequently, CFO and Vice 
Chairman of HUL. He is a recipient 
of the CNBC TV18 ‘CFO of the Year 
for FMCG Sector’ award (2006, 
2008) and was recognised as ‘Best 
Independent Director in 2019’ by 
the Asian Centre for Corporate 
Governance and Sustainability in 
December 2020.
Qualification 
Mr. Sundaram is a post-graduate 
in Management Studies (MMS), 
a Fellow of the Institute of Cost 
Accountants and has done Harvard 
Business School's Advanced 
Management Programme (AMP).
Committee details 
SRC
CSR
AC
SRC
CSR
ESG
SRC
KMP
NRC
CSR RMC
Mr. Shantanu Khosla* 
Non-Executive Vice Chairman
Appointed - September 21, 2015
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Shantanu Khosla is recognised 
for his strategic acumen, 
consumer focus, and brand 
equity development. As former 
Managing Director and CEO of 
Procter & Gamble India, he led 
business expansion and innovation, 
strengthening P&G’s global 
consumer goods position. He is a 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh# 
MD & CEO
Appointed - August 16, 2016 
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh possesses 
over two decades of investment 
banking experience. He spent 
18 years at DSP Merrill Lynch, 
contributing significantly to the 
development of its M&A franchise. 
Subsequently, as deputy head 
at Temasek India, he led the 
expansion of the firm’s Indian 
investments. Mr. Ghosh served as 
recipient of Distinguished Alumnus 
Awards from IIT Bombay (2012) and 
IIM Calcutta (2020).
Qualification 
Mr. Khosla earned a bachelor’s 
degree in mechanical engineering 
from IIT Bombay and an MBA from 
IIM Calcutta.
Committee details 
an advisor to Temasek until March 
2023 and maintains a focus on 
sustainability transition. 
Qualification
Mr. Ghosh holds a bachelor’s 
degree in engineering (Electrical 
& Electronics) from the National 
Institute of Technology, Trichy, and 
an MBA from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta.
Committee details 
“Enriching lives 
for generations 
with smart and 
responsible 
solutions”
*. Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and assumed the 
position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f May 1, 2024, and will hold the position till December 31, 2025.
#. Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO 
w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on 
July 22, 2023.
NRC
AC
SRC
RMC
Mr. P. M. Murty  
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - August 26, 2015
Skills and expertise 
Mr. P.M. Murty has over 42 years of 
experience at Asian Paints Limited, 
where he held several senior 
positions, including Managing 
Director from 2009 to 2012. He 
was awarded ‘CEO of the Year’ by 
Business Standard for 2009-2010.
Qualification 
Mr. Murty holds a Postgraduate 
Diploma in Management 
from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta.
Committee details 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
152 - 153
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
AC
RM
Mr. P. R. Ramesh#  
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - May 21, 2021 
Skills and expertise 
Mr. P. R. Ramesh offers over 40 
years of experience serving clients 
across manufacturing, finance, 
technology, and other sectors.  
He retired as Director from Deloitte 
& Touche Assurance & Enterprise 
Risk Services India on March 
31, 2020, and was a member of 
Deloitte’s Global and Asia Pacific 
Boards. A recognised speaker at 
events hosted by ICAI, RBI, and 
SEBI, he has also served in various 
regulatory and industry bodies, 
including as past president of the 
Bombay Chamber of Commerce & 
Industry. He is currently a Partner at 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP.
Qualification 
Mr. Ramesh holds a Commerce 
degree from Osmania University 
and is a Fellow Member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI).
Committee details 
CSR
NRC
Ms. Smita Anand  
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - December 10, 2018
Skills and expertise 
Ms. Smita Anand has around 31 
years of global management 
consulting and HR expertise. She 
has held key leadership positions, 
including Managing Director 
at Leadership Consulting India, 
and Asia head of Board/CEO 
Succession Solutions at Korn 
Ferry. Notably, she led consulting 
businesses across Asia Pacific for 
AONHewitt in Shanghai  
(2002-2011).  
Her background also features 
senior roles at Ernst & Young and 
leading Human Capital Services 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Qualification 
Ms. Anand completed her 
MBA in Human Resources from 
Allahabad University.
Committee details 
Mr. Anil Chaudhry   
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - October 17, 2023 
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Anil Chaudhry brings over four 
decades of experience in energy, 
automation, and infrastructure, 
with a focus on sustainability and 
diversity. He was the Founding CEO 
& Managing Director of Schneider 
Electric India Pvt. Ltd. (SEIPL), 
leading the merger of Schneider 
Electric India’s businesses with 
L&T’s Electrical and Automation 
division. His expertise includes 
management, operations, 
sales, strategy, and business 
development across Europe 
and India.
Qualification 
Mr. Chaudhry holds an engineering 
degree from Thapar Institute 
of Engineering and Technology, 
Patiala. He has also completed 
Executive Management 
Programmes at Harvard Business 
School, Stanford Business School, 
and INSEAD.
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar*   
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - October 17, 2023  
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, a seasoned 
leader, retired as Executive Vice 
President at Unilever after a 
distinguished 38-year career.  
He led operations across North 
Africa, the Middle East, Russia, 
Ukraine, Turkey, and Central 
Asia, driving significant growth 
and profitability. He previously 
held Executive Director roles at 
Hindustan Unilever and regional 
leadership positions in Dubai and 
Russia. His achievements earned 
recognition from Forbes and 
board roles with the International 
Chamber of Commerce.
Qualification
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar is a BA (Hons) 
Economics gold medallist from 
Hindu College, Delhi University, and 
an MBA from the Indian Institute 
of Management, Ahmedabad, 
graduated in 1984.
Committee details
AC
#Ceased to be the Chairperson of the Audit Committee w.e.f. December 27, 2024
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani   
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Appointed - January 28, 2022 
Skills and expertise 
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani brings 
decade-long board experience 
of 12 diverse boards primarily 
in consumer goods, healthcare, 
financial services & hospitality 
sectors. Her expertise encompasses 
corporate governance, ESG and 
P&L management. She provides 
strategic counsel and facilitates 
best-practice sharing by leveraging 
her 30 years of operational 
experience in P&L management, 
marketing & sales. Committed to 
continuous learning, she holds an 
international ESG certification. 
Previously, she held senior leadership 
roles at companies like Asian Paints, 
Dabur and Pfizer.
Qualification 
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani holds a 
bachelor’s degree in commerce 
from Shri Ram College of Commerce 
and an MBA from the Faculty of 
Management Studies, Delhi University. 
She is also a Chevening Gurukul 
scholar from the London School 
of Economics.
Committee details
ESG
*Appointed as the Chairperson of Audit Committee w.e.f. December 28, 2024
Mr. Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam    
Group Chief Financial Officer 
(Group CFO) & Head of Strategy
Appointed - September 05, 2022  
Skills and expertise 
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam 
brings over two decades of 
expertise in corporate finance, 
financial planning, investor 
relations, and risk management. 
As Global CFO of Eicher Motors 
Limited, he developed a strong 
business and financial model for 
Royal Enfield’s future growth, 
including portfolio pricing, 
cost leadership, retail finance 
expansion, and digital marketplace 
enhancement. He also established 
a Centre of Excellence for internal 
controls and a global accounting 
and reporting shared services 
platform at Eicher Motors. 
Qualification 
Mr. Kaleeswaran is a Member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI).
KMP
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
154 - 155
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Chairman
Member
AC
NRC
CSR
RMC
SRC
Audit Committee
Stakeholders Relationship and 
Share Transfer Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Risk 
Management Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
KMP
Key Management Personnel
ESG
ESG Committee
MANAGEMENT TEAM 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO
Dr. Prasanth Nair
Chief Human 
Resources Officer 
(CHRO)
Mr. Anand 
Kumar N.
Group Sales & 
Services Head (GSSH)
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply 
Chain Officer
Mr. Tanmay Prusty
Chief Marketing 
Officer (CMO)
Mr. Kaleeswaran  
Arunachalam
Group Chief Financial 
Officer (Group CFO) & 
Head of Strategy
Mr. Vikram  
Sridharan
Chief Digital Officer 
(CDO)
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal  
Company Secretary & Compliance
Officer
 
KMP
Appointed - November 28, 2022 
Skills and expertise 
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal is a 
seasoned secretarial and legal 
professional with over 16 years 
of experience. She has led 
corporate secretarial functions, 
at various organisations, advised 
on regulatory compliances, 
acquisition, mergers, IPOs, FPOs 
and represented companies before 
regulatory authorities such as the 
RBI, SEBI, MCA, NSE, and BSE. She 
has gained expertise in corporate 
laws during her tenure with Vaish 
Associates Advocates.
She has played a key role in 
the landmark acquisition of 
ACC-Ambuja by Adani Group. 
She has attained proficiency in 
Banking Regulation Act during 
her tenure with Yes Bank and 
has managed whistle-blower 
complaints, litigations, and 
regulatory proceedings.
A thought leader in her field, she 
has co-authored two books on the 
Companies Act, 2013, and has also 
won the best annual report award 
for Financial Year 2023–24 by Free 
Press Journal.
Qualification 
Ms. Rashmi is a qualified Company 
Secretary and a rank holder, with a 
degree in B.A. Economics Honors, 
LLB, and a PGDBM in Finance.
Mr. Rajat Chopra
Business Unit Head 
- Home Electricals 
& Pumps
Mr. Shaleen Nayak
Business Unit Head 
- Lighting
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal
Chief Technology 
Officer (CTO) & Head 
of Innovation and ESG
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
156 - 157
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
POLICIES
We have formulated policies for our business in alignment with our Group’s 
policies, values, and principles. We empower our employees to learn, 
comprehend, and apply improvement techniques to achieve industry-leading 
standards and surpass them. 
For further information on our policies, please refer on the following link: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
corporate-governance#CodesPolicies
Statutory policies
Non-statutory policies
Company’s Code 
of Conduct
Investment  
Policy
Policy on  
Foreign  
Exchange Risk  
Management
Rules of  
Procedure
Environmental,  
Health & Safety 
(EHS) Policy
Materiality  
Policy
Dividend 
Distribution Policy
Risk  
Management Policy
Policy for 
Determining 
Material Subsidiary
Codes of Practices 
and Procedures for 
Fair Disclosure of 
Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information
Code of Conduct to 
regulate, monitor 
and report trading by 
designated persons
Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy
Stakeholders 
Relationship and Share 
Transfer Policy
Prevention of 
Documents and 
Archival Policy
Policy on Materiality 
and Dealing 
with Related 
Party Transactions
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment Policy
Vigil Mechanism and 
While Blower Policy
Human Rights  
Policy
A culture of integrity 
Crompton prioritises ethical 
conduct, anti-corruption efforts, 
and the protection of human 
rights. We foster a culture where 
employees can voice concerns, 
supported by robust policies 
like the Code of Conduct and 
Whistleblower Policy. To prevent 
fraud, we conduct regular 
awareness sessions and maintain 
a reporting mechanism. We also 
have an Internal Complaints 
Committee (ICC) to address sexual 
harassment, with e-learning and 
awareness programmes on POSH 
conducted company-wide. 
EHS policy
Our Board has implemented a 
Corporate Environment, Health, 
and Safety (EHS) policy, integrating 
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) considerations 
into our daily activities. This policy 
focuses on strong governance, 
effective risk management, and 
rigorous controls. We strive to 
provide excellent and transparent 
service to our customers, invest 
in our employees to create a 
diverse and inclusive workplace, 
support our local communities, and 
improve our sustainability practices 
for both our customers and our 
internal operations.
Supplier selection process
Our supplier onboarding 
process is comprehensive, 
evaluating potential partners 
on their capabilities, quality, 
delivery timeliness, and overall 
performance. We assess 
their compliance with legal, 
environmental, health, and 
safety standards, alongside their 
participation in sustainable supply 
chain initiatives.  
Cost competitiveness and financial 
stability are also key factors 
in ensuring alignment with our 
procurement standards.
Code of Conduct 
We are committed to upholding 
ethical standards, as detailed 
in our Code of Conduct/Ethics. 
Our ‘Success Factors’ online 
portal ensures all employees 
confirm their adherence to these 
standards. New employees must 
agree to the Code of Conduct 
upon joining, and existing staff 
receive regular training to reinforce 
ethical behaviour. Our employees 
strengthen our internal controls 
by consistently demonstrating 
integrity and ethical values in their 
actions and decisions. Our Code 
of Conduct highlights the vital role 
each employee plays in fostering a 
value-driven organisation.
Whistleblower policy 
We are committed to upholding 
ethical standards, as detailed 
in our Code of Conduct/Ethics. 
Our ‘Success Factors’ online 
portal ensures all employees 
confirm their adherence to these 
standards. New employees must 
agree to the Code of Conduct 
upon joining, and existing staff 
receive regular training to reinforce 
ethical behaviour. Our employees 
strengthen internal controls 
by consistently demonstrating 
integrity and ethical values, 
as emphasised in the Code of 
Conduct, which highlights  
their role in fostering a  
value-driven organisation.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
158 - 159
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
STAKEHOLDERS
Enterprise Risk Management framework
The Enterprise Risk Management Committee, led by an Independent Director, conducts bi-annual reviews 
of identified risks and directs the ERM head to undertake risk management strategies. The Risk Council, 
composed of senior functional leaders, systematically reviews major risks and mitigation progress.  
The Board Risk Management Committee oversees the Risk Management Policy, framework and structure. 
The Audit Committee provides additional oversight on financial risks and process control effectiveness.
Governance
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
 
R
i
s
k
 
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
 
F
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
Board 
of Directors
Risk Management 
Committee
Functional 
Leadership Members
ERM 
PROCESS
Risk 
Mitigation
Control 
Assessment
Risk 
Assessment
Monitoring 
& Reporting
Risk 
Identification
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
We rely on a proactive risk management framework to 
address threats and seize opportunities in a competitive 
environment. Crompton’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework is designed to be both effective and 
practical, to address core business needs.
Risk management
160 - 161
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
We are committed to adhere to regulatory compliances 
and have established a dedicated team responsible for 
representing Crompton in front of regulatory bodies. 
We are also increasing participation in industry bodies 
to sustain our market leadership and brand reputation. 
We are focused on improving product performance 
and have implemented a structured KPI review through 
a quality scorecard and introduced systems such as 
Continuous Quality Management System (CQMS), Daily 
Work Management (DWM), Stop to Fix protocol and a 
Zero Tolerance policy to ensure stringent quality control 
and operational excellence.
We have taken significant steps to ensure sustainable 
operation, beginning with an enterprise-level gap 
assessment to identify areas of improvement. We also 
embed sustainability-related KPIs into every stage of 
new product development and our improved ranking 
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) reflects 
positive progress compared to previous assessments.
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Energy efficiency 
(regulatory BEE 
norms)
Quality
Sustainability
In our pursuit of innovation, we have engaged deeply 
with consumers to gather valuable feedback. This input 
steers our focus towards the use of smart technologies 
and the development of new products that enhance 
energy efficiency and improve health, hygiene, comfort 
and convenience. A robust New Product Development 
process equipped with an automated Product 
Data Management (PDM) workflow has also been 
implemented. This system allows us to precisely define 
and track key performance indicators (KPIs) related to 
revenue, margins and learning outcomes, allowing our 
innovations to align seamlessly with our strategic goals.
Innovation
Over the past year, we have made significant strides in 
strengthening our approach to social media feedback 
and customer engagement. Following our partnership 
with a third-party agency, we successfully implemented 
a structured process to manage consumer interactions 
more efficiently and professionally across all platforms.
Building on this foundation, we introduced clearly 
defined Service Level Agreements (SLAs) to set 
internal benchmarks for communication and establish 
response time expectations for customer queries and 
escalations. We have achieved a consistent 15-minute 
Turnaround Time (TAT) for all first-level responses 
(FLRs) to social media escalations. This milestone 
has led to faster resolution timelines, improved 
coordination with our service teams, and enhanced 
consumer satisfaction — ultimately reinforcing a more 
responsive and trusted brand presence online
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Consumer  
feedback
We have a PAN-India network of authorised service 
centres to promptly address customer complaints 
and improve service quality. We equip our service 
teams with comprehensive training to enhance their 
effectiveness in resolving consumer issues. To measure 
consumer satisfaction, we employ a ‘happy code index’ 
that tracks and assesses service quality. Additionally, we 
are expanding our service coverage into remote areas 
to ensure efficient resolution of complaints, regardless 
of geographical challenges.
Service quality
Our approach to protecting our brand against 
counterfeit products involves proactive monitoring 
through market intelligence and statutory methods, 
such as review of trademark journals for identifying 
potential counterfeit activities. Upon detecting such 
issues, we act swiftly in line with Crompton’s IP Policy, 
initiating appropriate legal actions to combat the 
distribution and sale of counterfeit goods. This ensures 
the protection of our brand integrity and the quality 
of products.
Counterfeit product
Product Risk
Brand Risk
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
162 - 163
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
RISK MANAGEMENT
We are enhancing our supply chain resilience by 
significantly developing our domestic supplier base, 
which has allowed us to substantially reduce our 
dependency on imports. Our strategy includes the 
continued refinement of supply plans that prioritise 
domestic sourcing while also incorporating selected 
international alternatives. This approach ensures 
consistent product availability and strengthens our 
overall supply chain stability.
Our strategy focuses on optimising our vendor and 
supplier network to enhance delivery efficiency and 
strengthen supply chain resilience. As part of our 
comprehensive supply risk management approach, we 
consistently identify and develop alternative vendors 
and suppliers for essential SKUs and components.  
We remain committed to these ongoing efforts to 
ensure a robust and adaptable supply chain.
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Import risk
Production  
disruption and  
single source  
dependency
We continuously monitor market trends and 
technological advancements to respond swiftly to 
changes in consumer demand. We also emphasise 
cost-efficient product development through enhanced 
R&D and production processes which enable us to offer 
competitively priced products. This dual approach 
allows us to adapt to market changes and deliver  
cost-efficient products. 
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Competition
Our distribution strategy is evolving to enhance rural 
market penetration through the development of 
alternative channels. We are implementing an omni-
channel approach to ensure uniform pricing across all 
sales platforms. Additionally, to strengthen our digital 
presence, we have formed partnerships with various 
e-commerce platforms to boost our online visibility.
Distribution and 
alternate channel
We maintain strong market share across all segments. 
The success of our digital campaigns complements 
our conventional advertising efforts to enhance brand 
visibility and customer engagement. Crompton remains 
the market leader in the fans category, underlining 
our strategic prowess in both traditional and digital 
marketing arenas.
Market share and 
brand investment
We are committed to implementing cost-saving 
measures and driving technical advancements 
throughout our operations to address the challenges 
posed by fluctuating commodity prices. In addition, 
we are developing long-term partnerships with our 
commodity suppliers to help stabilise pricing and 
ensure a consistent supply of products. This approach is 
intended to enhance our operational effectiveness and 
maintain financial resilience amid market volatility.
Volatile 
commodity costT
As an organisation, we are committed to ensure 
Environment, Health and safety compliance, strictly 
adhering to statutory and regulatory requirements.  
As an organisation we are moving from the compliance 
to the commitment Culture, where compliance is 
the hygiene. We adhere to EPR (Extended Producer 
Responsibilities) of E-Waste and Plastic waste and fulfil 
the 100% obligation target before the due date.  
We also prioritise Environmental, Health, and Safety 
(EHS) within our operations and at our vendor locations 
— monitored through regular inspection and internal 
audits. Furthermore, we comply with local laws and this 
approach enables us to develop our own internal safety 
standard and we abide this high standard.
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Safety 
and compliance
We have implemented a comprehensive Diversity 
and Inclusion (D&I) policy with a strong emphasis on 
gender diversity. We have crafted gender-neutral 
job descriptions, created supportive frameworks 
for expecting parents and maintain gender-neutral 
harassment prevention policies. Additionally, we ensure 
equity across pay, benefits, promotions and succession 
planning to foster an inclusive and supportive 
workplace for all employees.
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Diversity 
engagement
Supply risk
Disruption risk
Culture risk
EHS risk
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
164 - 165
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
We have launched several initiatives aimed at retaining 
key talents and reducing turnover rates.  
These programmes focus on managing work related 
stress, fostering leadership and promoting well-being 
at the workplace. We prioritise work-life balance, strive 
to create a fun work environment, and continuously 
enhance our rewards and recognition framework to 
effectively motivate and acknowledge our employees. 
Additionally, we invest in various training programmes 
designed for talent management to facilitate 
upskilling and reskilling, ensuring our workforce remains 
adaptable and well-equipped for future challenges.
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Attrition  
management
We have implemented a succession planning 
framework that actively identifies and evaluates both 
internal and external talent. This involves benchmarking 
capabilities and facilitating the creation of detailed 
succession profiles. Additionally, our Diversity and 
Inclusion (D&I) agenda is integrated into the succession 
planning process to ensure a comprehensive and 
inclusive approach to talent development.
Adequacy of 
succession planning
Crompton is committed to maintaining a proactive 
approach in adapting to new data privacy law DPDP 
2025. In light of the enforcement of the DPDP Act, we 
have undertaken significant steps to ensure compliance 
with data privacy regulations. We successfully 
completed a comprehensive current state Privacy Gap 
Assessment for our organisation, evaluating our data 
privacy practices against the requirements set forth 
by the DPDP Act. We have also developed Personally 
Identifiable Information (PII) inventories and data flow 
diagrams by Function. Additionally, as part of our Data 
Privacy programme, we are actively working on aligning 
our practices with the DPDP Act, focusing on key areas 
such as Development our Data Privacy Framework, 
managing third-party due-diligence and contract, 
safeguarding Data Principal Rights Management, 
and enhancing our Incident Breach Management 
policies and procedures. We also continue to assess 
data protection risks through Data Protection Impact 
Assessments (DPIAs) for the applications collecting and 
processing the personal data. Our journey so far Phase I 
completed (Data Privacy Gap Assessment), Our Present 
Course Phase II – In Progress (Data Privacy programme).
Risk
Mitigation measures and progress
Capitals impacted
Emerging data 
privacy laws
We have established Data Centre and Disaster 
Recovery (DR) sites to effectively mitigate risks.  
Our security posture has been strengthened by 
completing a Data Protection Assessment and 
implementing Mobile Device Management with 
AzureAD Premium for secure, conditional access to 
Microsoft apps. We have also implemented Data Loss 
Prevention (DLP) and Cloud Access Security Broker 
(CASB) solutions for data security.
Annually, we conduct a Disaster Recovery drill for 
SAP to test and ensure the resilience of our systems. 
Both Active Directory and SAP are hosted in our Data 
Centre, which is equipped with DR capabilities to 
ensure business continuity. Additionally, we maintain a 
rigorous access management system complemented 
by thorough User Access Reviews.
To further enhance security awareness among our staff, 
we conduct multiple user awareness sessions, including 
simulated phishing campaigns, to reinforce our defence 
against potential cyber threats. 
Data and 
cyber security
RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal audit 
The Company’s internal control 
systems are commensurate with 
the nature of its business and 
the size and complexity of its 
operations. These are routinely 
tested and certified by Internal 
Auditors and cover all offices, 
factories, and key business areas.
The Company continuously invests 
in strengthening its internal 
controls and processes. To ensure 
transparency and accountability, 
we carry out internal audits by a 
third party, under the supervision of 
the Audit Committee.  
The Audit Committee formulates 
a detailed audit plan for the year 
for the internal auditor. We utilise 
a comprehensive risk evaluation 
procedure involving thorough 
financial review and oversight 
from our Board of Directors, the 
management and the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. The Internal 
Auditors attend the meetings of 
the Audit Committee, submit their 
recommendations, and provide a 
roadmap for the future.
After each audit, the results are 
submitted to the Audit Committee 
for evaluation. An e-audit portal 
has also been set up to track audit 
findings. It enables us to adhere to 
regulatory requirements, bolster 
our internal control structure and 
improve operational efficiency.
The Internal Auditor is tasked 
with ensuring an effective and 
independent internal audit 
function, which works to provide 
assurance regarding the adequacy 
and operation of internal controls 
and processes intended to 
safeguard the Company’s assets, 
effective and efficient use of 
the Company’s resources and 
timely and accurate recording of 
all transactions.
Information 
Technology risk
People risk
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
166 - 167
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports and 
Financial Statements
Management Discussion &  
Analysis Report 	
170
Board’s Report & Annexures 	
188
Report on Corporate  
Governance & Annexures 	
242
Corporate Governance  
Certificate 	
313
MD & CEO and CFO Certificate 	
314
Business Responsibility &  
Sustainability Report	
316
Standalone  
Financial Statements	
360
Consolidated  
Financial Statements 	
448
Independent Assurance  
Statement 	
538
GRI Content Index 	
544
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Geopolitical tensions, monetary 
policy divergence and financial 
market volatility continue to 
pose some risks to global growth 
impacting supply chains and global 
trade, along with concerns on 
investment flows. 
Inflation rates in China are expected 
to remain low and the growth 
forecast for the country has been 
slightly increased to 4.6% in 2025, 
primarily due to carry over from 
2024 and a fiscal package that is 
anticipated to largely counteract 
the negative impacts of trade policy 
uncertainty.  China’s growth in 2026 
is projected to remain largely stable 
at 4.5% as the impact of trade 
uncertainty lowers and the increase 
in retirement age moderates the 
decline in labour supply.
The China Plus One strategy is 
driving manufacturers, particularly 
in automotive and electronics, 
to expand into India, Vietnam 
and Mexico. This involves the 
establishment of local production 
facilities along with diversification 
of supply chains, aiming for long-
term global presence outside 
China. This widespread shift is 
expected to trigger debates on 
geopolitics, intellectual property and 
environmental sustainability.
The US Federal Reserve reduced 
interest rates by 25 basis points (4.25% 
to 4.50%) to stimulate economic 
activity , but increased tariffs are 
expected to significantly affect 
the global economy, potentially 
reducing global output by at least 
1% and increasing recession risks 
with further escalation of the trade 
conflict. This move has triggered 
market instability and a shift towards 
safe-haven assets like gold and US 
Treasuries. Amidst this uncertainty, 
opportunities may arise in European 
stocks, the Japanese yen, and 
defensive assets, highlighting the 
value of diversification in volatile 
market conditions. 
Meanwhile, the rising prevalence of 
Artificial Intelligence across every 
facet of life is having an impact on 
the world in different ways. AI could 
double annual global economic 
growth by 2035, across 12 developed 
economies, through increasing labour 
productivity (up to 40% via efficient 
time management), creation of a 
new ‘intelligent automation’ virtual 
workforce and the widespread 
diffusion of innovation, generating 
new revenue streams. It can also 
have a larger impact, a potential 14% 
boost to global GDP (USD 15.7 trillion) 
by 2030 due to AI adoption, propelled 
by the vast data generated from the 
Internet of Things (IoT).
Economic overview
Global economy
The global economy is projected to 
grow modestly in the Financial Year 
2024-25. Demonstrating remarkable 
resilience, it is characterised by 
divergent growth paths between 
developed and developing countries 
and influenced by employment 
dynamics, consumer behaviour, 
regulatory changes, geopolitical 
tensions, sustainability initiatives, and 
monetary policies.
The inflationary pressures have 
shown signs of stabilisation. However, 
several factors—including energy 
prices, supply chain disruptions, and 
labour costs—could maintain upward 
pressure. Advanced economies 
are seeing faster disinflation, while 
emerging markets face mixed trends, 
particularly in countries dealing with 
currency depreciation and supply-
side constraints. Consumer spending 
was moderate as inflation pressures 
persisted and interest rates remained 
high leading to adjusted spending 
habits favouring essential goods over 
discretionary items.
Sustainability continues to be a 
significant theme in the global 
economy for Financial Year 2024-
25. Countries are increasingly 
prioritising green energy and 
sustainable practices. Governments 
and organisations are investing 
in renewable energy projects, 
aiming for carbon neutrality and 
the circular economy. Regulatory 
landscapes are evolving, particularly 
in response to rising concerns over 
environmental sustainability, privacy 
and data security and pushing 
towards increasing norms on 
energy consumption.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Estimates
Particulars
FY24
FY25
FY26
Global Growth Projections (%)
Forecasts
World	
3.2	
3.3	
3.3
Advanced Economies	
1.7	
1.9	
1.8
Emerging Market and 	
4.2	
4.2	
4.3 
Developing Economies
India	
9.2	
6.4	
6.6
Source: WEO, Jan 2025
170 - 171
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Outlook
The global economy is expected 
to report steady growth of 3.3% 
in 2025 and 2026, below the 
historical average of 3.7%. Despite 
uncertainties, the global economy 
is showing signs of stabilisation 
as inflation rates move closer to 
target but tightening monetary 
condition might decelerate growth 
in advanced economies.
Uncertainty around trade, fiscal 
and regulatory policy is expected 
to soften the growth momentum 
of the US economy. Consumer 
spending is also expected to 
advance at a measured pace, 
mostly due to higher cost of living 
and elevated interest rates. The 
Eurozone is expected to see a 
gradual recovery, driven by an 
improved financial stance and 
stronger domestic spending. China’s 
economic expansion is projected 
to decelerate due to long-term 
structural issues and demographic 
changes, while India is expected to 
maintain its robust growth. 
Indian economy 
The country’s estimated real GDP 
growth of 6.4% in FY25 reflects 
deceleration in growth rate post 
the upward revision in FY 24. India’s 
consumption and discretionary 
spending has been stressed over 
the last couple of years due to 
the macroeconomic headwinds 
like surge in inflation and stress 
on wages and slowdown in credit 
origination volumes. In FY25, the 
private consumption was supported 
by improving urban employment 
and rising incomes while rural 
consumption has been robust led 
by strong agricultural performance 
and the services sector continues to 
be a key driver of growth. 
Manufacturing exports, 
particularly in high-value-
added components (such as 
electronics, semiconductors, and 
pharmaceuticals), have displayed 
strength, underscoring India’s 
growing role in global value 
chains. Government's flagship 
programmes, including Make in 
India, Start-up India, Digital India, 
the Smart City Mission, and the 
Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and 
Urban Transformation has opened 
immense opportunities in India.
Inflation in India has moderated, 
with retail inflation easing from 5.4% 
in the previous year. However, food 
inflation remains a concern due to 
supply-side disruptions. The Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) has projected 
headline inflation at 4.8% for FY25, 
gradually aligning towards the 
target range by FY26.
The Indian economy has witnessed 
steady growth positioning India as 
one of the fastest-growing major 
economies in the world, beyond 
by strong domestic demand, 
government reforms, and evolving 
global economic dynamics.
Growth of the Indian economy, 
although moderating mostly 
due to a sharper than expected 
deceleration in industrial activity, 
has remained on a steady growth 
track despite global headwinds 
and sluggish performance of some 
advanced economies. The country’s 
real GDP growth is estimated to 
be 6.4% in FY25, driven by robust 
domestic consumption, sustained 
public investment and resilient 
agricultural output. However, 
manufacturing faced headwinds 
due to weaker global demand and 
seasonal domestic factors. Private 
consumption remained stable, 
supported by improving urban 
employment and rising incomes. 
Inflation in India has moderated, 
with retail inflation easing to 4.6% 
in FY25 from 5.4% in the previous 
year. However, food inflation 
remains a concern due to supply-
side disruptions. The Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) has projected 
headline inflation at 4.8% for 
FY25, gradually aligning towards 
the target range by FY26. India’s 
real wages have declined below 
pre-COVID (FY18) levels in FY24. 
Simultaneously, credit origination 
volumes softened, with credit 
card uptake slowing down by 30% 
and home loans down by 10%, 
indicating economic strain.
During Budget 2025, a number of 
announcements related to the 
durable sector were made and it is 
expected to have a considerable 
influence on the industry , for 
instance changes in custom duty, 
increased duty on interactive 
flat panel displays and reduced 
custom duty on open cells. These 
developments are expected to 
encourage local manufacturing 
and promote self-reliance in the 
electronics manufacturing sector. 
Moreover, the government’s 
decision to waive personal income 
tax of around I 1 Lakh Crore is 
Industry overview
Electrical Consumer 
Durables industry 
After witnessing double digit 
growth in 2024, the Electrical 
Consumer Durables (ECD) industry 
has posted modest growth in FY25 
with mixed consumption trends in 
Q4 FY25. The amalgamation of a 
burgeoning middle class in urban 
areas and the aspirational demand 
emanating from rural India has 
helped the industry momentum 
with consumer seeking products 
that blend feature and aesthetics. 
Increased rural electrification and 
growing real estate sector are 
creating demand for consumer 
durables. There has been a surge 
for appliances with smart features 
that integrate with other devices, 
a shift towards higher capacity/
sizes at limited incremental cost 
and the rising preference for 
efficient appliances with lower 
operating costs. The push for 
energy efficiency, through Bureau 
of Indian Standards (BIS) and 
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) 
star ratings has been shaping 
consumer preferences.
India is the third-largest producer 
and consumer of electricity 
globally, with an installed capacity 
of 466.24 GW . Notably, the nation 
holds the fourth rank worldwide 
in both solar power and total 
renewable energy capacity. 
Significant progress has been 
made in electrification, with over 
28.6 million households connected 
under the Saubhagya scheme, 
nearing complete household 
electrification. Around 217.62 GW 
of power generation comes from 
non-fossil fuel sources also. India is 
also the third-largest producer of 
renewable energy, with renewables 
constituting 46.3% of its total 
installed capacity (203.18 GW of 
452.69 GW) as of October 2024.
By 2025, India’s Consumer 
Electronics and Appliances 
Industry is expected to be the fifth 
largest in the world*, with increase 
in Foreign Investment (FDI) 
reflecting growing confidence in 
the sector. The Production-Linked 
Incentive (PLI) scheme has also 
played a vital role in strengthening 
domestic manufacturing, 
strengthening India’s position in 
the global consumer durables and 
electronics market.
*  IBEF Indian Consumer Durables 
Industry Analysis
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
anticipated to enhance consumer 
demand for consumer durables, 
especially premium products.
The RBI has announced a 25-basis 
point repo rate cut, reducing 
it to 6%. It is expected to lower 
borrowing costs for banks, 
potentially leading to reduced 
interest rates on home, personal 
and vehicle loans, thus providing 
relief to borrowers and eventually 
boosting growth. 
Outlook
India’s growth trajectory for FY26 
is expected between 6.3% and 
6.8%. While external risks such as 
geopolitical tensions and trade 
disruptions persist, strong demand 
from rural and semi-urban markets 
is likely to outpace demand from 
urban markets, improving consumer 
confidence and an expected 
revival in private investment 
provide a favourable outlook. The 
government’s push for structural 
reforms, coupled with continued 
emphasis on infrastructure and 
digital transformation, will be 
instrumental in sustaining the 
growth momentum.
While inflation is expected to 
moderate further, food price 
volatility and global commodity 
trends pose potential risks. 
Overall, India is well-positioned to 
navigate global uncertainties. The 
focus on enhancing productivity, 
expanding manufacturing 
capabilities and attracting 
investments in different sectors will 
be critical for ensuring long-term 
economic resilience.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
172 - 173
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Pumps 
The pump market in India is 
on a steady ascent, powered 
by a surging demand from 
agriculture, water and waste water 
management, construction and 
diverse industrial applications. 
The increasing investments in 
high-quality infrastructure by the 
government have opened wider 
channels for innovating pumps. In 
the agricultural sector, increased 
adoption of advanced irrigation 
methods has necessitated the 
use of water pumps by farmers 
under government programmes. 
There is a growing emphasis on 
energy-efficient pumps to lower 
operational costs and minimise 
environmental impact. Also, the 
increasing use of centrifugal pumps 
across the domestic and residential 
sectors, owing to its simple design, 
easy maintenance, and smooth 
flow rate, is also a key trend adding 
to the market growth.
The Indian solar pump segment 
is expanding significantly. 
Government schemes such as 
PM-KUSUM, increase in awareness 
about sustainable irrigation 
and demand for more power in 
the agriculture sector is driving 
the demand for these pumps. 
Besides, government subsidies, and 
declining solar component costs 
have improved affordability of 
solar pumps.
Large Domestic Appliances 
Home appliances is one of the 
growing industries in India wherein 
the consumer preferences and 
purchase journey has been evolving. 
Lifestyle changes in urban areas 
have boosted the demand for smart 
appliances, technological innovations 
like IoT and AI and e-commerce 
penetration has increased 
awareness. Competitive pricing and 
special offers during festivals are 
further shaping the purchasing habits 
of modern consumers, driving the 
increased uptake of large domestic 
appliances. The rise in heatwave is 
driving a shift in buying and usage 
patterns, with a growing demand for 
cooling solutions.
However, the relatively low 
penetration of large domestic 
appliances in India presents a 
significant opportunity for the 
industry to capture a larger market 
share. The industry is expected 
to more than double by 2030 
along with growing demand for 
premium and smart products with 
advanced features, durability, 
energy efficiency, aesthetics, safety, 
and personalisation.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Small Domestic Appliances 
The India kitchen appliances market 
is driven by evolving consumer 
preferences towards  modern 
kitchen technologies and supported 
by government initiatives promoting 
energy-efficient products through 
BEE (Bureau of Energy Efficiency) 
ratings. The introduction of smart 
and connected kitchen appliances 
has also significantly contributed 
to the market's expansion as urban 
households increasingly adopt 
advanced technology. There is 
emphasis on enhancing localisation, 
research and innovation, increasing 
regulatory norms and offering 
forward-looking sustainable 
solutions, propelling India 
towards becoming a global hub 
for manufacturing.
Rapid urbanisation is transforming 
lifestyles and purchasing habits. 
Rising disposable income has 
also led the demand for futuristic 
products that minimise manual 
labour at home. The adoption 
of smart home appliances is 
also increasing due to growing 
preferences for user-friendly 
features that make certain 
products the perfect companion for 
modern homes. 
The Indian Small Kitchen Appliances 
eCommerce market is also a major 
contributor to the segment and 
accounts for 10.5% of the Household 
Appliances eCommerce market 
in India.
Fans 
The Indian fan industry is projected 
to grow given the tropical climate, 
increasing demand of aesthetic 
fans, adoption of smart technology 
and gain in awareness of energy-
efficiency. Increasing investments 
in housing infrastructure are 
offering a favourable ceiling fan 
market outlook. The popularity 
of technologically advanced, 
remote-controlled and smart fans 
incorporating IoT and AI features 
will increase. Online platforms are 
also helping expand the market 
reach, connecting urban and 
rural consumers. 
The Indian fan industry is 
projected to grow at CAGR of 
11.50% by 2030 driven by tropical 
climate, increasingly seeking 
of aesthetic fans, adoption of 
smart technology and gain in 
awareness of energy-efficient 
fans. Increasing investments 
in housing infrastructure are 
offering a favourable ceiling fan 
market outlook. The popularity 
of technologically advanced, 
remote-controlled and smart fans 
incorporating IoT and AI features 
will increase. Online platforms are 
also helping expand the market 
reach, connecting urban and 
rural consumers.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
174 - 175
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Lighting 
LED lighting has emerged as 
a powerful source for lighting 
industry over the past several 
years. Transition to LED technology, 
the adoption of smart lighting 
solutions, government initiatives 
and regulations and the focus 
on aesthetics have collectively 
driven the India lighting market 
growth. Within B2C segment, 
ceiling lights continue to grow 
and expected to form majority of 
lighting portfolio in next 5 years 
However, the Indian lighting market 
is highly competitive owing to 
the increasing entrants including 
regional players. Within the B2B 
segment, the UJALA and street 
lighting national programs have 
been driving the demand of street 
and solar lighting.
While LED lighting market is 
at a nascent stage, it offers 
innumerable opportunities for 
growth over the next few decades 
as India is one of the biggest 
lighting markets.
The market is expected to 
grow strong double digit led by 
increasing LED adoption . The 
demand will be fuelled by energy-
saving awareness, government 
initiatives and the use of LED 
lights for diverse applications. 
Urbanisation and infrastructure 
development has further boosted 
demand, particularly for outdoor 
and commercial LED lighting.
Key growth drivers
Changing 
lifestyle preferences
Modern consumers seek holistic 
solutions that seamlessly 
integrate with their lifestyle. They 
desire products that not only 
fulfil immediate needs but also 
resonate with their aspirations, 
reflect their unique identities 
and enhance their overall well-
being. This evolution towards 
lifestyle-centric purchasing 
demands a fundamental shift in 
how businesses approach product 
development and marketing. 
Companies are prioritising 
innovation and personalisation, 
crafting products that cater to 
evolving consumer preferences, to 
remain relevant and competitive.
Omnichannel availability 
At 14% channel saliency, India's 
consumer durable online segment 
has lot of potential to grow. Many 
advanced countries have 50-
70% business coming from online 
channel. While TVs lead with 20-
25% online share, major appliances 
hover at 10-15%. The government’s 
ONDC initiative aims to boost 
e-commerce, targeting a rise in 
retail salience from 8% in FY23 to 
25% by FY25.
The Indian Q-commerce market is 
valued at INR 287.6 billion (FY 2024) 
and is projected to reach USD 9.95 
billion by 2029, growing at 76% YoY, 
and 12% of urban consumers now 
prefer quick commerce, up from 
5% two years ago. Online growth 
is expected to be driven by brand 
choice, home delivery options 
and expanding infrastructure in 
tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Companies 
are also willing to provide holistic 
customer experiences through 
improved installation facilities, 
after-sales support, spare parts 
availability and the creation of a 
resale market.
Sustainable choices 
Evolving consumer preferences 
and India’s commitment to 
sustainability are driving a 
strong impetus for appliance 
manufacturing. Rising 
temperatures are increasing 
cooling demand and resulting in 
the demand for energy-efficient 
solutions. The India Cooling Action 
Plan (ICAP) and BEE star labelling 
programme are stimulating 
innovation in sustainable 
cooling technologies.
The growing global emphasis 
on sustainability is driving a 
significant consumer shift 
towards eco-friendly and energy-
efficient products. This trend 
offers a strategic opportunity 
for businesses to differentiate 
themselves by developing and 
promoting products that align 
with broader environmental 
objectives and demonstrate a 
strong commitment to corporate 
social responsibility.
Consumers willing to pay 
9.7% 
Sustainability premium 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Large Kitchen Appliances 
Evolving consumer demographics 
and lifestyle shifts, notable 
increase in disposable incomes and 
accelerated pace of urbanisation 
continues to drive the demand for 
sophisticated, space-optimised 
kitchen solutions. The kitchen has 
evolved from a tucked-away space 
to a central and often integrated 
part of the home, frequently 
blending seamlessly with the living 
area. Rising incomes drive demand 
for premium, convenient, and 
stylish appliances. Energy-efficient 
and AI-integrated technologies, 
coupled with digital awareness, 
boost smart appliance adoption.
The journey of cooking appliances 
has progressed from traditional 
standalone cooktops to 
integrated hobs, driven by modern 
kitchen design and a desire for 
seamless aesthetics. 
Technological advancements 
further propelled this shift, 
introducing efficient and 
safer induction hobs. While 
smart features are emerging, 
transforming hobs beyond 
simple cooking surfaces, the 
core evolution highlights a move 
towards integrated, design-
conscious, and increasingly 
efficient cooking solutions.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
176 - 177
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brand strength 
A brand’s strength is its ability to 
communicate trustworthiness, 
dependability and a proven history 
of excellence. These qualities 
significantly influence consumer 
decisions, with people favouring 
brands that have demonstrated 
consistent reliability and high 
quality over a longer period of time.
Technological innovations
The rapid pace of technological 
innovation presents significant 
opportunities for the consumer 
durables sector. By strategically 
investing in the development of 
smart appliances and connected 
devices, companies can cater 
to the market demand for 
advanced products. Focus on 
cutting-edge products, including 
those that enhance home 
automation, is essential for driving 
future growth and establishing 
a competitive edge through 
continuous innovation.
Growing middle-
class population
The middle class represents a 
significant growth catalyst for 
the consumer durables sector. 
As disposable incomes increase, 
a broader segment of the 
population has the capacity to 
purchase consumer durables. 
An expanding consumer base 
directly translates to heightened 
demand across diverse product 
categories, creating substantial 
market opportunities. 
47%
Middle class population  
by 2030-31 
Rising preference for health 
and well-being
Consumers are increasingly 
prioritising products that ensure 
health and well-being. It presents 
a significant opportunity for 
companies to develop smart 
products that align with consumer 
preferences. By introducing 
premium feature-rich products 
that offer health benefits, 
businesses can capture a valuable 
market share. 
Smart-home trends
The growing trend for smart 
homes, equipped with IoT and AI 
enabled products, has uncovered 
new avenues of growth for the 
consumer durables sector. Products 
that seamlessly connect with other 
smart devices and contribute to 
a comprehensive smart home 
ecosystem are experiencing 
substantial demand. This 
presents a valuable opportunity 
for companies to innovate and 
capture a lucrative market. 
Government initiatives 
Public infrastructure is a key focus 
for India’s economic growth, 
evidenced by a H 10 lakh crore 
budget allocation in 2023-24. 
The PM Gati Shakti initiative 
aims to streamline infrastructure 
planning for better connectivity 
and efficiency. Expansion of 
the national highway network, 
currently at 1,46,145 km, is also 
a priority. These infrastructure 
advancements are projected 
to bolster economic growth, 
improve connectivity and enhance 
living standards. Additionally, 
government schemes such as 
the ‘PM Kusum Scheme’ for solar 
pumps, ‘Housing for All,’ ‘Power 
for All,’ and rural electrification 
are anticipated to significantly 
contribute to the progress of the 
consumer durables sector.
Company overview
With a rich legacy of more than 85 
years, Crompton is a leading player 
in the Indian consumer electrical 
industry. Operating in the ECD and 
Lighting segments, we provide 
products under the ‘Crompton’ 
and ‘Butterfly’ brand, both in India 
and abroad. 
We embarked on our second 
phase of transformation with the 
implementation of Crompton 2.0. 
It offers strategic direction to our 
business and solidifies our market 
leadership across segments. 
In the Financial Year 2024-
25, the Company unveiled 
#TechWithHeart, representing 
our mission to create smart, 
responsible and high-performance 
solutions tailored to meet diverse 
and evolving consumer needs. It 
has enabled us to outperform in 
a competitive market. Strategic 
investments in brand development, 
innovation and talent acquisition 
have further influenced our 
growth trajectory.
Our commitment to sustainability 
has set us apart among peers
	Ȣ
Ranked #1 in India for 
sustainability in household 
durables industry
	Ȣ
Ranked #3 amongst global peers 
in household durables industry
	Ȣ
Ranked #4 in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability (DJSI) for sector
Crompton holds 75% stake 
in Butterfly to strengthen its 
position in the kitchen appliances 
segment. By leveraging Butterfly’s 
market leadership in southern 
India, Crompton benefits from 
its advanced manufacturing and 
R&D capabilities, and a robust 
distribution network.
This year, Butterfly is undergoing 
strategic brand repositioning. 
Our collaboration with Butterfly 
allows it to leverage our innovative 
capabilities and strong supply 
chain for faster time-to-market, 
cost savings, and broader 
distribution. Internally, Butterfly 
has restructured its marketing 
to enhance upstream activities 
like consumer insights and 
product development, alongside 
downstream communication 
and marketing. To further 
expand Butterfly’s reach, they 
have launched targeted social 
media campaigns, such as the 
#CookingAtHome initiative.
Crompton 2.0
Crompton 2.0 aims to deliver 
sustained growth over the long 
term. It enables us to adapt to 
evolving industry trends and 
solidify our position in a dynamic 
environment. The tenets of 
Crompton 2.0 include: 
	Ȣ
Enabled and 
empowered organisation
	Ȣ
Consumer need-led innovation 
	Ȣ
Premiumisation of portfolio 
	Ȣ
Supply chain excellence 
	Ȣ
Go-to-Market excellence 
	Ȣ
Digital enablement
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (Butterfly) is a renowned 
kitchen appliances manufacturer, 
recognised for its emphasis on 
innovation and quality. With a 
strong market presence, especially 
in Southern India, Butterfly offers 
a broad portfolio of products, 
including LPG stoves, pressure 
cookers, mixer grinders and 
wet grinders. 
2,800+
Unique Distributors
2,36,000+
Retailers
860+
Service centres
10 Lakh Crore
budget allocation for 
public infrastructure
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
178 - 179
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Manufacturing
Embracing lean manufacturing 
principles and through the 
integration of advanced 
technology we have streamlined 
our production processes to 
enhance efficiency and lower 
operational costs. Investments 
for process optimisation has also 
resulted in efficient resource 
utilisation. This year, we have 
strategically reinforced our supply 
chain to achieve operational 
excellence, focusing on timely 
and cost-efficient delivery, 
enhanced productivity, robust 
risk management, and optimised 
procurement. We have also 
developed a strategic sourcing 
footprint for fans and expanded 
production capacity at the Baddi 
plant. We also moved towards  
in-house PCB development of 
Nucleus for BLDC fans.
With the acquisition of Butterfly, 
we have broadened our 
manufacturing capabilities.  
Key initiatives including Project 
Udaan, a five-year initiative 
launched in 2019. These projects 
focus on enhancing manufacturing 
excellence, optimising ‘Make vs. 
Buy’ decisions, augmenting our 
manufacturing network, achieving 
sourcing excellence and ensuring 
technical advancement across 
our operations.
Innovation centre
Innovation is central to 
Crompton’s sustained growth. 
We utilise technology to improve 
our products and create eco-
friendly solutions. Our Innovation 
Centre has been instrumental in 
accelerating the introduction of 
new products and has enabled 
us to obtain new patents and 
design registrations.
Every business segment has 
specialised teams for focusing 
on various elements of New 
Product Development (NPD), 
such as design, development, 
project management and product 
testing. Adhering to government 
regulations, these teams utilise 
engineering tools and software 
to deliver cutting-edge solutions 
that align with evolving customer 
preferences. It has resulted in the 
introduction of several products 
with a specific focus on design, 
usability and energy efficiency.
Our R&D philosophy centres around 
creating products that seamlessly 
integrate into users’ lives, offering 
both functionality and aesthetic 
appeal. This approach manifests 
in several ways. The anti-dust fan 
and antibacterial mixer grinder, 
for instance, ensures the health 
and well-being of users. Similarly, 
intuitive designs and user-friendly 
elements such as ergonomic knobs 
and spill-proof designs underscore 
our commitment to simplifying 
daily tasks.
7
Manufacturing locations
Read more about manufacturing on 
  32
Read more about innovation on
  40
Crompton unveiled its 
‘TechWithHeart’ philosophy, 
underscoring its dedication to 
‘Innovation that Listens, Tech 
that Cares’ by creating smart, 
responsible, and high-performance 
solutions rooted in consumer 
needs. Demonstrating this 
commitment, we launched 170 
new products, including energy-
efficient fans like the HS Duro and 
Avancer Swirl, alongside new pump 
models and expanded our lighting 
solutions portfolio. 
Development of the indigenous 
NUCLEUS BLDC platform reiterates 
our commitment to innovation 
by enhancing fan performance, 
reliability, and efficiency with 
smart connectivity. The XTECH 
platform further reinforces 
our leadership in induction fan 
technology with improved energy 
efficiency and durability. To 
>80 Crore
R&D investment
170
Number of products launched
I 710.6 Crore
Revenue from new 
product launched
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
further our sustainability efforts 
in product innovation, we actively 
seek to minimise energy usage 
and environmental impact of our 
products. This commitment is 
validated by achieving Green-Pro 
certification from CII-IGBC for our 
fans, following a product carbon 
footprint assessment.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
180 - 181
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brand
Our marketing strategy focuses 
on maximising reach and 
strengthening our competitive 
edge. Utilising a dynamic, data-
driven approach, we leverage 
traditional and new-age media 
to create brand recall and loyalty. 
We employ innovative formats to 
capture the attention of our target 
audience. Digital integrations 
on Cricbuzz, for instance, drives 
brand recall for our air coolers 
campaign. In the fans category, 
we collaborated with celebrity 
influencers to showcase the 
efficiency as well as aesthetic 
value of our products. For kitchen 
appliances, we partnered with a 
celebrity couple to build a deeper 
emotional connection with our 
audience. These initiatives boost 
Read more about marketing on
  97
consumer engagement and help to 
maintain our brand’s prominence 
through reach, relevance, 
and innovation. 
Our future-ready marketing 
ecosystem integrates online and 
offline experiences. Recognising 
the fluid nature of consumer 
interaction, we strive to blend 
digital discovery with offline retail 
experience by demonstrating 
product benefits to customers. 
By leveraging technology 
and digitisation, we create 
a connected, omnichannel 
experience that keeps our brand 
relevance intact and creates 
greater awareness about 
our products. 
Our brand excellence is built on a 
deep consumer-centric culture, 
driven by extensive market 
research engaging over 15,000 
individuals to understand evolving 
preferences. This insight fuels 
our impactful communication 
strategies, exemplified by the 
‘Picture Perfect Fans’ campaign 
highlighting premium aesthetics, 
and our messaging around being 
India’s leading energy-efficient 
water heater brand. Also, we 
collaborated with celebrity 
influencers such as Genelia 
Deshmukh for our mixer grinder 
campaign, promoting the ‘Secret 
of Fine Taste’. This consumer-
first approach enables our 
products to resonate with actual 
consumer preferences and helps to 
strengthen our brand proposition 
across categories. 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Supply chain
We are dedicated to achieving 
operational excellence through 
streamlined and cost-efficient 
product delivery. Our supply 
chain resilience has enabled us to 
optimise procurement processes, 
meet production targets and 
minimise risks. Project Unnati is also 
being continuously implemented, 
aimed at elevating manufacturing 
excellence across Crompton and its 
vendors’ facilities.
Quality
We are committed to achieving 
operational excellence by 
embedding quality across our 
value chain. This is driven by a 
culture of continuous improvement, 
fostered through programmes 
like 5S, Quality Circles, and 
Daily Work Management, and 
Read more about supply chain on 
  80
Read more about quality on
  37
23
Branches
We employ a rigorous process 
for onboarding new suppliers, 
following a detailed assessment 
protocol. It evaluates suppliers 
based on their operational 
capabilities, product quality, 
punctuality and adherence to legal 
and environmental standards. We 
have increased multi-sourcing 
by 10% across new and legacy 
products and partnered with 
consultants to improve the process 
for onboarding of local vendors. 
It has enabled us to source high-
quality products and ensure cost-
effectiveness. 
We are strategically refining our 
supply chain footprint for optimal 
cost-effectiveness and product 
quality, leveraging Crompton 
and Butterfly’s strengths. This 
includes identifying key strategic 
suppliers based on comprehensive 
criteria such as capability, quality, 
compliance, sustainability, cost 
and financial stability. We have 
upgraded our warehouses to 
optimise our supply chain and 
consolidated the vendor base by 
building long-term relationships 
with multi-business unit suppliers, 
using a third-party aggregator for 
enhancing efficiency. 
supported by initiatives like ‘Glass 
Walls’ that promote transparency 
and accountability. We also 
empower our teams with 6 (Six) 
Sigma methodologies to tackle 
complex quality challenges, 
ensuring continuous improvement 
and exceptional value for our 
customers. Furthermore, we have 
implemented a Vendor Capability 
enhancement programme to 
improve the processes and 
systems of our top suppliers. This 
collaborative approach enhances 
their quality and supports cost 
optimisation efforts.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
182 - 183
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
People 
At Crompton, we strive to create 
an empowered workforce, 
aligned with our values. This 
year, we focused on strategic 
talent acquisition, enhanced 
employee engagement through 
surveys and skill development 
through robust learning and 
development programmes. Digital 
HR transformation has been a 
key focus, with improved payroll 
systems and planned facial 
recognition attendance. We also 
prioritise employee well-being 
and foster a culture of diversity 
and inclusion. This has also led to 
Read more about people on
 102
increased female participation 
in our workforce. Our values and 
6C framework are integrated into 
daily operations, ensuring ethical 
and responsible practices across 
the organisation.
We cultivate a strong, value-
driven culture through our 6C 
framework, which is being further 
embedded with the launch of 
6C 2.0, a playbook for a learning 
organisation, and capability-
building clubs led by senior leaders. 
This year, we fostered increased 
employee engagement through 
initiatives like Family Day and 
our comprehensive Employee 
Engagement Survey, ‘Pulse,’ which 
achieved an 88% response rate. To 
enhance internal communication 
and connection, we have also 
implemented digital initiatives 
such as the SyncUp intranet portal, 
facilitating real-time updates, 
celebrating achievements 
and providing quick access to 
company applications.
Looking forward, we seek to 
improve our HR programmes, foster 
interdepartmental relationships 
and encourage a culture of 
continuous learning.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Sustainability
We are committed to 
implementing sustainable and 
green practices throughout our 
operations. Our manufacturing 
facilities are equipped with energy, 
water and waste management 
systems to ensure responsible 
resource consumption. We are 
committed to meeting regulatory 
requirements and aligning with 
global sustainability frameworks. 
We have also launched an ESG 
Dashboard to track and improve 
our sustainability efforts, which 
helps us consolidate data, improve 
decision-making abilities and 
monitor key performance metrics 
like greenhouse gas emissions and 
resource usage. 
We have automated processes to 
enhance efficiency and reduce 
our environmental footprint. We 
focus on environment-friendly 
biodegradable packaging 
options in place of conventional 
packaging such as thermocol and 
asbestos. Our initiatives for water 
conservation have resulted in no 
Read more about sustainability on
 128
wastewater release at any of our 
production facilities, showcasing 
our commitment to safeguarding 
natural resources.
We are embedding sustainability 
into our product development 
process, starting with a 
comprehensive product carbon 
footprint assessment across seven 
representative categories. This 
commitment to environmental 
responsibility is reflected in our 
improved performance in the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) 
ESG Assessment 2024, where we 
achieved 61/100, ranking 4th in the 
DHP Household Durables industry, 
and our inclusion in the S&P Global 
Sustainability Yearbook 2025.
This progress demonstrates our 
focus on creating products with 
a reduced environmental impact 
throughout their lifecycle.
Risk Management
We are committed to safeguarding 
our stakeholders’ interests through 
a proactive risk management 
framework. Our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) framework 
is designed to be effective and 
practical, addressing core business 
needs. We have structured this with 
multi-layered oversight: the ERM 
Committee, Risk Council, Board 
Risk Management Committee, and 
Audit Committee. This enables us 
to comprehensively identify, assess 
and mitigate risks, focusing on 
minimising negative outcomes and 
maximising market potential.
To ensure transparency and 
accountability, we conduct third-
party internal audits, overseen by 
the Audit Committee. We employ 
a thorough risk evaluation process, 
carrying out 7-8 audits annually. 
An e-audit portal tracks findings, 
helps to enhance our internal 
controls, operational efficiency 
and regulatory compliance. 
This comprehensive approach 
strengthens our resilience and 
maintains our competitive edge, 
ensuring our long-term success.
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
184 - 185
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Cautionary 
statement
This document contains statements 
about expected future events, 
financial and operating results of 
your Company, which are forward-
looking. By their nature, forward-
looking statements require our 
Company to make assumptions 
and are subject to inherent risks 
and uncertainties. 
There is significant risk that the 
assumptions, predictions and other 
forward-looking statements will 
not prove to be accurate. Readers 
are cautioned not to place undue 
reliance on forward looking 
statements as several factors 
could cause assumptions, actual 
future results and events to differ 
Particulars
Consolidated Financial Performance 
Key highlights of financial performance
materially from those expressed in 
the forward-looking statements. 
Accordingly, this document is 
subject to the disclaimer and 
qualified in its entirety by the 
assumptions, qualifications and 
risk factors referred to in the 
management’s discussion and 
analysis of Crompton’s Integrated 
Annual Report for the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
2024-25
Ratios
Standalone Financial Performance
Debtors Turnover Ratio	
 11.65	
11.23
Inventory Turnover Ratio (on Cost of goods sold)	
 6.48	
6.70
Interest Coverage Ratio 	
27.01	
10.77
Current Ratio	
1.49	
1.52
Debt Equity Ratio	
0.08	
0.19
Operating Profit Margin	
11.66%	
10.78%
Net Profit Margin	
7.94%	
7.23%
Return on Net Worth (RoNW) 	
16.54%	
15.43%
2023-24
2023-24
2024-25
	
(G in Crore)	
% to Revenue	
(G in Crore)	
% to Revenue
	
	
from operations	
	
from operations
Revenue from Operations	
7863.55	
100.00%	
7,312.81	
100.00%
Material Cost	
5273.33	
67.06%	
5,000.31	
68.38%
Employee Benefit Expenses	
639.03	
8.13%	
589.87	
8.07%
Finance Cost	
 47.98	
0.61%	
79.19	
1.08%
Depreciation & Amortisation Expenses	
152.83	
1.94%	
128.82	
1.76%
Advertisement & Sales Promotion	
305.75	
3.89%	
297.19	
4.06%
Other Expenses 	
757.25	
9.63%	
711.75	
9.93%
Total Expenses	
7,176.17	
91.26%	
6,807.13	
93.08%
Other Income	
68.83	
0.88%	
67.39	
0.92%
PBT 	
 756.21	
9.62%	
573.07	
7.84%
Tax Expense	
192.13	
2.44%	
131.29	
1.80%
PAT 	
564.08	
 7.17%	
441.78	
6.04%
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
186 - 187
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors are pleased to present the Integrated Annual Report on the business and operations of 
your Company (“the Company” or “Crompton”), along with the audited Financial Statements (Standalone & 
Consolidated) for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. 
1. State of the affairs of the Company
The performance of the businesses is detailed out in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report (“MDA”) which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
2. Financial Performance
The highlights of the Financial Results (Standalone & Consolidated) are as under:
(H in Crore)
Particulars 
Consolidated
Standalone
F.Y. 2024-25
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2024-25
F.Y. 2023-24
Revenue from Operations
 7,863.55
7,312.81
7,028.29
6,388.38
Other Income
68.83
67.39
63.20
60.34
Total Income
  7,932.38
7,380.20
7,091.49
6,448.72
Profit before Tax
756.21
573.07
755.59
611.04
Tax Expenses
192.13
131.29
192.41
144.59
Profit for the year
564.08
441.78
563.18
466.45
Attributable to owners of the Company
555.95
439.92
563.18
466.45
Non-controlling Interest 
8.13
1.86
-
-
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
(1.56)
(0.30)
(2.12)
0.55
Total Comprehensive Income
562.52
441.48
561.06
467.00
Owners of the Company
554.25
439.83
561.06
467.00
Non-controlling Interest 
8.27
1.65
-
-
Opening Balance in retained earnings
2,432.67
2,181.73
2,638.62
2,361.15
Amount available for appropriations
2,990.49
2,624.57
3,203.67
2,380.52
Appropriations
Final Dividend Paid for 2023-24
(192.97) 
-
(192.97)
-
Final Dividend Paid for 2022-23
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
Closing balance in retained earnings
2,797.52
2,432.67
3,010.70
2,638.62
Board’s Report
6,388
2023-24
7,028
2024-25
5,809
2022-23
5,373
2021-22
4,750
Members funds 
(K in Crore)
Earnings 
(K in Crore)
Basic Earning Per Share (EPS) 
(in K)
Sales 
(K in Crore)
Dividend per share (DPS)  
(in K)
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)
(in %)
3,205
2023-24
3,604
2024-25
2,839
2022-23
2,456
2021-22
1,919
2020-21
7.29
26.78
2023-24
2023-24
8.75
26.97
2024-25
2024-25
7.49
31.03
2022-23
2022-23
9.45
43.78
2021-22
2021-22
9.64
59.38
466
2023-24
563
2024-25
476
2022-23
593
2021-22
605
2020-21
3.00
2023-24
3.00
2024-25
3.00
2022-23
2.50
2021-22
5.50
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
2020-21
Note: All the above figures are on standalone basis
188 - 189
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
3. Overview/ operations 
of 
group’s 
financial 
performance
	Ȣ
Consolidated income, comprising 
Revenue from Operations and 
Other Income, for the year was 
I 7,932.38 Crore, 7.48% higher 
compared to I  7,380.20 Crore, in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	Ȣ
Total 
Consolidated 
Revenue 
from Operations for the year 
increased to I 7,863.55 Crore 
vis-à-vis I 7,312.81 
Crore 
in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	Ȣ
Consolidated Profit before Tax 
for the year was I 756.21 Crore 
vis-à-vis 
I 
573.07 
Crore 
in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	Ȣ
Consolidated Profit after Tax 
for the year was I 564.08 Crore 
compared to I 441.78 Crore in 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	Ȣ
During the year under review, 
your 
Company’s 
export 
business 
experienced 
growth. 
This 
growth 
underscores 
the 
Company’s commitment to reach 
new 
Consumers 
and 
deliver 
high-quality 
products 
to 
the 
global mark.
	Ȣ
No 
material 
changes 
or 
commitments 
have 
occurred 
between 
the 
end 
of 
the 
Financial Year and the date of 
this Report, which affect the 
Financial Statements.
4. Dividend
In 
terms 
of 
the 
provisions 
of 
Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
as amended (“the SEBI Listing 
Regulations”), the Company has 
formulated a Dividend Distribution 
Policy (“the dividend policy”). The 
said policy is enclosed as Annexure 
1 to this Report. It is also available 
on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
f iles/aaeG lqQcuR _ Dividend-
Distribution-Policy-1.pdf
The 
Board 
remains 
committed 
to provide sustainable dividend 
payouts 
through 
established 
dividend policy with the objective 
of rewarding Members, retaining 
capital for growth and ensuring 
fairness 
and 
consistency 
in 
distributing profits to Members.
Over the years, the Company has 
delivered a consistent value to 
its Members and has successfully 
maintained a track record of steady 
dividend 
payments, 
reflecting 
its strong financial performance 
and 
commitment 
to 
enhance 
Member returns.
Your 
Directors 
are 
pleased 
to 
recommend 
a 
dividend 
of 
I 3 (Rupees Three Only) (150%) per 
equity share of face value of I 2 
(Rupees Two Only) each on the share 
capital amounting to I 193.14 Crore, 
working out to be payout ratio of 
41.41%, for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025.
The 
said 
Dividend 
has 
been 
recommended 
in 
line 
with 
the 
dividend policy and will be paid out 
of the Profits for the year.
The dividend, subject to the approval 
of the Members of the Company 
at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) to be held on Friday, 
August 08, 2025, will be paid within 
a period of 30 (Thirty) days from the 
date of AGM to the Members whose 
names appear in the Register of 
Members, as on the Record Date, i.e. 
Thursday, July 24, 2025.
In view of the changes made under 
the Income-Tax Act, 1961, by the 
Finance Act, 2020, dividends paid 
or distributed by the Company 
shall be taxable in the hands of the 
Members. As a result, the Company 
will make the payment of the final 
dividend after deduction of tax at 
source at applicable rates.
5. Transfer to reserves
Your Directors do not propose 
to transfer any amount to the 
General Reserve
6. Debenture Redemption  
Reserve
Pursuant to Rule 18 of Companies 
(Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014, the Company is not 
required to maintain Debenture 
Redemption Reserve (“DRR”).
Further, as required under SEBI 
Circular SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ CRADT/ 
CIR/ P/ 2020/ 207 dated October 
22, 2020, your Company has created 
Recovery Expense Fund in respect 
of outstanding debentures.
7. Management Discussion 
& Analysis Report (“MDA”)
In 
terms 
of 
the 
provisions 
of 
Regulation 34 read with Schedule 
V(B) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
a detailed report on MDA forms 
an integral part of this Integrated 
Annual Report and gives an update, 
inter alia, on the following matters:
	Ȣ
Economic Overview
	Ȣ
Industry Overview
	Ȣ
Key Growth Drivers
	Ȣ
Company Overview
	Ȣ
Manufacturing
	Ȣ
Innovation Centre
	Ȣ
Marketing
	Ȣ
Supply Chain
	Ȣ
Quality
	Ȣ
People
	Ȣ
Sustainability
	Ȣ
Risk Management
8. Share Capital
8.1 Paid-up capital:
During the year under review, your Company has made following allotments pursuant to the exercise of options by 
eligible employees under various ESOP schemes:
No. of Shares
Crompton Employee Stock Option Scheme -2016 (ESOP 2016)
Crompton Employee Stock Option Scheme – 2019 (ESOP 2019)
Crompton Performance Share Plan - 1 - 2016 (PSP 1 2016)
Crompton Performance Share Plan - 2 - 2016 (PSP 2 2016)
Total
Name of ESOP Scheme(s) 
4,05,788
2,96,396
Nil*
Nil*
7,02,184
* All the shares under PSP 1 2016 & PSP 2 2016 are completely alloted and there are no pending allotments as on the date of the report
Accordingly, 
the 
total 
paid-up 
share capital of the Company as on 
March 31, 2025, stood at I 128.76 
Crore 
divided 
into 
64,38,09,163 
Equity Shares of I 2.00 (Rupees Two 
Only) each.
Further, during the year under 
review, your Company has granted 
9,50,000 Equity Shares under ESOP 
2019 scheme on October 3, 2024.
8.2 Authorised Capital
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
the authorised share capital of 
the Company increased from I 
1,31,00,00,000 (Rupees One Hundred 
Thirty-One Crore Only) divided into 
65,50,00,000 (Sixty-Five Crore Fifty 
Lakhs) Equity Shares of I 2 (Rupees 
Two Only) each to I 1,34,00,00,000 
(Rupees One Hundred and Thirty-
Four 
Crore 
Only) 
divided 
into 
67,00,00,000 
(Sixty-Seven 
Crore) 
Equity Shares of I 2 (Rupees Two 
Only) each by creation of additional 
1,50,00,000 (One Crore Fifty Lakh) 
Equity Shares in order to facilitate 
further 
issuance 
of 
capital 
to 
commensurate with the size and 
future operations of the Company.
9. Financial Liquidity
Consolidated 
cash 
and 
cash 
equivalent as on March 31, 2025, 
stood at I 203.68 Crore (Rupees 
Two Hundred Three Crore and 
Sixty-Eight Lakhs Only) vis-à-vis 
I 
172.06 
Crore 
(Rupees 
One 
Hundred Seventy-Two Crore and 
Six Lakhs Only) in the previous year. 
The Company’s working capital 
management is robust and involves 
a well-organized process, which 
facilitates continuous monitoring 
and 
control 
over 
receivables, 
inventories and other parameters.
10.	Credit Rating
The Company has received credit 
ratings from CRISIL Ratings Limited, 
and India Ratings and Research 
Private 
Limited 
(collectively 
referred to as “Agencies”). There 
has been no revision in credit ratings 
during the year. The ratings given by 
these agencies as on date of the 
report are as follows:
Rating  
Agency
Ratings
Outlook
CRISIL 
India Ratings 
& Research
India Ratings 
& Research
Non-convertible Debentures (“NCDs”)
Long-Term 
Short-Term 
Instrument(s)
CRISIL AA+
IND AA+
IND AA+/ IND 
A1+
Stable
Stable
Stable
The ratings reflect your Company’s diversified business risk profile, established brand, leading position in 
multiple consumer durable segments and strong growth prospects, driven by focus on brand building and 
consumer sentiments.
Board’s Report
190 - 191
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
11.	Public Deposits
During the year under review, the 
Company has neither accepted 
nor renewed deposits from the 
public falling within the ambit 
of Section 73 and 74 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”), 
read together with the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 
2014. Hence, the requirement for 
furnishing of details relating to 
deposits covered under Chapter V 
of the Act or the details of deposits 
which 
are 
not 
in 
compliance 
with Chapter V of the Act is 
not applicable.
The 
requisite 
return 
for 
the 
Financial 
Year 
2023-24 
with 
respect 
to 
amount(s) 
not 
considered as deposits has been 
filed. The Company does not have 
any unclaimed deposits as on the 
date of this report.
12.	Particulars 
of 
loans, 
guarantees or investments
The details of investments made, 
and guarantee provided by the 
Company under Section 186 of 
the Act, Regulation 34(3) and 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report in the 
notes to the standalone financial 
statements for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025.
Further, the Company has not 
given any loan or provided any 
security which are covered under 
the provisions of Section 186 of the 
Act during the year under review.
13.	 Internal Control Systems
13.1 Internal Controls and 
its adequacy
Your 
Company 
prioritises 
reinforcing 
financial 
and 
operational controls to enhance 
transparency, accountability and 
efficiency in its processes. Your 
Company adheres to an internal 
control framework that includes 
key process coverage that impacts 
the reliability of financial reporting 
such as periodic control testing 
to assure design and operational 
effectiveness, and implementation 
of remedial measures and regular 
monitoring by Senior Management 
and 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
of 
the 
Board. 
Internal 
audits 
are 
conducted periodically, and any 
design deficiencies or operational 
inefficiencies are reported, and 
improvement 
measures 
are 
recommended. The adequacy of 
controls is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee 
of 
the 
Board 
and 
specific processes are assessed 
for 
improvement 
in 
systems 
and outcomes periodically. The 
adequacy of the internal control 
systems 
and 
procedures 
forms 
part of MD & CEO Certificate in 
the certification section of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Your 
Company 
has 
initiated 
awareness 
sessions 
on 
the 
Company’s 
Code 
of 
Conduct, 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(“POSH”) 
and 
whistleblowing 
rights by conducting Company-
wide trainings for all its employees. 
Additionally, 
e-learning 
modules 
have also been developed to keep 
employees 
informed 
of 
these 
policies. This module is included in 
the Crompton Induction Program 
for all its new employees for making 
them aware of the various codes 
and regulations applicable to them 
including the Whistle Blower Policy 
(“WB Policy”). This not only ensures 
compliance and a well-regulated 
environment but also helps achieve 
the organizational objectives.
Process controls with evolving 
SAP solutions
Your Company is actively enhancing 
IT in key processes, embedding 
major controls in SAP for accuracy. 
Third-party validation is initiated 
to 
ensure 
system 
configuration 
effectiveness, 
while 
periodic 
reviews are conducted to control 
authorisation 
to 
SAP 
through 
function-based 
user 
access 
supported by the Governance Risk 
and Controls module. Evolving SAP 
solutions are utilised for process 
controls, with continued monitoring 
facilitated 
by 
automations 
and 
exception management.
13.2 Internal Controls over 
Financial Reporting
The Company’s internal financial 
controls 
commensurate 
with 
the scale and complexity of its 
operations. The controls were tested 
during the year and no reportable 
material weaknesses either in their 
design or operations were observed. 
The Company has put in place robust 
policies 
and 
procedures, 
which 
inter 
alia, 
ensures 
integrity 
in 
conducting 
its 
business, 
safeguarding of its assets, timely 
preparation of reliable financial 
information, 
accuracy 
and 
completeness 
in 
maintaining 
accounting records and prevention 
and detection of frauds & errors.
14.	Vigil mechanism/ WB 
Policy
Over the years, your Company 
has 
built 
a 
reputation 
for 
conducting business with integrity, 
maintaining 
a 
zero-tolerance 
policy towards unethical behavior, 
thereby fostering a positive work 
environment 
and 
enhancing 
credibility among stakeholders.
Your Company has formulated a 
WB Policy which provides adequate 
safeguards against victimization 
of Director(s)/ employee(s) and 
also provides for direct access 
to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in exceptional cases. 
It also assures them of the process 
that will be observed to address 
the reported violation. The Policy 
also lays down the procedures 
to 
be 
followed 
for 
tracking 
complaints, 
giving 
feedback, 
conducting 
investigations 
and 
taking 
disciplinary 
actions. 
It also provides assurances and 
guidelines on confidentiality of the 
reporting process and protection 
from 
reprisal 
to 
complainants. 
The Audit Committee oversees the 
functioning of this policy, and no 
personnel have been denied access 
to the Audit Committee.
Protected 
disclosures 
can 
be 
made by a whistle-blower through 
several channels to report actual 
or suspected frauds and violation 
of 
the 
Company’s 
Code 
of 
Conduct. The Policy also provides 
a mechanism to encourage and 
protect 
genuine 
whistleblowing 
amongst the Vendors.
Any incident that is reported is 
investigated and suitable action 
is taken in line with the WB Policy. 
The WB Policy is available on 
the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
and can be accessed at https://
reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/
public/files/hxamy77St7_Vigil-
Mechanism-and-WB-Policy_19-
May_updated.pdf The WB policy of 
the Company was last amended on 
May 15, 2025. 
The Company’s WB Policy supports 
employees who report violations, 
ensuring a confidential and fair 
reporting 
process. 
To 
promote 
awareness 
of 
the 
WB 
Policy, 
your 
Company 
has 
initiated 
Company-wide 
training 
sessions 
for all its employee(s) along with 
effective e-training modules for 
new hires during their induction. 
Additionally, your Company has 
set up an e-mail ID and a toll-free 
number for employee(s) to register 
WB complaints. 
As a good corporate governance 
practice, the Company investigates 
all 
anonymous 
complaints 
submitted even without evidence.
Any reporting is duly investigated in 
a fair manner and shared with the 
Board of Directors on a quarterly 
basis and actioned in line with the 
WB Policy, as applicable.
19 
(Nineteen) 
whistle-blower 
complaints were received during 
the Financial Year 2024-25 and 
suitable action has been taken in 
accordance with the WB policy.
15.	Subsidiary Companies, 
Associates & Joint Venture 
Companies
15.1 Subsidiaries
Your 
Company 
has 
4 
(Four)
Subsidiaries including 1 (One) as 
material subsidiary, the details of 
which are as follows:
1. 	
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited  
(CIN: U74999MH2018PTC318891)
	
A 
wholly 
owned 
subsidiary 
incorporated 
on 
December 
31, 2018, to execute, design, 
manufacture, 
test, 
supply, 
O&M of LED Street Lights & 
Poles and other related works 
for 
the 
implementation 
of 
Greenfield 
Street 
Lighting 
Project 
for 
19 
(Nineteen) 
Urban Local Bodies (“ULBs”) 
in 
Odisha. 
This 
contract 
received 
from 
Government 
of Odisha, Housing & Urban 
Development Department is 
on Public-Private Partnership 
(“PPP”) basis.
	
Total Revenue booked for the 
Financial Year ended March 
31, 2025, was I 2.12 Crore 
(including I 1.11 Crore as Other 
Income). Profit after Tax was 
I 0.77 Crore as compared to 
a profit of I 0.65 Crore in the 
previous year.
2. 	
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited  
(CIN: U74999MH2019PTC318955)
	
A wholly owned subsidiary 
incorporated 
on 
January 
02, 2019, to execute, design, 
manufacture, 
test, 
supply, 
192 - 193
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
O&M of LED Street Lights & 
Poles and other related works 
for the implementation of 
Greenfield 
Street 
Lighting 
Project 
for 
36 
(Thirty-Six) 
(“ULBs”) 
in 
Odisha. 
This 
contract 
received 
from 
the Government of Odisha, 
Housing & Urban Development 
Department is on PPP basis.
	
Total Revenue for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, 
was I 2.23 Crore (including 
I 1.27 Crore as Other income) 
and 
Profit 
after 
Tax 
was 
I 1.05 Crore as compared to 
I 1.00 Crore in the previous year.
3. 	
Crompton CSR Foundation  
(CIN: U85300MH2019NPL324784) 
(CSR Unique Identification No: 
CSR00001086)
	
A 
wholly 
owned 
subsidiary 
incorporated under Section 8 
of the Act (being a Company 
limited by guarantee not having 
share capital) on May 01, 2019, 
primarily with an objective of 
undertaking/ channelising the 
CSR activities of the Company. 
Crompton CSR Foundation is 
registered under Section 80G 
and Section 12A of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961. Based on the 
control 
assessment 
carried 
out by the Company, the same 
is not consolidated as per 
Indian Accounting Standards 
(the “Ind AS”) 110.
4. 	
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited  
(CIN: L28931TN1986PLC012728)
	
As on March 31, 2025, Butterfly 
Gandhimati Appliances Limited 
(“Butterfly”) is considered as 
material listed Indian subsidiary 
of 
the 
Company 
under 
Regulation 24 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. It was incorporated 
on February 24, 1986, to carry 
on the business as Importers, 
Exporters, Manufacturers and 
Dealers 
of 
household 
and 
industrial vessels and utensils 
from all type of metals, plastics, 
ebonite, 
in 
particular 
all 
household appliances, lighting 
products 
and 
all 
types 
of 
consumer electrical goods.
	
Total Revenue for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, 
was I 871.47 Crore (including 
I 6.98 Crore as Other Income) 
and Profit after Tax was I 32.53 
Crore as compared to a profit of 
I 7.39 Crore in the previous year.
	
Pursuant to the requirements 
of Regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
details 
of 
loans/ 
advances 
made 
to, 
and investments made in the 
subsidiary have been furnished 
in 
Notes 
forming 
part 
of 
the Accounts.
15.2 Joint Ventures (“JVs”)/ 
Associate Companies
The Company does not have any 
JVs or Associate Companies during 
the year or at any time after the 
closure of the year and till the date 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
16.	Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements have been prepared in 
compliance with the Ind AS notified 
under Section 133 of the Act read 
with Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended and other relevant 
provisions of the Act. The said 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
forms 
part 
of 
this 
Integrated 
Annual Report.
Pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions 
of 
Section 
129(3) 
of 
the 
Act 
read with Rule 5 and 8 of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, 
a statement containing salient 
features of financial statements 
of subsidiaries in Form AOC-1 is 
attached herewith as Annexure 2. 
The 
separate 
audited 
financial 
statements in respect of each of the 
subsidiary companies are available 
on the website of Company and 
can be accessed at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/financial-
reports#SubsidiariesFinancials 
and are open for inspection by 
the Members.
Any Member desirous of inspecting 
the said financial statements or 
obtaining copies of the same may 
write to the Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer at crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in. 
The Company shall provide free 
of cost a copy of the Financial 
Statements 
of 
its 
Subsidiary 
Companies to the Members upon 
their request.
In 
line 
with 
the 
requirements 
of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, your Company has 
approved a policy for determining 
material subsidiaries which was last 
amended on May 15, 2025, and the 
same is available on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
f iles/3K6rUAYCUW_ Policy %20
on%20Material%20Subsidiary.pdf
17.	 Board of Directors &  
Key Managerial Personnel
Your Company actively strives to 
adopt global best practices to 
ensure the effective functioning 
of the Board. It emphasises the 
importance of having a truly diverse 
Board whose collective wisdom and 
strength can be leveraged to create 
greater stakeholder value, protect 
their interests, and uphold better 
corporate governance standards. 
Your Company’s Board comprises 
of 
eminent 
professionals 
with 
proven competence and integrity. 
They bring in vast experience and 
expertise, strategic guidance and 
strong leadership qualities.
As on March 31, 2025, the Board 
comprised of 1 (One) Executive 
Director, 7 (Seven) Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors 
(including 
2 
(Two) 
Women 
Independent 
Directors) and 1 (One) Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, details 
thereof have been provided in the 
Report on Corporate Governance 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
In terms of the requirement of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board 
has identified core skills, expertise, 
and competencies of the Directors 
in the context of the Company’s 
businesses for effective functioning. 
The list of key skills, expertise and 
core competencies of the Board 
of Directors is detailed in the 
Corporate 
Governance 
Report 
which forms a part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
17.1 Directorate
a. 	
Appointments/ Re-appointments 
and Director and Retirement by 
rotation
	
The 
appointment 
and 
remuneration 
of 
Director(s) 
are governed by the Policy 
devised by the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”) of your Company. 
The 
details 
of 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Policy 
is 
mentioned in the Report on 
Corporate Governance which 
forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report. The Nomination 
& Remuneration policy is also 
available on the website of 
the Company and can be 
accessed at https://reports.
c ro m pto n .c o. i n/s h o p i f y/
public/f iles/3hxE5pdSl 0_
N o m i n a t i o n % 2 0 a n d % 2 0
Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
	
Further, there were following 
changes in the directorate 
during the year under review:
	
•	
Retirement 
by 
rotation 
and 
subsequent 
re-
appointment
	
	
In terms of Section 152 
of the Act, Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla 
being 
liable 
to 
retire by rotation, was 
re-appointed 
by 
the 
Members at the AGM held 
on July 26, 2024.
	
	
In accordance with the 
provisions 
of 
Section 
152 of the Act and the 
Company’s 
Articles 
of 
Association, Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh (DIN: 05307658) is 
liable to retire by rotation 
at 
the 
forthcoming 
AGM and being eligible 
offers 
himself 
for 
re-appointment. 
The 
Board 
recommends 
re-appointment 
of 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh who 
retires 
by 
rotation 
for 
the consideration of the 
Members of the Company 
at 
the 
forthcoming 
AGM. 
The 
relevant 
details including profile 
of Mr. Promeet Ghosh is 
included 
separately 
in 
the Notice of AGM and 
Report 
on 
Corporate 
Governance, which forms 
part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
	
•	
Change in designation 
of Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN: 00059877)
	
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla was 
elevated as the Executive 
Vice 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Board for 1 (One) year 
w.e.f. May 01, 2023, till 
April 30, 2024. He then 
assumed 
the 
position 
Non-Executive 
Vice 
Chairman, w.e.f. May 01, 
2024, up till December 
31, 2025.
17.2 Key Managerial Personnel 
(“KMPs”)
During the year under review, there 
were no changes in the KMPs of 
the Company.
In accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2(51) and Section 203 of 
the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment 
& 
Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, 
including 
any 
statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force, 
as on March 31, 2025, the following 
are the KMPs of the Company:
1.	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Managing 
Director 
& 
Chief 
Executive 
Director (“MD&CEO”);
2.	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, 
Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”); 
and
3.	
Ms. 
Rashmi 
Khandelwal, 
Company 
Secretary 
& 
Compliance Officer
194 - 195
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
17.3 Independent Director(s)
All the Independent Director(s) 
of the Company have submitted 
requisite declarations confirming 
that they continue to meet the 
criteria 
of 
independence 
as 
prescribed under Section 149(6) 
of the Act and Regulation 16(1)
(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The Board is of the opinion that 
the Independent Director(s) of 
the Company possess requisite 
qualifications, 
expertise 
and 
experience in the varied fields and 
holds highest standards of integrity. 
The 
Independent 
Director(s) 
have also confirmed that they 
have complied with Schedule IV 
of the Act and the Company’s 
Code 
of 
Conduct. 
The 
terms 
and conditions of appointment 
of the Independent Director(s) 
are placed on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/yFnc3ag3DW_
L e t t e r- o f- A p p o i n t m e n t- o f-
Independent-Director-1.pdf
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Independent 
Director(s) 
have 
confirmed that they are not aware 
of any circumstance or situation 
that exists or may be reasonably 
anticipated that could impair or 
impact their ability to discharge 
their 
duties 
with 
an 
objective 
independent 
judgement 
and 
without any external influence. The 
Director(s) have further confirmed 
that they are not debarred from 
holding the office of the Director 
under any SEBI order or any other 
such authority.
In compliance with Rule 6(1) of the 
Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014, all the Independent Director(s) 
of the Company have registered 
themselves with Indian Institute of 
Corporate Affairs, Manesar (“IICA”) 
In terms of Section 150 of the Act 
read with Rule (4) of the Companies 
(Appointment & Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, 
since all the Independent Director(s) 
have served on the Board of listed 
companies for a period of not less 
than 3 (Three) years at the time 
of inclusion of their names in the 
database, they are exempted from 
undertaking the online proficiency 
self-assessment test conducted by 
the Institute.
Mr. D Sundaram, Mr. P M Murty, 
Mr. P R Ramesh, Mr. Anil Chaudhry, 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, Ms. Smita Anand 
and Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani serve 
as the Independent Directors on 
the Board of the Company. Further, 
the details of the membership 
of 
Committee(s) 
and 
the 
qualifications and expertise of all 
the Director(s) are covered in the 
Report on Corporate Governance 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
17.4 Non-Independent  
Director(s)
As on March 31, 2025, Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla was elevated as the Executive 
Vice-Chairman of the Board for 
1 (One) year w.e.f. May 01, 2023, 
till April 30, 2024. He then assumed 
the position of Non-Executive Vice 
Chairman, w.e.f. May 01, 2024, up till 
December 31, 2025.
17.5 Board Effectiveness
(a)	 Familiarisation 
Programme 
for Independent Director(s)
 37    315
	
programmes 		
hours
	
Over the years, the Company 
has 
developed 
a 
robust 
familiarisation 
process 
for 
Independent Director(s) which 
includes sessions on various 
business 
and 
functional 
matters and strategy sessions 
to enable them to understand 
their roles and responsibilities. 
The process has been aligned 
with 
the 
requirements 
under 
the 
Act 
and 
other 
related regulations.
	
The Company has in place 
a 
structured 
familiarisation 
programme which is imparted 
at the time of appointment 
of Independent Director(s) on 
the Board as well as during 
the 
year. 
The 
Programme 
aims to provide insights into 
the Company to enable them 
to understand its business in 
depth, to acclimatise them 
with the processes, business 
and 
functionaries 
of 
the 
Company and to assist them 
in performing their roles & 
responsibilities as Independent 
Director(s) of the Company.
	
Upon 
appointment, 
the 
Independent Director(s) receives 
a 
letter 
of 
appointment 
setting 
out 
in 
detail, 
the 
terms of appointment, duties, 
responsibilities, 
obligations, 
code of conduct to regulate, 
monitor and report trading 
by 
designated 
persons 
for 
Prevention of Insider Trading 
and code of conduct applicable 
to all Director(s) and Senior 
Management 
Personnel(s) 
(“SMPs”) The said Independent 
Director(s) are given detailed 
orientation 
regarding 
the 
Company’s 
business 
model, 
industry, risks and opportunities, 
strategy, policies and Code 
of 
Conduct, 
innovation, 
sustainability 
measures, 
corporate social responsibility 
initiatives of the Company. They 
are also updated on all business-
related issues and new initiatives 
undertaken by the Company.
	
Additionally, the MD & CEO 
along with senior leadership 
team 
make(s) 
presentations 
and provides updates on the 
performance 
& 
strategic 
initiatives of the Company at 
regular Board and Committee 
Meeting(s) of the Company 
facilitating 
them 
to 
clearly 
understand the business of the 
Company and the environment 
in which the Company operates, 
relevant 
statutory 
changes 
encompassing 
economic 
outlook, market trends, peer 
trends, etc. Brief details of the 
familiarisation Programme are 
uploaded on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.
co.in/shopify/public/files/
qi3SMtnxLh_Familiarization%20
Programme%20for%20FY%20
24-25.pdf
	
During 
the 
year, 
the 
Management also conducted 
deep-dive 
sessions 
for 
the 
entire Board on core strategic 
priorities and other business 
matters.
(b) 	 Formal Board Performance 
Evaluation
	
In terms of requirements of 
the Act read with the Rules 
issued 
thereunder 
and 
the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Board carried out the annual 
performance 
evaluation 
of 
the Board of Director(s) as 
a 
whole, 
Committee(s) 
of 
the 
Board 
and 
Individual 
Director(s). 
Your 
Company 
believes that the process of 
performance 
evaluation 
at 
the Board level is pivotal to 
its Board engagement and 
effectiveness. 
Criteria 
for 
Board 
evaluation 
is 
duly 
approved by N&RC based on 
the guidance note issued by the 
SEBI. Performance evaluation 
is facilitated by the Chairman 
of the Board who is supported 
by the Chairman of N&RC.
	
The process of Board Evaluation 
is conducted through structured 
questionnaire(s) 
which 
includes 
various 
aspects 
of 
the Board’s functioning such 
as adequacy of the Board 
composition diversity, skill set 
of Members, the appointment 
process, 
understanding 
of 
roles 
and 
responsibilities, 
circulation of Board papers, 
quality 
of 
information 
provided, 
strategic 
oversight, 
risk 
evaluation, 
acquisitions 
guidance, individual Director(s) 
and contributions, execution of 
duties, governance performance 
for the Board as a whole, 
Committee(s) of the Board and 
Individual Director(s) and has 
been undertaken digitally.
	
The performance indicators 
for the Committee(s) inter alia 
includes composition of the 
Committee, 
understanding 
the 
terms 
of 
reference, 
adherence to the charters, the 
effectiveness 
of 
discussions 
at the Committee Meeting(s), 
the information provided to 
the Committee to discharge 
its 
duties/ 
obligations 
and 
performance 
of 
the 
Committee, support provided 
to 
the 
Board 
vis-à-vis 
its responsibilities.
	
The performance of individual 
Director(s) 
was 
evaluated 
based on parameters such as 
attendance at the Meeting(s), 
contribution 
to 
Board 
deliberations, 
engagement 
with colleagues on the Board, 
ability to guide the Company 
in key matters, knowledge, 
understanding 
of 
relevant 
areas, 
and 
responsibility 
towards 
stakeholders. 
All 
the Director(s) were subject 
to 
self-evaluation 
and 
peer evaluation.
	
The 
performance 
of 
the 
Independent Director(s) was 
evaluated taking into account 
the above factors as well as 
independent decision-making 
and non-conflict of interest. 
Further, the evaluation process 
was based on the affirmation 
received from the Independent 
Director(s) 
that 
they 
meet 
the independence criteria as 
required under the Act and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
In addition to the questionnaire(s), 
the Chairperson of the N&RC 
conducted 
in-depth 
one-on-
one interviews with each Board 
Member 
to 
gather 
detailed 
insights. A quantitative analysis 
and Board Effectiveness brief 
including 
insightful 
feedback, 
and trends was shared by the 
Chairman of the N&RC to all the 
Board Members. Thereafter, the 
following process was followed 
to 
assimilate 
and 
process 
the feedback:
196 - 197
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
	Ȣ
Performance 
of 
Non-
Independent 
Directors, 
the Board as a whole and 
Chairman of the Company 
was 
evaluated, 
taking 
into account the views of 
Executive 
Director 
and 
Non-Executive Directors;
	Ȣ
The 
entire 
Board 
discussed the findings of 
the 
evaluation 
with 
the 
Independent 
Director(s) 
and 
also 
evaluated 
the 
performance 
of 
the 
Individual 
Director(s) 
including the MD & CEO, 
the Board as a whole and 
all the Committee(s) of the 
Board; and
	Ȣ
As 
an 
outcome 
of 
the 
above 
process, 
individual 
feedback was shared with 
each Director.
	
The 
Board 
Evaluation 
discussion was focused on 
how to make the Board more 
effective as a collective body 
in the context of the business 
and the external environment 
in 
which 
the 
Company 
functions. The Board was in 
regular 
meetings 
apprised 
of relevant business issues 
and 
related 
opportunities 
and 
risks. 
The 
evaluation 
exercise 
was 
designed 
to 
go   into various aspects of 
its functioning and that of its 
Committees such as structure, 
composition, 
conduct 
of 
meetings, 
and 
interaction 
with management and what 
needs to be done to further 
augment the effectiveness of 
the Board’s functioning.
	
Questionnaires 
on 
the 
functioning 
of 
the 
Board 
and information flow, peer 
evaluation 
of 
Directors, 
evaluation of the MD and 
performance of Committees 
were filled in by all directors.  In 
addition,  the Chairman of the 
N&RC conducted one-on-one 
interviews with each Board 
Member to gather detailed 
insights. A quantitative analysis 
and Board Effectiveness brief 
including insightful feedback, 
and trends was shared by 
the Chairman of the N&RC 
to all Independent Directors. 
Thereafter, 
the 
following 
process was followed:
	
1.	
A separate meeting of 
Independent 
Directors 
discussed 
the 
findings 
and arrived at a set of 
recommendations 
for 
improving the functioning 
of the Board as a whole. 
These recommendations 
were then discussed in the 
Board and a programme 
was adopted to bring 
about the changes. These 
changes have been , by 
and 
large, 
effectively 
carried out.
	
2.	
It was decided that the 
Committees would discuss 
the 
recommendations 
pertaining to them and 
arrive at an action plan.
	
3.	
As an outcome of the 
above process, it was 
decided that, as before, 
the 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Board 
would 
provide 
individual feedback  to 
each Director.
	
The Board’s overall assessment 
indicated that it was operating 
cohesively, 
including 
its 
various 
Committees. 
These 
Committees were performing 
effectively, 
regularly 
reporting to the Board on 
their activities and progress 
during the reporting period. 
The Board also noted that 
the 
actions 
identified 
in 
previous 
questionnaire-
based 
evaluations 
had 
been implemented.
	
During 
the 
Financial 
Year 
2024- 25, the Company acted 
on the feedback from the 
Board 
evaluation 
process 
conducted in the even year. 
The Board noted the key 
improvement areas emerging 
from this exercise including 
but not limited to improving 
the 
operating 
capability 
of the company, review of 
business strategy and annual 
planning, strengthening top 
talent pipeline, reducing the 
attrition rate, etc.
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
have 
expressed their satisfaction with 
the evaluation process.
17.6 
Remuneration 
Policy 
and criteria for selection of 
candidates for appointment 
as Directors, KMPs and SMPs
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 
178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company has in place a policy 
on 
remuneration 
of 
Director(s), 
KMPs and SMPs as well as a 
well-defined 
criterion 
for 
the 
selection 
of 
candidates 
for 
appointment to the said positions, 
which 
has 
been 
approved 
by 
the Board.
The Policy broadly lays down the 
guiding 
principles, 
philosophy 
and the basis for payment of 
remuneration to the Executive and 
Non-Executive Director(s) (by way 
of sitting fees and commission), 
KMPs and SMPs. The criteria for the 
selection of candidates for the above 
positions covers various factors and 
attributes, which are considered by 
the N&RC and the Board of Directors 
while 
selecting 
candidates. 
The 
policy on remuneration of Directors, 
KMPs and SMPs can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/3hxE5pdSl0_
N o m i n a t i o n % 2 0 a n d % 2 0
Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
17.7 
Executive 
Director(s) 
Remuneration
The remuneration for the MD & 
CEO comprises of both fixed and 
variable components. The variable 
pay is awarded annually, based 
on the overall performance of the 
Company. The determination of 
this variable pay is carried out by 
the N&RC and there is no clawback 
provision 
associated 
with 
the 
remuneration paid to the MD & CEO.
In terms of applicable laws, there 
is no mandatory stock ownerships 
requirement for MD & CEO. Stock 
options granted to MD & CEO are 
governed by various Employee 
Stock Option Plans & Performance 
Share Plans of the Company as 
approved by Members from time 
to time. N&RC is responsible for 
administrating the stock incentives 
and 
performance 
incentives 
plans 
of 
the 
Company 
and 
determines the eligibility of all the 
employees including MD & CEO of 
the Company. 
For details of grant, vesting and 
exercised options, please refer to 
Report on Corporate Governance 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual 
Report. 
The 
bifurcation 
of fixed pay and variable pay for 
MD & CEO as on March 31, 2025, is 
as under:
Fixed and Variable pay – 
Fixed
Variable
40%
60%
18.	Number of meetings 
of 
the 
Board 
& 
its 
Committee(s)
18.1 Board Meeting(s)
The 
Board 
meets 
at 
regular 
intervals to discuss and decide on 
the Company’s/ business policy and 
strategy. The Board exhibits strong 
operational oversight with regular 
presentations in quarterly meetings.
The 
Board 
and 
Committee 
Meeting(s) 
are 
scheduled 
in 
advance, with a tentative annual 
calendar 
circulated 
to 
the 
Director(s) well ahead of time 
to allow for effective planning 
and 
participation. 
In 
instances 
of business exigencies, the Board 
also approves certain proposals 
through circulation, ensuring timely 
decision-making to address urgent 
business requirements.
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
met 
8 (Eight) times during the Financial 
Year 2024-25. The intervening gap 
between the meetings was within 
the period prescribed under the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The details of the Meeting(s) and 
the attendance of the Director(s) 
are mentioned in the Report on 
Corporate 
Governance 
which 
forms 
part 
of 
this 
Integrated 
Annual Report. 
18.2 Board Committee(s)
The Board has established several 
Committee(s) as a matter of good 
corporate governance practices 
and 
as 
per 
the 
requirements 
of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
The 
Company 
has 
the following 9 (Nine) Board-level 
Committee(s), which have been 
established in compliance with the 
requirements of the business and 
relevant provisions of applicable 
laws and statutes:
1.	
Audit Committee;
2.	
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (“N&RC”);
3.	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (“CSR Committee”);
4.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship & 
Share 
Transfer 
Committee 
(“SRC”);
5.	
Risk Management Committee 
(“RMC”);
6.	
Environment 
Social 
and 
Governance Committee (“ESG 
Committee”);
7.	
Allotment 
Committee 
for 
allotment of shares arising out 
of Stock Options;
8.	
Strategic Investment Committee 
(“SIC”);
9.	
Committee for Debentures;
The 
composition, 
terms 
of 
reference, number of Meeting(s) 
held, and business transacted by the 
Committee(s) are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
198 - 199
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Pursuant 
to 
the 
requirements 
of Schedule IV of the Act and 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations, 
Independent 
Director(s) 
met 
4 (Four) times without the presence 
of Non-Independent Directors and 
members 
of 
the 
management, 
to review the performance of 
Non-Independent 
Directors 
and 
the 
Board 
as 
a 
whole, 
the 
performance of the Chairperson of 
the Company, taking into account 
the views of Executive Director, 
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent 
Director and also to assess the 
quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between 
the Company management and 
the Board.
The details and composition of the 
mandatory Committee(s) of the 
Board are as follows:
18.18.1 Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises of 
4 (Four) Members, all the Members 
of the Committee are Independent 
Director(s). 
The 
Committee 
is 
chaired 
by 
Mr. 
Sanjiv 
Kakkar 
(Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director). The other Members of 
the Committee are Mr. P R Ramesh 
(Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director), Mr. P M Murty (Non-
Executive, Independent Director) 
and Mr. D Sundaram (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director). Details of 
the role and responsibilities of the 
Audit Committee, the particulars 
of Meeting(s) held, and attendance 
of the Members at such Meeting(s) 
are mentioned in the Report on 
Corporate 
Governance, 
which 
forms 
part 
of 
this 
Integrated 
Annual Report.
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
of 
the 
Company 
approved 
the 
reconstitution 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee, 
pursuant 
to 
which 
Mr. P R Ramesh ceased to be the 
Chairman 
but 
continued 
as 
a 
Member of the Committee with 
effect from December 27, 2024, and 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar was appointed 
as the Member and Chairman of 
the Committee with effect from 
December 28, 2024.
During the year under review, all 
the recommendations made by the 
Audit Committee were accepted by 
the Board.
18.18.2 Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”)
As on the date of this report, the 
N&RC 
comprises 
of 
3 
(Three) 
Members. The Committee is chaired 
by Mr. P M Murty (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director). The other 
Members of the Committee are 
Mr. D Sundaram (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director) and Ms. Smita 
Anand (Non-Executive, Independent 
Director). Details of the role and 
responsibilities of the N&RC, the 
particulars of Meeting(s) held, and 
attendance of the Members at such 
Meeting(s) are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance, 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
N&RC is responsible for inter alia, 
recommendation and approval of 
appointment 
and 
remuneration 
of the Directors, KMPs and SMPs. 
The Committee also acts as the 
Compensation Committee for the 
purpose of administration of the 
several Employee Stock Option 
Plans 
and 
Performance 
Share-
Based plans, as amended from 
time to time. N&RC is also entrusted 
with the responsibility of framing 
the criteria for evaluation of the 
individual Director(s), Chairperson 
of the Board, the Board as a 
whole and its Committee(s). It also 
frequently evaluates the working 
and effectiveness of the Board and 
manages the succession planning 
for 
Board 
Member(s), 
KMPs 
and SMPs.
The Nomination & Remuneration 
Policy is available on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/3hxE5pdSl0_
N o m i n a t i o n % 2 0 a n d % 2 0
Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
During the year under review, all 
the recommendations made by the 
N&RC were accepted by the Board.
18.18.3 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee
The CSR Committee comprises of 
4 (Four) Members, out of which 
2 
(Two) 
are 
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Directors. 
The 
Committee 
is 
chaired 
by 
Mr. 
Shantanu 
Khosla 
(Non-
Executive 
Vice‑Chairman). 
The 
other Members of the Committee 
are 
Mr. 
D 
Sundaram 
(Non-
Executive, Independent Director), 
Ms. Smita Anand (Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director) 
and 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, MD & CEO.
The 
details 
of 
the 
role 
and 
responsibilities 
of 
the 
CSR 
Committee, 
the 
particulars 
of 
meetings held, and attendance of 
the Members at such Meeting(s) 
are mentioned in the Report on 
Corporate 
Governance, 
which 
forms 
part 
of 
this 
Integrated 
Annual Report.
In compliance with Section 135 of 
the Act read with the Companies 
(Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended, 
the 
Company 
has 
set 
up 
a 
CSR 
Committee 
and 
statutory 
disclosures with respect to the 
CSR Committee and an Annual 
Report on CSR Activities forms 
part 
of 
this 
Integrated 
Annual 
Report as Annexure 3. The CSR 
Policy as recommended by the CSR 
Committee and as approved by the 
Board is available on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/U6kk0A8Uoy_
Corporate-Social-Responsibility-
Policy-1.pdf
18.18.4 Stakeholders’ Relationship 
& 
Share 
Transfer 
Committee 
(“SRC”)
As on the date of this report, 
the 
SRC 
comprises 
of 
4 (Four) Members, out of which 
2 
(Two) 
are 
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Directors. 
The 
Committee 
is 
chaired 
by 
Mr. D Sundaram (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director). The other 
Members 
of 
the 
Committee 
are 
Mr. 
P 
M 
Murty 
(Non-
Executive, Independent Director) 
Mr. 
Shantanu 
Khosla 
(Non-
Executive Vice Chairman) and 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh (MD & CEO).
The 
Details 
of 
the 
role 
and 
responsibilities of the SRC, the 
particulars of Meeting(s) held, and 
attendance of the Members at such 
Meetings are given in the Report 
on Corporate Governance, which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual 
Report. During the year under 
review, all the recommendations 
made by the SRC were accepted by 
the Board.
SRC is responsible for inter alia 
various 
aspects 
of 
interest 
of 
the stakeholders, monitoring the 
performance 
of 
the 
Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent and 
recommends measures for overall 
improvement of the quality of 
investor services as and when the 
need arises, resolve the grievance(s) 
of the security holders of the 
Company including complaint(s) 
related to transfer/ transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of Annual 
Report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends and issue of duplicate 
certificates, etc.
The 
Stakeholder 
Relationship 
& 
Share Transfer Policy is available on 
the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/RYvj6XpMad_Stakeholders-
Relationship-and-Share-Transfer-
Policy-1.pdf
18.18.5 
Risk 
Management 
Committee (“RMC”)
The RMC comprises of 3 (Three) 
Members, 
all 
the 
Members 
of 
the 
Committee 
are 
Non-
Executive, Independent Directors. 
The 
Committee 
is 
chaired 
by 
Mr. P  R Ramesh (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director). The other 
Members of the Committee are 
Mr. P M Murty (Non-  Executive, 
Independent 
Director), 
and 
Mr. D Sundaram, (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director).
The 
Details 
of 
the 
role 
and 
responsibilities of the RMC, the 
particulars of Meeting(s) held, and 
attendance of the Members at 
such Meetings are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance, 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report. During the year under 
review, all the recommendations 
made by the RMC were accepted by 
the Board.
RMC assists the Board in monitoring 
and reviewing the risk management 
plan and implementation of the 
risk management and mitigation 
framework of the Company. The 
main objective of the RMC is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its corporate 
governance oversight responsibilities 
with regard to the identification, 
evaluation 
and 
mitigation 
of 
risks 
including 
risks 
related 
to 
cyber security.
The Risk Management Policy is 
available on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/SqLFuZNXly_
Risk-Management-Policy-1.pdf
19.	Risk 
Management 
Framework
The Company’s Board of Directors 
have delegated the responsibility 
of formulating, implementing, and 
monitoring the risk management 
plan to the RMC. The RMC is 
responsible for reviewing the risk 
management plan and ensuring its 
effectiveness. The Audit Committee 
has additional oversight in the area 
of financial risks and controls.
A business-centric approach to risk 
management is used to identify 
potential risks. Based on materiality 
of 
the 
risk, 
response 
strategies 
are developed and assigned to 
concerned risk owner. Head of 
risk 
management 
works 
closely 
with all business and functional 
team in carrying out identification, 
evaluation, monitoring and reporting 
of risk response, under the guidance 
of Leadership Council. Update on risk 
management is presented before 
RMC Committee at least twice 
a year.
200 - 201
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
The Risk Management Framework 
is reviewed periodically by the RMC 
and the Board is informed about the 
risk assessment and minimization 
procedures to ensure that executive 
management 
controls 
the 
risk 
by means of a properly designed 
framework, 
which 
includes 
discussing 
the 
Management 
submissions on risks, prioritizing key 
risks and approving action plans to 
mitigate such risks. In addition, the 
management across the Company 
is responsible for identifying critical 
risks and implementing appropriate 
risk responses within their area 
of responsibility.
The Risk Management framework 
proves 
instrumental 
in 
helping 
the management to identify the 
best possible option to mitigate 
identified risks, in line with the 
organization’s strategy, objectives, 
and risk appetite.
The detailed discussion on Risk 
Management forms part of the 
MDA, which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
20.	Particulars of contracts 
or 
arrangements 
with 
related parties
In 
accordance 
with 
the 
requirements 
of 
the 
Act 
and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, as 
amended from time to time, the 
Company has framed a Policy on 
Materiality of and dealing with 
Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) 
which is uploaded on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed 
at https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/hdDSNkYWnx_
Policy%20on%20Materiality%20
of%20and%20dealing%20with%20
Related%20Party%20Transactions.
pdf
All RPTs are placed before the 
Audit 
Committee 
for 
review, 
approval 
and 
recommendation 
to the Board for its approval. The 
Audit Committee grants omnibus 
approval for all the RPTs which are 
foreseen and repetitive in nature, 
based on the criteria approved by 
the Board. A detailed statement of 
all RPTs is placed before the Audit 
Committee every quarter for their 
review and noting.
The Board of Directors of your 
Company 
have 
approved 
the 
criteria to grant omnibus approval 
by the Audit Committee within 
the 
overall 
framework 
of 
the 
RPT Policy on RPTs. All members 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
are 
Independent Directors.
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
there were no material significant 
transactions with related parties 
in 
terms 
of 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations requiring approval of 
the Members. The details pertaining 
to transactions which were not at 
arm’s length basis are given in Form 
No. AOC-2, along with all the RPTs 
entered during the year, as a good 
corporate 
governance 
practice 
attached as Annexure 4, to this 
Board’s report, forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
None of the Directors and the KMPs 
have any pecuniary relationships or 
transactions vis-à-vis the Company. 
The Directors draw attention of 
the Members to Note No. 32 of the 
standalone financial statements 
setting out the disclosure on RPTs 
for the Financial Year 2024-25.
In compliance with Regulation 23(9) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has submitted the 
intimation on RPTs to the Stock 
Exchanges within the prescribed 
statutory timelines.
21.	Transfer 
of 
equity 
shares 
from 
unpaid/ 
unclaimed dividend to 
the Investor Education 
and 
Protection 
Fund 
(IEPF)
Pursuant 
to 
the 
applicable 
provisions of the Act, Investor 
Education and Protection Fund 
Authority 
(Accounting, 
Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(“IEPF 
Rules”) 
read 
with 
the 
relevant circulars and amendments 
thereto, the amount of dividend 
remaining unpaid or unclaimed 
for a period of 7 (Seven) years 
from the due date is required to 
be transferred by the Company 
to the IEPF, constituted by the 
Central Government.
Further, according to the IEPF Rules, 
all the shares in respect of which 
any dividend has not been claimed 
by the Members for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years or more shall also 
be transferred by the Company to 
the designated Demat Account of 
the IEPF Authority (“IEPF Account”) 
within a period of 30 (Thirty) days 
of such shares becoming due to be 
transferred to the IEPF Account.
The 
Company 
will 
transfer 
unclaimed dividend declared for 
the Financial Year 2017-18, along 
with the corresponding shares on 
which the dividends are unclaimed 
for 7 (Seven) consecutive years, 
as 
per 
the 
requirements 
of 
the IEPF Rules. The Company 
had communicated to all the 
concerned Members individually 
whose dividend and shares were 
liable to be transferred to IEPF. 
Additionally, the Company has 
given newspaper advertisement 
to the Member(s) of the Company 
to claim their unclaimed dividend/ 
shares underlying in Company’s 
unpaid dividend account, before 
such transfer to IEPF Account.
The Company had also uploaded 
the 
details 
of 
such 
Members 
and 
shares 
transferred 
to 
IEPF 
on 
the 
website 
of 
your 
Company 
at 
https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ShareholderResources
During the year under review, 
the 
Company 
transferred 
the 
unclaimed 
and 
un-encashed 
dividends of I 42,44,693 (Rupees 
Forty-Two 
Lakhs 
Forty-Four 
Thousand Six Hundred and Ninety-
Three 
Only). 
Further, 
18,84,478 
(Eighteen 
Lakhs 
Eighty-Four 
Thousand 
Four 
Hundred 
and 
Seventy-Eight) 
corresponding 
shares on which dividends were 
unclaimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive 
years were transferred.
Member(s) whose shares/ dividend 
are transferred to IEPF as stated 
above, can still claim the shares/ 
dividend from the IEPF Authority 
by submitting an application in 
Web Form No. IEPF-5 available on 
www.iepf.gov.in. The voting rights 
on shares transferred to the IEPF 
Authority 
shall 
remain 
frozen 
until the rightful owner claims 
the shares. The shares held in 
such Demat account shall not 
be transferred or dealt with in 
any manner whatsoever except 
for the purpose of transferring 
the shares back to the claimant 
as and when he approaches the 
Authority. All benefits except rights 
issue accruing on such shares e.g. 
bonus shares, split, consolidation, 
fraction shares etc., shall also be 
credited to such demat account. 
Any further dividend received on 
such shares shall be credited to the 
IEPF Authority.
Member(s) are requested to claim 
the shares/ dividend, which have 
remained 
unclaimed/ 
unpaid, 
by 
sending 
a 
written 
request 
to the Company at crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
or to the Company’s Registrar 
and 
Transfer 
Agent 
(“RTA”), 
einward.ris@kfintech.com 
or 
at 
their address at KFin Technologies 
Limited 
at 
Selenium 
Tower 
B, 
Plot 
31-32, 
Financial 
District, 
Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally 
Mandal, 
Hyderabad 
- 
500032. 
Member(s) can find the details 
of 
Nodal 
officer 
appointed 
by 
the 
Company 
under 
the 
provisions of IEPF at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ConInvestors
22.	Significant and material 
orders 
passed 
by 
the 
regulators or courts
During the year under review, there 
were no significant and material 
orders passed by the regulators 
or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status of your 
Company 
and 
its 
operations 
in future.
23.	Risks arising out of 
litigations, claims and 
uncertain tax positions
The Company is exposed to a 
variety of different laws, regulations, 
positions 
and 
interpretations 
thereof which encompasses direct 
taxation and legal matters. In the 
normal course of business, provisions 
and contingencies may arise due 
to uncertain tax positions and 
legal matters.
Based on the nature of matters, the 
management 
applies 
significant 
judgement 
when 
considering 
evaluation of risk, including how 
much to provide for the potential 
exposure of each of the matters. 
These 
estimates 
could 
change 
substantially over time as new facts 
emerge as each matter progresses, 
hence these are reviewed regularly. 
For matters where expert opinion 
is required, the Company involves 
the best legal counsel. Reference is 
drawn to the “Key audit matters” 
by the auditors in their reports on the 
above matters.
24.	Auditors
a. 	 Statutory Auditors
M/s. M S K A & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration 
Number 105047W) were appointed 
as 
Statutory 
Auditors 
of 
the 
Company by the Members at the 
Extra-Ordinary 
General 
Meeting 
held on August 27, 2021, to hold 
office as Statutory Auditors for a 
term of 5 (Five) consecutive years, 
i.e. till the conclusion of 12th AGM 
of the Company to be held for the 
Financial Year 2025-26.
The Board of Directors at their 
meeting held on May 15, 2025, 
basis 
the 
recommendation 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
approved 
the 
remuneration 
of 
M/s. M S K A & Associates as 
I 
1,16,00,000 
(Rupees 
One 
Crore and Sixteen Lakhs Only) for 
the Financial Year 2025‑26.
Established in 1978, M/s. M S K A & 
Associates is an Indian partnership 
firm registered with the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI) and the US Public Company 
Accountancy 
Oversight 
Board 
(PCAOB) 
having 
offices 
across 
12 (Twelve) cities in India at Mumbai, 
202 - 203
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Gurugram, 
Chandigarh, 
Kolkata, 
Ahmedabad, Chennai, Goa, Pune, 
Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad and 
Coimbatore. The audit firm has a 
valid peer review certificate.
The Firm primarily provides audit 
and assurance services, tax and 
advisory services, to its clients. 
The Firm’s Audit and Assurance 
practice has significant experience 
across various industries, markets 
and geographies.
The Auditor’s Report on the financial 
statements of the Company for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2025, forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report. The said report was 
issued by the Statutory Auditors 
with an unmodified opinion and 
does not contain any qualifications, 
reservations or adverse remarks. 
Auditors’ Report is self-explanatory 
and therefore, does not require 
further comments and explanation. 
During the year under review, the 
Auditors have not reported any 
fraud under Section 143(12) of the 
Act and therefore disclosure of 
details under Section 134(3)(ca) of 
the Act is not applicable.
The Audit Committee reviews the 
independence and objectivity of the 
Auditors and the effectiveness of the 
Audit process.
The Statutory Auditors attend the 
AGM of the Company.
b. 	 Cost Auditors
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Amendment 
Rules, 2014, the Company is required 
to maintain cost records as specified 
by 
the 
Central 
Government. 
Accordingly, 
the 
Company 
has 
maintained 
cost 
accounts 
and 
records in the prescribed manner. 
The records maintained by the 
Company under Section 148 of the 
Act are required to be audited by a 
Cost Accountant.
The Board of Directors of the 
Company at their meeting held 
on May 15, 2025, based on the 
recommendation 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee, 
approved 
the 
appointment of M/s. Ashwin Solanki 
& Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm 
Registration Number 100392) as the 
Cost Auditors of the Company to 
conduct audit of the cost records of 
the Company for the Financial Year 
2025-26. The Company has received 
a certificate from M/s. Ashwin 
Solanki & Associates, confirming 
their consent and that they are not 
disqualified from being appointed 
as the Cost Auditors of the Company. 
A remuneration of I 6,50,000 (Rupees 
Six Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) plus 
applicable taxes and out of pocket 
expenses has been fixed for the Cost 
Auditors subject to the ratification 
of such fees by the Members at 
the ensuing AGM. Accordingly, the 
matter relating to the ratification 
of the remuneration payable to 
the Cost Auditors for Financial 
Year 2025-26 shall be placed at the 
ensuing AGM.
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates 
have 
affirmed 
that 
the 
cost 
records for the Financial Year 
ending March 31, 2025, comply 
with all requirements under Section 
141(3) and the proviso to Section 
148(3), read along with Section 
141(4) of the Act, without any 
disqualifications. They have also 
confirmed their independence.
c. 	 Secretarial Auditors 
The Board at its meeting held on 
May 16, 2024, appointed Parikh & 
Associates, Company Secretaries as 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
to conduct the Secretarial Audit 
for the Financial Year 2024-25. 
The Secretarial Audit Report in 
Form MR-3 is annexed herewith 
as Annexure 5 to this Integrated 
Annual 
Report. 
The 
Secretarial 
Audit Report does not contain any 
qualification, reservation, adverse 
remark or disclaimer.
Pursuant to recent amendments in 
SEBI Listing Regulations vide Circular 
No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/218 
dated December 12, 2024, basis 
the 
recommendation 
of 
Board 
of Director(s), a listed entity shall 
appoint/ re-appoint:
i.	
an individual as Secretarial 
Auditor for not more than 
1 
(One) 
term 
of 
5 
(Five) 
consecutive years; or
ii.	
a Secretarial Audit firm as 
Secretarial Auditor for not more 
than 2 (Two) terms of 5 (Five) 
consecutive years, with the 
approval of its Members in its 
AGM to be held for the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
In accordance with Section 204 of 
the Act, read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) 
Rules, 
2014, and Regulation 24(A) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, based on 
the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and subject to the 
approval of  the Members of the 
Company at the ensuing AGM, the 
Board of Director(s), at their meeting 
held on May 15, 2025, approved the 
appointment of Parikh & Associates, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
(ICSI Unique Code P1988MH009800), 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company, for a term of 5 (Five) 
consecutive 
financial 
years, 
commencing from the financial year 
2025-26 uptll financial year 2029-30.
The Board of Director(s) at their 
meeting held on May 15, 2025, 
basis the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, approved the 
remuneration of Parikh & Associates 
of I 2,00,000 (Rupees Two Lakhs 
Only) for conducting the audit of the 
secretarial records of the Company 
for the Financial Year 2025-26.
Pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions 
of 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with SEBI Circulars 
issued in this regard, Parikh & 
Associates has undertaken an audit 
for the Financial Year 2024-25 for 
all applicable compliances as per 
SEBI 
Regulations 
and 
circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder.
Further, 
the 
wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of the Company are 
not material unlisted subsidiaries. 
Therefore, the provisions regarding 
the Secretarial Audit as mentioned 
in Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, does not apply to 
such subsidiaries.
d. 	 Internal Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 
138 of the Act, the Board, at its 
meeting held on May 16, 2024, based 
on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, approved the 
appointment of M/s. Grant Thornton 
Bharat LLP (Identity number AAA-
7677) to conduct the internal audit 
of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
The Board of Director(s) at their 
meeting held on May 15, 2025, has 
re-appointed M/s. Grant Thornton 
Bharat LLP as the Internal Auditors 
of your Company for the Financial 
Year 2025-26 to review various 
operations of the Company at 
remuneration of I 68,95,000 (Rupees 
Sixty-Eight Lakhs and Ninety-Five 
Thousand Only).
25.	 Material changes and 
commitment 
affecting 
financial 
position 
of 
the company
There 
have 
been 
no 
material 
changes 
and 
commitments 
affecting the financial position 
of the Company which occurred 
between the end of the Financial 
Year 
to 
which 
the 
financial 
statements relates to and date of 
this report. There is no change in the 
nature of business of the Company.
26.	 Awards and recognitions
The detailed Section on awards 
& recognitions forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
27.	 Enhancing Shareholders 
value
At 
Crompton, 
the 
commitment 
towards enhancing the Shareholders 
value is fundamental to our strategic 
vision and operational execution. The 
Company actively pursue initiatives 
aimed 
at 
driving 
sustainable 
growth 
and 
prioritize 
delivering 
strong financial performance by 
driving growth through innovative 
product development and market 
expansion. By focusing on innovation, 
operational 
excellence, 
and 
strategic investments, the Company 
continuously 
seeks 
to 
improve 
product 
offerings 
and 
expand 
market reach.
The Company’s commitment to 
sustainability ensures that it, not 
only meets the expectations of 
their Members but also contribute 
positively to the communities we 
serve. The Company believes that 
transparent communication with 
our members fosters trust and 
aligns our strategic objectives with 
their expectations. By continuously 
adapting 
to 
market 
dynamics 
and 
incorporating 
stakeholder 
feedback, the Company is devoted 
to creating enduring value, ensuring 
that our Shareholders are rewarded 
for their investment while we build 
a resilient and forward-thinking 
organization. 
Your 
Company 
is privileged to share a strong 
relationship with investors based 
on a deep understanding of their 
expectations and commitment to 
creating value for them.
The Company firmly believes that 
its success in the marketplace 
and good reputation are amongst 
the 
primary 
determinants 
of 
shareholder 
value. 
Its 
close 
relationship with consumers and 
a deep understanding of their 
challenges and expectations drive 
the development of new products 
and services. Anticipating customer 
requirements early and being able 
to address them effectively requires 
a strong commercial backbone. 
Your Company continues to develop 
this strength by institutionalising 
sound commercial processes and 
building world-class commercial 
capabilities across its marketing 
and sales teams. The Company 
uses an innovative approach in 
the development of its products 
and services, as well as execution 
of 
growth 
opportunities. 
Your 
Company 
is 
also 
committed 
to 
creating 
value 
for 
all 
its 
stakeholders 
by 
ensuring 
that 
204 - 205
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
its 
corporate 
actions 
positively 
impact the economic, societal and 
environmental dimensions of the 
triple bottom line.
28. Corporate governance
Your 
Company 
believes 
that 
effective 
leadership, 
robust 
policies, processes and systems 
and a rich legacy of values form 
the hallmark of our best corporate 
governance 
framework. 
Our 
corporate governance practices 
are 
a 
reflection 
of 
our 
value 
system encompassing our culture, 
policies, 
and 
relationships 
with 
our 
stakeholders. 
Integrity 
and 
transparency 
are 
key 
to 
our 
corporate governance practices to 
ensure that we gain and retain the 
trust of our stakeholders at all times. 
Corporate governance is about 
maximizing the Shareholders value 
legally, ethically and sustainably.
The Company is committed to 
maintain the highest standards 
of 
Corporate 
Governance 
and 
adheres to all requirements of 
corporate governance in letter and 
spirit, ensuring that its governance 
framework aligns with regulatory 
standards and best practices.
The Company’s Board of Directors 
comprises 
a 
diverse 
mix 
of 
experienced 
professionals 
who 
bring a wealth of expertise and 
independent 
oversight 
to 
the 
decision-making process. All the 
Committee(s) of the Board of 
Directors meet at regular intervals 
as required in terms of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Board of Directors 
has taken the necessary steps to 
ensure compliance with statutory 
requirements. 
The 
Director(s), 
KMPs, and SMPs of the Company 
have complied with the approved 
Code of Conduct for Board of 
Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel. A declaration to this 
effect, according to Schedule V of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, signed 
by the MD & CEO of the Company, 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
re-affirm 
their 
continued 
commitment to good corporate 
governance practices.
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
the Company complied with the 
provisions relating to corporate 
governance as provided under the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. Pursuant 
to Regulation 34 read with Schedule 
V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
a separate report on Corporate 
Governance is annexed to this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Further, 
following 
certificate(s)/ 
declaration(s) 
forms 
an 
integral part of this Corporate 
Governance Report:
a)	
A 
declaration 
signed 
by 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, MD & CEO, 
stating that the Members of 
Board of Directors and SMPs 
have 
affirmed 
compliance 
with the Company’s Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics;
b)	
A 
compliance 
certificate 
from the Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company, confirming 
compliance with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance;
c)	
A 
certificate 
of 
Non-
Disqualification of Directors 
from the Secretarial Auditor of 
the Company; and;
d)	
A certificate of the MD & CEO 
and CFO of the Company, 
inter 
alia, 
confirming 
the 
correctness of the financial 
statements 
and 
cash 
flow 
statements, adequacy of the 
internal control measures and 
reporting of matters to the 
Audit Committee.
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate 
Report on Corporate Governance 
is 
annexed 
to 
this 
Integrated 
Annual Report. 
29.	Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report 
(“BRSR”)
Your Company strongly believes 
that resilient and inclusive growth 
is only possible on strong pillars 
of 
environmental 
and 
social 
responsibility balanced with good 
governance and communicating 
its 
ESG 
performance 
in 
a 
transparent 
manner 
and 
in 
line 
with 
global 
standards 
to 
our stakeholders. The report is 
a testimony to our continuous 
efforts towards embracing and 
implementing balanced approach 
to ESG parameters in our business 
operations and forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
The BRSR Core is a sub-set of 
BRSR, 
consisting 
of 
a 
set 
of 
Key 
Performance 
Indicators 
(“KPIs”)/ metrics under 9 (Nine) 
ESG attributes/ principles of the 
National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business 
Conduct 
(“NGRBC”) 
notified 
by 
the 
Ministry 
of 
Corporate Affairs, Government of 
India. Further, the Company has 
conducted reasonable assurance 
for BRSR Core and limited assurance 
for the BRSR non-core indicators for 
the Financial Year 2024-25.
The Company has provided the 
requisite mapping of information 
and 
principles 
between 
the 
Sustainability disclosures and the 
BRSR as prescribed by SEBI. The 
same is available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/financial-
reports Further, the financial sections 
of BRSR are presented in line with 
the requirements of the Act read 
with the rules made thereunder, the 
Ind AS, the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and 
the 
requisite 
Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. The 
non-financial section (Sustainability 
and Corporate Social Responsibility) 
is presented in conformance to the 
Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) 
Standard’s 
Core 
Performance 
Indicators, 
the 
UN 
Sustainable 
Development Goals (“SDGs”) and 
other sector relevant international 
sustainability disclosure guidelines.
The Company has engaged services 
of TUV India Private Limited to 
provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
for 
BRSR 
Core 
indicators 
and 
limited assurance for BRSR non-
core indicators and non-financial 
disclosures 
in 
the 
Integrated 
Annual Report. TUV India Private 
Limited conducted the assurance 
in accordance with International 
Standard 
on 
Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), 
Assurance 
Engagements 
Other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial 
Information 
and 
ISAE 
3410, Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statement issued 
by the International Auditing and 
Standards Board.
The 
initiatives 
as 
indicated 
in 
the report aims to reduce its 
environmental 
impact, 
balance 
profitability with sustainability, and 
implement a more transparent, 
efficient, and effective corporate 
governance framework.
30.	 Particulars of employees
There are 26 (Twenty-Six) employees 
who were in receipt of remuneration 
of 
not 
less 
than I 1,02,00,000 
(Rupees One Crore and Two Lakhs 
Only), employed for the full year 
and 15 (Fifteen) employees who 
were in receipt of remuneration 
of not less than I 8,50,000 (Rupees 
Eight Lakhs and Fifty Thousand 
Only) per month, employed for 
part 
of 
the 
year. 
Disclosures 
concerning the remuneration and 
other details as required in terms 
of Section 197(12) of the Act read 
with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
(“Rules”) is provided in Annexure 6 
to 
this 
Report. 
Your 
Directors 
affirm that the remuneration is 
as per the remuneration policy of 
the Company.
Further, 
details 
of 
employees’ 
remuneration as required under 
provisions of Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of 
the Rules of the Act, is available 
for inspection at the Registered 
Office of your Company during 
working 
hours. 
As 
per 
second 
proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act 
and second proviso of Rule 5 of the 
Rules, the Integrated Annual Report 
has been sent to the Members 
excluding the aforesaid exhibit. Any 
Member interested in obtaining 
copy of such information may 
write to the Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer at crompton.
inverstorrelations@crompton.co.in
31.	Reporting of frauds 
by auditors
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
neither 
the 
Statutory 
Auditors, 
the 
Secretarial 
Auditors, 
the 
Cost Auditors nor the Internal 
Auditors have reported to the 
Audit Committee of the Board, 
under Section 143(12) of the Act, 
any instances of fraud committed 
against the Company by its officers 
or employees.
32.	Annual Return
Pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions 
of 
Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) 
of the Act read with Rule 12 of the 
Companies 
(Management 
and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, the 
Annual Return of the Company 
for 
the 
Financial 
Year 
ended 
March 31, 2025 is available on the 
website of the Company at https://
w w w.crompton .co. in/p ag e s/
financialreports#AnnualReports
33.	Compliance 
with 
Secretarial Standards
During the year under review, the 
Company has complied with all the 
applicable provisions of Secretarial 
Standard 
– 
1 
and 
Secretarial 
Standard 
– 
2, 
(“Meetings 
of 
the Board of Directors”) and 
(“General Meetings”), respectively 
issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI) and 
notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA).
34.	Statutory Disclosures
a. 	 Conservation of Energy, 
Technology 
Absorption 
and 
Foreign 
Exchange 
Earnings and outgo.
As required under Section 134(3)(m) 
of the Act, read with Rule 8 of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, 
the relevant data pertaining to 
conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo, is given in the 
206 - 207
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
prescribed format in Annexure 7 to 
this Integrated Annual Report.
b. 	 Research and Development 
(“R&D”)
Your 
Company 
is 
dedicated 
to 
achieving excellence by prioritizing 
R&D as a cornerstone of innovation. 
The Company cultivates a culture of 
creativity ingrained within our people 
and 
processes. 
The 
Company’s 
in-house R&D team is committed 
to pioneering sustainable product 
innovations driven by cutting-edge 
technology, 
ensuring 
efficiency 
across the entire product lifecycle, 
from design and development to 
manufacturing processes.
Your Company has “Innovation 
& Experience Centre” in Mumbai 
serving as the hub for all R&D 
innovation 
teams. 
This 
center 
fosters fungibility and creativity 
within 
its 
Design 
Studio 
and 
encourages experimentation within 
its labs, which are equipped with 
ultra-modern infrastructure. In line 
with its commitment of creating 
consumer delight, the Company 
has launched a diverse range of 
products across various segments. 
These products are designed to 
showcase excellence both in terms 
of technology and aesthetics.
(A) 	 Fans:
Niteo: 
Equipped 
with 
inhouse 
PCB, 
Niteo 
is 
the 
quintessence 
of 
Crompton’s 
dedication 
and 
continuous technological progress. 
It’s designed with sleek blades and 
has a sleek curvature black bottom 
reducing visual clutter for a cleaner 
look. It comes with an ActivSight 
User Interface that includes speed 
indication, Timer Indication, Sleep 
and Mop mode indication. Niteo’s 
evenly spread warm LED night lamp 
gives a wider coverage under the 
fan creating a soothing atmosphere. 
Compact 
design 
and 
Superior 
performance is the perfect way to 
describe Niteo.
Fluido 
Wave: 
Mirroring 
the 
design 
principles 
of 
neo-futurism, Fluido Wave is the 
perfect fan for a refined and 
uncluttered look. It’s unibody design 
gives it a beautiful, sculpted look. 
Fluido Wave is the newest 1-star 
addition to our fluidic design range. 
Its silent operation and anti-dust 
feature is the perfect example of 
how practicality and aesthetics can 
co-exist in harmony.
Superflo: 
A 
testament 
to 
our 
continuous research and technological 
improvement, the Company introduced 
India’s Highest Air Delivery Fan – 
Superflo with 260 CMM air delivery that 
is 25% more air delivery as compared to 
regular fans. Powered by Turbo Boost 
technology it has increased active 
blade surface area that contributes to 
its ultra-high air delivery. Its sleek blades 
and contemporary colours makes it the 
epitome of performance and style.
Cairo: The Luxian range introduces 
Cairo as the latest addition to our 
existing range of electroplated 
fans. With ActivPower technology 
the fan operates at 220 CMM and 
370 RPM ensuring performance and 
style all in one. Its unique feature is a 
robust stationery bottom and wide 
blades that comes in electroplated 
and matte finishes. Cairo is the ideal 
choice for spaces that need a touch 
of vintage of sophistication.
Avancer 
Swirl: 
The 
Crompton 
Premion Avancer Swirl is a fan 
that 
effectively 
blends 
style 
and 
functionality 
to 
transform 
your space. Its swirl-like design 
was crafted to create a serene 
and 
calming 
atmosphere 
and 
complement contemporary décor. 
Equipped 
with 
DuraTech 
Technology, Avancer Swirl is an 
energy-efficient fan with 3-star 
energy 
rating 
that 
results 
in 
lower 
electricity 
costs 
without 
compromising 
aesthetics. 
With 
its anti-dust technology, the fan 
requires less maintenance and 
continues to be a fashionable 
addition to your room.
Aura2 4Blade: Its sleek and stylish 
four blade design provides excellent 
air delivery and offers the utmost 
comfort. 
The 
antidust 
features 
makes it easy to maintain and keep 
it cleaner and dust free for long. The 
premium Duratech EMQ bearing 
ensures smooth operation and dual 
coat winding increase its longevity. 
The sleek, contemporary design of 
the Premion Aura2 4Blade, comes in 
four colours and a 5-year warranty 
to match your decor and provide a 
cozy, welcoming ambiance.
(B)	 Pumps
The Company has launched key 
products 
in 
various 
categories 
which are as detailed below:
i. 	
Categories:
Residential:
	Ȣ
Successfully 
developed 
& 
launched WIN PLUS/ WIN DURA 
Series to cater to 2 (Two) floors 
homes with Double coating to 
provide protection against rust & 
longer life;
	Ȣ
Expanded 
Mini 
brand 
architecture 
portfolio 
with 
better product proposition by 
launching Marvel Plus & Elite 
Plus in Rapid Fill & Turbo Fill 
category respectively.
	Ȣ
Launched 1st (First) in industy, 
patented dry winding series in 
OW pumps with plug and play 
convenience to consumer.
	Ȣ
Successfully 
deployed 
Brand 
Architecture 
in 
High 
Suction 
Pumps series with products like 
SWJ Plus, SWJ Dura, DMB Plus & 
Flomax Plus in line with consumer 
insights 
like 
Faster 
suction 
and Durability.
Agriculture:
	Ȣ
Successfully launched MB High 
Flow series with efficient hydraulic 
and improved motor design to 
deliver higher discharge, industry 
standard mountings to counter 
competition & take advantage in 
industrial hot & cold applications.
	Ȣ
Launched 
OW 
Higher 
HP 
(10-30HP) 
series 
with 
wide 
voltage motor design & dual 
coated hammerstone paint to 
improve durability.
	Ȣ
New product launched based on 
identified product gaps and new 
product requirements.
Speciality:
	Ȣ
Launched indigenous sewage 
cutter pump to derisk supply 
challenges & to improve quality.
	Ȣ
Expanded 
product 
portfolio 
in sewage pump by launching 
higher HP STP pump (10HP).
Solar:
	Ȣ
Launched 3HP & 5HP AC/ DC 
agricultural 
Solar 
Pumps 
for 
irrigation 
systems 
complying 
to 
MNRE 
guidelines. 
Tender 
Qualifications 
achieved 
for 
Haryana, 
Rajasthan, 
Maharashtra & Madhya Pradesh.
ii.	
Highlights:
	Ȣ
Design Registration applied for 
10 (Ten) new design concepts. 
Applied 3 (Three) patents as 
Modified Adapter (SS insert), 
Dry winding in Openwell Pumps, 
Apparatus for Controlling Water 
Pump 
and 
Method 
thereof 
(Smart Panel).
	Ȣ
A special focus was given to 
region wise product training 
to sales team to impart in 
depth knowledge of products, 
application, USPs & FAB for 
effective 
communication 
in 
market. 
Focus 
on 
additional 
offering in control panels & Agri 
Starters to ensure incremental 
pump+ Panel ratio which has 
increased from 83% to 87% and 
helped in reduction of PPR of 
V4 Submersibles.
	Ȣ
Successfully 
applied 
3 
patents in OW, Mini & Control 
panel category.
	Ȣ
Received 
BIS 
certification 
for 27 (Twenty-Seven) number 
of pumps and BEE certification 
completed for 9 (Nine) number 
of pumps as on March 31, 2025.
(C)	 Appliances
Storage Water Heater: A total of 
17 (Seventeen) SKUs were launched 
in 2024-25. The premium segment 
saw the introduction of Amica Pro 
and Solarium CLX in 10L, 15L, and 
25L capacities. The Rapidjet Plus 
series was expanded with new 10L 
and 15L variants, while the Hydrajet 
and Regera series were extended 
with a 6L option in both plastic and 
metal round segments. To further 
strengthen the horizontal range, 
LHS-type geysers were introduced 
under the Versa series in 10L, 15L, 
and 25L capacities. Additionally, 
the Classic DLX was launched 
as an upgraded version of the 
existing classic range across all 
four capacities.
Instant water heater: 3 (Three) 
new SKUs were launched. To further 
strengthen 
the 
5L 
range 
with 
capacity extensions in the Hydrajet 
and Instabliss series. In Gas water 
heaters, we have launched product 
with oxygen depletion sensor in 
6L capacity.
Air Coolers: 8 (Eight) new SKUs were 
introduced, 
including 
3 
(Three) 
new series in the desert category. 
The Avancer and Aura series were 
launched with 18” fans, offering 
superior 
cooling 
with 
modern 
aesthetics, each available in three 
capacity ranges. Additionally, the 
Jedi series was expanded with a 16” 
fan model for the entry segment, 
available in two capacities.
(D) 	 Small Domestic Appliances 
(SDA)
Mixer Grinder & Garment Care 
Category: Mixer grinders range has 
been revamped with the launch 
of 12 (Twelve) new models across 
various Wattages  and 3 (Three) 
new models have been introduced 
in the Garment care category to 
strengthen the portfolios.
	Ȣ
To enhance the SDA portfolio 
6 (Six) new models have been 
introduced 
across 
various 
categories.
	Ȣ
State 
of 
art 
Validation 
lab 
has been developed to test 
our products.
	Ȣ
All 
these 
products 
are 
meticulously 
designed 
with 
enhanced 
aesthetics 
and packaging.
(E) 	 Large Kitchen Appliances
	Ȣ
This year, the Company has 
focused on introducing products 
derived from detailed consumer 
insights, focusing on product 
differentiation, premiumization 
and consumer delight.
	Ȣ
The 
Company 
have 
studied 
the 
usage 
and 
purchase 
patterns of consumers looking 
to buy chimneys on evolving 
208 - 209
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
platforms such as E-commerce 
and 
accordingly 
re-designed 
our product offerings. These 
include a new range of SMART 
chimneys having differentiated 
intelligent features such as Intelli 
AutoClean, SMART ON and high 
suction – low noise motors.
	Ȣ
In 
the 
Hobs 
portfolio, 
the 
Company 
have 
launched 
uniquely 
designed 
products 
with superior aesthetics such 
as matte glass finish and smart 
features including Flame Failure 
safety 
systems, 
auto-ignition 
etc. In addition, we have also 
forayed into a new category in 
the kitchen segment, namely 
Gas Cooktops (gas stoves) with 
the launch of our FlamePro 
range 
of 
cooktops, 
again 
designed from very detailed 
consumer insights. Our FlamePro 
range of cooktops have smart 
and thoughtful design elements 
to deliver a very superior and 
convenient cooking experience 
to our consumers. Such elements 
and features include MaxxSpace, 
Flame Flex burner configuration 
and Interlocking Burner systems 
(Crompton patented)
(F) 	 Lighting
B2C
	Ȣ
Your Company has introduced 
many new products which are 
based on consumer insights and 
feedback. 
Consumer 
lighting 
space has evolved over the last 
few years from only functionality 
to Décor and Style. Connected 
products are also making an 
entry in consumer homes, with 
low-cost 
technology 
being 
a 
catalyst 
to 
democratize 
the market.
	Ȣ
Your Company has successfully 
launched a comprehensive range 
of COB (Chip-on-Board) lighting 
solutions, thoughtfully designed 
to meet the evolving needs of 
today’s home consumers. The 
range includes a wide variety 
of form factors—such as fixed, 
adjustable, 
deep-recessed, 
surface-mounted, 
and 
track-
mounted options-available in 
multiple finishes to suit different 
home décor styles.
	Ȣ
Your Company has introduced 
a range of decorative battens, 
designed 
with 
premium 
aesthetics to align with consumer 
preferences, 
delivering 
both 
indirect and direct illumination 
options to consumers.
	Ȣ
Capitalizing 
on 
increasing 
movement of consumers from 
functionality to Décor and Style, 
your Company has launched a 
decorative range of wall lights 
and festive lights.
	Ȣ
Your Company has expanded 
its presence to plug-&-play and 
lighting-adjacent categories.
	Ȣ
To 
win 
in 
an 
increasingly 
competitive market and gain 
market share, your Company has 
launched a range of economy 
battens and ceiling lights.
B2B
	Ȣ
Your 
Company 
has 
introduced 
new products in road lighting, 
flood lighting, industrial lighting 
luminaire 
range 
with 
upgraded 
specifications 
to 
cater 
to 
different 
applications.
	Ȣ
Your company has introduced 
specially designed streetlights 
with improved optics for wider 
highways 
and 
expressways, 
enhancing 
visibility 
while 
significantly 
reducing 
energy 
consumption and the total cost 
of ownership for customers.
	Ȣ
Your Company has introduced 
new range of high wattage 
flood lights with precise optics & 
optimum performance to cater 
to airports aprons, railway yards 
and sports application.
	Ȣ
Your company has introduced 
new 
range 
of 
industrial 
products (Highbay, Well Glass, 
Bulkhead) for various industrial 
segments like Oils & Gas, Steel & 
Cement and the fast-growing 
warehousing sector.
Other Highlights:
	Ȣ
Received OHSSAI’s 9th Annual 
HSE Excellence & ESG Global 
Awards 2024 (Winner in Safety 
Category).
35.	Non-Convertible  
Debentures
During the year under review, your 
Company 
has 
redeemed 
Non-
Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) 
amounting of I 300 Crore (Rupees 
Three Hundred Crore Only) on July 
22, 2024.
Presently, the total outstanding 
NCDs of I 300 Crore (Rupees Three 
Hundred Crore Only) are listed on 
the debt segment of the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited, 
which are due for redemption in 
July, 2025.
The Catalyst Trusteeship Limited 
is the Debenture Trustee for the 
Debenture holders. The details of 
the Debenture Trustee are available 
on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#DebentureTrustee 
and 
is also provided in the Report on 
Corporate 
Governance 
which 
forms a part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
36.	Employee Stock Option 
Plan (“ESOP”)
Stock options have long been 
proven to be an effective tool 
for 
organisations 
to 
incentivise 
employees 
for 
accelerating 
profitable 
growth 
and 
wealth 
creation while also working as a 
performance reward and attract 
and 
retain 
high 
potential 
and 
critical employees in a competitive 
talent environment.
The Company has framed various 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 
(“ESOP Schemes”) in accordance 
with 
the 
SEBI 
(Share-Based 
Employee 
Benefits) 
Regulations, 
2014, 
read 
with 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Share-Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
(“the SBEB & SE”) as a measure to 
reward and motivate employees 
and attract & retain talent.
Presently 
your 
Company 
has 
following ESOP Schemes:
	Ȣ
Crompton 
Employee 
Stock 
Option Scheme – 2016 (“ESOP-
2016”)
	Ȣ
Crompton Performance Share 
Plan - 1 – 2016 (“PSP-1 2016”)
	Ȣ
Crompton Performance Share 
Plan - 2 – 2016 (“PSP- 2- 2016”)
	Ȣ
Crompton 
Employee 
Stock 
Option Scheme – 2019 (“ESOP-
2019”)
There 
has 
been 
no 
material 
change in any of the subsisting 
ESOP Schemes.
The disclosure relating to ESOPs 
required to be made under the 
provisions of the Act, and the rules 
made thereunder, and the SBEB 
& SE Regulations is provided in 
Annexure 8 which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
No employee has been issued 
stock options, during the year, 
equal to or exceeding 1% of the 
issued capital of the Company at 
the time of grant. The issuance of 
equity shares pursuant to exercise 
of stock options does not affect 
the profit and loss account of the 
Company, as the exercise is made 
at the market price prevailing as 
on the date of the grant plus taxes 
as applicable.
37.	 Employee Engagement
At 
Crompton, 
we 
prioritize 
employee engagement to build 
trust, enthusiasm, and a strong 
sense 
of 
belonging. 
This 
year, 
Company 
launched 
Pulse, 
our 
Employee Engagement Survey. In 
collaboration with Gallup Q12, the 
Company 
analyzed 
the 
results, 
held focus group discussions, and 
developed targeted action plans 
at both group and function levels. 
These plans were communicated 
company-wide 
and 
are 
being 
tracked 
through 
a 
robust 
governance 
system 
to 
ensure 
follow-through. This initiative has 
been key in enhancing the employee 
experience and identifying areas 
for improvement.
For more details, refer to Page 104 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
Family Connect
To celebrate the milestone of 
moving 
into 
our 
new 
office, 
the 
Company 
welcomed 
the 
families 
of 
our 
Mumbai-based 
employees to our Head Office. 
More than just a relocation, it 
was 
a 
celebration 
of 
growth, 
teamwork, and the unwavering 
support of our extended Crompton 
family. By including our employees’ 
families—our silent supporters—we 
expressed heartfelt gratitude for 
their role in our journey. The event 
was filled with warmth, pride, and 
a true sense of belonging.
At 
Crompton, 
our 
employees’ 
dedication, 
passion, 
and 
commitment to our core Values – 
CREATE – are the foundation of 
our success.
As part of Company’s Reward and 
Recognition Program - Pride and 
Glory, we introduced the People’s 
Choice Values Award - a unique, 
peer-nominated 
recognition 
celebrating those who consistently 
live 
our 
values 
through 
their 
everyday actions. These individuals 
lead with purpose, integrity, and 
heart, inspiring us all.
The Company honored the loyalty 
of long-serving team members 
through the Long Service Awards, 
recognizing 
their 
steadfast 
commitment 
and 
invaluable 
contributions over the years.
These 
recognitions 
reflect 
our 
deep appreciation for the people 
who drive Crompton forward and 
our 
continued 
commitment 
to 
celebrate their journey with us.
Empowering Talent, Enabling 
Growth at Crompton
In 
a 
rapidly 
evolving 
business 
landscape, 
staying 
competitive 
requires continuous reinvention. The 
Company believes that learning 
is the cornerstone of innovation, 
productivity, 
and 
impact. 
We 
nurture a culture of continuous 
development 
through 
micro, 
macro, and on-the-job learning 
opportunities across all levels.
210 - 211
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Leadership & Capability Building
	Ȣ
CLDP 
& 
FLDP: 
Tailored 
for 
senior and mid-management, 
these 
programs 
develop 
strategic, 
functional, 
and 
people leadership skills through 
blended learning.
	Ȣ
ELDP: 
Prepares 
Area 
Sales 
Managers 
with 
negotiation, 
emotional 
intelligence, 
and 
stakeholder management skills.
Onboarding & Learning Culture
	Ȣ
Enrich 
Program: 
A 
3A 
approach — Assimilate, Affiliate, 
Accelerate — to help new hires 
align quickly with Crompton’s 
culture 
and 
processes. 
Crompton@Byte 
will 
launch 
in Financial Year 2025-26 to 
enhance this journey.
	Ȣ
NLA: 
Supports 
seamless 
transition for new senior leaders 
through structured onboarding 
and 30-60-90 day roadmaps.
	Ȣ
Capability Programs: Focused 
learning tracks for junior, mid, 
and senior levels anchored to 
our 
Leadership 
Competency 
Framework, 
with 
Financial 
Year 
2025-26 
focusing 
on 
Accountability with Consumer 
Focus.
	Ȣ
Functional 
Academies: 
Role-
based technical and functional 
upskilling to build deep expertise 
and create in-house SMEs.
Frontline Development
	Ȣ
Grow with Crompton: Upskilled 
500+ Territory Sales Managers 
in sales, channel management, 
and stakeholder engagement.
	Ȣ
ELDP: 
Enhanced 
leadership 
capabilities 
for 
130 
(One 
Hundred and Thirty) Area Sales 
Managers through interactive 
learning.
6C 2.0: Playbook for a Learning 
Organization
As the world evolves, the Company 
is 
embracing 
the 
future 
with 
6C 2.0, an evolution of our cultural 
framework: 
Care, 
Connect, 
Collaborate, Co-Create, Conquer, 
Celebrate. More than a mindset, 
it’s 
a 
movement 
that 
drives 
innovation, 
collaboration, 
and 
growth. 
Through 
capability-
building 
clubs 
led 
by 
senior 
leaders, we’re unlocking potential, 
inspiring 
fresh 
perspectives, 
and driving transformation. By 
fostering learning ecosystems and 
empowering individuals, we’re not 
just adapting to change — we’re 
leading it. 6C 2.0 is how Crompton 
shapes the future from within.
Diversity & Inclusion
The Company fosters an inclusive 
workplace 
through 
merit-
based practices and supportive 
policies, including:
	Ȣ
Enhanced 
travel 
safety 
for 
women;
	Ȣ
Nanny 
allowance 
for 
new 
mothers;
At Crompton, we’re committed to 
growing with our people-every step 
of the way.
38.	Environment, Health 
& Safety (“EHS”)
The 
EHS 
Management 
System 
at 
Crompton 
epitomise 
our 
unwavering 
dedication 
to 
safeguarding 
the 
environment, 
fostering 
a 
conducive 
working 
atmosphere, and ensuring the well-
being and safety of all individuals, 
including employees, contractors, 
and visitors. Through meticulous 
planning, rigorous implementation, 
and 
continuous 
monitoring, 
we uphold stringent standards 
to 
mitigate 
environmental 
impact, 
promote 
sustainability, 
and 
comply 
with 
regulatory 
requirements. 
Our 
commitment 
extends beyond mere compliance; 
it 
encompasses 
a 
culture 
of 
proactive 
risk 
management, 
hazard identification, and safety 
awareness training to cultivate a 
workplace where everyone feels 
valued, supported, and empowered 
to prioritise health, safety, and 
environmental stewardship.
By prioritising these core values, 
we not only protect our personnel 
but also contribute to the greater 
community and demonstrate our 
responsibility as a conscientious 
corporate citizen.
The Company’s EHS strategies are 
aimed at achieving the greenest 
and safest operations across all 
manufacturing units by optimising 
the usage of natural resources 
and providing a safe and healthy 
workplace. Safety remains a top 
priority for your Company, and 
the Company is committed to 
providing a safe and productive 
environment for our workforce, 
maintaining the best health and 
safety measures across all our 
manufacturing and office locations. 
The Company prioritises enhancing 
our workforce’s skills levels through 
various learning & development 
programmes throughout the year, 
ensuring continuous improvement, 
and at the time of induction, 
providing basic safety trainings to 
all employees and workers at all our 
manufacturing sites.
Apart from a comprehensive EHS 
manual “KAVACH 3.0” corporate 
EHS 
worked 
on 
further 
depth 
in 
the 
EHS 
policies 
reframing 
procedures and work instructions 
and it has been made aware to 
all manufacturing employees to 
implement across all the products 
lines manufacturing sites.
To strengthen the EHS culture, 
under 
corporate 
EHS, 
your 
Company 
has 
initiated 
and 
conducted 
various 
campaigns 
and 
awareness 
programmes 
such 
as 
Near 
Miss 
Reporting, 
Hand and Finger Injury Control & 
Prevention, and road safety under 
Behavioral-Based Safety (“BBS”). 
Additionally, manufacturing sites 
are also conducting EHS training 
programmes 
periodically 
to 
enhance EHS activities.
Your 
Company 
is 
committed 
to 
conserving 
and 
enhancing 
the EHS culture. The Company 
owned manufacturing sites has 
conducted the surveillance audit 
for its Integrated Management 
System 
(“IMS”) 
certification 
which 
comprises 
ISO14001:2015, 
ISO45001:2018 and ISO9001:2015 
which is an important milestone 
for continuous improvement for 
an organization.
Corporate 
EHS 
has 
redefined 
quantitative 
self-assessments 
on 
various 
EHS 
topics 
like 
IS 14489:2018, fire safety, fire load 
calculations and electrical safety 
for CGCEL manufacturing sites, 
annual EHS audits conducted for 
all manufacturing sites. Closure 
of such audit report observations 
are 
ensured 
by 
following 
the 
adequate corrective & preventive 
action plan within a reasonable 
timeframe, thereby continuously 
improving safety practices and 
mitigating risks. The observations 
are also shared amongst units for 
cross-learning and improvement. 
Learnings from other organization 
incidents and taking preventive 
actions are also initiated as a 
proactive approach in ensuring 
safety performance.
A 
comprehensive 
EHS-based 
leading 
and 
lagging 
indicator 
dashboard is being prepared and 
followed across all manufacturing 
sites on a monthly basis to capture 
unit-wise 
KPI 
performance, 
facilitating proactive monitoring 
of safety metrics. Monthly EHS 
meetings are conducted to discuss 
unit 
performance, 
fostering 
collaboration 
and 
continuous 
improvement in safety practices. 
EHS meetings are being conducted 
to promote cross- learning between 
manufacturing 
units, 
focusing 
on conserving natural resources 
through initiatives like water and 
electricity consumption reduction, 
and 
effective 
management 
of 
hazardous 
wastes. 
Additionally, 
safety fronts including accident 
incident details with investigation 
report 
are 
discussed, 
along 
with 
onsite 
emergency 
and 
preparedness 
plan 
through 
conducting mock drill and fire drill 
on set frequency etc. ensuring a 
proactive approach to safety and 
environmental management.
A brief on EHS programmes of 
CGCEL is as under:
38.1 Environment – a green 
pursuit
Your Company is committed to 
fostering a culture of sustainable 
progress across the organization. 
Accordingly, Key Result Areas (KRAs) 
are identified and established, with 
monthly tracking based on leading 
and 
lagging 
indicators 
under 
EHS parameters.
Moreover, your Company is highly 
focused on reducing its carbon 
footprint by manufacturing world 
class energy efficient products 
and 
adopting 
sustainable 
packaging concept.
The Bethora, Goa Fan Unit has 
digitized process by installing the 
robotic machinery for top & bottom 
end shield assembly, screwing and 
palletization process. The overall 
electricity consumption KWH for 
Financial Year 2024-25 is 90,81,178 
KWH (grid electricity and solar 
power) against the 54,84,665 KWH 
of Financial Year 2023-24.
Further, the unit has installed approx. 
245 nos. of energy conserved BLDC 
fans across the plant.
The installation of robotic machine 
installation 
would 
result 
in 
enhancement of productivity from 
2500 to 4000 fans per shift, product 
quality 
and 
avoid 
the 
safety 
issues 
associated 
with 
unusual 
ergonomic conditions with reduced 
human interference.
At the plant level, the water 
conservation 
is 
being 
driven 
basis installation of tab aerator, 
employee 
awareness 
and 
visual displays.
Hazardous 
and 
non-hazardous 
waste disposal is being tracked 
on 
periodic 
basis 
with 
due 
consideration 
of 
statutory 
requirements. During Financial Year 
2024-25, the hazardous and non-
hazardous waste generated was 
1945.75 MT whereas in Financial Year 
2023-24, the total hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste amounted 
to 2251.75 MT. During the year 
2024-25, the waste recycled was 
1683,53 MT whereas in Financial 
Year 2023-24, it was 1700.5 MT. 
The Bethora facility has initiated 
the disposal of hazardous waste 
through M/s Ponda Envocare, Goa 
for 
pre-processing 
aspect 
and 
212 - 213
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
J.K. Cement for co-processing. This 
year’s hazardous waste disposal 
quantity has increased due to one-
time disposal of non-moving RM 
powder and paint material referred 
as waste.
The implementation of Layered 
Process Confirmation (“LPC”) and 
Critical to Safety (“CTS”) processes 
as 
reinforced 
the 
safety 
self-
assessment 
ownership 
program, 
enhancing safety measures across 
manufacturing sites.
The 
unit 
has 
initiated 
360-degree 
guarding 
for 
all 
critical 
machinery 
through 
self-assessment, 
implementing 
a 
systematic 
approach 
for 
horizontal 
deployment 
across 
all facilities.
Bethora has achieved the National 
Safety Award from Global Safety 
Summit 
and 
Safety 
Excellence 
Award 
from 
the 
Greentech 
Foundation 
for 
Financial 
Year 
2024-25. 
38.2 
Reduction 
in 
energy 
consumption
Under energy reduction program, 
overall 
energy 
consumption 
realised 
was 
10.26%. 
During 
Financial Year 2024-25, the overall 
energy consumption was 35,165.78 
GJ against Financial Year 2023-24 
which was 39,185.75 GJ.  
In consideration of above Baddi 
Unit II annual electricity consumption 
was 2,31,193 KWH for Financial Year 
2024-25, against 2,56,852 KWH for 
Financial Year 2023-24. The electricity 
consumption change is typically due 
to change in production volume.
At the Ahilyanagar manufacturing 
unit, 6,880 kWh of solar power was 
generated and utilized to support 
the canteen, street lighting, and 
other emergency lighting loads.
Baddi Unit III has expanded its 
operations by transitioning from 
lighting to fan manufacturing. The 
unit has established a state-of-
the-art set-up with the in-house 
installation and commissioning of 
advanced varnishing machinery. 
The overall electricity consumption 
for the unit was 1,12,273 KWH.
Vadodara Plant observed an overall 
electricity consumption 19,37,959 
KWH for Financial Year 2024-25. 
against 62,505 KWH for Financial 
Year 
2023-24. 
The 
Change 
in 
electricity consumption is caused 
by shift from Gas Based heating 
process to grid electricity.
38.3 
Reduction 
in 
water 
consumption:
During 
Financial 
Year 
2024-
25, the total water withdrawal 
accounted was 84,126.5 KL Includes 
manufacturing 
plants, 
offices, 
Op. control warehouse) against 
67,730 KL for Financial Year 2023-
24 (includes manufacturing plant 
only).
Baddi Fans Unit II has consumed 
water 
during 
Financial 
Year 
2024-25 is 3656 KL against the 
Financial Year 2023-24 is 4144 KL. 
An average reduction of 12% in 
water consumption was observed in 
Financial Year 2024–25 compared 
to Financial Year 2023–24. Further 
in water conversation front unit 
has installed auto shutoff valve on 
rooftop storage tanks and rerouting 
of pipelines to prevent water losses.
At the Innovation Center in Vikhroli, 
an average 34% reduction in water 
consumption was observed. This 
significant 
improvement 
was 
achieved through key initiatives 
such as the installation of water-
saving aerators on taps and the 
implementation of waterless urinals.
An average of 25% reduction in 
water consumption was achieved 
at the Vadodara plant through 
the 
implementation 
of 
several 
targeted initiatives. These included 
the integration of sensors for the 
borewell pump enabling automatic 
on/ off operation, installation of 
pressure regulators in the canteen 
to reduce water flow, the use of 
STP-treated water for landscaping, 
and regular water leakage audits 
followed by timely rectification.
Similarly, the Ahilyanagar plant 
implemented 
effective 
water 
conservation 
measures 
such 
as the installation of waterless 
urinals, 
the 
use 
of 
low-flow 
fixtures and aerators, utilization of 
STP-treated water for landscape 
irrigation, and ongoing audits and 
rectification of water leakages to 
minimize wastage.
38.4 
Hazardous 
waste 
reduction and management:
The Company’s operational units 
ensure that all hazardous waste 
is sent to the authorised disposal 
facility/ recycler approved by the 
State Pollution Control Board. In 
the Financial Year 2024-25 , the 
organisation 
has 
successfully 
achieved 
the 
EPR 
E-waste 
authorisation from Central Pollution 
Control 
Board 
(“CPCB”) 
and 
processed 100% of the total target 
obligation. CGCEL has channelised 
100% 
of 
plastic 
waste 
and 
fulfilled CPCB target of Financial 
Year 2024-25.
Under 
Extended 
Producer 
Responsibility (“EPR”) plastic waste 
management 
obligation, 
your 
Company is in process of issuing 
agreements to channelise 100% 
of plastic waste to fulfill CPCB 
target of Financial Year 2024-25. 
Additionally, your Company has 
developed the substitute for pump 
packaging to eliminate the use of 
thermocol & plastic bags.
38.5 Safety:
The 
Company’s 
EHS 
policy 
is 
absolute in its commitment to 
integrating EHS considerations as 
a top most priority throughout the 
organisation. In the Financial Year 
2024-25, there is zero reportable 
injuries, reflecting our dedication to 
safety and well-being.
Further, 
Corporate 
EHS 
have 
strengthened 
our 
commitment, 
focusing 
on 
enhancing 
EHS 
orientation, 
conducting 
safety 
system 
assessments 
across 
manufacturing 
sites, 
and 
continuously 
improving 
to 
establish a sustainable, injury free 
workplace. 
We 
have 
diligently 
revised 
and 
developed 
various 
Standard 
Operating 
Procedure 
(“SOPs”) 
including 
Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment, 
Environmental Impact Assessment, 
Work permitting, Contract Safety 
Management, 
and 
Incident 
investigation, among others, among 
others, to ensure comprehensive 
EHS management across all facets 
of our operations.
The 
Company’s 
manufacturing 
facilities prioritises strict adherence 
to all rules and regulations outlined 
in Fire No Objection Certificate 
(“NOC”), ensuring the safety of our 
personnel and assets. Regular fire 
drills are conducted as per defined 
frequencies to ensure preparedness 
and swift response in the event of 
an emergency. During the Financial 
Year 
2024-25, 
there 
were 
no 
reported major fire incidents across 
our organisation.
Regular safety walks and meetings 
are conducted, and a robust review 
mechanism ensures timely closure 
of open points. Periodic internal and 
external audits verify compliances 
and there were no fatalities for 
Financial Year 2024-25.
Organization is committed and 
sustaining the independent safety 
culture by implementing stringent 
EHS Policy, Corporate EHS specific 
7 
(Seven) 
standard 
operating 
procedures including Work Permit 
System 
(“WPS”) 
and 
contract 
safety management.
Regular interaction is facilitated 
through 
Safety 
Committee 
Meetings, 
while 
initiatives 
such 
as fire-safety drills, safety week 
celebration, and ongoing safety 
training to all employees begin with 
adequate induction. Internal plant 
safety audits are conducted, and all 
actions and recommendations are 
also recorded, evaluated and acted 
upon by respective EHS leaders.
Key Safety programs implemented 
during the year include:
	Ȣ
Safety 
Task 
Force 
Actions 
continued 
by 
deploying 
the 
methodology of hierarchy of 
control to lower the machine risk 
from high risk to medium and 
low risk.
	Ȣ
EHS Sub Committees formation 
on various topics with cross 
functional 
representation. 
Includes 
Water 
conservation, 
Energy 
conservation, 
Waste 
reduction, Training & Capability, 
Contractor safety management, 
Incident 
Investigation, 
Safety 
Observation and Standard & 
Procedure 
subcommittees. 
All 
sub-committee 
meet 
monthly 
and 
discuss 
the 
agenda 
to 
enhance 
EHS 
culture, 
conservation 
and 
competency aspects.
	Ȣ
Various 
EHS 
standards 
are 
being prepared and rolled out 
across the manufacturing sites. 
Standards 
includes 
Machine 
guarding 
& 
ranking 
system, 
Contractor safety management, 
Safety 
Behavior 
Observation, 
HIRA & EIA, Permit to work and 
Fire Safety.
	Ȣ
Complied for 100% recycling 
of 
EPR 
E-Waste 
and 
EPR 
PWM 
processing 
and 
EPR 
PWM Compliance.
	Ȣ
Integration Management System 
consists of ISO9001, ISO14001 
& 
ISO45001 
successful 
audit 
certification through TUV- Nord.
	Ȣ
Monthly EHS base awareness 
campaign 
drive 
by 
Corporate EHS.
	Ȣ
Conducted EHS internal audit 
for all manufacturing sites and 
conducted 
self 
assessments 
on critical aspects of machine 
guarding 
safety, 
fire 
safety, 
electrical safety & IS14489 etc,.
	Ȣ
CGCEL EHS Management System 
Audit Tools – Annual CGCEL EHS 
Management System will cover 
in EHS Audit. InProgress.
	Ȣ
Plant 
Wise 
Job 
Work 
Identification, ensure the legal 
and Workplace Safety.
	Ȣ
Indian Green Building Council 
– Score Card & Training to 
Environmental 
Champion 
is 
in Progress.
214 - 215
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
	Ȣ
Vadodara unit has conserved 
approximately 31% of water over 
the last fiscal year.
38.6 Health:
Crompton 
has 
initiated 
the 
annual medical health checkup 
for 
its 
white 
collar 
employees 
across 
organization. 
Almost 
all 
manufacturing 
sites 
are 
well 
established 
with 
occupational 
health center and accommodated 
with trained doctor and nurses.
Corporate EHS with the support 
of corporate HR has sustained the 
monthly health related training 
and awareness programmes with 
the support of expert doctors 
from 
“Doc-Online”, 
witnessing 
excellent 
participation 
from 
‘sales & non-sales’ employees in 
online presentation.
Packaging Materials and Process
The 
Company 
has 
adopted 
recycling 
and 
reuse 
of 
metal 
bins for the handling of semi-
finished components for selected 
categories, 
thereby 
eliminating 
wooden packaging. The Company 
is 
investing 
to 
secure 
cargo 
during dispatches by improving 
loading procedures.
During the year Company has received multiple awards towards its excellence in EHS which are as follows;
Gold in Safety category
Leader Award
Outstanding 
Performance in Safety 
Award 
9th OHSSAI Annual HSE Excellence & ESG Global 
Awards 2024.
OHSSAI Global Conclave & Annual Awards 2025 
Green Triangle Society Safety Award 2024
Fan-Kundaim, Goa and 
Pump- 
Ahilyanagar, 
Maharashtra plants  
Kundiam 
and 
Pump 
Ahilyanagar 
Bethora – Goa Plant
Safety category
Workplace 
safety Excellence
Safety Professional Award
ESG Global Awards 2024
Greentech Global Workplace Safety Awards 
2024
OHSSAI Global Conclave & Annual Awards 2025
Goa-Bethora Plant
Fan 
Division 
- 
Goa-
Bethora Plant
Ahilyanagar and Kundaim
Award
Authority
Division/ Unit
39.	Corporate 
social 
responsibility 
(“CSR”) 
framework & vision
Your 
Company 
believes 
that 
economic value and social value 
are inter-linked, and it has a 
commitment towards the inter-
dependent ecosystem consisting of 
various stakeholders. In addition to 
that Corporates have a significant 
role to play in bringing about 
social change and Crompton has 
kept its social and development 
mandate flexible and responsive to 
development challenges.
Your Company has chosen the grant-
making 
approach, 
strategically 
selecting 
the 
implementation 
partners with required expertise 
in 
their 
respective 
sector 
and 
strong community connection to 
effectively impact the lives of the end 
beneficiary. Aligned with its long-
term commitment to create positive 
and shared value for its stakeholders, 
the 
CSR 
programmes 
address 
developmental priorities as identified 
by the Act, aiming to ignite a positive 
social change. The Company’s CSR 
initiatives have undergone significant 
evolution, primarily executed through 
the 
Crompton 
CSR 
Foundation, 
focusing on key areas such as skill 
and entrepreneurship development, 
water 
conservation, 
community 
care, and employee engagement. 
For detailed information, please 
refer to page number 114-127 of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
The Company has constituted a 
CSR Committee in terms of the 
requirements of Section 135 of 
the Act read with the rules made 
thereunder. Details of the same is 
provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report. The 
Company’s CSR Policy is available 
on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/U6kk0A8Uoy_Corporate-
Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf
The Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company has certified that CSR 
funds disbursed for the projects 
have been utilized for the purposes 
and in the manner as approved by 
the Board.
40.	Sexual Harassment at 
Workplace
Your Company is firmly committed 
to creating a safe and respectful 
workplace, free from any form 
of harassment, including sexual 
harassment. 
The 
Company 
has 
implemented 
a 
comprehensive 
policy 
addressing 
sexual 
harassment at the workplace, in 
line with legal requirements and 
best practices. This policy includes 
preventive 
measures, 
robust 
grievance redressal mechanisms, 
and 
regular 
training 
programs 
to 
raise 
awareness 
among 
employees about their rights and 
responsibilities. 
Your 
Company 
fosters an inclusive culture where 
employees 
feel 
empowered 
to 
report any inappropriate behavior 
without fear of retribution. By 
prioritizing 
workplace 
safety 
and dignity, The Company not 
only upholds its commitment to 
ethical conduct but also reinforces 
a 
positive 
work 
environment 
that promotes productivity and 
mutual respect.
Additionally, 
your 
Company 
continuously 
works 
towards 
fostering 
a 
work 
culture 
that 
promotes respect and dignity of 
all women employees throughout 
the organization, aiming to provide 
an empowering and supportive 
atmosphere at workplace.
The 
Company 
has 
complied 
with provisions relating to the 
constitution of Internal Complaints 
Committee 
(“ICC”) 
under 
the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“the 
POSH Act”). The ICC includes an 
external member who serves as 
an independent POSH consultant 
with relevant expertise. Further, as 
a good governance practice, the 
Company strives to conclude the 
complaints received under POSH 
within a period of 15 (Fifteen) days.
Furthermore, 
the 
Company 
has 
formulated a comprehensive policy 
on 
prevention, 
prohibition 
and 
redressal against sexual harassment 
of women at workplace, which alings 
with the POSH Act. This policy covers 
all employees including permanent, 
contractual, temporary and trainees. 
The said policy has been made 
available on the internal portal of the 
Company as well as the website of 
the Company which can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/UxKXXDfbtE_
PoSH-at-Workplace-19May2023_
updated.pdf
Your Company has taken proactive 
measures to promote awareness 
and compliance with the POSH Act, 
including developing of e-learning 
modules 
and 
conducting 
of 
e-learning 
sessions 
on 
POSH 
to 
keep 
employees 
informed 
of these policies. This not only 
ensures compliance and a well-
regulated environment but also 
helps us achieve our organizational 
objectives. Additionally, awareness 
programmes on POSH have been 
organized 
throughout 
the 
year 
to 
sensitize 
the 
employees 
on 
upholding 
the 
dignity 
of 
their 
female colleagues in the workplace, 
reaching 
all 
employees 
across 
various locations. Moreover, a Toll-
Free Number has been provided to 
facilitate the telephonic registration 
of any POSH complaints, further 
enhancing accessibility and support 
for employees.
The 
details 
of 
complaint(s) 
received, and action taken by 
the 
Company 
are 
presented 
before the Audit Committee of 
the Board of Directors. During the 
year under review, 1 (One) case of 
sexual harassment was reported, 
which was thoroughly investigated 
and resolved in accordance with 
the provisions of the POSH Act. 
Further there are no cases pending 
for resolution for more than 90 
(Ninty) days.
41.	Registrar 
& 
Share 
Transfer Agent (“R&T/ 
RTA”)
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited is 
the RTA Agent of your Company. 
Their contact details are mentioned 
in 
the 
Report 
on 
Corporate 
Governance which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
42.	Listing
The equity shares of your Company 
are listed on BSE Limited (“BSE”) 
and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (“NSE”) (collectively 
referred to as “Stock Exchanges”). 
The Non-Convertible Debentures 
(“NCDs”) of the Company are listed 
on the Debt Segment of NSE.
Your Company has paid the Listing 
fees for Equity Shares to both the 
216 - 217
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Stock Exchanges and Listing fees 
for NCDs to the NSE for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 and 2025-26.
43.	Directors’ Responsibility 
Statement
Your Directors would like to assure 
the Members that the Financial 
Statements for the year under 
review confirm in their entirety 
the requirements of the Act and 
guidelines 
issued 
by 
SEBI. 
The 
financial statements are prepared 
in accordance with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS), 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 
134(3)(c) of the Act.
To the best of their knowledge 
and based on the information 
and explanations received from 
the 
Company, 
your 
Directors 
confirm that:
1.	
in preparation of the annual 
accounts 
for 
the 
Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, 
the 
applicable 
accounting 
standards 
have 
been 
followed and there are no 
material departures.
2.	
they 
have 
selected 
the 
accounting 
policies 
and 
applied 
them 
consistently 
and 
made 
judgments 
and 
estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company at the 
end of the Financial Year and 
of the profit of the Company 
for that period.
3.	
they have taken proper and 
sufficient care towards the 
maintenance 
of 
adequate 
accounting 
records 
in 
accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting 
fraud and other irregularities.
4.	
the 
annual 
accounts 
are 
prepared 
on 
a 
going 
concern basis.
5.	
they have laid down internal 
financial 
controls, 
which 
are 
adequate 
and 
are 
operating effectively.
6.	
they 
have 
devised 
proper 
systems to ensure compliance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of 
all 
applicable 
laws, 
and 
such 
systems are adequate and 
operating effectively.
44.	Integrated Reporting
The Company has diligently prepared 
an 
Integrated 
Annual 
Report, 
incorporating 
a 
comprehensive 
array of financial and non-financial 
information. This report aims to 
provide Members with the necessary 
insights to make informed decisions 
and gain a better understanding 
of 
the 
Company’s 
long-term 
perspective. The Report also touches 
upon 
various 
aspects 
such 
as 
organisation’s strategy, governance 
framework, 
performance 
and 
prospects of value creation based 
on the 6 (Six) forms of capital viz. 
Financial 
Capital, 
Manufacturing 
Capital, Intellectual Capital, Human 
Capital, Social & Relationship Capital 
and Natural Capital.
45.	General
Your 
Directors 
state 
that 
no 
disclosure or reporting is required in 
respect of the following matters as 
there were no transactions on these 
items during the year under review:
	Ȣ
Issue 
of 
equity 
shares 
with 
differential rights as to dividend, 
voting 
or 
otherwise 
as 
per 
Section 43(a)(ii) of the Act;
	Ȣ
Issue of Shares including Sweat 
Equity Shares to the employees of 
the Company under any scheme 
as per provisions of Section 54(1)
(d) of the Act;
	Ȣ
The Company does not have any 
scheme of provision of money for 
the purchase of its own shares by 
employees or by trustees for the 
benefit of employees;
	Ȣ
No instances of non-exercising of 
voting rights in respect of shares 
purchased directly by employees 
under a scheme pursuant to 
Section 67(3) of the Act;
	Ȣ
The MD & CEO does not receive 
any remuneration or commission 
from any of its Subsidiaries;
	Ȣ
No fraud has been reported 
by the Auditors to the Audit 
Committee or the Board;
	Ȣ
Disclosure 
of 
reason 
for 
difference between valuation 
done at the time of taking loan 
from bank and at the time of 
one-time 
settlement. 
There 
was no instance of onetime 
settlement with any Bank or 
Financial Institution;
	Ȣ
There was no revision in the 
Financial 
Statements 
and 
Board’s Report of the Company 
during the year under review;
	Ȣ
There has been no change in 
the nature of business of the 
Company as on the date of this 
report; and
	Ȣ
There are no proceedings, either 
filed by the Company or filed 
against Company, pending under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 
2016 
as 
amended, 
before National Company Law 
Tribunal or other courts during 
Financial Year 2024-25.
	Ȣ
During the year under review, 
the 
company 
complied 
with 
the provisions of the Maternity 
Benefit Act 1961 along with all 
the  applicable amendments & 
undertook necessary measures 
to ensure compliance for all 
eligible employees.
46.	Rights of Members
	Ȣ
Right to participate in, and to be 
sufficiently informed of decisions 
concerning 
fundamental 
corporate changes;
	Ȣ
Opportunity 
to 
participate 
effectively 
and 
vote 
in 
General Meetings;
	Ȣ
Being informed of the rules, 
including voting procedures that 
govern General Meetings;
	Ȣ
Opportunity to ask questions 
to the Board of Directors at 
General Meetings;
	Ȣ
Effective Member participation 
in key corporate governance 
decisions such as election of 
Members of Board of Directors, 
appointment 
of 
Statutory 
Auditors, 
Declaration 
of 
Dividend, Adoption of financial 
statements etc;
	Ȣ
Exercise 
of 
ownership 
rights 
by all the Members, including 
institutional investors;
	Ȣ
Adequate mechanism to address 
the grievances of the Members;
	Ȣ
Protection of minority Members 
from abusive actions by, or in the 
interest of, controlling Members 
acting 
either 
directly 
or 
indirectly, and effective means 
of redress;
	Ȣ
To receive dividends and other 
corporate benefits like rights, 
bonus etc. once approved;
	Ȣ
To inspect statutory registers and 
documents, including minutes 
books of the general meetings, 
as permitted under law; and
	Ȣ
Any other rights as specified in 
the statutory enactments from 
time to time.
47.	Acknowledgements
Your Director(s) place on records 
their deep appreciation to all the 
employees of the Company posted 
at all locations and levels for their 
whole-hearted efforts as well as 
collective dedication, commitment 
and contribution, which is vital in 
achieving the overall growth of 
the Company. 
Your Director(s) would also like 
to thank the vendors, suppliers, 
bankers, 
financial 
institutions, 
employee 
unions, 
members, 
customers, dealers, Government 
authorities, Regulatory authorities, 
stock exchanges and all other 
business 
associates, 
consultants’ 
and other stakeholders for their 
continued cooperation and support 
extended to the Company and 
the Management.
We look forward to continued 
support of all these associates in 
the future.
48.	Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Board’s Report 
and 
the 
MDA 
describing 
the 
Company’s objectives, projections, 
estimates, 
expectations 
or 
predictions 
may 
be 
“forward 
looking 
statements” 
within 
the 
meaning of applicable securities 
laws and regulations.
Actual results could differ materially 
from those expressed or implied. 
Important factors that could make 
a difference to the Company’s 
operations include global and Indian 
demand supply conditions, finished 
goods prices, feed stock availability 
and prices, cyclical demand and 
pricing in the Company’s principal 
markets, changes in government 
regulations, tax regimes, economic 
developments 
within 
India 
and 
the countries within which the 
Company conducts business and 
other factors such as litigation and 
labour negotiations. The Company 
is not obliged to publicly amend, 
modify or revise any forward-
looking statement, on the basis 
of any subsequent development, 
information or events or otherwise.
	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
D. Sundaram
Chairman
DIN: 00016304
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
218 - 219
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 1
1.	 PREAMBLE
	
Regulation 
43(A) 
of 
the 
Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(“the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations”) 
requires the top 1000 listed 
entities based on their market 
capitalisation calculated on 
March 31 of every financial 
year to formulate a Dividend 
Distribution 
Policy, 
a 
web-
link which shall be disclosed 
in their annual reports and 
on their websites. a Dividend 
Distribution Policy.
	
The Company being one of 
the top one thousand listed 
companies as per the market 
capitalisation 
as 
on 
the 
last day of the immediately 
preceding 
Financial 
Year, 
frames this Policy to comply 
with the requirements of the 
Listing Regulations.
2.	 PHILOSOPHY/
OBJECTIVE
	
The Dividend Policy of the 
Company aims to strike a 
balance between the dual 
objectives 
of 
rewarding 
shareholders 
through 
Dividends 
and 
ploughing 
back 
earnings 
to 
support 
sustained growth.
	
The objective of this Policy is to 
reward the shareholders of the 
Company by sharing a portion 
of 
the 
profits, 
whilst 
also 
ensuring that sufficient funds 
are retained for future growth 
of 
the 
Company. 
Towards 
this end, the Policy lays down 
parameters to be considered 
by the Board of Directors of 
the Company for declaration 
of 
Dividend 
from 
time 
to 
time. Through this Policy, the 
Company 
would 
endeavour 
to 
maintain 
a 
consistent 
approach to Dividend pay-
out plans.
3.	 DEFINITIONS
	
“Act” shall mean the Companies 
Act 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder, 
including 
any 
modifications, amendments or 
re-enactment thereof.
	
“Applicable Laws” shall mean 
the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the rules made thereunder, the 
Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015; as amended 
from time to time and such 
other act, rules or regulations 
which 
provides 
for 
the 
distribution of Dividend.
	
“Board or Board of Directors” 
shall 
mean 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors of the Company.
	
“Company” 
shall 
mean 
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals 
Limited 
and 
wherever the context requires, 
shall 
signify 
the 
Company 
acting through its Board.
	
“Dividend” 
shall 
mean 
Dividend as defined under 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
“Financial Year” shall mean 
the period beginning from 1st 
April of every year to 31st March 
of the succeeding year.
	
“Policy or this Policy” shall 
mean this Dividend Distribution 
Policy and as may be amended 
from time to time.
	
“SEBI Regulations” shall mean 
the Securities and Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 together with the circulars 
issued thereunder, including 
any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force.
4.	 PARAMETERS FOR 
DECLARATION 
OF DIVIDEND
	
In line with the philosophy 
stated above, the Board of 
Directors of the Company, 
shall consider the following 
parameters 
for 
declaration 
of Dividend:
	
FINANCIAL PARAMETERS 
/ INTERNAL FACTORS:
	Ȣ
Consolidated net operating 
profit after tax;
	Ȣ
Accumulated reserves;
	Ȣ
Working capital requirements;
	Ȣ
Capital expenditure  
requirements;
	Ȣ
Resources 
required 
to 
fund acquisitions and/ or 
new businesses;
	Ȣ
Cash 
flow 
required 
to 
meet contingencies;
	Ȣ
Outstanding borrowings;
	Ȣ
Past 
Dividend 
Trends 
(whenever applicable);
	Ȣ
Earnings outlook;
	Ȣ
Expected 
future 
capital/ 
liquidity requirements;
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
	Ȣ
Any other relevant factors 
and material events.
	
EXTERNAL FACTORS:
	Ȣ
Prevailing legal requirements, 
regulatory 
conditions 
or 
restrictions laid down under 
the Applicable Laws including 
tax laws;
	Ȣ
Dividend 
pay-out 
ratios 
of 
companies 
in 
the 
same industry;
	Ȣ
Any 
significant 
changes 
in 
macro-economic 
environment affecting India 
or the geographies in which 
the Company operates, or 
the business of the Company 
or of its clients;
	Ȣ
Any 
political, 
tax 
and 
regulatory changes in the 
geographies in which the 
Company operates;
	Ȣ
Any significant change in the 
business 
or 
technological 
environment resulting in the 
Company making significant 
investments to effect the 
necessary changes to its 
business model;
	Ȣ
Any 
changes 
in 
the 
competitive 
environment 
requiring 
significant 
investment;
	Ȣ
Inflation rate;
	Ȣ
Cost of external financing;
	Ȣ
Any other relevant factors 
and material events.
5.	 UTILISATION OF 
RETAINED EARNINGS
	
The profits earned by the 
Company 
can 
either 
be 
retained in business and used 
for acquisitions, expansion or 
diversification, or it can be 
distributed 
to 
shareholders. 
The Company may choose to 
retain a part of its profits and 
distribute the balance among 
its shareholders as Dividend 
after having due regard to 
the parameters laid down in 
this Policy.
6.	 DIVIDEND PAYOUT
	
The dividend payout in each 
financial year, including interim 
dividends, will be decided by 
the Board keeping in mind the 
above-mentioned 
criteria. 
Special dividends, if any, will 
be declared in addition to the 
regular dividend payout.
7.	 CIRCUMSTANCES 
UNDER WHICH THE 
SHAREHOLDERS 
MAY OR MAY NOT 
EXPECT DIVIDEND
	
The 
shareholders 
of 
the 
Company may or may not 
expect Dividend under the 
following circumstances:
	
i.	
Whenever it undertakes 
or proposes to undertake 
a 
significant 
expansion 
project requiring higher 
allocation of capital.
	
ii.	
Significant higher working 
capital 
requirements 
adversely impacting free 
cash flow.
	
iii.	
Whenever it undertakes 
any 
acquisitions 
or 
restructuring 
or 
joint 
ventures 
requiring 
significant allocation or 
reduction of capital.
	
iv.	
Whenever it proposes to 
utilise surplus cash for 
buy-back of securities or
	
v.	
In the event of inadequacy 
of profits or whenever 
the 
Company 
has 
incurred losses.
8.	 DIVIDEND ELIGIBILITY
	
The Company has only one 
class of equity shareholders 
and 
does 
not 
have 
any 
preference share capital.
9.	 POLICY REVIEW, 
UPDATES AND  
AMENDMENTS
	
This policy will be reviewed 
annually by the Board to ensure 
that it meets the objectives 
of the relevant legislation and 
needs of the Company. The 
Board has the right to change/ 
amend the policy as may be 
expedient taking into account 
the law for the time being 
in force.
	
Any changes or revisions to the 
policy will be disseminated on 
the Company’s Website.
	
In 
the 
event 
of 
any 
amendment(s), clarification(s), 
circular(s), 
provision(s) 
etc. 
issued 
by 
the 
relevant 
authorities, 
not 
being 
consistent with the provisions 
laid down under this Policy, 
then the same shall prevail 
upon the provisions hereunder 
and this Policy shall stand 
amended accordingly.
	
Declaration of Dividend on the 
basis of parameters in addition 
to the elements of this Policy 
or resulting in amendment of 
any element or the Policy will 
be regarded as deviation. Any 
220 - 221
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Board’s Report
such deviation on elements 
of this Policy in extraordinary 
circumstances, when deemed 
necessary in the interests of 
the Company, along with the 
rationale will be disclosed in the 
Annual Report by the Board.
10.	EFFECTIVE DATE
	
The policy was first approved 
by the Board of Directors on 
October 25, 2016 and has been 
amended by the Board of 
Directors on February 02, 2023 
and is effective from February 
02, 2023.
11.	DISCLOSURE
	
This Policy, as approved by 
the Board of Directors, at its 
meeting held on October 25, 
2016, and amended thereafter 
shall be disclosed in the Annual 
Reports and hosted on the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
https://www.crompton.co.in/
12.	CONFLICT IN POLICY
	
In the event of any conflict 
between 
this 
Policy 
and 
the provisions contained in 
the Listing Regulations, the 
Regulations shall prevail.
(Pursuant to first proviso to Sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies  
(Accounts) Rules, 2014) Statement containing salient features of the  
financial statement of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures)
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES 
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Name of the subsidiary
(i)	 Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited (“NLPPL”)
(ii)	 Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited (“PLPPL”)
(iii)	Crompton CSR Foundation (“CCF”)
(iv)	Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“BGMAL”)
2.
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if different 
from the holding company’s reporting period
NA
3.
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last date of 
the relevant financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries
Not Applicable as above-mentioned subsidiaries are Indian 
Subsidiaries
4.
Share capital
(i)	 NLPPL : 	Authorised Capital: ` 10.00 Crore
	
	
	
	 Paid-Up Capital:  ` 7.50 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : 	 Authorised Capital: ` 10.00 Crore
	
	
	
	 Paid-Up Capital : ` 6.70 Crore
(iii)	CCF : 	 	 Authorised Capital: NA
	
	
	
	 Paid-Up Capital : NA
(iv)	BGAL : 	 Authorised Capital: ` 40.00 Crore
	
	
	
	 Paid-Up Capital : ` 17.88 Crore
5.
Reserves & Surplus
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 2.93 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 2.65 Crore
(iii)	CCF : Nil
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 307.40 Crore
6.
Total Assets
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 16.19 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 15.67 Crore
(iii)	CCF : ` 0.65 Crore
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 469.91 Crore
7.
Total Liabilities
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 5.76 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 6.32 Crore
(iii)	CCF : ` 0.65 Crore
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 144.63 Crore
8.
Investments
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 10.46 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 8.22 Crore
(iii)	CCF : Nil
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 84.48 Crore
9.
Turnover
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 0.96 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 1.01 Crore
(iii)	CCF : Nil
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 864.50 Crore
10.
Profit before taxation
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 1.31 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 1.01 Crore
(iii)	CCF : ` 0.65 Crore
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 43.95 Crore
ANNEXURE 2
FORM AOC-1
222 - 223
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Details
11.
Provision for Taxation
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 0.26 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 0.24 Crore
(iii)	CCF : Nil
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 11.41 Crore
12.
Profit after Taxation
(i)	 NLPPL : ` 1.05 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL : ` 0.77 Crore
(iii)	CCF : ` 0.65 Crore
(iv)	BGMAL: ` 32.53 Crore
13.
Proposed dividend
(i)    NLPPL:- 27% i.e. ` 2.70 per share on face value of ` 10 
each
(ii)   PLPPL:- 24.5% i.e. `2.45 per share on face value of ` 10 
each  
(iii)  CCF: Nil
(iv)  Butterfly: Nil
14.
% of shareholding
(i)	 NLPPL : 100%
(ii)	 PLPPL : 100%
(iii)	CCF : 0*
(iv)	BGAL: 75%#
*Crompton CSR Foundation, a Company incorporated under Section 8 of the Act (being a Company limited by guarantee not having share 
capital) primarily with an objective of undertaking/ channelising the CSR activities of the Company, is a subsidiary of the Company with 
effect from May 01, 2019. Based on the control assessment carried out by the Company, the same is not consolidated as per Ind AS 110.
#BGMAL became a subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. March 30, 2022. During the year in accordance with regulations 3(1) and 4 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011, after acquisition of 55% stake 
of Butterfly on March 30, 2022, an open offer was made by the Company for acquisition of upto 26% of the issued and paid-up equity share 
capital of Butterfly from its public Members. The open offer was fully subscribed and therefore the Company’s holding increased from 55% 
to 81% w.e.f. June 4, 2022. To comply with the minimum public shareholding (“MPS”) requirements mandated under Rule 19A of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, as amended, read with Regulation 38 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company divested 6.00% 
of the issued and paid-up equity share capital of Butterfly on September 20, 2022, & September 21, 2022, through Offer for Sale (“OFS”) 
mechanism, which resulted into decrease in holding from 81% to 75%.
1. 	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Nil
2. 	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
PART “B”: ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Act related to Associate Companies and 
Joint Ventures:
Not Applicable as there are no associates and joint ventures
Name of Associates/ Joint Ventures
1.
Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date
NA
2.
Shares of Associates/ Joint held by the Company at the year end:
NA
No.
NA
Amount of Investment in Associates/ Joint Venture
NA
Extent of Holding %
NA
3.
Description of how there is significant influence
NA
4.
Reason why the Associate(s)/ Joint is not consolidated
NA
5.
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
NA
6.
Profit/ Loss for the year:
NA
i.	
Considered in Consolidation
NA
ii. 	 Not Considered in Consolidation
NA
1.	
Names of associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: Nil
2. 	
Names of associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
D. Sundaram
Chairman
DIN: 00016304
Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO
DIN: 05307658
Sanjiv Kakkar
Non-Executive
Independent Director
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Chief Financial Officer
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
224 - 225
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, as amended]
1.	 Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
Company’s CSR strategy framework is based on the principles of ‘Responsible Business’ and ‘Shared Value’. The 
CSR programme framework is both in line with the Company’s long-term commitment to building positive value 
for the communities (including key stakeholders) as well as addresses key developmental priorities as identified 
by Schedule VII to the Act.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1.
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
(DIN: 00059877)
Non-Executive Vice Chairman, 
Committee Chairman
1
1
2.
Mr. D. Sundaram
(DIN: 00016304)
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director, Member
1
1
3.
Ms. Smita Anand
(DIN: 00059228)
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director, Member
1
1
4.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
(DIN: 05307658)
MD & CEO, Member
1
1
3.	 Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy 
and CSR Projects approved by the board are disclosed on the website of 
the company.
	Ȣ
Composition of CSR committee: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/board-committee
	Ȣ
CSR Policy: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/corporate-governance
	Ȣ
CSR Project: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/csr#
4.	 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment 
of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable.
	
Not Applicable. 
	
The Impact assessment of projects completed in Financial Year 2023-2024 is ongoing, while assessment for 
Financial Year 2024-2025 projects will begin after Financial Year 2026. The web-link will be updated once the 
reports are ready to publish.
5.	
(a)	 Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: K 668.51 Crore  
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: K 13.37 Crore
	
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NA
	
(d)	 Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: Nil
	
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: K 13.37 Crore
ANNEXURE 3
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)  
ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25
6.	
a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): K 12.70 Crore
	
b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: K 0.60 Crore
	
c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: K 0.07 Crore
	
d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: K 13.37 Crore
	
e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: Nil
Total Amount Spent for the 
Financial Year (in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per sub- section (6) of 
section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII 
as per second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
13.37 Crore
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (in `)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
13.37 Crore
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
13.37 Crore
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
0.003 Crore
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.003 Crore
7.	 Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding 
three Financial Years: 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section (6) of 
section 135 (in `)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section (6) of 
section 135 (in `)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial 
Year
(in `)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per second 
proviso to sub- section (5) 
of section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in `)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in `)
Date of 
Transfer
1
2
NA
3
226 - 227
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate 
Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year:
	
No
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year:
Sl.
No.
Short particulars of the property or 
asset(s) [including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pin code of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of 
the registered owner
CSR Registration 
Number, if applicable
Name
Registered 
address
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
NA
NA
	
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/
Municipal Corporation/ Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as 
well as boundaries)
9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the 
average net profit as per sub- section (5) of section 135: Not Applicable
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO
DIN:05307658 
Shantanu Khosla
Vice Chairman of 
CSR Committee
DIN:00059877 
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
Place : Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
Particulars of contracts / arrangements made with related parties.
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and  
Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
This form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/ arrangements entered into by the company with 
related parties referred to in sub section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length 
transaction under third proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis
The details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis for the year ended March 31, 2025 
are as follows:
Particulars
Nature of 
Relationship
Duration of 
Contract
Date of 
Approval 
by Board
Salient Terms
Justification
Date of 
Special 
Resolution
Amount 
paid as 
advances
Amount
in Crore
Not Applicable
Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length 
basis:  Not Applicable
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis:
The details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025, are as follows
Particulars
Nature of 
Relationship
Duration of 
Contract
Date of Approval 
by Board*
Salient Terms
Amount in Crore
Nature of Contract
Rendering management resources on secondment basis
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited 
(“Butterfly”)
Subsidiary 
Company
2 years 
(November 1, 2022 
to October 31, 
2024)
October 26, 2022
Mr. Rajasekar T.
(To provide management 
resources for Human Resources on 
Secondment to butterfly)
0.09$
Mr. Gaurishankar Mathapati 
(To provide management resources 
for IT on Secondment to Butterfly)
0.31#
Mr. Vaibhav Kunkolienkar 
(8.23)^@
(To provide management resources 
for Procurement on Secondment to 
Butterfly)
2 Years 
(February 2, 2023 
to February 1, 
2025)
February 1, 2023
Ms. Shristi Gupta
(To provide management resource 
for all Planning & Logistics related 
activities on Secondment to 
Butterfly)
0.59
2 years 
(March 25, 2023, 
to March 24, 2025) 
March 25, 2023
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya 
(To provide management resources 
for all Secretarial related activities 
on Secondment to Butterfly)
 0.26!
2 years 
(March 30, 2024 to 
March 29, 2026)
February 14, 2024
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram
(To provide management resources 
on Secondment to oversee business 
operations and provide the 
identified services to Butterfly)
 (0.19) &@
2 years 
(August 12, 2023 to 
August 11, 2025)
August 12, 2023
Mr. Rishabh Bengani
(To provide management resources 
to oversee finance related activities 
on Secondment to Butterfly)
 0.07%
ANNEXURE 4
FORM NO. AOC -2
228 - 229
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Particulars
Nature of 
Relationship
Duration of 
Contract
Date of Approval 
by Board*
Salient Terms
Amount in Crore
2 Years 
(November 9, 2023 
to November 8, 
2025)
November 3, 2023
Mr. V A Jospeh
(To provide management resources 
for overseeing finance functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly)
1.57
NA
May 15, 2024
Mr. Krushnakant Sinojia
(To provide management resources 
for overseeing R&D functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly)
0.85
NA
May 15, 2024
Ms. Swetha Sagar G
(To provide management resources 
for overseeing Business as Manager 
& CBO on Secondment to Butterfly)
1.33
NA
May 15, 2024
Mr. Bharath Venkatesh
(To provide management resources 
for overseeing HR functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly)
0.34
NA
July 30, 2024
Mr. Nijanthan AS 
(To provide management resources 
for overseeing Finance functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly)
0.25
Purchase of Goods
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025
March 18, 2024
Purchase of Goods
31.08
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
Onetime
July 30, 2024
Purchase of Car
0.09
Availing or rendering of services
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025
March 18, 2024
Management service for rendering 
manpower
2.06
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
Management service for receiving 
manpower
1.02
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
Management fees for Legal support
0.70
Pinnacles Lighting 
Project Private Limited
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
Management Services rendered
0.05
Nexustar Lighting 
Project Private Limited
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
Management Services rendered
0.05
Crompton CSR 
Foundation
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary of 
Crompton
Undertaking the CSR activities of the 
Company
12.78
Leasing of Property
Butterfly 
Subsidiary 
Company
April 1, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025
March 18, 2024
Consideration for usage of 
trademark of Crompton (Royalty 
Fees)
0.46
Butterfly
Subsidiary 
Company
Sharing of Company’s office at 
various places with Butterfly’s 
employees
0.29
Butterfly 
Subsidiary 
Company
Sharing of Butterfly’s office at various 
places with Company’s employees
0.0020
*All the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length basis were approved by the Audit Committee and 
subsequently noted by the Board.
$ Resigned w.e.f. May 17, 2024
# Resigned w.e.f. December 9, 2024
^ Resigned w.e.f. September 13, 2024
! Resigned w.e.f. April 7, 2025
& Resigned w.e.f. August 7, 2024
@ Negative amounts pertains to reversal.
% Resigned w.e.f. July 12, 2024
Note:
The transactions mentioned above are not material as per the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended. However, 
the same is disclosed under AOC-2 as a matter of good corporate governance practice.
FORM MR-3
For The Financial Year Ended March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
ANNEXURE 5
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
To,
The Members,
Crompton 
Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals Limited
We have conducted the secretarial 
audit 
of 
the 
compliance 
of 
applicable statutory provisions and 
the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Crompton Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals 
Limited 
(hereinafter called ‘the Company’). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted 
in a manner that provided us a 
reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the 
Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed 
and 
other 
records 
maintained 
by the company, to the extent 
the information provided by the 
company, 
its 
officers, 
agents 
and 
authorised 
representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial 
audit, 
the 
explanations 
and 
clarifications given to us and the 
representations 
made 
by 
the 
Management and considering the 
relaxations granted by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs and Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, 
the company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2025 generally 
complied 
with 
the 
statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and 
also that the Company has proper 
Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, 
papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records made 
available to us and maintained by 
the Company for the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2025 according 
to the provisions of:
(i)	
The 
Companies 
Act, 
2013 
(‘the 
Act’) 
and 
the 
rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	 The 
Securities 
Contract 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and 
the Regulations and Bye-laws 
framed 	 thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign 
Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and 
the 
rules 
and 
regulations 
made 
thereunder 
to 
the 
extent 
of 
Foreign 
Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment 
and 
External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
The following Regulations and 
Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’)
	
(a) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial 
Acquisition 
of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
(b) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Issue 
of 
Capital 
and 
Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018 
and 
amendments from time 
to time; (Not applicable to 
the Company during the 
audit period)
	
(d) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee 
Benefits 
and 
Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
(e) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible 
Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(f) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India (Registrars to an 
Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Act 
and dealing with client; 
(Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit 
period)
230 - 231
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
	
(g) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India (Delisting of Equity 
Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
(Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit 
period) and
	
(h) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback 
of 
Securities) 
Regulations, 
2018; 
(Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit 
period)
(vi)	 Other 
laws 
specifically 
applicable 
to 
the 
Company namely
	Ȣ
Bureau of Indian Standards. 
The 
National 
Standards 
Body of India
	Ȣ
Bureau of Energy Efficiency 
(Government 
of 
India, 
Ministry of Power)
	
We 
have 
also 
examined 
compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
	
(i) 	 Secretarial 
Standards 
issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of 
India with respect to Board 
and General Meetings.
	
(ii) 	 The Listing Agreements 
entered 
into 
by 
the 
Company 
with 
BSE 
Limited 
and 
National 
Stock Exchange of India 
Limited read with the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
During 
the 
period 
under 
review, 
the 
Company 
has 
complied with the provisions 
of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, 
standards 
etc. 
mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the 
Company 
is 
duly 
constituted 
with proper balance of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The 
changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place 
during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all 
directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance other 
than those held at shorter notice, 
and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
Decisions at the Board Meetings 
were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are 
adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, 
rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the 
audit period no event occurred 
which had bearing on the Company’s 
affairs in pursuance of the above 
referred laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, standards etc.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
Mitesh Dhabliwala
Partner
FCS No: 8331 CP No: 9511
UDIN: F008331G000351905 
PR No.: 6556/2025
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
ANNEXURE A
To,
The Members,
Crompton 
Greaves 
Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Our report of even date is to be read 
along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance 
of 
Secretarial 
record 
is 
the 
responsibility 
of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is 
to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on 
our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit 
practices 
and 
process 
as 
were appropriate to obtain 
reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents 
of 
the 
Secretarial 
records. 
The 
verification 
was 
done 
on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected 
in 
Secretarial 
records. 
We 
believe 
that 
the 
process 
and practices, we followed 
provide a reasonable basis for 
our opinion.
3.	
We 
have 
not 
verified 
the 
correctness 
and 
appropriateness of financial 
records and Books of Accounts 
of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have 
obtained 
the 
Management 
representation 
about 
the 
Compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of 
events, etc.
5.	
The 
Compliance 
of 
the 
provisions of Corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. 
Our examination was limited to 
the verification of procedure 
on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report 
is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the 
Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted 
the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
Mitesh Dhabliwala
Partner
FCS No: 8331 CP No: 9511
UDIN: F008331G000351905
PR No.: 6556/2025
232 - 233
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
ANNEXURE 6
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under section 197(12) read with 
Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014
a. 	 The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees 
of the Company for 2024-25:
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company during 2024-25 was ` 10,18,848 and ratio of the 
remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 is provided in the table below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation
% increase/ decrease 
in remuneration
Ratio of Remuneration 
of each Director to 
Median Remuneration of 
employees for 2024-25
1
Mr. D Sundaram
(DIN: 00016304)
Chairman & Non-Executive 
Independent Director^  
8.04
3.59
2
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
(DIN 05307658)
Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer# 
164.91
104.85
3
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
(DIN:00059877)
Non-Executive Director & Vice 
Chairman*^ 
(84.16)
83.45
4
Mr. P M Murty
(DIN: 00011179)
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^
3.30
3.38
5
Ms. Smita Anand
(DIN: 00059228)
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^
(1.18)
2.46
6
Mr. P R Ramesh
(DIN: 01915274)
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^
16.25
2.90
7
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
(DIN: 06992518)
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^
5.81
2.50
8
Mr. Anil Chaudhary
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^
821.71
1.36
9
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
Non-Executive Independent 
Director^ 
875.05
1.44
	
* Consequent to cessation as Managing Director w.e.f. April 30, 2023, Mr. Shantanu Khosla was evaluated to Executive Director & Vice 
Chairman from May 1, 2023, until April 30, 2024, and then he assumed the position of Non -Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024 
till December 31, 2025. The decrease in remuneration is due to a change in designation effective May 1, 2024. He transitioned from an 
Executive to a Non-Executive Director, and now receives only sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings, leading to 
a significant reduction in total remuneration.
	
^ The remuneration of Non-Executive Director and Independent Directors consists of sitting fees and commission. Commission is for 
2023-2024 paid in 2024-25.
	
# Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as the Executive Director w.e.f April 24, 2023, and as the Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer w.e.f May 1, 2023. The increase in remuneration of Mr. Promeet Ghosh is pursuant to his appointment as MD & CEO. The 
remuneration includes fixed pay and variable pay. Variable pay is for 2023-2024 paid in 2024-25.
b. 	 The percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Company 
Secretary or Manager, if any, in the financial year:
	
The percentage Increase/ (Decrease) in remuneration of Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Company Secretary or 
Manager, if any, in Financial Year 2024-25 is provided in the table below:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director/ KMP
Designation
% Increase/ (Decrease) in
Remuneration in 2024-25
1.
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Chief Financial Officer
15.68%
2.
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
5.31%
c. 	 The percentage increase in 
the median remuneration 
of 
employees 
in 
the 
Financial Year
	
In the Financial Year, there was 
an increase of 3% in the median 
remuneration of employees.
d. 	 The number of permanent 
employees on the rolls of 
the Company
	
There were 2,330 permanent 
employees including permanent 
workers on the rolls of the 
Company as on March 31, 2025.
e. 	 Average 
percentile 
increase already made in 
the salaries of employees 
other than the managerial 
personnel 
in 
the 
last 
Financial 
Year 
and 
its 
comparison 
with 
the 
percentile increase in the 
managerial remuneration 
and justification thereof 
and point out if there 
are 
any 
exceptional 
circumstances 
for 
increase in the managerial 
remuneration
	
Average percentile increase 
made 
in 
the 
salaries 
of 
employees 
other 
than 
the 
managerial personnel in the 
last Financial Year 2024-25 
was 7.4% whereas the increase 
in managerial remuneration 
for the Financial Year 2024-25 
was 14.7% (Calculated as per 
Weighted Average).
	
The 
remuneration 
of 
Independent 
Director(s) 
consists of commission and 
sitting fees. While deciding 
the 
remuneration, 
various 
factors 
such 
as 
Director’s 
participation in Board and 
Committee Meetings during 
the year, other responsibilities 
undertaken, 
such 
as 
Membership or Chairmanship 
of Committees etc., were taken 
into consideration.
f. 	
Affirmation 
that 
the 
remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy 
of the Company:
	
It is hereby affirmed that the 
remuneration paid is as per the 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy of the Company.
	
“Median” means the numerical 
value separating the higher 
half of a population from the 
lower half and the median of 
a finite list of numbers may 
be found by arranging all the 
observations from lowest value 
to highest value and picking the 
middle one. If there is an even 
number of observations, the 
median shall be the average of 
the two middle values.
For and on behalf of the 
Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN: 00016304
234 - 235
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Pursuant to Clause (m) of Sub-section 3 of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(3) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
A.	
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY:
(a)	 Energy Conservation Measures 
Taken
	
As a leading brand in electrical 
sector 
your 
Company 
has 
taken 
various 
initiatives 
towards energy conservation. 
This is reflected in our product 
development 
efforts 
and 
process upgrades.
	
Some of the activities carried 
out in the area of energy 
conservation were:
	
1.	
9418 
KWH 
Renewable 
Power 
Use 
@ 
Bethora 
(2538 KWH) & Ahilyanagar 
(6880 KWH) Plant.
	
2.	
Energy 
Efficient 
HVLS 
Fan 
Installation 
at 
Ahmednagar Nagar Plant. 
	
3.	
Timer 
Integration 
of 
Auto On/ Off Operation 
of 
Lighting 
& 
Fan 
at 
Shop Floor.
	
4.	
Sky 
Light 
Sheet 
Implementation 
to 
Optimize Lighting Load at 
Baddi Unit-3.
	
5.	
Tapping 
Machine 
Running 
Hrs 
Optimized 
Through 
Proximity 
Sensor 
Integration 
at 
Kundaim Plant
	
6.	
Timer Based Lighting & 
Fan On/ Off Operation for 
Canteen at Kundaim Plant.
	
7.	
Material 
Transfer 
Conveyor Implementation 
at Bethora Plant
(b)	 Capital Investment on Energy 
Conservation Equipment
	
Nil
B.	
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION:
	
The technology focus for the 
Company has been on process 
improvement for better quality, 
lower 
cost, 
new 
product 
development speed and to get 
the better technology working 
with international companies.
	
Some of the areas of technology 
focus and initiatives are:
	
1.	
Expanded 
presence 
in 
decorative 
lighting 
with 
launch 
of 
decorative 
battens and wall lights.
	
2.	
Introduced a range of high-
wattage LED bulbs with 
advanced DoB technology 
for better efficiency.
	
3.	
Launched 
a 
range 
of 
Sensor 
products 
across 
lamps, 
battens 
and 
ceiling lights.
	
4.	
Introduced 
a 
range 
of 
festive lighting in addition 
to 
entering 
electrical 
accessories market.
	
5.	
Launched 
a 
range 
of 
Façade Lighting products 
for large customers.
	
6.	
Launched energy efficient 
Solar 
AIO 
series 
with 
Hybrid, PIR Sensor & Fixed 
dimming option.
	
7.	
Released 
High 
wattage 
Street 
lights 
with 
Integrated 
lens 
with 
highly efficient optics for 
highway projects.
	
8.	
Released High efficiency 
Flood Lights with ingress-
protection 
lens 
in 
high wattages.
	
9.	
Launched High wattage 
flood lights up to 1000W for 
Sports application.
	
10.	 Launched 
integrated 
lens 
based 
Highbay 
range 
for 
industrial 
segment 
with 
improved 
efficiency uniform spread 
for 
Industrial 
sheds, 
warehousing etc.
	
11.	 Released new range of Solar 
stand-alone 
streetlight 
range for state & national 
highway application.
	
12.	 Launched new range of 
well glass for industrial 
segments 
like 
steel, 
cement, oil & gas and a 
new range of Decorative 
Street Lights to address 
city 
beautification 
opportunity.
	
13.	 Successfully 
launched 
Project 
Nucleus 
which 
focused 
on 
building 
inhouse 
BLDC 
platform 
thereby ensuring superior 
reliability, 
scalability 
& 
robustness in our future 
BLDC 
fans. 
This 
also 
shows our dedication to 
continuous 
technological 
improvement.
	
14.	 With growing emphasis on 
sustainability, 
Crompton 
implemented XTech motor 
technology for induction 
motors ensuring that all 
ceiling fans comply with the 
BEE standards and have a 
minimum of 1 star rating 
and 
are 
progressively 
energy efficient and ready 
for 
future 
stricter 
BEE 
transitions of the future.
	
15.	 Crompton factories are all 
certified by BIS for ceiling 
fans manufacturing.
	
16.	 Ceiling Fan range is 100% 
complied as per BEE star 
ANNEXURE 7
rating 
guidelines 
and 
BIS guidelines.
	
17.	
Explored and implemented 
various 
material 
optimization/ 
alternate 
material introduction to 
improve 
sustainability 
in Fans.
	
18.	 Explored more sustainable 
packaging in ceiling Fans.
	
19.	 More focus on sustainable 
technologies development 
in fans.
	
20.	 Crompton launched new 
range 
of 
fans 
in 
Sure 
breeze (Super Briz Royale, 
Rushwind, and Ameo) with 
state-of-the-art design.
	
21.	 Crompton launched fans 
in 
Premium 
category 
including 
a 
four-blade 
fan (Avancer Swirl and 
Aura2 
4Blade) 
with 
state-of-the-art 
design 
and specifications.
	
22.	 Expansion of the SilentPro 
category 
by 
launching 
Fluido 
Wave 
and 
Enso 
Induction – with a focus on 
aesthetics and developing 
a fluidic design range.
	
23.	 Expansion of BLDC range 
with Cookie IOT, Nucleoid 
and Niteo.
	
24.	 Launched 
India’s 
Highest Air Delivery Fan 
in 
Highspeed 
Category 
(Superflo).
	
25.	 Expansion of Highspeed 
category 
by 
launching 
Santos and Festo.
	
26.	 Launched 1st in industy, 
patented 
dry 
winding 
Series in OW pumps with 
plug and play convenience 
to consumer.
	
27.	
Successfully 
developed 
& launched CCP series 
in 
India 
(Indigenization) 
thus de-risking the import 
supplies & quality issues.
	
28.	 Initiation 
of 
PLM 
Implementations for the 
Robust BOM Management 
& change management.
	
29.	 Launched MB High Flow 
series 
with 
efficient 
hydraulic 
and 
improved 
motor design to deliver 
higher 
discharge, 
take 
advantage in industrial hot 
& cold applications.
	
30.	 Development 
of 
3-star 
and 
5-star 
Induction 
Technology Fans.
	
31.	 Creation of the Best-in-
Class 
BLDC 
Technology 
Platform – “Nucleus”.
	
32.	 Introduction 
of 
Next-
Generation Plastic Blade 
Fan with “Fluidic” Design – 
“Fludio Wave”.
	
33.	 Enhancement of Airflow 
Experience 
with 
“Turbo 
Air 
Boost 
Technology”– 
“Superflo”.
	
34.	 Implementation 
of 
BIS 
Safety 
Norms 
(IS 
302) 
Across All Non-Ceiling Fans.
	
35.	 Expansion 
of 
Product 
Portfolio with New Sweep 
Sizes – 24”, 36”, and 56”.
	
36.	 Successfully 
developed 
& launched WIN PLUS/
WIN DURA Series to cater 
to 2 floors homes with 
Double coating to provide 
protection against rust & 
longer life.
	
37.	
Launched SWJ Dura series 
with higher discharge & 
CED coating for longer life 
against corrosion.
	
38.	 Launched 
OW 
Higher 
HP (10-30HP) series with 
cost advantage.
	
39.	 Launched CCP Series & 
Higher HP STP Series in 
Specialty category.
	
40.	 Timely 
completion 
of 
QCO related changes in 
SDA range.
	
41.	 Mixer 
Grinder 
Portfolio 
expansion in 500 W range 
with Nigella Pro, Nigella 
Classic and D500 Blend.
	
42.	 Premium 
Mixer 
Grinder 
with 1000W MG launch.
	
43.	 Launched New range of 
JMG – Fresh Mix Ultra and 
Classic Models.
	
44.	 First 
ever 
launch 
of 
Nutri 
blender 
range 
– 
Ameo Blend.
	
45.	 Launched 
1600 
W 
induction cooktop.
	
46.	 First time launched Closed 
Lid Rice Cooker range.
	
47.	
Launch of Ameo Trio – 3 in 
one blender range.
	
48.	 Test Lab Commission for 
SDA in new office.
	
49.	 New 
Product 
Category 
added in LKA: Crompton 
Inhouse 
Designed 
FlamePro cooktop Range 
launched 
with 
Inhouse 
manufacturing at Butterfly 
factory: 4 SKUs in range of 
Mass Premium Category.
	
50.	 BIS 
completed 
for 
FlamePro cooktop range 4 
SKU’s.
	
51.	 Chimney 
BIS 
done 
for 
Vadodara 
factory 
from 
September 2024.
	
52.	 BIS 
approved 
Chimney 
inhouse 
manufacturing 
started Vadodara factory.
	
53.	 Differentiated Integrated 
pan 
support 
category 
Grandart Built In HOB’s.
236 - 237
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
	
54.	 Launched 
Fully 
Sealed 
Burners(Spillproof) Range 
in HOB’s.
	
55.	 Differentiated Matt Blue 
Glass implemented with 
SensoSafe 
Plus 
Built 
in 
HOB’s.
	
56.	 17 
SKU’s. 
6L 
Range 
extension in Hydrajet series, 
Classic Clx (10L,15L,25L) 
and Amica Pro series in 
(6L,10L,15L,25L) launched 
in square body, Rapid Jet 
plus launched in 10L & 15 
L capacity. in addition to 
existing Versa horizontal 
Series, 
LHS 
variant 
(10L,15L & 25L) launched, 
Classic plus (6L,10L,15L& 
25L) launched.
	
57.	
Launched two new SKU 
in IWH as a extension of 
existing series, insta bliss 
5L & Aqua DLX 5L available 
in 3 kW. New model of Gas 
Geyser 
Insta 
Energeia 
LPG 6L Launched in gas 
geyser segment.
	
58.	 Strengthened the desert 
series 
with 
innovative 
extensions 
with 
more 
convenience 
features. 
Launched Jedi DAC 95, 
Aura DAC (70L 90L & 110L) 
& Avancer DAC 65L,80L & 
95L with good aesthetics 
covering 
all 
capacity 
range. 
also, 
Aura 
PAC 
38L ready.
	
59.	 Solar 
Mast 
Products 
Up to 600W solution in 
single mast (First time in 
Crompton).
	
60.	 High 
wattage 
Solar 
Standalone 
Street 
Light 
up to 150W (First time in 
Crompton).
	
61.	 Façade 
Lighting 
range 
with DMX Controller (First 
in Crompton).
	
62.	 High Ambient High Bay 
Withstand up to 60 Deg 
Ambient 
temperature. 
(First time in Crompton).
	
63.	 Energy-Saving 
Motion 
Sensor 
Lights 
(Bulb 
& 
Panel).
	
64.	 Portable 
Emergency 
Backup Lights (Table Lamp 
& Lantern).
	
65.	 Mosquito 
Racket 
for 
Human Health.
	
66.	 Decorative Lights (Deco 
Batten, Festive Lights, RGB 
Strip).
	
67.	
Timely 
completion 
of 
QCO related changes in 
SDA range.
	
68.	 Premium Mixer Griner with 
1000W MG launch.
	
69.	 Launched New range of 
JMG – Fresh Mix Ultra and 
Classic Models.
	
70.	 First 
ever 
launch 
of 
Nutri 
blender 
range 
– 
Ameo Blend.
	
71.	 First time launched Closed 
Lid Rice Cooker range.
	
72.	 Launch of Ameo Trio – 3 in 
one blender range.
	
73.	 Test Lab Commission for 
SDA in new office.
	
74.	 Our 79% of water heater 
are certified for 5 star by 
Bureau of Energy Efficiency 
(“BEE”).
	
75.	 State of art lab creation 
in 
Mumbai 
Innovation 
& 
Experience 
Centre. 
Inhouse 
Testing 
facility 
created for the product 
and 
components 
in 
Water Heater.
	
76.	 Building 
Capabilities 
in 
Electronics 
to 
cater 
to 
future 
technology requirements.
	
77.	
All 
our 
storage 
water 
heaters 
are 
energy 
efficient and certified as 
per the new amendment. 
41. 
Our 
inhouse 
water 
heater Lab is in the process 
of NABL certification.
	
78.	 Investments in the latest 
software 
for 
simulation 
capability building.
	
79.	 Our inhouse water heater 
Lab is in the process of 
NABL certification.
	
80.	 Launched new model with 
Lowest noise (eliminated 
the water dripping noise) in 
air cooler industry.
C.	 IMPORTED TECHNOLOGY
	
Nil
D.	 EXPENDITURE ON R&D:
	
R&D expenditure for the year 
was: ` 84.66 crore
E.	
FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
	
Foreign 
exchange 
earned: 
` 104.82 Crore
	
Foreign 
exchange 
used: 
` 63.89 Crore
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN: 00016304
AS PER THE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT SPECIFIED UNDER SEBI (SHARE BASED 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS) REGULATIONS, 2014 AND SECTION 62(1)(b) OF THE ACT 
READ WITH RULE 12(9) OF THE COMPANIES (SHARE CAPITAL & DEBENTURES) 
RULES, 2014, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS DISCLOSED WITH RESPECT TO 
EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
I. 	
Description of each ESOP that existed at any time during the year
Details of ESOP
ESOP 2016
ESOP 2019
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
I. Description of each ESOP that existed at any time during the year:
1.	 Date of shareholders’ 
approval
October 22, 2016
January 19, 2020  
and amended on  
January 6, 2021
October 22, 2016 October 22, 2016
2.	 Total 
number 
of 
options 
approved 
under ESOP
40,00,000
98,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
3.	 Vesting requirements
As specified by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee subject to minimum one year 
from the date of grant
4.	 Exercise 
price 
or 
pricing formula (`)
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange which has higher 
Trading Volume, as on the 
day prior to the date on 
which the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee 
approves the grant.
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange which has higher 
Trading Volume, as on the 
day prior to the date on 
which the Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
approves the grant.
PSP-1 2016: Exercise price per 
Option is ` 92.83
PSP-2 2016: Exercise price per 
Option is ` 185.66
5.	 Maximum 
term 
of 
options 
granted 
(years)
Options 
granted 
under 
ESOP 2016 would vest not 
earlier than one year and 
not later than five years 
from the date of grant.
Options granted under ESOP 
2019 would vest not earlier 
than one year and not later 
than five years from the 
date of grant.
Options granted under PSP-1 2016 
and PSP-2 2016 would vest not 
earlier than one year and not later 
than 10 years from the date of 
grant.
6.	 Source 
of 
shares 
(Primary, Secondary 
or combination)
Primary
7.	 Variation in terms of 
options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options
II. 	 Method used to account for ESOP
	
The Group has calculated the employee compensation cost using the Fair value method of accounting for the 
Options granted. The stock-based compensation cost was calculated as per the fair value method prescribed 
by SEBI, the total cost to be recognised in the financial statements for the period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025, 
would be ` 8,85,79,429 (Rupees Eight Crore Eighty Five Lakh Seventy Nine Thousand Four Hundred and Twenty 
Nine).
ANNEXURE 8
238 - 239
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
III. 	 Option Movement during the year
1.
Number of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
6,06,233
78,83,560
Nil
Nil
2.
Number of options granted during the year
Nil
9,50,000
Nil
Nil
3.
Number of options forfeited/lapsed during 
the year
Nil
9,01,511
Nil
Nil
4.
Number of options vested during the year
Nil
10,15,249
Nil
Nil
5.
Number of options exercised during the year
4,05,788
2,96,396
Nil
Nil
6.
Total number of shares arising as a result of 
exercise of options
4,05,788
2,96,396
Nil
Nil
7.
Money realised by exercise of options (`)
9,15,94,433
11,22,19,471
Nil
Nil
8.
Number of options outstanding at the end of 
the year
2,00,445
76,35,653
Nil
Nil
9.
Number of options exercisable at the end of 
the year
2,00,445
32,24,403
Nil
Nil
IV. 	 Weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year whose
Details of ESOP
ESOP 2016
ESOP 2019
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options Granted during the year whose
i.	
Exercise price equals market price
Nil
432.05
Nil
Nil
ii.	
Exercise price is greater than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
iii.	 Exercise price is less than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year whose:
i.	
Exercise price equals market price
Nil
118.64
Nil
Nil
ii.	
Exercise price is greater than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
iii.	 Exercise price is less than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
V. 	 Employee-wise details of options granted during the financial year 2024-25 to
Particulars
ESOP 2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP 2019
i.	
KMP and SMPs
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, 
MD& CEO - 9,50,000 
options granted at 
` 432.05
ii.	
Employees who were granted, during 
any one year, options amounting to 5% 
or more of the options granted during 
the year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, 
MD& CEO - 9,50,000 
options granted at 
` 432.05
iii.	 Identified employees who were granted 
options, during any one year, equal to 
or exceeding 1% of the issued capital 
(excluding outstanding warrants and 
conversions) of the Company at the 
time of grant
NIL
Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted during the year:
The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model
The Assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Particulars
ESOP 2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP 2019
1.	 Risk-Free Interest Rate
No grants during the year
6.56%
2.	 Expected Life
3.04
3.	 Expected Volatility
29.86%
4.	 Dividend Yield
0.69%
5.	 Price of the underlying share in market 
at the time of the option grant (`)
432.05
Details of ESOP
ESOP 2016
ESOP 2019
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
Weighted Average share price of options exercised 
during the year:
 419.43
	
Exercise Price and weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options
Scheme Name
Number 
of Options 
Outstanding
Weighted 
Average 
Remaining 
Contractual Life 
(in years)
Exercise 
Price (`)
ESOP 2016
2,00,445
1.98
243.50
ESOP 2019
76,35,653
4.47
368.64
PSP-1 2016
Nil
Nil
Nil
PSP-2 2016
Nil
Nil
Nil
Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to issue of shares 
on exercise of option calculated in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 33; “Earning Per Share”
I 8.75
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 15, 2025
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN: 00016304
240 - 241
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Crompton’s Philosophy on 
Corporate Governance
Crompton is a Company that takes 
pride in its commitment towards 
the adoption of best corporate 
governance 
practices 
that 
goes 
beyond 
compliance 
with 
the 
law and endeavours to embrace 
responsibility for corporate actions 
and the impact of its initiatives on 
all its Members. Our philosophy on 
corporate governance is to observe 
the highest level of ethics, fairness 
and transparency in all its dealings 
and ensure efficient business conduct 
with a robust governance structure. 
It ensures that it creates sustainable 
value 
for 
all 
its 
stakeholders 
while 
fulfilling 
social 
obligations 
and 
complying 
with 
regulatory 
requirements. The Company’s policies 
prioritize 
the 
augmentation 
of 
long-term shareholders value while 
maintaining integrity.
The 
Company 
recognizes 
that 
corporate governance is not just a 
principle to be followed but a way of 
life embedded in its behaviour and 
culture. It endeavours to adopt the 
industry’s best practices by regularly 
reviewing 
and 
benchmarking, 
and 
strives 
for 
the 
betterment 
of 
its 
corporate 
governance 
mechanisms to improve efficiency, 
transparency, 
accountability 
and 
achieve business excellence in its day-
to-day operations within which all 
stakeholders of the Company viz., its 
Member(s), Director(s), management, 
society and environment at large 
have aligned objectives.
Our 
corporate 
governance 
is 
a 
reflection 
of 
our 
value 
system, 
encompassing 
our 
culture, 
policies, 
and 
relationships 
with 
our 
stakeholders. 
Integrity 
and 
transparency 
are 
key 
to 
our 
corporate 
governance 
practices 
and performance, and ensure that 
we gain and retain the trust of our 
stakeholders at all times.
Corporate 
governance 
is 
an 
ethically-driven 
business 
process 
that is committed to values aimed 
at 
enhancing 
an 
organization’s 
capacity to create wealth. This is 
ensured by taking ethical business 
decisions and conducting business 
with a firm commitment to values, 
while 
meeting 
stakeholders’ 
expectations. It is imperative that 
the Company’s affairs are managed 
in a fair and transparent manner. This 
is vital to gain and retain the trust of 
our stakeholders.
Crompton 
is 
a 
professionally 
managed Company, which is run 
by 
highly 
qualified 
and 
expert 
professionals. The Board is responsible 
and committed to sound principles 
of 
corporate 
governance 
& 
Sustainability. The Board plays a 
crucial role in overseeing how the 
management serves the short and 
long-term interests of the members 
and other stakeholders, this belief 
also is reflected in our governance 
practices, under which we strive 
to maintain an effective, informed 
and independent Board. The Board 
and its Committee(s) guide, support 
and complement the management 
team’s ideas and initiatives, which in 
turn assumes accountability, strives 
to achieve the set objectives, and 
enhance value creation for all. The 
responsibilities of the Board thus 
includes implementing the principles 
of corporate governance in the 
Company, setting the Company’s 
strategic 
objectives, 
guiding 
the 
management with their leadership, 
and 
reporting 
to 
Members 
on 
their stewardship.
Your 
Company 
believes 
that 
corporate 
governance 
involves 
a set of rules and controls that 
promote 
transparency, 
integrity 
and 
accountability 
within 
which 
all stakeholders of the Company 
viz., 
its 
Member(s), 
Director(s) 
and 
management, 
society 
and 
environment at large have aligned 
objectives. It provides the framework 
for balancing the interests of all 
its stakeholders and ensuring that 
the Company’s business is being 
conducted in an accountable and fair 
manner. While the philosophy of your 
Company on governance has been set 
out since early days, the framework is 
broad-based to enable the Company 
to cater to the dynamic needs of 
the society.
Awarded  India’s Best 
Annual Report 2024
by Free Press Journal in the Fast-
Moving Electric Goods (FMEG) sector
Crompton 
was 
recognized 
amongst top 5 (Five) companies 
for excellence in Corporate 
Governance in Listed Segment: 
Small Category at the 24th 
(Twenty Fourth) ICSI National 
Awards 
for 
Excellence 
in 
Corporate Governance, 2024.
The 
Company 
has 
been 
adjudged as the winner in the 
Fast-Moving 
Electric 
Goods 
(FMEG) category at the FPJ’s Best 
Annual Reports Awards 2024, 
in recognition of its excellence 
in 
financial 
transparency, 
investor 
communication, 
and 
corporate governance.
242 - 243
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Furthermore, 
SES 
proxy 
advisory 
has 
bestowed 
a 
commendable 
score 
of 
89.2 
out of 100 for our governance 
best practices reflecting strong 
Board independence, statutory 
compliance 
and 
ethical 
practices, further solidifying our 
commitment to excellence in 
corporate governance.
Furthermore, 
your 
Company 
has complied with the following 
discretionary requirements as listed 
out in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”) which 
are elaborated as under:
	Ȣ
The office of the Chairman is 
occupied by a Non‑ Executive 
Independent 
Director 
of 
the Company;
	Ȣ
As on March 31, 2025, the 
Company has a distinct Non-
Executive 
Chairman 
and 
a 
Managing 
Director 
& 
Chief 
Executive Officer (“MD & CEO”), 
who 
were 
not 
related 
to 
one another;
	Ȣ
The 
audit 
report 
of 
the 
Company’s Financial Statements 
for the F.Y. ended March 31, 2025, 
is unmodified;
	Ȣ
The Internal Auditors of the 
Company directly reports to 
the Audit Committee of the 
Board; and
	Ȣ
The Company follows a robust 
process 
of 
communicating 
with 
the 
Members 
which 
have been elaborated in this 
Report 
under 
the 
heading 
“Means of Communication”.
Cornerstones of Corporate Governance at Crompton
Your 
Company 
is 
committed 
to 
achieve 
highest 
standards 
of integrity, transparency, and 
business ethics. The Company 
follows high ethical standards in its 
dealings with all its stakeholders, 
including Members, employees, 
customers, value chain partners, 
regulators, 
investors, 
and 
the community.
For us, transparency is key to 
healthy, self-sustaining growth and 
promotes 
self-enforcing 
checks 
and balances. It also fosters deep 
and 
long-standing 
trust 
among 
our 
stakeholders. 
We 
strive 
to 
demonstrate 
the 
highest 
levels 
of transparency, over and above 
statutory 
requirements, 
through 
accurate and prompt disclosures.
Integrity
Transparency
Full adherence to all regulatory 
and statutory requirements in 
letter and spirit is a key guiding 
principle. Your Company believes 
that effective compliance and risk 
management activities will drive 
the corporate performance.
Adherence to law
We 
practice 
fair 
play 
and 
integrity in our transactions with 
all stakeholders, both within and 
outside 
the 
organisation. 
We 
conduct ourselves in the most 
equitable manner.
Fairness
For us, accountability is about 
holding 
ourselves 
firmly 
responsible for what we believe 
in and for delivering what we 
have promised. We ensure this 
by 
promoting 
a 
mindset 
of 
end-to-end ownership throughout 
the organisation. By means of 
openness and transparency, we 
consider 
ourselves 
accountable 
to all the stakeholders of the 
Company, including our employees, 
Members, 
vendors, 
government 
agencies, 
society, 
customers, 
business 
partners 
and 
supply 
chain participants.
Accountability
A Report on compliance with the 
Corporate Governance provisions 
as prescribed under the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is annexed to this Report.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (“Board”) 
is responsible for the strategic 
supervision 
and 
overseeing 
the 
management 
performance 
and 
governance 
of 
the 
Company 
on behalf of the Members and 
other 
stakeholders. 
Crompton 
is 
a 
professionally 
managed 
Company functioning under the 
overall supervision of the Board. 
The 
Board 
has 
the 
ultimate 
responsibility 
of 
reviewing 
and 
guiding corporate strategy, major 
plans of action, risk policy, annual 
budgets and business plans, setting 
performance objectives, monitoring 
implementation 
thereof 
and 
corporate performance, overseeing 
major 
capital 
expenditures, 
acquisitions, 
mergers, 
general 
affairs, direction, and long-term 
success of the business as a whole.
The Director(s) take active part 
in the deliberations at the Board 
and 
Committee(s) 
Meeting(s) 
and provide guidance and advice 
to the management on various 
aspects of business, governance, 
compliance, etc.
We 
believe 
that 
an 
active, 
well-informed, 
diversified 
and 
independent Board is necessary 
to ensure the highest standards of 
corporate governance. At Crompton, 
the Board is at the core of our 
corporate 
governance 
practices. 
It 
oversees 
the 
management’s 
functions and protects the long-term 
interests of our stakeholders.
The 
Chairman 
leads 
the 
Board 
and is responsible for its overall 
effectiveness. The Chairman sets the 
Board Agenda, ensures the Director(s) 
receive accurate, timely and clear 
information, promotes and facilitates 
constructive 
relationships 
and 
effective contribution of all Executive 
and Non-Executive Director(s), and 
promotes a culture of openness and 
dialogue. The Independent Director(s) 
provide 
constructive 
challenge, 
strategic guidance, specialist advice 
and hold management to account.
	Ȣ
Establishing clear corporate 
governance principles and 
guidelines
	Ȣ
Defining 
Board 
and 
Committee(s) responsibilities
	Ȣ
Ensuring 
facilitation 
of 
shareholders 
rights 
and 
stakeholders engagement
	Ȣ
Management structures and 
processes
	Ȣ
Maintenance 
of 
ethical 
standards 
and 
corporate 
culture
	Ȣ
Implementation of robust 
risk management processes 
and internal controls systems
	Ȣ
Ensuring transparency and 
accuracy in timely disclosures
	Ȣ
Establishing mechanisms for 
compliance 
and 
legal 
oversight
	Ȣ
Continuous 
improvement 
and evaluation
Corporate Governance Framework
244 - 245
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board sets out the overall 
corporate objectives and provides 
direction 
and 
independence 
to 
the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through 
sustained growth. The Board seeks 
accountability of the management 
in creating long-term sustainable 
growth to ensure that the aspirations 
of stakeholders are fulfilled. It also 
sets out standards of corporate 
behaviour and ensures compliance 
with laws and regulations impacting 
the Company’s business.
The Board recognizes its primary 
role of trusteeship of shareholder 
capital and to enhance shareholder 
value. As a trustee, it strives to 
ensure excellence and integrity 
in setting world-class corporate 
governance 
standards 
and 
its 
fiduciary responsibility to ensure 
that the Company has clear goals 
aligned to shareholders value and 
its growth. Further, the Board is also 
responsible for:
Primary Role of 
the Board
Reviewing and guiding corporate 
strategy, risk management 
and financial plans for optimal 
performance; implementing 
effective controls to uphold 
operational efficiency and meet 
stakeholders aspirations and 
societal expectations.
Regularly evaluating 
governance practices to 
adapt and improve as 
needed while engaging with 
Members, and considering 
their perspectives in 
decision-making process.
Overseeing management’s 
execution and appointing the 
executive management team, 
including the MD & CEO and 
other key executives, while 
providing strategic direction; 
and also overseeing significant 
investments, acquisitions, and 
divestments to ensure alignment 
with Company goals. 
Employing independent 
judgement in the Company’s 
decision-making, 
safeguarding and optimising  
shareholders value through  
diligent oversight as trustees 
of the Board.
Reviewing and guiding 
corporate strategy, risk 
management and financial 
plans for optimal performance.
The Company’s Board brings a 
wide 
spectrum 
of 
knowledge, 
professionalism, divergent thinking 
and experience, which helps in 
balancing 
several 
deliverables, 
sound 
corporate 
governance 
objectives and acts as a catalyst in 
creation of stakeholders value.
Availability of information to 
Board Member(s)
The 
Board 
of 
Director(s) 
has 
unrestricted access to all company-
related 
information, 
including 
details concerning employee(s). At 
Board Meeting(s), functional heads 
are invited to provide additional 
insights on their respective areas. 
Information is continuously shared 
with Board Member(s) for their 
review, feedback, and approval. 
The 
Board 
is 
presented 
with 
strategic and operational plans, 
the annual budget, quarterly and 
annual financial statements. In 
addition, specific matters such as 
acquisitions, 
major 
managerial 
decisions, significant developments, 
and statutory issues are initially 
reviewed by Board Committee(s). 
Following their recommendations, 
these matters are then presented 
to the Board for approval.
As 
a 
process, 
information 
to 
Directors is submitted along with 
the agenda well in advance of 
Board/ Committee(s) Meeting(s). 
Documents containing Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”), 
are submitted to the Board and 
Committee Member(s), at a shorter 
notice, as per the general consent 
taken from the Board, from time 
to time. Inputs and feedback of 
Board Member(s) are taken and 
considered while preparing the 
agenda and documents for the 
Board Meeting(s).
At these Meeting(s), sufficient time 
is allocated for discussions and 
deliberations for each agenda item. 
Director(s) provide their inputs and 
suggestions on various strategic 
and operational matters. The Board 
also invites experts from the industry 
and seeks their valuable opinions 
on various strategic/ operational/ 
governance 
matters 
to 
ensure 
a 
comprehensive 
review 
on 
the 
subject 
and 
to 
arrive 
at 
suitable decisions.
The Chairman of the Board and the 
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer determine the agenda for 
every meeting in consultation with 
the MD & CEO. While preparing the 
agenda, explanatory notes, minutes 
of the Meeting(s), adherence to the 
Act and the Rules made thereunder, 
SEBI Listing Regulations, Secretarial 
Standards (“SS”) issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (“ICSI”) and other applicable 
laws is ensured.
To maintain high standards of 
confidentiality and reduce paper 
consumption, 
the 
Company 
circulates 
the 
agenda 
and 
explanatory notes for Board and 
Committee Meeting(s) through a 
secure, 
web-based 
application. 
This platform allows Director(s) and 
Committee Member(s) to access 
the documents securely via their 
handheld devices, laptops, iPads, 
and 
browsers. 
The 
application 
complies 
with 
rigorous 
security 
standards to guarantee the secure 
storage and transfer of documents 
associated 
with 
Board 
and 
Committee Meeting(s).
All the Director(s) are provided with 
comprehensive information, details 
and documents relating to the 
operations and Company finances 
to 
enable 
effective 
decision 
making. Further, the agenda is 
bifurcated 
into 
items 
requiring 
approval and items which are to 
be taken note of by the Board to 
facilitate constructive discussions. 
The Company has an effective 
governance mechanism as part 
of 
which 
important 
decisions 
and suggestions of the Board 
and Committee(s) are promptly 
communicated to the respective 
functional departments and report 
on actions taken, if any, basis the 
same are placed at the subsequent 
Meeting(s).
All 
material 
information 
is 
circulated 
to 
the 
Director(s) 
before 
the 
Meeting, 
including 
minimum information required to 
be made available to the Board as 
prescribed under Part A of Schedule 
II of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
With the unanimous consent of 
the Board, all information which is 
in the nature of UPSI is circulated 
to the Board and its Committee(s) 
at a shorter notice before the 
commencement of the Meeting(s). 
The management makes concerted 
efforts to continuously upgrade 
the information available to the 
Board for decision making and the 
Board Member(s) are updated on 
all key developments relating to 
the Company.
Every 
year, 
Board 
Strategy 
Sessions are organised generally 
at a location where the Company 
has an office or establishment. 
These Strategy Sessions provides 
the 
Board 
an 
opportunity 
to 
understand Company’s footprint 
in a market and also interaction 
with Company’s leadership and 
business teams in that market. 
The Strategy Session focuses on 
the strategy for the future and 
covers all parts of the business and 
functions, the course of corrections, 
if any, required to be undertaken 
and gives a good perspective 
of the future opportunities and 
challenges. For the F.Y. 2024-25, the 
246 - 247
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board Strategy Meeting was held 
in Vadodara, Gujarat for two days, 
from April 11, 2024 to April 12, 2024. 
The Strategy Sessions consisted of 
detailed presentations on overall 
strategy for the business divisions 
and functions of the Company.
The 
Company 
Secretary 
& 
Compliance Officer attends all 
the Meetings of the Board and 
its Committee(s) and is, inter alia, 
responsible 
for 
recording 
the 
minutes of such Meeting(s). The 
Company 
Executive(s) 
are 
also 
invited to join the Meetings with 
permission of the Chairperson(s) 
of 
the 
Board/ 
Committee 
(s) 
Meeting(s).
The draft minutes of the Meeting(s) 
of the Board and its Committee(s) 
are sent to the Member(s) for 
their 
comments 
in 
accordance 
with the Secretarial Standard on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors 
(“SS – 1”) issued by ICSI. Further, 
the minutes are also circulated to 
the Board and Committee(s) in 
accordance with SS – 1.
The 
Company 
adheres 
to 
the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules 
made 
thereunder, 
Secretarial 
Standards and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations 
with 
respect 
to 
convening 
and 
holding 
the 
Meeting(s) 
of 
the 
Board, 
its 
Committee(s) 
and 
the 
General 
Meeting(s) of the Members of 
the Company.
The 
Company 
announces 
its 
financial 
results 
every 
quarter, 
within the statutory timelines. Apart 
from disclosing these in a timely 
manner to the Stock Exchange(s) 
the Company also hosts the results 
on its website together with a 
detailed information update and 
media release discussing the results. 
The financial results are published in 
leading newspapers (both english 
& regional language) in Financial 
Express and Loksatta Newspapers 
and an email update is also sent to 
the Members who have registered 
their email addresses with the 
Depositories / RTA/ Company.
Once 
quarterly 
results 
are 
announced, 
the 
Company 
organizes earning calls with the 
analysts and investor community 
to share an update on the results 
and performance, and also respond 
to any queries. The recording and 
transcripts of these calls are hosted 
on the Company’s website. Your 
Company is a regular participant 
and 
organizer 
of 
analyst 
and 
investor(s) conference calls, one-
on-one 
meetings 
and 
investor 
conferences. A detailed investor 
presentation 
is 
additionally 
uploaded 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website, with the latest information 
providing a consolidated glimpse 
of the history, current and future 
potential of the business. Through 
these 
meetings, 
presentations 
and 
information 
updates, 
the 
Company shares its strategy and 
business outlook with the investor 
community. As a matter of policy, 
no UPSI pertaining to the Company 
is shared at such Meetings with 
analysts/ investors. The Company 
promptly discloses details of the 
conference calls, investor meetings 
and road shows being conducted 
within and outside the Country, to 
the Stock Exchange(s) as required 
and updates its website with the 
same simultaneously.
Board Committee(s)
The 
independent 
Board 
Committee(s)  play a pivotal role 
and functions as an extended 
arm of the Board, is actively 
engaged 
throughout 
the 
year 
to 
uphold 
top-tier 
governance 
practices 
and 
regularly 
assess 
the policy framework to ensure 
its 
strength. 
Recognizing 
the 
significant role these Committee(s) 
play in supporting the Board of 
Directors in fulfilling its duties and 
responsibilities, the Board, through 
its Committee(s), closely oversees 
various aspects of the business.
The Board Committee(s) have been 
constituted to deal with specific 
areas/ activities as mandated by 
applicable rules and regulations or 
as delegated by the Board, which 
needs a closer review.
Committees of the Board
Audit  
Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(“N&RC”)
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship & 
Share Transfer 
Committee 
(“SRC”)
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee 
(“CSR”)
Risk Management 
Committee 
(“RMC”)
Strategic 
Investment 
Committee 
(“SIC”)
Environmental, 
Social & 
Governance 
Committee 
(“ESG”)
Committee of  
Debentures
Allotment 
Committee – for 
allotment of 
shares arising out 
of Stock Options
The terms of reference of the 
Committee(s) define the scope, 
powers, 
responsibilities, 
and 
composition of the Committee(s). 
The Chairperson of the respective 
Committee(s) brief the Board about 
the summary of the discussions held 
at the Committee(s) Meeting(s) 
The minutes of the Meeting(s) 
of all Committee(s) are placed 
before the Board for their perusal. 
Further, there is effective cross 
Committee 
discussion, 
wherever 
required, to ensure proper inter-
committee co-ordination and to 
bring uniformity. The Chairpersons 
of the Committee(s) brief the Board 
on the summary of the discussions 
held and recommendations of the 
Committee(s) Member(s).
During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee(s) of the Board 
have been accepted by the Board.
The matters of the Board are segregated and delegated to the Committee(s) as under:
Audit Committee 
Audit Committee is responsible 
for, inter alia, approval of Related 
Party 
Transactions 
(“RPTs”), 
review 
of 
internal 
controls 
and 
audit 
systems, 
oversight 
on risk management systems, 
financial reporting, compliance 
issues 
and 
vigil 
mechanism, 
recommendation of appointment 
and 
remuneration 
to 
various 
auditors of the Company and 
their scope of work, etc. The Audit 
Committee 
additionally 
meets 
to 
have 
detailed 
deliberations 
inter-alia, on matters relating to 
Governance, 
Risk 
Management, 
Statutory 
Compliances, 
Internal 
Controls, Internal Audit, and other 
matters. The Audit Committee also 
discusses the summary of cases (if 
any) and the status of compliance 
under 
Prevention 
of 
Sexual 
Harassment 
Policy, 
Company’s 
Prevention of Insider Trading Policy, 
the Code of Conduct and Whistle 
Blower Policy.
 
248 - 249
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
N&RC 
N&RC is responsible for, inter alia 
, recommendation and approval 
of remuneration of the Director(s), 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel(s) 
(“KMPs”) and Senior Management 
Personnel(s) 
(“SMPs”). 
The 
Committee 
also 
acts 
as 
the 
Compensation 
Committee 
for 
the purpose of administration of 
CD 
The Committee of Debentures is constituted for 
issue and allotment of Non-Convertible Debentures 
and for approval of matters connected thereto.
Allotment Committee 
The Board of the Company constituted the Allotment 
Committee for allotment of shares arising out of the 
exercise of stock options by Eligible Employee(s) 
under various ESOP Schemes of the Company.
SRC 
SRC is responsible inter alia for 
various aspects of interest of 
the stakeholders, monitoring the 
performance of the Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) and 
CSR Committee
CSR 
Committee 
recommends, 
reviews and monitors the impact 
of 
CSR 
initiatives 
taken 
by 
the Company. The role of CSR 
Committee includes formulating 
RMC
RMC 
assists 
the 
Board 
in 
monitoring and reviewing the 
risk 
management 
plan 
and 
implementation 
of 
the 
risk 
management 
and 
mitigation 
SIC
SIC assists in evaluation and 
assessment 
of 
Strategic 
Investment opportunities feasible 
ESG
ESG Committee is responsible to 
support the Company’s on-going 
commitment to Environmental, 
Health and Safety, sustainability, 
the several Employee Stock Option 
Plans (“ESOPs”), as amended from 
time to time. N&RC is also entrusted 
with the responsibility of framing 
the criteria for evaluation of the 
individual Director(s), Chairperson 
of the Board, the Board as a 
whole and its Committee(s). It also 
regularly assesses the performance 
recommends measures for overall 
improvement of the quality of 
investor services as and when the 
need arises, resolve the grievances 
of the security holders of the 
Company 
including 
complaints 
and recommending to the Board 
the CSR Policy and CSR activities 
to be undertaken by the Company, 
recommending 
the 
amount 
of 
expenditure to be incurred and 
framework of the Company. The 
main objective of the RMC is to 
assist the Board in fulfilling its 
corporate 
governance 
oversight 
responsibilities with regard to the 
for 
the 
Company 
and 
to 
make 
recommendations 
to 
the 
Board 
of 
Director(s) 
on 
and other public policy matters 
relevant to the Company (“ESG 
Matters”). The Committee is also 
responsible for reporting progress 
and effectiveness of the Board while 
overseeing succession planning for 
Board Member(s), KMPs and SMPs.
related to transfer/ transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual 
report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends and issue of duplicate 
share certificates, etc.
reviewing the performance of the 
Company in the areas of CSR and 
to strive for overall sustainable 
development in the conduct of 
Company’s business.
identification, 
evaluation 
and 
mitigation of risks including risks 
related to cyber security.
such 
strategic 
investment/ 
disinvestment opportunities.
of various initiatives and in making 
appropriate 
disclosures 
on 
a 
periodic basis.
Composition of Board
The Company values a diverse 
Board, understanding that varied 
perspectives, 
experiences, 
and 
expertise in areas such as finance, 
global business, leadership, IT, M&A, 
governance, marketing, ESG, risk 
management, and cybersecurity 
are essential for maintaining a 
competitive edge.
Apart 
from 
the 
agenda 
of 
evaluation of the performance 
of the Board and Committee(s), 
the 
Board 
engages 
with 
the 
management 
on 
long 
term 
strategic issues such as growth 
strategies, innovation, succession 
planning 
& 
human 
capital 
management, 
culture, 
go 
to 
market strategies, technology, etc. 
These insightful sessions allow the 
Board Member(s) to get a better 
understanding of the business of 
the Company and allows the Senior 
Management to solicit different 
perspectives from the Board.
Interaction with the Board is not 
limited only to the Meeting(s) of 
the 
Board 
and 
Committee(s). 
The 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Board 
actively encourages interactions 
between 
the 
Board 
Member(s) 
and Senior Management outside 
the 
Meeting(s). 
Depending 
on the area of expertise of an 
individual Director, the Functional 
Heads are encouraged to have 
separate 
sessions 
with 
the 
Director(s) 
to 
discuss 
specific 
issues concerning the functional 
area. 
These 
are 
mentoring 
sessions aimed at broadening the 
Senior Management vision, and 
also help to build empathy and 
deeper understanding.
The Board of Director(s) comprises 
of highly qualified and experienced 
persons of repute and eminence, 
who ensure that the time-honoured 
culture 
of 
maintaining 
sound 
standards of corporate governance 
is further nurtured. The Board sets 
out the overall corporate objectives 
and 
provides 
direction 
and 
independence to the management 
to achieve these objectives for value 
creation through sustained growth. 
The Board seeks accountability of 
the management in creating long-
term sustainable growth to ensure 
that the aspirations of stakeholders 
are 
fulfilled. 
It 
also 
sets 
out 
standards of corporate behaviour 
and ensures compliance with laws 
and 
regulations 
impacting 
the 
Company’s business.
The Composition of the Board 
represents 
an 
optimal 
mix 
of 
professionalism, 
knowledge 
and 
experience and enables the Board 
to discharge its responsibilities and 
provide effective leadership to the 
Company’s business.
250 - 251
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board does not step into the 
role of Management, rather, it 
critiques the strategy, asks the 
right questions and mentors the 
Senior Management for sustainable 
and 
profitable 
growth 
of 
the 
Company. There is a complete 
alignment 
between 
the 
Board 
and the Management on their 
respective roles.
Crompton’s 
Board 
consists 
of 
the 
requisite 
combination 
of 
Independent 
and 
Non-
Independent Directors, including 
Independent 
Women 
Directors 
in line with the Regulation 17 
and 
17A 
of 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations 
read 
with 
Section 
149 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”).
As on March 31, 2025, Mr. D. Sundaram 
is the Non-Executive Independent 
Director 
& 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Company. Mr. Promeet Ghosh is 
the Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer (“MD & CEO”), 
Mr. Shantanu Khosla is the Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Vice 
Chairman, Mr. P M Murty, Ms. Smita 
Anand, Mr. P R Ramesh, Ms. Hiroo 
Mirchandani, Mr. Anil Chaudhry and 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar are Non-Executive 
Independent Directors in terms of 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and the Act.
Mr. Shantanu Khosla was elevated 
as the Executive Vice Chairman of 
the Board for a period of 1 (One) 
year w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 
2024, and thereafter assumed the 
position of Non-Executive Director, 
Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024 till 
December 31, 2025.
The profiles of Board Member(s) 
encompassing details of age, date 
of 
initial 
appointment, 
tenure 
on 
Board, 
term 
ending 
date, 
shareholding, Board Memberships in 
Indian listed companies, committee 
details as per Regulation 26 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and areas 
of expertise are given in the forth 
coming sections.
There are no inter-se relationships 
between our Board Member(s). 
The Company does not have any 
pecuniary relationship with any of 
the Non-Executive Director(s).
Further, 
during 
the 
year, 
the 
Company has not provided any 
loans 
or 
advances 
to 
firms/ 
companies 
in 
which 
directors 
are interested.
As on March 31, 2025, the Board 
of your Company comprises of 
9 (Nine) Directors, out of which 
7 (Seven) Directors were Non-
Executive Independent Directors 
(“NED’s & ID’s”) (77.77% NED’s & ID’s 
representation on the Board). The 
Chairperson of the Board is Non-
Executive Independent Director. 
Out of 7 (Seven) Independent 
Directors (“ID’s”), which comprises 
more than half of the Board, 
2 (Two) are Women Directors 
(22.22% 
women 
representation 
on the Board). The composition 
of the Board of your Company is 
in conformity with the SEBI Listing 
Regulations as well as provisions of 
the Act.
Your 
Company 
has 
formulated 
and adopted the Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy to ensure the 
Board’s composition is optimal, 
balanced, and diverse, fostering 
the inclusion of fresh perspectives, 
innovative ideas, and a wide range 
of experiences.
In terms of the provisions of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Directors of the Company submit 
necessary disclosures regarding the 
positions held by them on the Board 
and/ or the Committee(s) of other 
companies with changes therein, if 
any, on periodical basis. On the basis 
of such disclosures, it is confirmed 
that as on March 31, 2025, none of 
the Director(s) of the Company:
	Ȣ
holds 
Directorship 
positions 
in 
more 
than 
20 
(Twenty) 
companies including 10 (Ten) 
public limited companies and 
7 (Seven) listed companies;
	Ȣ
holds Executive Director position 
and serves as an Independent 
Director in more than 3 (Three) 
listed companies;
	Ȣ
is a Member of more than 
10 
(Ten) 
Committees 
and/ 
or Chairperson of more than 
5 
(Five) 
Committees, 
across 
all the Indian public limited 
companies in which they are 
Directors; and
	Ȣ
None of the Directors have 
attained the age of 75 (Seventy 
Five) years;
For the purpose of calculating the 
limit of the Board Committee(s), 
Chairpersonship(s) 
and 
Membership(s), Audit Committee 
and SRC has been considered as 
per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Size and Composition of the Board 
as on March 31, 2025
Average Tenure in years 
(category-wise)
Present Tenure of Director(s)
5.93$
1.92*
0.83#
5.04
The  
Board
Executive  
Director
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent 
Director
Non-Executive,
Independent  
Directors
11.11% 
Executive  
Director
11.11% 
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
77.78%
 Independent  
Director(s)
Size & Composition of Board
1
Executive  
Director
1
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
7
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Directors
2
02-05 years
2
 < 02 years
5
> 5 years
$Tenure of the Board is considered from the date on their initial appointment.
*Tenure is considered from the date of holding the position of Manging Director & CEO
#Tenure is considered from the date of holding the position of Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
252 - 253
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Duties 
and 
Functions 
of 
the Board
The primary responsibility of the 
Board of Director(s) is to drive the 
Company’s short- and long-term 
success by ensuring the sustainable 
growth and development of its 
business, thereby creating value 
for its stakeholders. In fulfilling 
this, 
the 
Board 
defines 
the 
corporate 
culture, 
establishes 
high ethical standards of conduct, 
and promotes transparency in all 
business activities.
The Board plays a supervisory role 
rather than an executive role. Its 
role is to guide the Management, 
provide 
constructive 
critique 
on the strategic business plans 
and operations of the Company 
and advice on matters requiring 
domain 
expertise. 
Mr. 
Promeet 
Ghosh, MD & CEO, continues to 
head 
the 
Company’s 
business 
and is responsible for running the 
management and operations of the 
Company and reports to the Board.
It does this by providing strategic 
guidance, monitoring operational 
performance and ensuring that 
robust 
policies 
and 
procedures 
are in place. The Board through 
its 
various 
Committee(s) 
also 
reviews the identified risks and the 
mitigation measures undertaken/ 
to be undertaken in respect thereof, 
ensures integrity in the Company’s 
accounting and financial reporting 
systems, 
adequacy 
of 
internal 
controls 
and 
compliance 
with 
all relevant laws and discharges 
its 
functions 
towards 
CSR. 
In 
particular, the Board basis the 
recommendation 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee reviews and approves 
quarterly/ half-yearly unaudited 
financial results and the audited 
annual 
financial 
statements 
(Standalone 
and 
Consolidated), 
corporate 
strategies, 
business 
plans, 
annual 
budgets, 
sets 
corporate objectives and monitors 
their implementation and oversees 
major capital expenditure.
It 
monitors 
overall 
operating 
performance, 
Health 
& 
Safety 
(H&S) performance and reviews 
such other items which require 
the Board’s attention. It directs 
and guides the activities of the 
Management towards achieving set 
goals and seeks accountability. The 
agenda for the Board Meeting(s) 
covers items as set out in the various 
SEBI Regulations and the Act, to 
the extent that they are relevant 
and applicable.
All agenda items are supported by 
relevant information, documents 
and 
presentations 
to 
enable 
the 
Board 
to 
take 
informed 
decisions. The agenda is sent to 
the Director(s) within the period 
stipulated in the SS-1. The Board 
processes are also in consonance 
with the requirements of the SS-1 
relating to the Meeting(s) of the 
Board and its Committee(s). The 
Committee(s) of the Board function 
as extended arms of the Board 
and play a pivotal role in ensuring 
good 
governance 
while 
also 
periodically monitoring the affairs 
of the Company. The Board has also 
constituted certain Committee(s) 
for considering matters requiring 
urgent 
approvals. 
This 
ensures 
smooth 
and 
timely 
execution 
of 
strategic 
and 
non-strategic 
activities. All the recommendations 
of the various Committee(s) of the 
Board have been accepted by the 
Board and none of the Director(s) 
are influenced by the Management.
Post-meeting action tracking 
system
The important decisions taken at 
the Meeting(s) of Board and its 
Committee(s) are tracked till their 
closure and the status of Action 
Taken Report (“ATR”) is placed 
before 
Board 
and 
Committee 
Meeting(s) for their noting.
During the year under review the 
Board met 8 (Eight) times and 
the gap between the 2 (Two) 
consecutive Board Meeting(s) did 
not exceed the period of 120 (One 
Hundred and Twenty) Days in line 
with requirements of the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
MD & CEO
The MD & CEO leads the Company, 
oversees 
and 
manages 
the 
daily operations, drives strategy 
implementation, 
monitoring 
competitive landscapes, industry 
developments, 
and 
identifying 
expansion 
or 
acquisition 
opportunities. The MD & CEO build 
relationships with customers and 
markets to enhance shareholders 
value, ensuring the execution of the 
organization’s vision, mission, and 
strategic direction. The MD & CEO 
also establishes policy guidelines 
and ensures Board decisions are 
effectively implemented through 
its 
Committee(s), 
steering 
the 
organisation towards its objectives.
MD & CEO acts under the guidance 
of the Board of Director(s) and is 
a link between the Board & the 
Management. 
Through 
diligent 
leadership and strategic foresight, 
the MD & CEO plays a pivotal role 
in guiding the Company towards 
excellence, while upholding the 
values and principles that define 
its identity. This pivotal role involves 
close collaboration with the Board 
to devise and implement business 
strategies 
that 
align 
with 
the 
Company’s vision and mission.
Leadership Team (“LT”)
At the helm of the Company stands 
the MD & CEO, who presides over 
a LT consisting of functional heads 
and business unit leaders. This 
hierarchical structure is designed 
to ensure effective management 
and 
strategic 
execution 
within 
the organization.
Independent 
Directors 
(“IDs”)
IDs play a pivotal role in the 
governance 
processes 
of 
the 
Board. Their diverse expertise and 
experience contribute significantly 
to enriching the Board’s decision-
making, 
mitigating 
potential 
conflicts 
of 
interest, 
and 
safeguarding 
the 
interests 
of 
all stakeholders.
The appointment of ID is carried 
out in a structured manner in 
accordance with the provisions 
of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The N&RC identifies 
candidates 
based 
on 
certain 
laid down criteria and takes into 
consideration the need for diversity 
on the Board and accordingly 
makes its recommendations to the 
Board of Director(s).
The Board affirms that, based on 
written confirmations from each ID, 
all IDs meet the conditions set forth 
in Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, as amended, 
along with Section 149(6) of the 
Act and relevant rules, confirming 
their 
independence 
from 
the 
Management. 
Furthermore, 
the 
IDs 
have 
registered 
with 
the 
Databank maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs as 
required 
under 
the 
Companies 
(Appointment and Qualifications 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, and have 
successfully completed the online 
self-assessment 
proficiency 
test 
within the prescribed timelines by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
(“MCA”), where applicable. None 
of the IDs have any material 
pecuniary 
relationships 
or 
transactions with the Company, 
Director(s), or Senior Management 
that, in their judgment, would 
affect their independence. In line 
with Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, they have also 
confirmed that they are not aware 
of any situation or circumstances 
that could impair or impact their 
ability to fulfill their duties.
Except for the sitting fees and 
commission payable to the Non-
Executive Director(s) annually in 
accordance with the applicable laws 
and with the approval of the Board 
and Members, there is no pecuniary 
or business relationship between 
the 
Independent 
Director(s) 
and the Company.
Based on the disclosures received 
from all IDs and in the opinion of 
the Board, all the IDs meet the 
independence criteria as outlined 
in the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
the Act.
254 - 255
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Key Skills, Expertise, Competence of the Board of Directors
The Board comprises of professionals, distinguished, qualified and experienced members who bring in the requisite 
skills, expertise and competence that allows them to make a valuable contribution to the Board and its Committee(s). 
The Board Members take an active part at the Board and Committee(s) Meeting(s) and provide valuable guidance 
to the Management on various aspects of business, governance, and compliance, amongst others. The Board’s 
guidance provides foresight, enhances transparency and adds value in decision-making.
Table below summarises the key skills, expertise and competence required for the Company and is taken into 
consideration while nominating candidates to serve on the Board.
Financial
Ability to analyse and understand 
the key financial statements, 
assess 
financial 
viability 
of 
the projects & efficient use of 
resources, 
experience 
in 
the 
fields of taxation, audit, financial 
management, banking insurance 
and investments, treasury, fund 
raising, private equity, venture 
capital investments and internal 
controls. Leadership experience in 
handling financial management 
of a large organization.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
88.89
8
Ability 
to 
think 
strategically, 
identify 
and 
assess 
strategic 
opportunities 
& 
threats 
and 
contribute 
towards 
developing 
effective strategies in the context 
of the strategic objectives of the 
Company’s policies & priorities 
and demonstrated strengths in 
developing 
talent, 
succession 
planning, driving change and long 
term growth.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
66.67
6
Understanding 
the 
use 
of 
digital/ information technology 
across the business, ability to 
anticipate technological driven 
changes & disruption impacting 
business 
and 
appreciation 
of 
the need of cyber security and 
controls across the organization 
and 
a 
significant 
background 
in 
technology, 
resulting 
in 
knowledge as to how to anticipate 
technological 
trends, 
generate 
disruptive innovation and extend 
or create new business models.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Talent Development
Experience 
in 
leadership 
development and ensuring an 
ongoing process exists which 
continuously 
enhances 
the 
knowledge 
and 
capability 
of key talent to enable these 
managers to effectively lead 
the organisation in achieving 
key strategic initiatives.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
44.44
4
Representation 
of 
gender, 
geographic, cultural, or other 
perspectives 
that 
expand 
the 
Board’s 
understanding 
of the needs and viewpoints 
of 
customers, 
partners, 
employees, governments, and 
other stakeholders.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
22.22
2
A 
history 
of 
leading 
growth 
through acquisitions and other 
business 
combinations, 
with 
the ability to assess “make or 
buy” decisions, analyze the fit 
of a target with the Company’s 
strategy and culture, accurately 
value transactions, and evaluate 
operational integration plans.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Gender, Nationality,  
or other Diversity
Mergers 
and Acquisitions
Strategy &  
Operations
Innovation &  
Technology
Industry Acumen
Industry experience through 
detailed knowledge of the 
Company or the sector in which 
it operates, as well as those 
who understand the broader 
industry environment.
Cyber security
Experience 
in 
assessing 
and 
managing cybersecurity-related 
risks and in implementing the 
cyber security policies, procedures, 
and strategies.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
33.33
3
Experience and background 
in regulatory affairs and 
regulatory policies, procedures, 
and risk management.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Experience in leading well-
governed large organisations, 
possessing intrinsic leadership 
skills including the ability to 
appropriately represent the 
Company, set appropriate Board 
and organisation culture.
Mentoring Ability
Demonstrated 
strengths 
in 
developing 
talent, 
succession 
planning, and driving change and 
long-term growth.
Experience 
in 
developing 
strategies to grow sales and 
market share, build brand 
competitiveness, awareness 
and equity, and build a strong 
corporate reputation.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
55.56
5
Service on a public listed company 
board 
to 
develop 
insights 
about maintaining board and 
management accountability, 
protecting shareholder interests, 
and 
observing 
appropriate 
governance practices.
Leadership
Extended leadership experience 
resulting 
in 
a 
practical 
understanding of organisation, 
processes, strategic planning, 
and risk management.
Experience 
in 
leading 
the 
sustainability and ESG visions 
of organizations, to be able to 
integrate these into the strategy 
of the Company.
No. of Directors
% of Directors
33.33
3
No. of Directors
% of Directors
88.89
8
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
Board Service  
and Governance
Sales and 
Marketing
Sustainability  
and ESG
General  
Management
Compliance  
and Risk
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
No. of Directors
% of Directors
100
9
256 - 257
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Brief details of Directors as on March 31, 2025, are mentioned as under:
MR. D SUNDARAM
(DIN: 00016304)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 71 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
August 26, 2015
Term ending date:
September 17, 2025
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 9.6 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. P R RAMESH
(DIN: 01915274)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 70 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
May 21, 2021
Term ending date:
May 21, 2026
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 3.8 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. SHANTANU KHOSLA
(DIN: 00059877)
Non-Executive  
Vice Chairman*
Age: 65 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
September 21, 2015
Term ending date:
December 31, 2025
Shareholding: 10,75,017
Tenure on Board: 9.5 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. PROMEET GHOSH
(DIN: 05307658)
MD & CEO
Age:56 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
August 16, 2016
Term ending date:
April 30, 2028
Shareholding: 35,000
Tenure on Board: 8.6 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. P M MURTY
(DIN: 00011179)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 74 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
August 26, 2015
Term ending date:
July 25, 2025
Shareholding: 13
Tenure on Board: 9.6 years
Areas of expertise:
MS. HIROO MIRCHANDANI
(DIN: 06992518)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 63 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
January 28, 2022
Term ending date:
January 27, 2027
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 3.2 years
Areas of expertise:
258 - 259
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
MS. SMITA ANAND
(DIN: 00059228)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 65 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
December 10, 2018
Term ending date:
December 09, 2028
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 6.3 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. ANIL CHAUDHRY
(DIN: 03213517)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 64 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
October 17, 2023
Term ending date:
October 16, 2028
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 1.5 years
Areas of expertise:
MR. SANJIV KAKKAR
(DIN: 00591027)
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Age: 62 years
Date of Initial Appointment:
October 17, 2023
Term ending date:
October 16, 2028
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 1.5 years
Areas of expertise:
*Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and then assumed 
position of Non-Executive Director till December 31, 2025.
Notes:
1.	 Nationality of all Directors is Indian.
2.	 The detailed profile of Directors is available on the Company’s website and can be accessed on web link at: https://www.crompton.
co.in/about-us/
3.	 The absence of a mark against a Board Member’s name does not necessarily indicate that the Director does not possess the corresponding 
skill, expertise or competence.
Composition of the Board of Director(s) as on March 31, 2025
Name
Category
No. of 
Directorship(s) 
held in other  
Public 
Companies*
Directorship held in listed Companies
(Including Crompton)
Committee(s) position  
(Including Crompton)**
Member
Chairperson
Mr. D Sundaram 
(DIN: 00016304)
Chairperson, 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
3
Infosys Limited#
Credila Financial Services Limited#%
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#%
Zurich Kotak General Insurance Company 
(India) Limited#
7
2
Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla$
(DIN: 00059877)
Non Executive Vice 
Chairperson
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited@
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited@
1
0
Mr. P M Murty 
(DIN: 00011179)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited#%
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
4
1
Ms. Smita Anand 
(DIN: 00059228)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Lemon Tree Hotels Limited#
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited#
2
0
Mr. P R Ramesh
(DIN: 01915274)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
8
Larsen and Toubro Limited#
Nestle India Limited#
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
Tejas Networks Limited#
Cipla Limited#
ITC Hotels Limited#
8
5
Ms. Hiroo 
Mirchandani
(DIN: 06992518)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
0
0
Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh  
(DIN: 05307658)
MD & CEO
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited^
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited@
3
0
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
(DIN: 03213517)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
5
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
Schneider Electric Infrastructure Limited@
Titan Company Limited#
GMR Airports Limited#
Akzo Nobel India Limited#
1
0
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
(DIN: 00591027)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
0
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited#
1
1
*Excludes Directorships held in Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companies.
$Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and then assumed 
position of Non-Executive Director till December 31, 2025.
**Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholder’s Relationship Committee of listed companies including public 
limited companies.
Category of Directorship held
@Non-Executive & Non-Independent
#Non-Executive Independent
^Executive
%Chairman
Note: Based on the intimations/disclosures received from the Directors, none of the Directors of the Company hold Membership(s)/
Chairpersonship(s) of Board/ Committee(s), more than the limits prescribed under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
260 - 261
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board Meeting(s)
The Board Meeting dates for the 
upcoming year are scheduled in 
advance. The Company conducts 
thematic 
Board 
Meeting(s) 
to 
deep dive in the key focus areas 
like 
Compliance, 
Enterprise 
Risk 
Management, 
Supply 
Chain, 
Manufacturing Excellence, Innovation, 
Digitization, Succession Planning etc.
A comprehensive agenda outlining 
the business(s) to be discussed 
at 
the 
Meeting(s), 
along 
with 
detailed notes and presentations, if 
applicable, is sent to the Director(s) 
in advance of the scheduled Board 
and Committee Meeting(s) via a 
web-based application. A soft copy 
of the agenda is also uploaded 
to the Board portal at least 7 
(Seven)days prior to the Meeting. 
To 
ensure 
active 
participation, 
Directors are provided with the 
facility/ option of video conferencing 
for the Meetings. The Chairman or 
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer, in consultation with the 
MD & CEO, prepares the Agenda 
along with explanatory notes for 
each Meeting(s). In urgent cases, 
resolutions may be passed through 
circulation as per applicable laws, 
with such resolutions being noted at 
the next Board Meeting.
Inputs and feedback from the Board 
Member(s) are taken and considered 
while preparing the agenda and 
documents 
for 
the 
Board 
and 
Committee Meeting(s).
To ensure the Board effectively 
fulfills its responsibilities and makes 
informed 
decisions, 
the 
MD 
& 
CEO 
provides 
a 
comprehensive 
overview of the Company’s overall 
performance 
at 
each 
Board 
Meeting. This briefing is followed 
by targeted presentations from 
key functional leaders, who deliver 
detailed reports on their respective 
areas. This structured approach 
facilitates in-depth discussion and 
informed decision-making.
The Board sets annual performance 
goals, 
monitors 
management’s 
actions and results, and evaluates its 
own performance, along with that 
of its Committee(s) and individual 
Directors, each year. It also assesses 
the effectiveness of the Company’s 
governance practices to enhance 
stakeholders value.
The Company has established a 
framework for the Meeting(s) of the 
Board and its Committee(s) which 
seeks to systematize the decision-
making process at the Meeting(s) in 
an informed and efficient manner.
Apart from the Board Member(s) and 
the Company Secretary, the Board 
and Committee Meeting(s) are also 
attended by Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) and other departmental/ 
functional heads wherever required.
The Meeting(s) were generally held 
at the Company’s former Registered 
& Corporate Office located at 
Tower 
3, 
1st 
Floor, 
East 
Wing, 
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, 
Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070 
untill November 17, 2024. Effective 
November 18, 2024, the Registered 
& Corporate Office of the Company 
is shifted to 05GBD, Godrej Business 
District, 
Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai – 400 079. All 
meetings are now conducted at the 
said new office.
The Board has complete access to 
all Company-related information, 
including 
that 
of 
employee(s). 
Information is provided to the Board 
Members on a continuous basis for 
their review, inputs and approval.
Attendance at 
the Board Meeting
(%)
33.33
95.83
Average 
Attendance 
in the Board 
Meeting(s)
Minimum 
Attendance in 
Board Meeting(s) 
as mandated 
by law
The Composition of Board as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Member(s) participation at the Board Meeting(s) 
are as under:
Attendance of Director(s) at Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting:
Board of Director(s)
April 11, 
2024%
May 16, 
2024
July 
31,2024
September 
18, 2024
October 
03, 2024
November 
14, 2024
January 
07, 2025
February 
12, 2025
AGM - 
July 26, 
2024
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
 attendance
Mr. D Sundaram
8
8
100.00
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
8
8
100.00
Mr. Shantanu Khosla@
8
8
100.00
Mr. P R Ramesh
8
8
100.00
Mr. P M Murty
8
8
100.00
Ms. Smita Anand
8
6
75.00
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
8
8
100.00
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
8
7
87.50
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
8
8
100.00
% of attendance
88.89
100
100
88.89
88.89
100
100
100
100
 
   Attended     
 
  Leave of Absence     
   Attended through Video Conferencing
%Board Meeting held on April 11, 2024, was adjourned to April 12, 2024
@Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and then assumed 
position of Non-Executive Director till December 31, 2025
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations
There were 8 (Eight) Board Meetings 
held during F.Y. 2024-25.
Committee(s) of the Board
The Board Committee(s) play a 
vital role within the Company’s 
governance structure, established 
to address specific areas and 
activities 
in 
accordance 
with 
applicable 
regulations 
and 
laws. Formally approved by the 
Board, each Committee operates 
within clearly defined roles and 
responsibilities. They uphold the 
highest governance standards and 
possess the necessary expertise to 
effectively manage issues pertinent 
to their domains.
These 
Committee(s) 
dedicate 
significant 
time 
and 
attention 
to 
the 
matters 
before 
them, 
providing 
invaluable 
guidance 
that enhances the quality of the 
Board’s decision-making process. 
To further strengthen governance, 
the Board has adopted clear terms 
of reference for the majority of 
Committee(s). 
Additionally, 
the 
Board 
periodically 
reviews 
the 
functioning and effectiveness of 
these Committee(s) to ensure they 
continue to operate optimally.
The Meeting(s) of each of these 
Committee(s) are convened by 
the 
respective 
Chairperson(s). 
The minutes of the Committee 
Meeting(s) are sent to all Member(s) 
of 
respective 
Committee(s) 
individually for their comments 
and approval as prescribed in SS-1 
and after the minutes are duly 
approved, the same is being placed 
before the Board for its review in 
immediate next Meeting.
77.78%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
9
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
8
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
95.83%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
262 - 263
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The constitution, terms of reference and the functioning of the Committee(s) of the Board as on March 31, 2025, is 
elaborated hereunder:
Mandatory Committee(s)
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Mr. P M Murty
Stakeholders Relationship  and 
Share Transfer Committee
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar@
Mr. P M Murty
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. P R Ramesh*
Audit  
Committee
Mr. P M Murty
Mr. D Sundaram
Ms. Smita Anand
Nomination and  
Remuneration Committee
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Ms. Smita Anand
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Committee
Non-mandatory Committees
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. P M Murty
Allotment  
Committee
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Mr. P M Murty
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Environment, Social and 
Governance Committee
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. P M Murty
Ms. Smita Anand
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Strategic 
Investment Committee
Mr. D Sundaram
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Committee of  
Debentures
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee of the Board is 
constituted in compliance with the 
provisions of Section 177 of the Act 
and Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. All the Member(s) of the 
Committee including the Chairman 
are Independent Director(s). The 
Committee is governed by a Charter, 
which is in line with the regulatory 
requirements mandated by the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
All the Member(s) of the Audit 
Committee are financially literate 
and possess sound knowledge in 
finance and accounting practices. 
As on March 31, 2025, the total 
strength of the Audit Committee is 
4 (Four) Member(s), all of whom are 
Independent Director(s).
The Audit Committee acts as a 
link between the statutory and 
internal auditors and the Board of 
Directors. Its primary role is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities by monitoring the 
financial 
reporting 
processes, 
reviewing the Company’s internal 
financial 
control 
systems 
and 
governance 
practices, 
and 
evaluating 
the 
effectiveness 
of both statutory and internal 
audit activities.
The 
Board 
has 
appointed 
M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP 
as Internal Auditors to conduct 
the internal audit of the various 
areas of operations and records 
of the Company. The periodical 
reports of the said internal auditors 
are regularly placed before the 
Audit Committee along with the 
comments of the management 
on the action taken to correct 
any observed deficiencies on the 
working of the various departments.
The Audit Committee also receives 
the report on compliance under 
the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015. Further, 
Compliance 
Reports 
under 
the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Whistle 
Blower Policy are also placed before 
the Audit Committee periodically.
Meeting(s) of the Audit Committee 
are also attended by the other 
Director(s), CFO, Vice President 
- Finance, Head Audit - Risk & 
Control. The representatives of the 
Statutory Auditors have attended 
all the Meeting(s) held during the 
year at which Financial Statements 
have been placed for review and 
approval. The representatives of 
Internal Auditor and Cost Auditor 
are invited to attend the Meeting(s) 
at which their respective reports 
are presented for discussion. The 
Company Secretary acts as the 
Secretary to the Audit Committee.
The minutes of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During 
the year, all recommendations of 
the Committee, as mandatorily 
required, 
were 
accepted 
by 
the Board.
The Audit Committee also meets 
the Internal Auditors and Statutory 
Auditors without the presence of 
the management.
The Audit Committee of the Company 
was conferred with the ‘Best Audit 
Committee Award’ for the FY 2023-
24 by Asian Corporate Governance 
& Sustainability on March 05, 2025.
Terms of reference of Audit 
Committee are
A. General
(i)	
the 
statutory 
auditors, 
the 
internal 
auditors 
and 
management, 
an 
annual 
audit 
plan, 
internal 
audit 
plan 
and 
other 
plans/ 
matters to be reviewed as 
part of the responsibilities of 
the Committee.
(ii)	 Perform such other role as 
mandated to the Committee 
by the Board of Directors 
and 
under 
the 
applicable 
rules/ regulations/ laws.
B.	
Financial 
Reporting 
and 
Financial Reporting Processes
(i)	
Oversight of the Company’s 
financial 
reporting 
process 
and the disclosure of financial 
statements/ 
results 
and 
information submitted to the 
stock exchanges, regulatory 
authorities or the Members 
to ensure that the financial 
statement reflect a true and 
fair view correct and the same 
time sufficient and credible.
(ii)	 Review with management the 
annual financial statements 
and auditors report thereon 
before submission to the Board 
for approval, with particular 
reference to:
	
a)	
Matters required to be 
included in the Director’s 
Responsibility Statement 
to be included in the 
Board’s Report in terms of 
Clause(c) of sub- Section 3 
of Section 134 of the Act.
	
b)	
Changes, if any, in the 
accounting policies and 
reasons for the same.
	
c)	
Major accounting entries 
involving estimates based 
on 
the 
exercise 
of 
the 
judgment 
by 
the 
management.
	
d)	
Significant adjustments, if 
any, made in the financial 
statements arising out of 
audit findings.
Mr. P R Ramesh
Mr. P M Murty
Mr. D Sundaram
Risk Management 
Committee
*ceased to be the Chairperson of the Audit Committee w.e.f. December 27, 2024
@appointed as the Chairperson of the Audit Committee w.e.f. December 28, 2024
264 - 265
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
e)	
Compliance with listing 
and 
other 
legal 
requirements concerning 
financial statement.
	
f)	
Disclosure of any related 
party transactions.
	
g)	
Qualification/ 
modified 
opinion, if any, in draft 
audit report.
(iii)	 Review accounting adjustments, 
if any, that are noted or proposed 
by the statutory auditors but 
were ‘passed’ (as immaterial or 
otherwise).
(iv)	 Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans and investments.
(v)	
Valuation 
of 
undertakings 
or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary.
(vi)	 Monitoring the end use of funds 
raised through public offers/ 
private 
placements/ 
debt 
issues and related matters.
(vii)	 Review with the management 
the 
quarterly 
financial 
statements before submission 
to the Board for approval.
(viii)	Review of the Management 
Discussion 
& 
Analysis 
of 
financial condition and result 
of operations.
(ix)	 Consider 
and 
discuss 
with 
the 
statutory 
auditors 
its 
judgments about the quality 
and 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
Company’s 
accounting 
principles 
as 
applied 
in 
its 
financial 
reporting 
with 
reference 
to 
Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles 
in India.
(x)	
Review 
details 
of 
significant 
transactions/ 
investments 
by 
the subsidiaries.
C.	
Risk Management, Internal 
Control 
and 
Governance 
Processes
(i)	
Review 
and 
discuss 
with 
Management the adequacy 
of 
the 
Company’s 
system 
of business risk assessment 
including the risk of fraud. 
Discuss the Company’s major 
financial risk exposures and 
the steps management has 
taken to monitor and control 
such exposures.
(ii)	 Review and discuss with the 
statutory auditors, the internal 
auditors and management the 
adequacy and effectiveness 
of the Company’s system of 
internal controls.
(iii)	 Review 
any 
material 
defalcations or acts of fraud/ 
misconduct as reported by the 
Risk Management Committee.
D.	
Statutory Audit
(i)	
Recommend 
to 
the 
Board 
the 
appointment, 
re-
appointment, 
terms 
of 
reference 
and, 
if 
required 
the replacement or removal 
of 
the 
Statutory 
Auditors, 
Cost Auditors and Secretarial 
Auditors 
considering 
their 
independence 
and 
effectiveness 
and 
also 
recommend the audit fees.
(ii)	 Give approval of all auditing 
and permissible non- auditing 
services (services other than 
those services which cannot 
be rendered by the Statutory 
Auditors as per Section 144 
of the Act) to be rendered by 
the Statutory Auditors and 
determining the remuneration 
for all such services.
(iii)	 Annual 
review 
and 
discuss 
with the Statutory Auditors 
all 
significant 
relationships 
that 
they 
have 
with 
the 
Company or any of its related 
parties 
to 
determine 
the 
auditors’ independence.
(iv)	 Review the performance of the 
Statutory Auditors.
(v)	
Review and discuss the nature 
and scope of the Statutory 
Auditors 
before 
audit 
commence, annual audit as 
well as post-audit discussion 
with the Auditors to ascertain 
any area of concern.
(vi)	 Mandatory 
review 
of 
Management Letters/ letters 
of internal control weaknesses 
and any significant findings 
and recommendations issued 
by 
the 
Statutory 
Auditors 
together with Management’s 
response thereto.
(vii)	 Following completion of the 
annual 
audit, 
review 
and 
discuss 
with 
the 
Statutory 
Auditors 
any 
significant 
difficulties encountered during 
the 
course 
of 
the 
audit, 
including any restrictions on 
the scope of work or access to 
required information.
(viii)	Meet 
separately 
with 
the 
external auditors to discuss any 
matters that the Committee or 
the external auditors believe 
should be discussed separately.
(ix)	 Review the annual Cost Audit 
report 
submitted 
by 
the 
Cost Auditors.
E.	
Internal Audit
(i)	
Review the Internal Audit scope 
and 
recommend 
changes, 
if any.
(ii)	 To 
approve 
appointment, 
removal 
and 
terms 
of 
remuneration 
of 
Chief 
Internal Auditor.
(iii)	 Review with the Management 
the performance of the internal 
auditors and adequacy of the 
internal controls.
(iv)	 Consider 
and 
approve, 
in 
consultation with the Statutory 
Auditors and the Head of 
Internal Audit, the annual scope 
and plan of the Company’s 
Internal 
Audit 
and 
any 
significant changes thereto.
(v)	
Review the adequacy of the 
Internal Audit function, if any, 
including the structure of the 
internal 
audit 
department, 
staffing 
and 
seniority 
of 
the 
official 
heading 
the 
department, 
reporting 
structure 
coverage 
and 
frequency of internal audit.
(vi)	 Review with the Internal Auditor 
and the Statutory Auditors, the 
co-ordination of audit efforts to 
assure adequacy of coverage, 
reduction of redundant efforts 
and 
the 
effective 
use 
of 
audit resources.
(vii)	 Review 
internal 
audit 
reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses.
(viii)	Review any significant findings 
and 
recommendations 
of 
Internal Audit, together with 
Management’s 
responses 
thereto.
(ix)	 Review the findings of any 
internal investigations by the 
Internal Auditors into matters 
where there is suspected fraud 
or irregularity or a failure of 
an 
internal 
control 
system 
of 
a 
material 
nature 
and 
reporting the matters to the 
Board. Review with the Internal 
Auditors 
any 
significant 
difficulties encountered during 
the 
course 
of 
the 
audit, 
including any restrictions on 
the scope of work or access to 
required information.
(x)	
Meet 
separately 
with 
the 
Chief 
Internal 
Auditor 
to 
discuss 
any 
matters 
that 
the Committee or the Chief 
Internal Auditor believes should 
be discussed separately.
F.	
Other Responsibilities
(i)	
(a)	 Approval of related party 
transactions 
(RPTs) 
or 
subsequent modifications 
thereto. 
Such 
approval 
can be in the form of 
omnibus approval of RPTs 
subject 
to 
conditions 
specified in Regulation 23 
of SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
(b)	 Review 
of 
Related 
Party Transactions on a 
quarterly basis.
(ii)	 Review 
of 
internal 
control 
systems, 
policies 
and 
procedures 
under 
SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended 
from time to time.
(iii)	 Review 
of 
key 
new 
developments in Tax, Incentive 
and Legal matters.
(iv)	 Perform other activities as 
required by law or determined 
by the Board.
(v)	
Approval 
of 
appointment 
of 
Chief 
Financial 
Officer 
(“CFO”) after assessing his 
qualification, 
experience 
& 
background etc.
(vi)	 Reviewing, 
with 
the 
management, the statement 
of uses/ application of funds 
raised through an issue (public 
issue, rights issue, preferential 
issue, etc.), the statement of 
funds utilized for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer 
document/ prospectus/ notice 
and 
the 
report 
submitted 
by 
the 
monitoring 
agency 
monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights 
issue and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board 
to take up steps in this matter.
(vii)	 To look into the reasons for 
substantial 
defaults 
in 
the 
payment to the depositors, 
debenture 
holders, 
shareholders 
(in 
case 
of 
non-payment 
of 
declared 
dividends) and creditors.
(viii)	Institute and oversee special 
investigations as needed.
(ix)	 Periodically 
report 
to 
the 
Board or Committee of the 
Board inter alia all significant 
matters 
that 
have 
come 
to 
the 
knowledge 
of 
the 
Committee, covering internal 
controls, financial statements, 
policies 
and 
statutory/ 
regulatory compliances.
(x)	
Consider and comment on 
rational, cost benefits and impact 
of schemes involving merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., in 
the listed entity and its shareholders.
(xi)	 Confirm 
annually 
that 
all 
responsibilities outlined in this 
Charter have been carried out 
by the Committee.
(xii)	 Self-evaluation 
of 
the 
Committee’s performance once 
every year.
266 - 267
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process 
and disclosure of financial information to ensure that the 
financial statements are correct, sufficient and credible
Reviewing and examining with management, the quarterly 
and annual financial results and the auditors’ report thereon 
before submission to the Board for approval
Reviewing management discussion and analysis of financial 
condition and results of operations
Recommending the remuneration of Statutory Auditors 
of the Company and approval for payment of any other 
services
Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
Statutory 
Auditor’s 
independence and performance and effectiveness of 
audit process
Reviewing, approving or subsequently modifying any Related 
Party Transactions in accordance with the Related Party 
Transaction Policy of the Company
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function and 
discussing with Internal Auditor any significant finding and 
reviewing the progress of corrective actions on such issues
Reviewing management letters/ letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors
Evaluating 
internal 
financial 
controls 
and 
risk 
management systems
Verifying that the systems for internal controls in relation 
to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
are adequate and are operating effectively
 
Reviewing the functioning of the Code of Business Principles 
and Vigil Mechanism
Recommending the appointment and the remuneration to 
be paid to the Statutory, Internal, Cost, Secretarial and Tax 
Auditors
Undertake an annual performance evaluation of its 
own effectiveness
The annual assessment of statutory and internal auditors 
conducted by the Management
Quarterly
Annually
Periodically
G.	
Vigil Mechanism
	
To oversee and review the 
Vigil 
Mechanism/ 
Whistle 
Blower 
function 
established 
by the Company to report 
the genuine concerns against 
the suspected or confirmed 
fraudulent activities, allegations 
of corruption, violation of the 
Company’s Code of Conduct.
	
The 
Company 
will 
provide 
adequate safeguards against 
victimization of persons who 
use 
this 
mechanism. 
Such 
persons shall have direct access 
to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee when appropriate.
Governance
a.	
The composition and terms 
of 
reference 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee are in line with 
the applicable provisions of 
the Listing Regulations and 
the Act.
b.	
The Audit Committee meets 
the Statutory Auditors, Internal 
Auditors 
and 
Secretarial 
Auditors independently without 
the presence of any Member(s) 
of the management at least 
once in a year.
c.	
The 
Member(s) 
of 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
are 
financially 
literate 
and 
have relevant experience in 
financial management.
d.	
The 
Committee 
meets 
quarterly 
for 
consideration 
of 
financial 
results, 
review 
and 
approval 
of 
related 
party transactions.
e.	
A 
dedicated 
meeting 
of 
the Committee is held to 
review the key internal audit 
observations, fixing the limits 
and governance for entering 
into related party transactions 
during the year. 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee 
(“N&RC”)
The N&RC of the Board is constituted 
in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 
18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The N&RC operates under a Charter 
that aligns with both the Act and 
the SEBI Regulations. As of March 31, 
2025, the N&RC comprised 3 (Three) 
Members, all of whom are Non-
Executive Independent Director(s) 
of the Company. The Committee is 
chaired by an Independent Director, 
and all Members are Independent 
Director(s). The Chairman of the 
Board is a Member of the N&RC but 
does not serve as its Chair. During 
the year under review, the N&RC 
also conducted certain business 
matters by passing resolutions via 
circulation, in accordance with its 
terms of reference.
The minutes of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the 
year, all recommendations of the 
Committee, as mandatorily required, 
were accepted by the Board.
The 
Chief 
Human 
Resources 
Officer (“CHRO”), MD & CEO and 
CFO also attends the Meeting(s) 
wherever required for discussion of 
certain items.
The Company Secretary of the 
Company acts as the Secretary to 
the Committee.
The N&RC is responsible for developing 
evaluation policies and overseeing 
key aspects of the Company’s HR 
processes, including hiring, training, 
talent 
management, 
succession 
planning, and the compensation 
structure 
for 
Directors, 
KMPs 
and SMPs. Additionally, the N&RC 
evaluates 
the 
balance 
of 
skills, 
experience, independence, diversity, 
and knowledge on the Board. It 
establishes selection criteria and 
implements 
ongoing 
succession 
planning 
and 
appointment 
procedures for both internal and 
external candidates. Furthermore, 
the N&RC facilitates the performance 
evaluation of individual Director(s).
The Composition of Audit Committee as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Member(s) participation at the Meeting 
are as under:
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
April 11, 
2024
May 15, 
2024
May 16, 
2024
July 30, 
2024
July 31, 
2024
Nov 13, 
2024
Nov 14, 
2024
Feb 11, 
2025
Feb 12, 
2025
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar* Chairperson
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Mr. P R Ramesh#
Member
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
   Attended  
   Attended through Video Conferencing
The intervening period between 2 (Two) consecutive Audit Committee meetings was well within the maximum allowed gap of 120 days.
#Ceased to be Chairperson but continued to be Member w.e.f.December 27, 2024
*Appointed as the Chairperson of Audit Committee w.e.f. December 28, 2024
These meetings were adjourned to the next day for consideration of financial results, as applicable:
1 Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2024, was adjourned to May 16, 2024
2 Audit Committee Meeting held on July 30, 2024, was adjourned to July 31, 2024
3 Audit Committee Meeting held on November 13, 2024, was adjourned to November 14, 2024
4 Audit Committee Meeting held on February 11, 2025, was adjourned to February 12, 2025
There were 5 (Five) Audit Committee Meetings held during F.Y. 2024-25.
100%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
4
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
5
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
100%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
268 - 269
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Succession Planning
The Company follows a people-first 
culture and offers all its employees a 
defined talent value proposition and 
believes that succession planning 
is imperative for a Company’s 
continuity and sustainability.
Succession planning is a critical 
element of the human resources 
strategy and is vital for creating 
a robust future for the Company. 
It aims to maintain an optimal 
balance of skills and experience 
within the organization and the 
Board, ensuring the introduction of 
fresh perspectives while preserving 
continuity and expertise. As part 
of the Company’s talent review 
process, 
individual 
development 
plans are discussed annually, and 
Selection and 
appointment of 
new Director(s)
The Board delegates the screening 
and selection process to the N&RC, 
which 
consists 
exclusively 
of 
Independent Directors.
The proposal is submitted to 
Members for approval, which 
must be obtained either at the 
next general meeting or within 
three months of appointment, 
whichever is earlier.
The Committee, based on defined 
criteria, as laid out in the Nomination 
and Remuneration Policy, presents 
a diverse slate of recommendations 
of eligible candidates to the Board.
The 
Board 
recommends 
the 
appointment of the Director to 
the Members.
key talent is identified for potential 
advancement into higher roles in 
the future.
Additionally, the annual feedback 
process 
allows 
employees 
to 
identify their strengths and areas 
for development, enhancing their 
leadership capabilities. Recognizing 
that talent nurturing is central 
to the Company’s culture, senior 
management actively participates 
in mentoring efforts to strengthen 
the succession pipeline. Potential 
successors for key roles are identified 
through a personal development 
planning process, and the CHRO 
defines a robust development plan 
for each individual.
The Company has established a 
well-defined process for the same 
which includes data-driven tools 
such as Leading Edge Potential 
Assessment Processes, 360-degree 
feedback 
process, 
Leadership 
Development 
programs 
in 
collaboration with reputed Business 
Schools. N&RC plays a pivotal role 
in identifying successors to the 
Members of the Board and invests 
substantial time with the MD & CEO 
on succession planning of KMPs and 
SMPs. The succession plan is closely 
aligned with the strategy and long-
term needs of the Company. The 
succession plan and depth of talent 
for KMPs and SMPs is also reviewed 
by N&RC.
Board 
The N&RC along with the Board 
deliberates 
on 
various 
factors 
including current tenure of Directors, 
anticipated vacancies in the Board, 
outcome 
of 
evaluation 
of 
the 
Directors, skill matrix including skill-
gaps, diversity, time-commitment 
and statutory requirements, etc., to 
ensure orderly succession planning. 
The Company also has a multi-year 
plan for the retirements due on the 
Board. Considering the balance of 
skills and experience, prospective 
Directors are identified and aligned 
with the long-term strategy of 
the Company.
Senior Management 
The N&RC along with the Board 
reviews the succession planning for 
the Senior Management. To ensure 
leadership and business continuity, 
evaluation of successors is carried 
out considering the criteria such as 
readiness of the candidate qualified 
to serve as member of Senior 
Management, 
exposure 
to 
the 
business, mentorship etc. including 
contingency plan for each position.
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Policy
The Company has in place a 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Policy 
formulated 
as 
per 
the 
provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations. 
The 
Policy 
outlines 
the role of N&RC and the Board, 
inter alia, determining the criteria 
for Board membership, approving, 
and recommending compensation 
packages and policies for Directors 
and SMPs and lay down the effective 
manner of performance evaluation 
of the Board, its Committee(s), and 
the Director(s).
Terms 
of 
reference 
of 
N&RC are
a)	
Review the Succession Policy 
of the Company under the 
overall guidance of the Board 
of Directors and succession 
policy of the Company.
b)	
Devise 
a 
policy 
on 
Board 
Diversity, if required.
c)	
Formulate 
criteria 
for 
determining 
qualifications, 
attributes and Independence 
of a Director.
d)	
Identify 
persons 
who 
are 
qualified to become Directors 
in accordance with the criteria 
laid 
down, 
recommend 
to 
the Board their appointment 
and removal.
e)	
Formulate 
the 
criteria 
for 
evaluating the performance 
of the Independent Directors/ 
Board of Directors.
f)	
Formulate a policy relating 
to the remuneration for the 
Directors, KMPs and SMPs.
g)	
Identify 
individuals 
for 
appointment as KMPs and 
who 
may 
be 
appointed 
in 
senior 
management, 
recommend to the Board their 
appointment 
and 
removal. 
The Committee may consider 
any recommendations made 
by the Board and/ or parent 
company in this regard.
h)	
Specify the manner for effective 
evaluation 
of 
performance 
of 
Board, 
its 
committees, 
individual 
Directors 
and 
review 
its 
implementation 
and compliance.
i)	
Review 
the 
performance 
evaluation of the Directors 
and KMP.
j)	
Administration of the Employee 
Stock Option Schemes (ESOS).
k)	
Recommend to the Board, all 
remuneration, 
in 
whatever 
form, payable to SMPs.
l)	
For every appointment of an 
Independent 
Director, 
the 
Committee shall evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and 
on the basis of such evaluation, 
prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required 
of an Independent Director. 
The person recommended to 
the Board for appointment 
as an independent director 
shall 
have 
the 
capabilities 
identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying 
suitable 
candidates, 
the 
Committee may:
	
i.	
use the services of an 
external 
agencies, 
if required; 
	
ii.	
consider 
candidates 
from a wide range of 
backgrounds, having due 
regard to diversity; and
	
iii.	
consider 
the 
time 
commitments 
of 
 
the 
candidates.
270 - 271
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
The Committee made regular reports to the Board regarding its actions and made recommendations 
to the Board, as appropriate
 
Determine/ recommend the criteria for appointment of Directors, KMPs and SMPs
Identify candidates who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed on the 
Management Committee, or as a KMPs
 
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required for Independent Director(s)
 
 
Review and determine all elements of remuneration package of all the Executive Directors, i.e. salary, 
benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc
 
   
& Event based 
for ESOP’s
Specifying methodology for effective evaluation of performance of Board/ Committees of the Board and 
review the terms of appointment of Independent Director(s) on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of the Independent Director(s)
 
 
Review of the succession plans for key leadership positions, and helped to shape and monitor the 
development plans of the key leadership
 
 
Recommend to the Board, all remunerations, in whatever form, payable to SMPs
 
 
Review and recommend to the Board candidates for election as Members to the Board Committees 
and for the election as chairman for each Board Committee from the appointed Members of the Board 
Committee
 
Approval and grant of stock incentives to eligible employees of the Company during the year under the 
ESOP 2019 scheme of the Company
 
Undertake an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
 
 
Review, approve and recommend amendments to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
Charter and policy
 
Quarterly
Annually
Periodically
There were 5 (Five) N&RC Meetings held during F.Y. 2024-25.
The Composition of N&RC as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting of the 
Committee are as under:
100%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
3
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
5
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
86.67%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
May 15, 2024
July 30, 2024
Sept 18, 2024
Oct 03, 2024
Feb 12, 2025
Mr. P M Murty
Chairperson
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
 
   Attended     
 
   Leave of Absence     
   Attended through Video Conferencing
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship and Share 
Transfer Committee 
(“SRC”)
The 
SRC 
oversees 
the 
various 
aspects of interests of security 
holders of the Company, resolving 
the 
grievances 
of 
Members, 
ensuring expeditious share transfer 
process in line with the proceedings 
of the SRC, evaluating performance 
and service standards of the RTA 
of the Company and recommends 
measures for overall improvement 
of the quality of investor services 
as and when the need arises. As on 
March 31, 2025, the total strength 
of the SRC is 4 (Four) Members, 
which consist of Executive, Non-
Executive 
and 
Independent 
Directors and fulfils the criteria of 
composition as per Section 178 of 
the Act and Regulation 20 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The SRC is 
governed by a Charter which in line 
with the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
Mr. 
D 
Sundaram, 
a 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director of the Company is the 
Chairperson of the SRC.
The CFO also attended the Meeting 
during the previous Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the 
Company acts as the Secretary to 
the Committee.
SEBI had issued guidelines and 
undertook a number of measures 
for 
raising 
industry 
standards 
for 
RTA 
to 
facilitate 
effective 
shareholder service. In order to 
ensure compliance with various 
guidelines and measures issued by 
SEBI to improve investor services, 
the Company has amended the 
existing 
agreement 
with 
RTA 
and made the timelines more 
stringent as compared to the 
statutory timelines.
The minutes of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During 
the year, all recommendations of 
the Committee, as mandatorily 
required, 
were 
accepted 
by 
the Board.
Terms 
of 
reference 
for 
Stakeholders’ Relationship and 
Share Transfer Committee are:
a)	
To review the steps taken 
to 
resolve 
the 
grievances 
of the security holders of 
the 
Company 
including 
complaints related to transfer/ 
transmission of shares, non-
receipt 
of 
annual 
report, 
non-receipt 
of 
declared 
dividends, 
issue 
of 
new/ 
duplicate certificates, general 
meetings, etc.
b)	
To review the measures taken 
for effective exercise of voting 
rights by Members.
c)	
To review the adherence to 
the service standards adopted 
by the Company in respect 
of 
various 
services 
being 
rendered by the RTA.
d)	
To 
review 
the 
measures 
and 
initiatives 
taken 
by 
the Company for reducing 
the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely 
receipt of dividend warrants/ 
annual 
reports/ 
statutory 
notices by the Members of 
the Company.
e)	
To approve issue of duplicate 
share certificates for shares 
reported 
lost, 
defaced 
or 
destroyed as per the laid 
down procedure.
f)	
To 
issue 
new 
certificates 
against 
subdivision 
of 
shares, 
renewal, 
split 
or 
consolidation 
of 
share 
certificates/ certificates.
g)	
To issue and allot right shares/ 
bonus 
shares 
pursuant 
to 
a Rights Issue/ Bonus Issue 
subject to such approval as 
may be required.
h)	
To monitor dematerialization 
of shares and all matters 
incidental or related thereto.
i)	
To authorize the Company 
Secretary 
& 
Compliance 
Officer/ 
other 
officers 
of 
the 
Share 
Department 
to 
attend to take such actions as 
necessary or deemed fit by the 
Committee for any matter and 
to monitor action taken.
j)	
To monitor Investor Relation 
activities of the Company and 
give guidance on the flow of 
information from the Company 
to the Investors.
k)	
Review of transfer of unpaid/ 
unclaimed dividend/ shares 
to 
the 
Investor 
Education 
and Protection Fund of the 
Government of India in line with 
the relevant applicable laws.
l)	
All other matters incidental 
or 
related 
to 
shares 
of 
the Company.
m)	 Perform such other functions 
as may be required by law, 
the 
Company’s 
Articles 
of 
Association 
or 
as 
may 
be assigned by the Board 
of Directors.
There was 1 (One) SRC Meeting held 
during the F.Y. 2024‑25.
272 - 273
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Composition of SRC as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting of the 
Committee are as under:
50%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
4
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
1
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
100%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
May 15, 2024
Mr. D Sundaram
Chairperson
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
 
   Attended 
Investor Grievance
The status of investor grievance 
redressal is updated to the Committee 
and the Board periodically.
For any grievances/ complaints, 
shareholders may contact the RTA. 
For any escalations, shareholders 
may write to Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, 
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer, at: https://www.crompton.
co.in/pages/investors-relations
During the year, 4 (Four), complaints 
were received from the Members, 
which have been attended/ resolved 
to the satisfaction of the Members.
The details of the complaints are:
Quarter ended
Complaint(s) 
Received
June 2024
1,188*
September 2024
1,327#
December 2024
709$
March 2025
689%
*There were only 2 (Two) complaints 
received during the quarter, rest all were 
the requests from the Members
#There were only 2 (Two) complaints 
received during the quarter, rest all were 
the requests from the Members
$No complaint(s) were received during the 
quarter, the declared numbers were the 
requests from the Members.
%No complaint(s) were received during the 
quarter, the declared numbers were the 
requests from the Members.
Communications 
sent 
to 
Members
Your Company has sent following 
communication to its Members:
Month
Purpose
No of 
Members
May 2025
Unclaimed 
Dividend and 
Transfer of 
Equity Shares 
relating to 
unclaimed 
dividends to 
the Investor 
Education and 
Protection Fund 
(“IEPF”)
6,049
Further, 
the 
Company 
has 
as 
a measure of good corporate 
governance, 
disseminates 
the 
quarterly results and details of 
earning 
call/ 
investor 
analyst 
meet through an e-mail to all the 
Members of the Company.
Stakeholders’ Relationship and Share Transfer Committee report for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
Monitoring & Reviewing the Company’s performance in dealing with stakeholder grievances
Reviewing various measures and initiatives taken for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and 
ensuring timely receipt of annual reports/ notices by the Members of the Company
Reviewing the annual audit report submitted by the independent auditors on the annual internal audit 
conducted on the RTA operations as mandated by SEBI including the mechanism of investor grievance 
redressal, compliances stipulated by SEBI and other matters concerning the functioning of the RTA
Periodically providing updates to the Board
Reviewing the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by Members
Reviewing the adherence to the service standards and security assessment adopted in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
Undertaking an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
Reviewing the unclaimed dividend
Quarterly
Annually
Periodically
Shareholder 
Satisfaction 
Survey:
The 
Company 
had 
in 
March 
2025, conducted a Shareholder 
Satisfaction 
Survey 
with 
the 
participation of 252 shareholders 
using a feedback questionnaire that 
focused on areas enumerated below 
as a measure of implementation 
of good corporate governance 
practices and in order to identify 
the areas for enhancement.
1.	
Level 
of 
satisfaction 
while 
interacting 
with 
KFin 
Technologies Limited (“RTA”);
2.	
Level 
of 
satisfaction 
while 
interacting with the Secretarial 
Team of the Company; 
3.	
Response 
time 
taken 
in 
addressing Investors’ Queries;
4.	
Receipt of various documents 
from the Company i.e., Annual 
report, 
ECS 
Intimation, 
Share Certificates;
5.	
Processing time being taken 
for 
transfer/ 
transmission 
of shares;
6.	
Processing 
time 
taken 
for 
IEPF 
claims 
and 
level 
of 
satisfaction thereof;
7.	
Quality, 
content, 
and 
presentation 
of 
Integrated 
Annual Report for the financial 
year 2023-24;
8.	
Completeness, 
quality, 
and 
relevance of information on 
company’s website and its 
‘Investors’ section;
9.	
Dissemination of information 
about the company by way 
of press release, shareholder’s 
communication, 
newspaper 
advertisement 
and 
website 
etc.;
10.	 Overall 
assessment 
of 
shareholders’ 
service 
standards of the Company.
Shareholder’s 
Satisfaction Survey  
(%)
25.08
Exceptionally 
Good
54.40
Good
20.52
Satisfactory
Additionally, the Company also 
disseminates the details of joining 
the earning calls on the stock 
exchanges 
along 
with 
audio 
recording and transcript of such 
calls as per the statutory timelines. 
The same is also uploaded on the 
website of the Company at https://
www.crompton.co.in/investors/
stock-exchange-filings/.
The 
Company’s 
quarterly 
and 
annual financial statements, both 
standalone and consolidated, along 
with segmental information, are 
available on its website at: https://
www.crompton.co.in/investors/
financials/
The Company attained an overall 
satisfaction score which is further 
demonstrated in a chart below:
274 - 275
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility Committee 
(“CSR Committee”)
The role of CSR Committee includes 
formulating 
and 
recommending 
to the Board the CSR Policy and 
CSR activities to be undertaken by 
the Company, recommending the 
amount of expenditure to be incurred 
and reviewing the performance of 
the Company in the areas of CSR 
and to strive for overall sustainable 
development in the conduct of 
Company’s 
business. 
The 
total 
strength of the CSR Committee is 
4 (Four) Members. The Act requires 
at least one of the Member to 
be an Independent Director and 
the Company has complied with 
the same.
The minutes of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the 
year, all recommendations of the 
Committee, as mandatorily required, 
were accepted by the Board.
Terms of reference of CSR 
Committee are:
a)	
To review from time to time 
the CSR policy of the Company 
and to ensure that the CSR 
policy is in line with Schedule 
VII of the Act as amended from 
time to time.
b)	
To review CSR projects with a 
view to ensure that they are in 
line with CSR objectives and 
CSR Policy of the Company.
c)	
To ensure that the Company’s 
overall 
business 
strategy 
reflects 
its 
long-term 
objectives on CSR.
d)	
To consider and recommend the 
Board and the Management 
on various CSR projects to be 
implemented by the Company 
either directly or through the 
Crompton 
CSR 
Foundation 
(“CCF”), established for this 
purpose in furtherance of its 
social obligations.
e)	
The Committee shall formulate 
and monitor the implementation 
of 
the 
CSR 
annual 
action 
plan, 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
Company’s 
CSR 
policy 
and provisions of applicable 
laws from time to time. The 
Committee shall recommend 
the CSR annual action plan and 
any 
modification(s) 
thereto 
during the Financial Year, for the 
approval of the Board from time 
to time.
f)	
To 
prepare 
budget 
and 
recommend to the Board the 
amount 
of 
expenditure 
to 
be incurred on various CSR 
programmes/ activities either 
directly or through the CCF 
or any other trusts/ Company 
registered under Section 8 of 
the Act (considering criteria 
given)/ registered society.
g)	
Modalities 
of 
utilization 
of 
CSR funds.
h)	
Monitor and report to the 
Board 
of 
the 
projects/ 
programmes undertaken by 
the Company.
i)	
To oversee impact assessment 
of CSR projects of the Company 
and place before the Board.
j)	
To 
advise 
the 
Board 
on 
significant 
stakeholder 
concerns relating to CSR.
k)	
To review and recommend to 
the Board for its approval any 
other reporting on CSR.
l)	
Such other related matters 
which the CSR Committee may 
deem appropriate, required 
by law or assigned to the 
Committee by the Board of 
Directors from time to time.
The CFO also attended the Meeting(s) during the previous Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
Formulate and recommend to the Board the CSR Policy and activities to be undertaken
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on CSR activities
Formulate and review the Annual Action Plan in pursuance of the CSR Policy
Oversee the manner of execution of projects or programmes; the modalities of utilisation of funds and 
implementation schedules for the projects/programmes
Monitoring and reporting mechanism for the projects/ programmes
 
Quarterly
Annually
Periodically
There was 1 (One) CSR Committee Meeting held during F.Y. 2024-25.
The Composition of CSR Committee as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting 
of the Committee are as under:
50%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
4
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
1
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
100%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
Feb 11, 2025
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Chairman
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
   Attended  
276 - 277
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Risk Management 
Committee (“RMC”)
The 
Company 
has 
adopted 
a 
comprehensive 
Enterprise 
Risk 
Management 
(“ERM”)
framework 
which 
is 
integrated 
with 
the 
Company’s 
strategy 
planning 
and 
business 
review 
process. 
The 
framework 
covers 
business, 
financial, 
operational, 
HR, 
reputational, 
sectoral, 
cybersecurity, ESG and any other 
risks as may be determined by 
the RMC. The Company’s ERM 
framework addresses our business 
needs 
while 
remaining 
simple 
and pragmatic and helps attain 
its targets and goals sustainably 
and profitably.
The Company has implemented a 
Comprehensive Risk Management 
Policy and a robust Internal Control 
framework to identify and monitor 
any risks or instances of fraud in 
the Company, both the Internal 
Risk and Control matrix defined 
across the key process areas, are 
updated periodically, and tested 
for effectiveness to monitor risks, 
ensure fraud prevention and avoid 
resulting 
material 
misstatement 
to ensure it achieves its strategic 
objectives and sustainable goals. 
The Company adopts both bottom-
up 
and 
top-down 
approaches, 
covering the entire organization 
to 
enable 
informed 
decision-
making through risk assessment 
and management at all levels of 
the organization.
The Company’s ERM Committee, 
chaired by an Independent Director, 
reviews identified risks bi-annually 
and 
guides 
the 
Internal 
Audit 
Head, who collaborates closely 
with business and functional teams 
to identify, monitor, and execute 
agreed-upon 
risk 
responses. 
Meanwhile, 
the 
Risk 
Council, 
comprising 
senior 
functional 
leadership, reviews the major risks 
identified by the business and 
the status of mitigation actions, 
systematically. 
Moreover, 
the 
Board’s RMC oversees our Risk 
Management 
Policy, 
framework, 
and process, as well as the risk 
management structure and risk 
mitigation 
system. 
The 
Audit 
Committee 
ensures 
additional 
oversight on financial risks and the 
effectiveness of process controls.
The minute(s) of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During 
the year, all recommendations of 
the Committee, as mandatorily 
required, 
were 
accepted 
by 
the Board.
The Company has a robust Risk 
Management Policy and Internal 
Control framework and process to 
identify and monitor any risks or 
instances of fraud in the Company.
Internal Risk and Control matrix 
defined across key process areas, 
are periodically updated and tested 
for effectiveness to monitor risks, 
ensure fraud prevention and avoid 
resulting material misstatement. 
Below is the process:
	Ȣ
Monthly reviews are conducted 
at both - location and function 
levels, 
and 
includes 
trend 
monitoring, 
exceptions, 
root 
causing and tracking of actions 
taken/ underway. There is also an 
involvement of senior leadership 
as well, in key areas of revenue, 
margins, working capital, quality, 
service etc
	Ȣ
The 
organizational 
hierarchy 
and operational ways of working 
followed at each team level 
ensures 
the 
supervision 
and 
monitoring process. In addition, 
the 
data 
protection 
tools 
implemented by the Company 
help in data integrity.
The geographic bifurcation of CSR projects as approved by the Committee is as below:
Water  
Conservation
Skill and  
Entrepreneurship 
Development
Community  
Care
Crompton  
Care
Himachal Pradesh
Rajasthan
Gujarat
Maharashtra
Goa
Governance
Board of Directors
Risk Management 
Committee
Functional 
Leadership Members
Monitoring &  
Reporting
Risk  
Identification
Risk  
Assessment
Risk  
Mitigation
Control  
Assessment
278 - 279
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Furthermore, the Company has 
constituted RMC, in line with the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
As on March 31, 2025, the Committee 
comprises of 3 (Three) Member(s), 
all are Members of the Board and all 
are Independent Directors, which is 
in compliance with Regulation 20 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The 
responsibility 
of 
the 
RMC 
is 
to 
monitor 
and 
review 
risk 
management plans of the Company 
and to assist the Board in fulfilling 
its corporate governance oversight 
responsibilities with regard to the 
identification, 
evaluation 
and 
mitigation of risks including risks 
related to cyber security.
The 
role 
of 
RMC 
includes 
the 
implementation 
of 
Risk 
Management 
Systems 
and 
Framework, 
review 
of 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
and 
risk 
management 
policies, 
assess 
risk and formulate procedures to 
mitigate the same.
The 
RMC 
has 
the 
overall 
responsibility for monitoring and 
approving the risk management 
framework 
and 
associated 
practices of the Company.
Governance
a.	
The composition and terms of 
reference of the RMC are in line 
with the applicable provisions 
of the Listing Regulations.
b.	
The RMC is responsible for 
oversight 
on 
overall 
risk 
management processes of the 
Company and to ensure that 
key strategic and business risks 
are identified and addressed 
by the management.
c.	
The 
Risk 
Management 
Framework 
includes 
identification 
of 
risks, 
risk 
management 
process, 
reporting 
of 
risks 
to 
the 
management and disclosure of 
such risks to stakeholders which 
shall impact the going concern 
status of the Company.
d.	
The Risk Management Policy 
of the Company articulates 
the 
Company’s 
approach 
to address uncertainties in 
its 
endeavours 
to 
achieve 
its 
stated 
and 
implicit 
objectives. It prescribes the 
roles and responsibilities of 
various 
stakeholders 
within 
the Company, the structure 
for 
managing 
risks 
and 
framework with respect to 
Risk Management.
e.	
The Risk Management Policy 
of the Company has been 
uploaded on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://reports.
c ro m pto n .c o. i n/s h o p i f y/
public/files/SqLFuZNXly_Risk-
Management-Policy-1.pdf
Terms of reference for RMC 
are
i)	
To 
periodically 
assess 
risks 
to the effective execution of 
business strategy and review 
key 
leading 
indicators 
in 
this regard.
ii)	
To formulate a detailed Risk 
Management 
Policy 
which 
shall also include:
	»
A framework for identification 
of 
internal 
and 
external 
risks 
specifically 
faced 
by 
the Company, in particular 
including financial, operational, 
sectoral, 
sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), 
information, 
cyber 
security 
risks or any other risk as may be 
determined by the Committee;
	»
The 
measures 
for 
risk 
mitigation including systems 
and processes for internal 
control of identified risks; and
	»
Business continuity plan.
iii)	
To review the Risk Management 
Policy periodically, considering 
the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity.
iv)	
To monitor and oversee the 
implementation of the Risk 
Management Policy, including 
evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems.
v)	
To 
formulate 
and 
ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methods, 
processes and systems are in 
place to monitor and evaluate 
the risks associated with the 
business of the Company.
vi)	
To periodically review the risk 
management processes and 
practices 
of 
the 
Company 
and ensure that the Company 
is 
taking 
the 
appropriate 
measures to achieve prudent 
balance 
between 
risk 
and 
reward in both ongoing and 
new business activities.
vii)	 To 
evaluate 
significant 
risk 
exposures of the Company and 
assess management’s actions 
to mitigate the exposures in a 
timely manner (including one-
off 
initiatives, 
and 
ongoing 
activities 
such 
as 
business 
continuity planning and disaster 
recovery planning & testing).
viii)	 To coordinate its activities with 
the other Committee(s) formed 
by the Board, in instances where 
there is any overlap with any of 
the activities (e.g., internal or 
external audit issue relating 
to risk management policy 
or practice).
ix)	
To keep the Board of Directors 
informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions 
to be taken.
x)	
The 
RMC 
may 
form 
and 
delegate authority to sub- 
committees when appropriate.
xi)	
To make regular reports to the 
Board, including with respect 
to 
risk 
management 
and 
minimization procedures along 
with its recommendations.
xii)	 To approve the appointment, 
removal 
and 
terms 
of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk 
Officer (if any) which shall be 
subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
xiii)	 The RMC shall evaluate risks 
related to cyber security and 
ensure appropriate procedures 
are placed to mitigate these 
risks in a timely manner.
xiv)	 To 
approve 
the 
Risk 
Management Framework of 
the Company periodically.
xv)	 Nurture 
a 
healthy 
and 
independent risk management 
function in the Company.
xvi)	 Help to set the tone and develop 
a culture of the enterprise 
vis-à-vis risk, promote open 
discussion 
regarding 
risk, 
integrate 
risk 
management 
into the organisation’s goals 
and compensation structure, 
and create a corporate culture 
such that people at all levels 
manage 
risks 
rather 
than 
reflexively avoid or heedlessly 
take them.
xvii)	Monitor 
the 
organisation’s 
risk profile - its on-going and 
potential exposure to risks of 
various types.
xviii)	Review and confirm that all 
responsibilities outlined in the 
charter have been carried out.
xix)	 The role and responsibilities 
of 
the 
RMC 
shall 
include 
such other items as may be 
prescribed by applicable law 
or the Board in compliance 
with applicable law, from time 
to time.
There were 2 (Two) RMC Meetings held during F.Y. 2024-25. The MD & CEO, CFO, Vice President - Finance and Head 
Internal Audit - Risk & Control also attended the Meeting(s). The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the 
Secretary to the Committee.
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
To identify the internal and external risks, inter alia, financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability/ ESG, 
information, cyber security risks, legal and regulatory risks
Oversee the implementation of the risk management policy and the adequacy of risk management systems
Ensure appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks
Reviewing and reassessing the adequacy of the Committee’s charter and recommended any proposed 
changes to the Board for approval
Reviewing and approving the Enterprise Risk Management Framework of the Company
Undertaking an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
Quarterly
Half-Yearly 
Annually
Periodically
The Composition of RMC as on March 31, 2025, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting of the 
Committee are as under:
100%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
3
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
2
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
100%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
280 - 281
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Name
Designation
Meetings Date
Sept 27, 2024
Jan 07, 2025
Mr. P R Ramesh
Chairman
 
 
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
 
 
   Attended 		
   Attended through Video Conferencing
Strategic 
Investment 
Committee (“SIC”)
The Board of Directors of the 
Company constituted the SIC for 
evaluation 
and 
assessment 
of 
Strategic Investment opportunities 
feasible for the Company and 
to 
make 
recommendations 
to the Board of Directors on 
such 
strategic 
investment/ 
disinvestment opportunities.
The Composition of SIC as on March 
31, 2025, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D. Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
Environment, Social and 
Governance Committee 
(“ESG”)
The Board of Directors of the 
Company 
constituted 
the 
ESG 
Committee with an objective of 
supporting its ongoing commitment 
to environment, health and safety, 
social 
responsibility, 
governance 
and sustainability matters.
The Minute(s) of the Meeting(s) of 
the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During 
the year, all recommendations of 
the Committee, as mandatorily 
required, 
were 
accepted 
by 
the Board.
Terms of reference for ESG 
Committee are
A)	
Oversight of ESG Matters
The Committee will have, without 
limitation, 
the 
following 
duties 
and responsibilities:
	Ȣ
Recommend to the Board the 
Company’s 
overall 
general 
strategy 
with 
respect 
to 
ESG Matters.
	Ȣ
Oversee the Company’s policies, 
practices and performance with 
respect to ESG Matters.
	Ȣ
Oversee 
the 
Company’s 
reporting standards in relation 
to ESG Matters.
	Ȣ
To set the tone and reinforce 
the culture within the Company 
regarding sustainability, promote 
open discussion and integrate 
ESG 
management 
into 
the 
Company’s processes and goals.
	Ȣ
To assist in overseeing internal 
and external communications 
with 
employees, 
investors, 
customers, 
suppliers 
and 
other 
stakeholders 
regarding 
the 
Company’s 
position 
on 
or approach to ESG matters, 
including by coordinating and 
reviewing, as appropriate, draft 
responses, 
reports 
or 
other 
disclosures to stakeholders.
	Ȣ
To consider the current and 
emerging ESG matters that may 
affect the business, operations, 
performance or public image of 
the Company.
	Ȣ
To maintain metrics, systems 
and 
procedures, 
as 
deemed 
necessary and appropriate, to 
monitor and track ESG matters.
	Ȣ
Report to the Board current 
and emerging topics relating 
to 
ESG 
Matters 
that 
may 
affect the business, operations, 
performance, or public image of 
the Company or are otherwise 
pertinent to the Company and its 
stakeholders and, if appropriate, 
detail actions taken in relation to 
the same.
	Ȣ
Advise the Board on stockholder 
proposals and other significant 
stakeholder concerns relating to 
ESG Matters.
	Ȣ
Perform 
any 
other 
activities 
consistent 
with 
this 
Charter, 
the 
Company’s 
Articles 
of 
Association and Memorandum of 
Association as this Committee or 
the Board may deem necessary, 
advisable or appropriate for the 
Committee to perform.
B)	
Report to the Board of Directors
The Committee must report regularly to the Board regarding the activities of the Committee.
There was 1 (One) ESG Meeting held during F.Y. 2024-25. The Composition of ESG as on March 31, 2025, and details of 
the Member(s) participation at the Meeting of the Committee are as under:
66.67%
I
n
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
3
M
e
m
b
e
r
s
1
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
100%
 
A
t
t
e
n
d
a
n
c
e
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
July 26, 2024
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Chairman
Mr. P M Murty
Member
 
 
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Member
 
 
 
  Attended  	
   Attended through Video Conferencing
Allotment Committee
The Board of Director(s) of the Company constituted the Allotment Committee for allotment of shares arising out of 
the exercise of stock options by Eligible Employees under ESOP Schemes of the Company.
The Composition of Allotment Committee as on March 31, 2025, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
During the year, the Allotment Committee has approved the allotment of 7,02,184  shares arising out of the exercise 
of stock options by Eligible Employee(s).
Committee of Debentures
The Board of Director(s) of the Company constituted the Committee of Debentures for issue and allotment of Non-
Convertible Debentures and for approval of matters connected thereto.
The Composition of Committee of Debentures as on March 31, 2025, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Member
During the year, the Company had redeemed 3,000 (Three Thousand) Secure, Rated, Redeemable, Non-Convertible 
Debentures (“NCDs”) with face value of J 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) each aggregating to J 300,00,00,000 
(Rupees Three Hundred Crore only).
282 - 283
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Committee of 
Independent Director(s)
For the Board to exercise free and 
fair judgment in all matters related 
to the functioning of the Company 
as well as the Board, it is important 
for the IDs to have meetings without 
the 
presence 
of 
the 
executive 
management. Schedule IV of the 
the Act and the Rules thereunder 
mandate that the independent 
directors of the Company shall hold 
at least one meeting in a financial 
year, without the attendance of 
non-independent Director(s) and 
members of the Management.
During the financial year 2024-25, 
the IDs met 4 (Four) times. At 
such Meeting(s), the Independent 
Director(s), 
inter 
alia, 
discussed 
and reviewed
	Ȣ
evaluation of the performance of 
Non-Independent Director(s) and 
the Board as a whole;
	Ȣ
evaluation of the performance of 
the Chairperson of the Company, 
taking into account the views of 
the Executive and Non-Executive 
Director(s); and
	Ȣ
evaluation 
of 
the 
quality, 
quantity and timelines of flow 
of 
information 
between 
the 
management and the Board 
that is necessary for the Board to 
perform their duties effectively 
and reasonably.
	Ȣ
performance of the Company 
and risks faced by it,
	Ȣ
leadership 
strengths 
and 
weaknesses,
	Ȣ
governance, compliance, Board 
movements, succession planning,
	Ȣ
human resources matters and 
the performance of the executive 
Member(s) of the Board, and 
the Chairman.
The Committee of IDs constitutes 7 (Seven) Directors as on March 31, 2025 and details of the participation at the 
Meeting are as under:
During the year under review, Board Evaluation process was carried out digitally to maintain confidentiality & 
anonymity of the responses.
As an outcome of the above process, individual feedback was shared with each Director.
Name
Designation
Meetings Date
May 16, 2024
July 31, 2024
November 14, 2024
February 12, 2025
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Mr. P R Ramesh
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
 
 
 
 
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Member
 
 
 
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
Member
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
Member
 
  Attended   
 
   Leave of Absence     
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations
Your Company has outstanding NCDs amounting to J 300,00,00,000 (Rupees Three Hundred Crore only) as on March 
31, 2025, which are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. The details of the NCDs are as follows:
Particulars
ISIN: INE299U07080 Series B
Date of Allotment
July 22, 2022
Tenure
36 months
Amount
J 300,00,00,000
Month & Year of Repayment
July, 2025
Embedded option if any
July 22, 2024
Coupon Rate
7.65% p.a.
Face Value
J 10,00,000
Rating at the time of issue
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Rating at the end of March 31, 2025
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Confirmation By the 
Board of Directors 
-acceptance of 
recommendation of 
mandatory/ non-
mandatory Committees
In 
terms 
of 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Board 
of 
Director(s) confirm that during the 
year under review, it has accepted 
all recommendations received from 
its 
mandatory/ 
non-mandatory 
Committee(s).
Familiarisation  
Programme
Familiarisation 
Programme 
undertaken 
by 
the 
Company 
is 
detailed 
out 
under 
Board’s 
Effectiveness 
section 
of 
the 
Board’s 
Report 
which 
forms 
part of this Integrated Annual 
Report and is available on the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
at: 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/qi3SMtnxLh_
Familiarization%20Programme%20
for%20FY%2024-25.pdf
Performance Evaluation 
Criteria for Independent 
Directors
Performance 
Evaluation 
Criteria 
for Directors including Independent 
Directors is detailed out under 
Board’s Effectiveness section of the 
Board’s Report which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
Senior Management Personnel (“SMPs”)
The Company identified following under category of SMPs, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1)(d) and 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Details of SMPs as on March 31, 2025, and the changes thereunder during 
the year under review are as follows:
Sl.  
No.
Name of SMP(s)
Designation
Changes if any 
(Yes/ No)
Nature of change and  
Effective date
1.
Mr. Anand Kumar
Group Sales & Service Head
No
-
2.
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply Chain Officer
No
-
3.
Mr. Vikram Sridharan
Chief Digital Officer
No
-
4.
Mr. Prasanth Nair
Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO)
No
-
5.
Mr. 
Kaleeswaran 
Arunachalam
Group Chief Financial Officer - (Group 
CFO) & Head of Strategy
No
NA
6.
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company 
Secretary 
& 
Compliance 
Officer
No
NA
7.
Mr. Shaleen Nayak
Business Unit Head – Lighting
No
NA
8.
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal
Chief Technology Officer (CTO) & Head
of Innovation and ESG
No
NA
9.
Ms. Swetha Sagar G
Manager & Chief Business Officer - 
Butterfly
No
NA
10.
Mr. Sachin Phartiyal
Business Unit Head – Home Electricals
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. 09/04/2024
11.
Mr. Rajat Chopra
Business Unit Head – Pumps & Home 
Electricals
Yes
Appointed w.e.f 10/04/2024
12.
Mr. Ketan Chaudhari
Product Line Head – Small Domestic 
Appliances
Yes
Designated 
as 
SMP 
w.e.f. 
15/06/2024
284 - 285
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Sl.  
No.
Name of SMP(s)
Designation
Changes if any 
(Yes/ No)
Nature of change and  
Effective date
13.
Mr. Pravin Saraf
Head - Operations SCM Planning & 
Logistics
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. 22/10/2024
14.
Mr. Nikhil Thakkar
Head - Internal Audit, Risk & Control
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. 14/11/2024
15.
Ms. Pragya Bijalwan
Vice President, Marketing
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. 27/12/2024
16.
Mr. Nitesh Mathur
Vice President - New Business
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. 20/12/2024
17.
Mr. Shashi Kumar
Head - Quality
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. 11/01/2025
18.
Ms. Aarushi Agarwal
Product Line Head - Large Kitchen 
Appliances & New Businesses
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. 20/01/2025
19.
Mr. Tanmay Prusty
Chief Marketing Officer (CMO)
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. 24/02/2025
Remuneration of Director(s)
Remuneration Policy
In terms of Section 178 of the Act and 
corresponding provisions contained 
in the SEBI Listing Regulations, your 
Company has a well-defined Policy 
for Remuneration of the Directors, 
KMPs and other Employees.
The salient features of the policy 
are as follows:
	Ȣ
Review 
and 
make 
recommendations to the Board 
on various matters including 
size and composition of the 
Board, 
positive 
attributes 
of 
Directors, succession planning, 
performance evaluation of each 
Director, Board diversity etc;
	Ȣ
Procedures 
concerning 
appointment and removal of 
Directors, KMPs and SMPs;
	Ȣ
Guidelines 
for 
determining 
remuneration for Directors, KMPs 
and SMPs; 
	Ȣ
Formulation 
of 
criteria 
for 
evaluation 
of 
Independent 
Directors and the Board; and
	Ȣ
Devising 
a 
policy 
on 
Board diversity.
The MD & CEO meets the leadership team 
individually to determine the goals and 
priorities as set by the MD & CEO of the 
Company. The LT deliberates on the previous 
year setbacks, identifies the root causes and 
highlight corrective action to ensure better 
outcome moving forward.
Defining Goals
The Board is presented on the quarterly 
performance covering below:
Quarterly Board Meeting Update
The Board reviews same and provide their 
valuable imputs wherever required.
1
2
3
Achievements 
of the quarter
Setbacks of 
the quarter
Action plan  
for the  
forthcoming 
quarter
The 
rating 
of 
all 
the 
KMPs 
and 
SMPs 
is 
determined 
by 
N&RC 
after 
due 
deliberations 
and 
considering 
performance of the Company for the 
entire year thereby inter alia including 
revision(s) in the remuneration, if any, for 
the forthcoming Financial Year without the 
presence of management. The variable 
pay is divided as follows:
Reviewing the goals at the year end
The 
methodology 
for 
determination 
of 
Company performance factor covers the 
achievement 
targets, 
revenue 
growth, 
operating margin, cash flow from operations, 
performance vs peers, and/ or such other 
parameters as decided by the N&RC.
1
2
3
Company’s  
Performance
Function  
performance
Individual 
Performance
The monthly reviews with the functional heads 
on one‑to-one basis and with departmental 
heads collectively aims to highlight:
Monthly Business Review
 1
Key achieverments by the 
respective teams
 2
Challenges faced and 
support required by the cross-
functional departments
3
Operational and Financial  
Highlights
4
Market Trends
5
Consumer insights
6
Peer Performance
7
Future Plans
Additionally, the performance-based compensation for the Executive Director(s) of the Company is paid in 
accordance with the Company’s Variable Pay (Bonus) Policy for the relevant financial year and commensurates with 
the Company’s performance. A snapshot of the process is provided below:
286 - 287
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Nomination & Remuneration 
Policy is uploaded on the website 
of the Company and can be 
accessed at:
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/3hxE5pdSl0_
N o m i n a t i o n % 2 0 a n d % 2 0
Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
N&RC while deciding the basis for 
determining 
the 
compensation, 
both fixed and variable to the Non-
Executive Director(s), takes into 
consideration various factors such 
as Directors’ participation in Board 
and Committee Meeting(s) during 
the 
year, 
other 
responsibilities 
undertaken, such as Membership 
or Chairmanship of Committee(s), 
time spent in carrying out other 
duties, 
roles 
and 
functions 
as 
envisaged in Schedule IV of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and such other factors as the N&RC 
may deem fit.
Following is the abridged summary 
of 
the 
criterion 
determining 
remuneration of the Executive and 
Non-Executive Director(s):
1.	
The 
remuneration/
compensation/ 
commission 
etc. to Directors is determined 
by 
the 
N&RC 
and 
recommended to the Board 
for approval.
2.	
The remuneration to be paid to 
the MD & CEO is in accordance 
with his terms of appointment 
and the provisions of the Act, & 
the rules made thereunder.
3.	
Increments 
to 
the 
existing 
remuneration/ compensation 
structure 
is 
recommended 
by the Committee to the 
Board which should be within 
the limits approved by the 
Shareholders in the case of 
MD & CEO.
4.	
If, in any financial year, the 
Company has no profits or 
its 
profits 
are 
inadequate, 
the 
Company 
shall 
pay 
remuneration to its MD & CEO in 
accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule V of the Act and 
if it is exceeding the limits 
prescribed under Schedule V 
of the Act, the with the prior 
approval of Members by way of 
Special Resolution.
5.	
The remuneration is paid to 
Executive Director only and 
sitting fees and commission 
is 
paid 
to 
Non-Executive 
Director(s).
6.	
The remuneration to the Non-
Executive Director(s) (including 
Independent Directors) may be 
paid within the monetary limit 
approved 
by 
shareholders, 
subject 
to 
the 
limit 
not 
exceeding 1% of the profits of 
the Company, computed as 
per the applicable provisions 
of the Act.
7.	
The Independent Director(s) 
are not entitled to any stock 
options of the Company.
Non-Executive 
Director(s) 
Remuneration
The Board, at its meeting held on 
May 15, 2025, revised the sitting 
fees payable to Non-Executive 
Directors with effect from May 14, 
2025. As per the revised structure, 
the sitting fees is I 1,00,000 for each 
Board Meeting, I 75,000 for each 
Audit Committee Meeting(s) and 
N&RC Meeting(s), and I 50,000 for 
all other Committee Meetings.
Apart from payment of sitting fees, 
the Members at the 2nd AGM of the 
Company held on August 11, 2016, 
have also approved payment of 
commission 
to 
the 
Company’s 
Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Directors, collectively, up to 1% of 
net profits, as permitted by the Act. 
Additional commission is paid to 
the Chairperson of the Board, Audit 
Committee and N&RC for their 
enhanced roles and responsibilities 
as 
Chairperson. 
Further, 
the 
Members of the Company at the 
8th AGM held on July 22, 2022, 
have approved the payment of 
Commission to the Non- Executive 
including Independent Directors, 
collectively up to 1% of the net 
profits, as permitted by the Act.
Executive 
Director 
Remuneration
As on March 31, 2025, Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh, MD & CEO was the only 
Executive Director on the Board 
of 
the 
Company. 
The 
annual 
remuneration 
package 
of 
Mr. Ghosh constitutes a fixed salary 
component including a basket of 
allowances/ 
reimbursements; 
a 
variable pay component and stock 
options as approved by the N&RC 
and the Board of Directors, from 
time to time. The variable pay of the 
Executive Director is paid annually 
which is determined by N&RC after 
factoring Company’s performance. 
There was no claw back provision 
in the remuneration paid to the 
Executive Director of the Company. 
In terms of applicable laws, there 
is no mandatory stock ownerships 
requirements 
for 
the 
Executive 
Director in terms of laws applicable 
in India. Additionally, Mr. Ghosh 
was entitled to grant of employee 
stock options under various ESOP 
Schemes of the Company.
Mr. Shantanu Khosla was elevated 
as the Executive Vice Chairman 
of the Board for a period of 
1 (One) year w.e.f. May 1, 2023 till 
April 30, 2024, and thereafter w.e.f. 
May 1, 2024 he assumed the position 
of 
Non-Executive 
Director 
till 
December 31, 2025.
The remuneration paid to the 
Director(s) of the Company is in 
accordance with the provisions of 
the Act and does not exceed the 
thresholds specified in the Act and 
in Regulation 17(6)(ca) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
None of the Director(s) of the 
Company 
have 
any 
pecuniary 
relationship with the Company 
apart from receiving remuneration.
In accordance with the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, no employee including 
KMPs or Director(s) or Promoter 
of a listed entity, shall enter into 
any agreements for himself or on 
behalf of any other person, with 
any shareholder or any other third 
party with regard to compensation 
or profit-sharing in connection with 
dealings in the securities of the 
Company, without prior approval 
from the Board as well as from 
Members by way of an ordinary 
resolution. No such instances were 
reported during the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2025.
The details of the remuneration of Director(s) during F.Y. 2024-25 is given below:
(H Crore)
Name of Director(s)
Salary and 
allowances
Variable 
Pay@
Perquisites
ESOP
Sitting 
Fees
Commission@
Total
Executive Directors
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
4.54
6.00
0.15
-
-
-
10.69
Non-Executive 
Directors
Mr. Shantanu Khosla*
1.29
6.75
0.42
-
0.04
-
8.50
Mr. H M Nerurkar^
-
-
-
-
-
0.16
0.16
Mr. D Sundaram
-
-
-
-
0.09
0.27
0.36
Mr. P M Murty
-
-
-
-
0.09
0.25
0.34
Ms. Smita Anand
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.20
0.25
Mr. P R Ramesh
-
-
-
-
0.07
0.22
0.29
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.20
0.25
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.09
0.14
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.09
0.14
*   Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024 and then acting as Non- 
Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024
^   Ceased to be the Chairperson and Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. October 21, 2023. However Commission for F.Y. 2023-24 
uptill October 20, 2023 is paid in F.Y. 2024-25.
%  Non-Executive Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023. Appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as MD & CEO w.e.f. 
May 1, 2023 till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on 
July 22, 2023.
@ Variable Pay and Commission is for the F.Y. 2023-24 paid in F.Y. 2024-25
Notes:
a)	
Notice period is 3 (Three) months;
b)	
Variable Pay is performance-linked and gets paid on the basis of actual performance parameters (including 
sales growth, profit before tax (growth and as % to sales), cash from operations etc. and as may be fixed by the 
N&RC and Board from time to time. All other components are fixed; and
c)	
Executive Director is not entitled to severance pay, commission or sitting fees for attending Board and 
Committee Meeting(s).
288 - 289
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Details of Employee Stock Options (“ESOP”) granted, vesting criteria etc. are given in table below:
Particulars
Mr. Shantanu Khosla*
Mr. Promeet Ghosh%
Schemes
PSP-1-2016
PSP-2-2016
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
No. of options granted
47,00,596
31,33,731
20,13,875
20,00,000
9,50,000
Effective date of grant
October 25, 2016
October 25, 2016
January 21, 2021
April 28, 2023
October 3, 2024
Options Vested
46,19,088
30,79,392
8,05,550
6,20,000 
(3,00,000 options vested 
on April 28, 2024 and 
3,20,000 options vested in 
April 28, 2025)
-
Options Unvested
-
-
4,02,775
12,00,000
9,50,000
Options Cancelled
81,508
54,339
12,08,325
1,80,000 
(1,00,000 options lapsed 
on April 28, 2024 and 
80,000 options lapsed in 
April 28, 2025)
-
Vesting period
Not earlier than 1 
year and not later 
than 10 years from 
the date of grant 
of Options
Not earlier than 1 
year and not later 
than 10 years from 
the date of grant 
of Options
Not earlier than 1 
year and not later 
than 5 years from 
the date of grant 
of Options
Not earlier than 1 year 
and not later than 5 years 
from the date of grant of 
Options
Not earlier than 1 
year and not later 
than 3 years from 
the date of grant 
of Options
Vesting Conditions
Time based and 
p e r f o r m a n c e 
based
Time based and 
p e r f o r m a n c e 
based
20% 
each 
year 
over 
a 
5-year 
period based on 
performance
Performance based
Time based and 
p e r f o r m a n c e 
based
Exercise Period
October 2017 to 
October 2027
October 2017 to 
October 2027
January 2022 to 
January 2031
April 2024 to April 2028
March 2026- April 
2028
Exercise Price
J 92.83
J 185.66
J 405.95
J 294.65@
J 432.05
* Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2024 and Non Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f May 1, 2024
% Non-Executive Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023. Appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as MD & CEO w.e.f. May 1, 
2023 till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023
@ The options were granted at J 259.80 whereas pursuant to approval of Shareholders at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023 
the said grant price was re-priced to J 259.65.
Governance of 
Subsidiary Companies
The Company does not have any 
“Material 
Unlisted 
Subsidiary” 
as defined in the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
Accordingly, 
the 
requirement 
of 
appointing 
an 
Independent 
Director 
of 
the 
Company on the Board of the 
material 
unlisted 
subsidiary 
company given under Regulation 24 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations does 
not apply.
All subsidiaries of the Company are 
managed by their Boards having 
rights and obligations in accordance 
with applicable laws. The Company 
nominates its representatives on 
the Boards of subsidiaries to monitor 
its operations and performance. 
Oversight on subsidiaries is also 
maintained 
inter 
alia 
through 
the following:
	Ȣ
Review of Unaudited Quarterly 
Financial Results and Audited 
Annual 
Financial 
Statements, 
along with the Auditors Limited 
Review 
and 
Audit 
Report 
respectively 
of 
subsidiaries 
prior 
to 
their 
consolidation 
with the Parent Company and 
statement containing significant 
transactions and arrangements 
entered into by the subsidiaries.
	Ȣ
Review of minutes of Board 
Meeting(s) of the subsidiaries on 
a quarterly basis.
	Ȣ
Extending necessary guarantees, 
letter 
of 
comfort 
and 
other 
support 
for 
their 
day-to-day 
operations from time-to-time.
The Company does not have any 
material unlisted subsidiary and the 
requirements of secretarial audit 
as specified in Regulation 24A of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations is not 
applicable. The Company’s policy 
on material subsidiary is available 
on the Company’s website and can 
be assessed at: https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
f iles/3K6rUAYCUW_ Policy%20
on%20Material%20Subsidiary.pdf
Disclosures
D&O Insurance for Director(s)
In line with the requirements of 
Regulation 25(10) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 
the 
Company 
has 
taken Director(s) and Officer(s) 
Insurance 
(“D&O”) 
for 
all 
its 
Director(s) and Member(s) of the 
Senior Management for quantum 
and risks as determined by the 
Board of the Company.
Disclosure of Non-Compliance 
of 
any 
Requirement 
of 
Corporate Governance Report 
with Reasons
The 
Company 
has 
complied 
with 
and 
disclosed 
all 
the 
mandatory corporate governance 
requirements 
as 
mentioned 
under sub-para (2) to (10) of 
part C of Schedule V of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Indian Accounting Standards 
(“Ind AS”)
The Company has prepared its 
Standalone 
and 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
in 
accordance with IND AS as notified 
under Section 133 of the Act read 
with Rule 3 of the Companies 
(Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) 
Rules, 2015 as amended from 
time to time and other relevant 
provisions of the Act.
290 - 291
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Disclosures in relation to Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”)
Your Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committee (“ICC”) to consider and resolve all sexual harassment 
complaints. The constitution of ICC is as per the POSH and ICC includes an external member who is an independent 
POSH consultant with relevant experience.
The details of sexual harassment complaints for the F.Y. ended March 31, 
2025, are furnished as under:
Particulars
No. of Complaints
Number of complaints filed during the Financial Year
1
Number of complaints disposed of during the Financial 
Year
1
Number of complaints pending as on the end of the 
Financial Year
NIL
Loans and Advances in the 
nature of Loans to firms/ 
companies in which Directors 
are interested
No Loans and Advances in the 
nature of loans to firms/ companies 
in which Directors are interested 
were given during the Financial 
Year under review.
MD 
& 
CEO 
and 
CFO 
Certification
The MD & CEO and CFO’s annual 
certificate on financial reports 
and internal controls to the Board 
in terms of Regulation 17(8) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations forms part 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
The MD & CEO and CFO also jointly 
issue 
a 
quarterly 
compliance 
certificate on financial results and 
place the same before the Board 
in terms of Regulation 33(2) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
Other Disclosures
	Ȣ
The 
Company 
has 
complied 
with the requirements of the 
stock 
exchanges, 
SEBI 
and 
other 
statutory 
authorities 
on 
all 
matters 
related 
to 
capital markets during the last 
3 (Three) years and accordingly 
no penalties or strictures were 
imposed on the Company by 
the stock exchanges, SEBI or any 
other statutory authority.
	Ȣ
The securities of the Company 
were not suspended from trading 
at any time during the year.
	Ȣ
The Company has adopted Code 
of Conduct to regulate, monitor 
and report trading by designated 
persons 
and 
their 
immediate 
relatives as per the requirements 
under the SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
and has also adopted code for 
practices and procedures for fair 
disclosure of unpublished price 
sensitive information as required 
under the said regulations. Further 
Company has adopted various 
corporate 
governance 
policies 
as required under the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and the same are 
available on the website at https://
www.crompton.co.in/investors/
corporate-governance/
	Ȣ
The auditors have issue have 
issued 
an 
unmodified 
opinion 
on the financial statements of 
the Company.
	Ȣ
M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP 
(Internal Auditors), M/s. M S K A 
& Associates (Statutory Auditors) 
and 
Parikh 
& 
Associates 
(Secretarial Auditors) met the 
Audit Committee without the 
presence of the management.
	Ȣ
The Company is a professionally 
Board Managed Company and is 
100% publicly owned.
	Ȣ
None of the one level below 
MD & CEO officials of the 
Company are in any way related 
to each other or to the Board of 
Director(s).
	Ȣ
The Company has complied with 
the requirements specified in 
Regulations 17 to 27 and Clauses 
(b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of 
the Listing Regulations.
	Ȣ
During the year under review, 
all RPTs entered into by the 
Company, 
were 
approved 
by the Audit Committee and 
were in the ordinary course of 
business and at arm’s length 
basis. The Audit Committee also 
granted prior omnibus approval 
for RPTs which would be in the 
ordinary course of business and 
on an arm’s length basis and are 
repetitive in nature and also for 
unforeseen transactions, in line 
with the Policy on dealing with 
and Materiality of RPTs and the 
applicable provisions of the 
Act read with the Rules issued 
thereunder 
and 
the 
Listing 
Regulations 
(including 
any 
statutory modification(s) and/
or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force).
	Ȣ
The Audit Committee reviewed 
on a quarterly basis, the details 
of RPTs, entered into by the 
Company 
pursuant 
to 
the 
omnibus approval granted.
	Ȣ
The Company did not enter into 
any material RPTs nor did it enter 
into any significant transaction 
with its related parties that may 
have a potential conflict with 
the interests of the Company.
	Ȣ
The RPTs undertaken by the 
Company were in compliance 
with 
the 
provisions 
set 
out 
in 
the 
Act 
read 
with 
the 
Rules issued thereunder and 
relevant provisions of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	Ȣ
The business rationale for the 
transactions with related parties 
and details of the same forms 
part of the Board’s Report and 
Notes to financial statements of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
	Ȣ
The Policy on dealing with and 
materiality of RPTs has been 
Within 7 days of 
receiving complaint
Decision to not pursue the case 
with reasons to be sent to the 
Complainant in writing
First meeting of ICC to be held to schedule meetings 
with the Complainant, Respondent and other persons, if 
required, and must be diligently communicated
Preparation of statement of allegation for the Respondent 
who must respond with a written explanation/ supporting 
documents in 10 (Ten) days
Complainant and Respondent can inform ICC if they wish to 
call upon witness (es) or tender any documents as evidence
Conduct the scheduled meetings along with other 
appropriate steps as part of the inquiry process
ICC to provide a report with its findings within 10 (Ten) days 
from the date of completion of the inquiry
Management to take action towards the Respondent 
based on findings in the report within 60 (Sixty) days of 
receipt of the report as provided by ICC
Ensure an annual report is submitted to the  
District Officer every year
Ensure the report with its findings and outcome is 
communicated to the Complainant and Respondent
Ensure annual report is also submitted to MD & CEO and 
Audit Committee. This will form part of Company’s Annual 
Report for that financial year
Within 45 days of 
receiving complaint
Receipt of Complaint on sexual harassment
ICC to take cognisance of complaints being  
received in writing
ICC to acknowledge the complaint and revert 
to the Complainant along with informing 
the Respondent within 7 days of receiving 
the complaint
ICC conduct preliminary assessment to decide 
if the complaint needs further inquiry
Within 90 days of receiving complaint
292 - 293
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
placed 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website and can be accessed 
at 
https://reports.crompton.
co.in/shopif y/public/f iles/
hdDSNkYWnx_Policy%20on%20
Materiality%20of%20and%20
dealing%20with%20Related%20
Party%20Transactions.pdf
	Ȣ
Pursuant to Regulation 23(9) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has filed the half-
yearly reports on RPTs with the 
stock exchanges on which the 
shares of the Company are listed.
	Ȣ
The Company obtains a report 
from 
an 
independent 
firm 
of 
Chartered 
Accountants 
that the Company’s process 
of 
determination 
that 
the 
transactions with related parties 
are at arm’s length and in the 
‘ordinary course of business’, is 
appropriate and that relevant 
approvals under the Act and 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations 
have 
been 
obtained 
for 
such transactions.
	Ȣ
No 
loans/ 
advances 
in 
the 
nature of debt were given to 
firms/ 
companies 
in 
which 
Directors are interested.
	Ȣ
In 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions of Regulation 26(6) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
KMPs, Director(s), Promoter(s) 
and SMPs have affirmed that 
they have not entered into any 
agreement for themselves or 
on behalf of any other person, 
with any shareholder or any 
other third party with regard to 
compensation or profit sharing 
in connection with dealings in 
the securities of the Company.
	Ȣ
In accordance with provisions 
of Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, SMPs have 
affirmed that they do not have 
any personal interest relating 
to 
material, 
financial 
and 
commercial transactions which 
may have a potential conflict 
with the interest of the Company 
at large.
	Ȣ
The Company has complied with 
all the requirements of the Stock 
Exchange(s) and SEBI on matters 
relating 
to 
Capital 
Markets 
and has complied with all the 
mandatory requirements of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations relating 
to corporate governance.
	Ȣ
There were no non-compliances 
by 
the 
Company 
and 
no 
instances 
of 
penalties 
or 
strictures which were imposed 
on the Company by SEBI, Stock 
Exchange(s) on which the shares 
of the Company are listed or 
any statutory authority on any 
matter related to the capital 
market during the last 3 (Three) 
financial years.
Statutory Auditors and 
Audit Fees
M/s. M S K A & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants, 
were 
appointed 
as 
the 
Statutory 
Auditors 
of 
your 
Company 
at 
the 
Extra-
Ordinary General Meeting held on 
August 27, 2021, for conducting 
audit for a period of 5 (Five) financial 
years i.e., till the conclusion of the 
12th AGM.
The details of the total fees for all 
services paid by the Company to the 
Statutory Auditors are as follows:
(H in Crore)
Type of Service
F.Y. 
2024-25
F.Y. 
2023-24
Audit Fees
0.59
0.59
Others*
0.27
0.27
Total
0.86
0.86
*includes limited review fees and ICFR 
audit fees and excludes certification 
fees and out-of-pocket expenses
Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs)
All transactions entered into by 
the Company during the year with 
related parties were on arm’s length 
pricing basis and were approved by 
the Audit Committee as well as by 
Board as and when required. The 
policy on Materiality of and Dealing 
with Related Party Transactions 
(“RPT Policy”) has been placed on 
the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at: https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
f iles/hdDSNkY Wnx _Policy%20
o n% 2 0 M a t e r i a l i t y % 2 0 o f % 2 0
a n d % 2 0 d e a l i n g % 2 0 w i t h% 2 0
Related%20Party%20Transactions.
pdf. In line with the amended SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the policy has 
been 
amended 
suitably. 
There 
are 
no 
materially 
significant 
transactions 
with 
the 
related 
parties that had potential conflict 
with the interest of the Company at 
large. During the year under review, 
no material RPTs were proposed, 
in which approval of the Members 
was required. No related party(ies) 
whether or not it is a party to the 
particular transaction or not is 
allowed to vote to approve the 
transaction in line with the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The 
Audit 
Committee 
of 
the 
Company comprises of 100% Non-
Executive Independent Directors 
and hence all the transactions 
of the Company with its related 
parties are approved by 100% 
Independent 
Director(s) 
of 
the 
Audit Committee. It is pertinent 
to mention that all RPTs are being 
carried out in compliance with the 
applicable laws and regulations 
where only Independent Director(s) 
participate in the discussions and 
voting on such transactions.
All RPTs are approved by both the 
Audit Committee and Board of 
Directors of the Company despite 
the fact that all RPTs are in “Ordinary 
course of Business” and “at Arms’ 
Length Pricing”. This practice aligns 
with good corporate governance 
principles, ensuring transparency 
and minimizing potential conflicts 
of interest. It demonstrates the 
company’s commitment to ethical 
business practices and responsible 
decision-making.
Finance team actively monitors 
the transactions involving related 
parties 
using 
PAN 
information, 
determining 
if 
they 
qualify 
as 
Related Party, and a consolidated 
list 
is 
shared 
with 
the 
Audit 
Committee on a quarterly basis. 
This helps ensure transparency and 
compliance with regulations.
Further the Company follows below 
to identify and monitor the RPTs:
1.	
Determination 
of 
Related 
Parties: 
The 
Company 
identifies the related parties 
according 
to 
the 
criteria 
defined in the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, thereby 
ensuring compliance.
2.	
Transaction 
Details: 
Comprehensive 
details 
about 
RPTs 
are 
gathered 
including the nature, terms, 
amounts and other relevant 
information 
to 
ensure 
a 
complete 
understanding 
of 
each transaction.
3. 	
Materiality 
Threshold: 
Transactions 
are 
evaluated 
against a Policy on Materiality 
of RPTs approved by the Board 
of Directors. This ensures that 
only significant transactions 
are reviewed in line with the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
4.	
Disclosure: 
All 
RPTS 
are 
disclosed in the company’s 
financial 
statements, 
detailing the nature, terms, 
amounts, 
and 
any 
other 
necessary information as per 
regulatory requirements.
5.	
Approval by Audit Committee: 
RPTs 
are 
submitted 
for 
approval 
by 
the 
Audit 
Committee. The Committee 
reviews 
these 
transactions 
for fairness, compliance with 
laws, and alignment with the 
company’s policies.
6.	
Quarterly Review: A quarterly 
review of RPTs is conducted 
to verify that transactions are 
properly recorded, disclosed, 
and compliant with policies. 
The review is then presented 
to the Audit Committee for 
their consideration.
7.	
Internal 
Controls: 
The 
company 
has 
established 
internal controls to prevent 
unauthorized 
related 
party 
transactions and ensure that 
all related party transactions 
are 
well-documented 
and 
compliant with internal policies.
This procedure ensures transparency, 
regulatory 
compliance 
and 
accountability 
in 
managing 
related party transactions within 
the organisation.
The RPT Policy was last amended on 
May 15, 2025.
Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle 
Blower Policy (“WB Policy”)
Your Company is committed to 
highest 
standards 
of 
ethical, 
moral and legal business conduct. 
The 
Company 
has 
adopted 
a 
WB Policy and an effective Vigil 
Mechanism system to provide a 
formal mechanism to its Director(s), 
employees and business associates 
to voice concerns in a responsible 
and effective manner regarding 
suspected 
unethical 
matters 
involving 
serious 
malpractice, 
abuse or wrongdoing within the 
organisation and also safeguards 
against victimization of Directors/ 
employees and business associates 
who 
avail 
of 
this 
mechanism. 
The 
policy 
ensures 
that 
strict 
confidentiality is maintained whilst 
dealing with concerns and ensures 
that no discrimination is made 
towards any person for a genuinely 
raised 
concern. 
The 
individuals 
may raise concern through varied 
channels, i.e. toll free number; 
e-mails; physical letters; or they can 
write/ or reach out directly to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The 
Company 
has 
separately 
prescribed WB Policy for Vendors. 
No personnel have been denied 
access to the Audit Committee. The 
scope of Vigil Mechanism has been 
extended during the year to enable 
reporting if any, on leakage of UPSI 
relating to the Company. The WB 
Policy is available on the Company’s 
website and can be accessed at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/JXVgUhnnht_
Vigil%20Mechanism%20and%20
Whistleblower%20Policy.pdf
Over the years, the Company 
has established a reputation for 
doing business with integrity and 
maintained zero tolerance towards 
any form of unethical behaviour. It 
also assures them of the process 
that will be observed to address 
the reported violation. The Policy 
also lays down the procedures 
to 
be 
followed 
for 
tracking 
complaints, 
giving 
feedback, 
conducting 
investigations 
and 
taking 
disciplinary 
actions. 
It 
also 
provides 
assurances 
and 
294 - 295
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
guidelines on confidentiality of the 
reporting process and protection 
from 
reprisal 
to 
complainants. 
The 
Audit 
Committee 
oversees 
the 
functioning 
of 
this 
policy. 
Protected 
disclosures 
can 
be 
made by a Whistle Blower through 
several channels to report actual 
or suspected frauds and violation 
of 
the 
Company’s 
Code 
of 
Conduct. The Policy also provides 
a mechanism to encourage and 
protect 
genuine 
Whistleblowing 
amongst vendors.
The 
Company 
has 
launched 
different modules for prevention of 
sexual harassment at workplace, 
WB 
mechanism 
and 
Code 
of 
Conduct, on its internal online portal 
which is available to its employees.
This module is included in the 
Crompton 
Induction 
Program 
for 
its 
new 
employees 
for 
making 
them 
aware 
of 
the 
various codes and regulations 
applicable to them including the 
WB Policy. A certificate is issued 
upon successful completion of 
questionnaire 
provided 
in 
the 
module. Further, this awareness 
training is to be attended by all 
the employees on annual basis.
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged 
in the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is implemented through 
the Code of Conduct and WB Policy.
Any incidents that are reported are 
investigated and suitable action is 
taken in line with the WB Policy. The 
details of the number of incidents 
reported forms the part of the 
Board Report.
Code of Conduct
Your 
Company 
has 
a 
Code 
of 
Conduct 
for 
Board 
and 
SMPs 
that 
reflects 
its 
high 
standards 
of 
integrity 
and 
ethics. 
The 
Director(s) 
and SMPs of the Company have 
affirmed their adherence to this 
Code of Conduct for F.Y. 2024-25. 
As required under Regulation 34 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, MD & CEO has 
signed a declaration stating that 
the Board of Directors and SMPs 
of the Company have affirmed 
compliance with this Code of 
Conduct, which is annexed to this 
Report. The Code of Conduct also 
includes Code for Independent 
Director(s) 
which 
is 
a 
guide 
to 
professional 
conduct 
for 
Independent Director(s) pursuant 
to Section 149(8) and Schedule IV 
of the Act. This Code is available 
on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at: https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/JQyKgNOWmA _Code-of-
Conduct_19May2023_updated.
pdf
Further, the vendors of the Company 
are governed by the following:
1.	
The 
Code 
of 
Conduct 
of 
the Company;
2.	
Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-
blower Policy
Company has deployed E-learning 
module for vendor and strategic 
supplier. This is deployed over a 
virtual training program with a link 
for the below modules:
	Ȣ
Crompton Code of Conduct
	Ȣ
Employee 
Awareness 
on 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment
	Ȣ
Understanding Whistleblowing
The 
following 
affirmations 
are 
obtained from the vendors by the 
Company at the time of singing 
agreement(s):
1.	
The 
vendors 
shall 
ensure 
full compliance of all the 
statutory requirements of its 
manufacturing premises under 
the provisions of all the statutes 
including those relating to GST, 
ESI, PF, Minimum-Wages etc. 
The Company shall not be 
responsible for the violation 
of any of the above provisions 
due to any negligence on the 
part of the vendor and/or its 
sub-vendors.
2.	
The vendor shall ensure full 
compliance with the provisions 
of Environment (Protection) 
Act, 1986 and Rules made 
thereunder 
including 
but 
not 
limited 
to 
E-Waste 
(Management) Rules, 2022 and 
Plastic 
Waste 
Management 
Rules 2016.
3.	
In the event of non-compliance 
of any of the aforementioned 
statutory provisions by the 
vendor, the vendor shall take 
prompt corrective measures 
to 
ensure 
compliance 
and 
shall indemnify and keep the 
Company indemnified against 
any loss that may arise against 
the Company in this regard.
4.	
The vendor shall comply with 
and shall ensure that all its 
sub-vendors shall also comply 
with all applicable laws and all 
orders, rules, and regulations 
issued by the respective state 
from time-to-time.
5.	
Acceptance of Agreement by 
the vendor shall be a deemed 
certification that the vendor 
is in agreement with and shall 
always comply with all the 
requirements imposed by law, 
from time-to-time.
6.	
The 
vendor 
to 
further 
represent, warrant, certify and 
covenant that the products 
will be produced and provided 
in 
compliance 
with 
the 
requirements of the applicable 
labour 
and 
employment 
regulations and that none of 
the products shall be produced 
or supplied (by the vendor or its 
sub-vendors) utilizing forced 
or child labour or utilizing the 
labour of persons in violation 
of the minimum working age 
law in India or in violation 
of any other law of India 
pertaining 
to 
environment, 
health and safety.
7.	
In addition, if any separate 
instructions are communicated 
by 
e-mail 
or 
circulars 
by 
the 
procurement/ 
quality 
leads of the Company to the 
vendor in relation to quality, 
safety, and compliance at the 
manufacturing 
site 
and/or 
pertaining to the product, 
such 
instructions 
shall 
be 
read as an extension of the 
aforesaid Agreement.
Compliance 
with 
Mandatory/ 
Non- 
Mandatory Requirements
Your Company has complied with 
all the mandatory requirements 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
relating to corporate governance 
as specified in Regulation 17 to 27 
and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 
46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and obtained a certificate from 
Parikh & Associates, Secretarial 
Auditors 
regarding 
compliance 
of 
conditions 
of 
corporate 
governance, which is annexed to 
this Integrated Annual Report.
Compliance Management 
Tools
The Company has in place an online 
legal 
compliance 
management 
tool, which has been devised to 
monitor and manage compliance 
with all applicable laws that impact 
the Company’s business. The tool is 
intended to provide an assurance 
to the Board on legal compliances 
as 
ensured 
by 
the 
Company. 
The application of the tool has 
been extended to cover all plant 
locations, warehouses, innovation 
centre, sales and corporate offices.
The Company also has in place the 
tool for managing all its ESOP’s, 
maintenance of database of all 
the designated employees and 
tracking of trades by them or their 
relatives and the Company has 
also adopted a digital platform 
for creation, maintenance and 
circulation 
of 
notices, 
agenda 
papers for all the Board and 
Committee (s) Meeting(s).
The 
Company 
utilizes 
a 
web-
based tool, which is ISO 9001 and 
ISMS 27001 certified, to track 
statutory compliances closely to 
their due dates. Any deviations are 
promptly highlighted for corrective 
action, 
with 
functional 
owners 
who are responsible for ensuring 
compliance fulfillment.
This 
web-based 
compliance 
management 
system 
not 
only 
helps adhering to the regulatory 
requirements but also develops 
a 
culture 
of 
self-regulation 
and 
accountability 
within 
the 
organisation. In the present times 
when governance is looked upon as 
a critical aspect of sustainability, our 
compliance management system 
plays a significant role in ensuring 
good corporate governance.
Corporate Legal Department issues 
compliance report on monthly as 
well as on quarterly basis as part 
of monitoring the compliances 
and enhance the culture within the 
organisation. They also regularly 
publish daily dashboard to the 
Function Heads informing them 
about 
the 
compliance 
status. 
They provide training to the new 
performers/ reviewers from time 
to time.
The Company is conducting system 
as well as physical audit regularly to 
check various parameters including 
but not limited to checking the 
correctness of uploaded documents 
and providing inputs/ suggestions 
wherever required.
The Corporate Legal Department 
conducts 
regular 
corroborative 
research and studies based on 
various 
parameters, 
including 
monitoring updates in legislations 
and 
legal 
provisions. 
This 
information 
is 
then 
promptly 
updated in the web-based tool 
to mitigate any potential non-
compliance resulting from changes 
in legal provisions.
The Company also conducts annual 
audit of its compliances by external 
agencies to ensure all necessary 
statutory compliances.
Prevention 
of 
Insider 
Trading
Pursuant to the SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 
(“PIT 
Regulations”), 
the 
Company 
has 
formulated 
the 
“Code of Conduct to Regulate, 
Monitor and Report Trading by 
Designated 
Persons” 
and 
the 
“Code of Practices and Procedures 
for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price 
Sensitive 
Information” 
(“hereinafter collectively referred 
to as Code”) which allows the 
formulation 
of 
a 
trading 
plan 
subject 
to 
certain 
conditions 
and requires pre-clearance for 
dealing in Company’s shares, it also 
prohibits dealings in the Company’s 
296 - 297
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
shares by Director(s), Designated 
Person(s), Connected Person(s) and 
their immediate relatives, while in 
possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information in relation 
to the Company and during the 
period(s) when the Trading Window 
to deal in the Company’s shares is 
closed. The Code has been revised 
in line with the amendments to the 
PIT Regulations from time to time.
The Company has put in place 
adequate and effective system 
of 
internal 
controls 
to 
ensure 
compliance with the requirements 
of the PIT Regulations.
A structured digital database of all 
the Designated Person(s) is being 
maintained by the Company on its 
internal server. This contains the 
names and other particulars as 
prescribed, of the persons covered 
under the Code drawn up pursuant 
to the PIT Regulations.
The 
Company 
Secretary 
has 
been 
appointed 
as 
the 
Compliance Officer to ensure the 
implementation of the Code for fair 
disclosure and conduct.
The 
Company 
has 
in 
place 
adequate and effective system 
of 
internal controls to ensure 
compliance with the requirements 
of the PIT Regulations. E-learning 
modules 
that 
forms 
part 
of 
induction have been developed to 
keep employees informed on the 
Code of Conduct on Prevention of 
Insider Trading.
All the new joiners are compulsorily 
required to complete training on 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Training) 
Regulations within 30 (Thirty) days 
of their becoming a Designated 
Person. This training helps to ensure 
that all the employees of the 
Company are aware of as to what 
constitutes insider trading, price-
sensitive information or trading in 
securities and are well-versed with 
the PIT regulations.
Further, the queries of employees 
are also timely addressed, in order 
to avoid unintentional violations 
and to uphold the integrity of the 
securities market.
The 
Company 
has 
mapped 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
to ensure that employees are 
aware of their legal obligations, 
reducing the risk of inadvertent 
non-compliance.
The Board of Director(s), Designated 
Person(s), and other Connected 
Person(s) have affirmed compliance 
with the Code. The Code is available 
on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed at: https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/Yn5t9FyE7I_Code%20of%20
Conduct%20to%20Regulate%20
Monitor%20and%20Report%20
Trading.pdf
Secretarial Compliance  
Report
SEBI vide its Circular No. CIR/CFD/
CMD1/27/2019 
dated 
February 
8, 2019 read with Regulation 24A 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
directed listed entities to conduct 
Annual 
Secretarial 
Compliance 
Audit from a Practicing Company 
Secretaries 
of 
all 
applicable 
SEBI Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder.
The said Secretarial Compliance 
Report 
is 
in 
addition 
to 
the 
Secretarial 
Audit 
Report 
by 
Practicing Company Secretaries 
under Form No. MR-3 and is required 
to be submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges within 60 (Sixty) days 
from the end of the financial year.
The Company has engaged the 
services of Parikh & Associates, 
Practising 
Company 
Secretaries 
and 
Secretarial 
Auditor 
of 
the 
Company, 
for 
providing 
this certification.
Certificate 
from 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries
Certificate, as required under Part 
C of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, received from Parikh 
& Associates, Practising Company 
Secretaries, confirming that none 
of the Director(s) on the Board of 
the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, from 
being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of the Company by the 
SEBI/ MCA or any such statutory 
authority was placed before the 
Board of Directors at their meeting 
held on May 15, 2025, and is enclosed 
with this Integrated Annual Report.
Cyber Security Incidents 
or Breaches and Loss of 
Data/ Documents
In the world of rapidly changing 
environment of technologies, it has 
become need of every organisation 
to adopt digitalization and newer 
technologies into its business to 
compete and being agile which also 
helps in ease of doing business. In 
view of the same, your Company 
has 
adopted 
and 
implemented 
digitalization and newer technologies 
in its various sections of business.
In line with adoption of technology, 
there always subsist a risk, which is 
called a Cyber Risk, being one of the 
key risks, Crompton is focused on 
maintaining a positive cybersecurity 
culture within the organization, thus 
making cybersecurity a sustainable 
and repeatable process throughout 
the organization.
In the past year(s), while our 
employees operated efficiently as 
a remote and hybrid workforce, 
we continued to remain vigilant 
about the evolving cybersecurity 
threat 
landscape. 
To 
continue 
to 
have 
robust 
cybersecurity 
processes, the team has remained 
abreast of emerging cybersecurity 
events so as to achieve higher and 
continued sustenance.
The Company has an IT Security 
Policy, and the same is reviewed 
and 
updated 
every 
year. 
To 
ensure 
accuracy 
and 
integrity, 
there are various access control 
mechanisms and security controls 
in place and all the data for 
endpoints 
are 
encrypted 
as 
enumerated hereunder:
At the Endpoint security layer, 
there is an Antivirus with Device 
Control implemented to block the 
access for External Data. The data 
is encrypted at the endpoints. All 
the User IDs are linked to Active 
directory and the users do not have 
access to install any software or 
utility. In case of such requirements, 
the user raises a ticket in the IT 
Service Management tool.
At the Email security layer, an 
Email Security Gateway has been 
implemented to filter phishing, 
spam and unwanted emails. The 
Company also has implemented 
DMARC to ensure that the email 
from our domain are sent only from 
authorized email service providers.
At 
the 
Perimeter, 
firewall 
and 
VPN has been implemented. The 
Firewall rules are reviewed and 
approved before implementation 
and VPN Access is only provided 
to 
the 
authorized 
users 
with 
business justification.
For Data Privacy, the Company 
has concluded the Data Privacy 
Assessment 
(DPA) 
of 
the 
Organization. It has now initiated 
the Data Privacy Impact Assessment 
and the implementation of the 
Data Privacy Program in alignment 
with the DPDP Act, 2025.
For 
Data 
Security, 
Data 
Flow 
Analysis (DFA) has been completed 
across the Organization and the 
Company is now in implementation 
phase 
for 
Information 
Classification and Data Leakage 
prevention solutioning. Additionally, 
regular security awareness mailers 
are sent to employees, and phishing 
simulations are conducted quarterly, 
accompanied by training sessions 
focused on Information Security and 
Data Privacy awareness
The 
Company 
has 
adopted 
and 
implemented 
digitalization 
and 
newer 
technologies 
in 
its 
various sections of business to be 
competitive and agile which also 
aids ease of doing business. The 
Company focuses on aggressively 
improving its data privacy and 
security layer in response to rising 
cyber security risks.
The responsibility of the RMC is to 
assist the Board to monitor and 
review risk management plans of the 
Company and to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its corporate governance 
oversight responsibilities with regard 
to the identification, evaluation and 
mitigation of risks including cyber 
security risk.
The 
Company 
is 
focused 
on 
maintaining a positive cybersecurity 
culture within the organization, thus 
making cybersecurity a sustainable 
and repeatable process throughout 
the organization, and subsisting of 
Cyber Risk, being one of the key risks.
In 
the 
past 
year(s), 
while 
Employee(s) operated efficiently 
as a remote and hybrid workforce, 
the 
Company 
continued 
to 
remain vigilant about the evolving 
cybersecurity threat landscape.
To 
continue 
to 
have 
robust 
cybersecurity 
processes, 
the 
IT 
team at Crompton has remained 
abreast of emerging cybersecurity 
events so as to achieve higher and 
continued sustenance.
The 
Company 
takes 
requisite 
measures 
for 
identifying 
and 
mitigating Data and Information 
Security Risk as enumerated below:
	Ȣ
The 
Company’s 
policies 
have 
been 
appropriately 
refreshed to cover for Data 
privacy requirements;
	Ȣ
Data 
Centre 
and 
Disaster 
Recovery (DR) is maintained at 
different locations;
	Ȣ
Disaster Recovery drill for SAP is 
conducted annually;
	Ȣ
DR 
preparedness 
has 
been 
completed 
for 
the 
Critical applications;
	Ȣ
Data 
Protection 
Assessment, 
Mobile Device Management and 
AzureAD Prem is implemented 
for 
conditional 
access 
for 
Microsoft apps;
	Ȣ
A robust system is maintained 
towards access management of 
our critical IT systems;
	Ȣ
User Access Review has been 
completed in the Company.
During the year under review, 
there was no incident or breach 
and loss of data/ documents have 
occurred. Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report
298 - 299
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This is given as a separate Chapter 
which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
Means of Communication
Website, News & Events
i)	
Publication 
of 
financial 
results:
	
Your 
Company 
announces 
its 
financial 
results 
in 
a 
timely 
manner 
and 
sends 
it to the Stock Exchanges. 
The Company also hosts the 
results on its website together 
with a detailed information 
update and media release 
discussing 
the 
results. 
The 
results are normally published 
in “Financial Express” (English 
Daily) and “Loksatta” (Marathi 
Daily) within 48 (Forty Eight) of 
the conclusion of the meeting 
of the Board in which they 
are approved. The results are 
displayed on the Company’s 
website and can be accessed 
at: 
https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/newspaper-
publications/
	
Once 
quarterly 
results 
are 
announced, 
the 
Company 
organizes post-earning calls 
with the analyst community 
explaining 
to 
them 
the 
results 
and 
performance 
of the Company, while also 
responding to their queries 
every quarter. The transcripts 
along with Audio recordings 
of these calls are intimated 
to stock exchanges and also 
posted 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www. 
crompton 
.co.in/inves 
tor 
s/ 
stock-exchange-filings/. 
Your Company is a regular 
participant 
and 
organizer 
of 
analyst 
and 
investor 
conference 
calls, 
one-on-
one meetings and investor 
conferences where analysts 
and fund managers get regular 
opportunities to understand 
medium and long term strategy 
from the Senior Management. A 
detailed investor presentation 
is additionally sent to stock 
exchanges and also uploaded 
on the Company’s website 
every quarter. Through these 
meetings, presentations and i 
nformation 
updates, 
the 
Company 
shares 
its 
broad 
strategy 
and 
business 
outlook 
with 
the 
investor 
community. 
The 
Company 
promptly discloses details of 
the conference calls, investor 
meetings and event based road 
shows to the Stock Exchanges 
and also updates the same on 
the website simultaneously.
	
Furthermore, 
the 
Company 
during the year under review 
had 
initiated 
dissemination 
of the quarterly results and 
details of earning call/ investor 
analyst 
meet 
through 
an 
e-mail to all the shareholders 
of the Company from the 
quarter ended June 30, 2023, 
and onwards.
ii.	
Website
	
In compliance with Regulation 
46 and Regulation 62 of the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations 
a 
separate 
dedicated 
section 
under 
“lnvestors” 
at 
 
https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/corporate-
governance/ gives information 
on applicable policies.
	
Quarterly Compliance Reports 
on Corporate Governance and 
other 
relevant 
information 
of interest to the Investors 
are also placed under the 
Investors 
Section 
on 
the 
Company’s website.
iii.	
Press Release:
	
The 
Company 
issues 
news 
releases 
to 
communicate 
important 
updates, 
such 
as 
significant 
business 
developments and corporate 
governance 
changes. 
The 
Company 
disseminates 
information 
regarding 
its 
financial results and significant 
events through press releases. 
Such 
information 
is 
also 
submitted 
to 
the 
Stock 
Exchanges and are hosted 
on the Company’s website 
h t t p s : //w w w . c r o m p t o n .
c o . i n /p a g e s / i n v e s t o r s -
relations#PressRelease
iv.	
Communication 
related 
to 
unclaimed 
Dividends 
and 
updating of records:
	
In 
cases 
where 
dividends 
remain 
unclaimed 
by 
shareholders, 
the 
Company 
sends out reminder letters to 
shareholders 
to 
encourage 
them to claim their dividends. 
This is a proactive measure 
taken by the Company to 
ensure that its shareholders 
receive the benefits of their 
investments and do not miss 
out on any financial gains. 
Additionally, 
the 
Company 
also send reminders to its 
shareholders 
on 
updates 
on their critical information 
required by law, such as their 
Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), bank account details, 
signature, or other important 
details that may affect their 
shareholdings. These updates 
are sent out periodically to 
ensure 
that 
shareholders’ 
records 
are 
accurate 
and 
up-to-date, and that their 
investments are secure.
	
SEBI 
processes 
investor 
complaints in a centralised web- 
based 
complaints 
redressal 
system, i.e. SCORES. Through this 
system a shareholder can lodge a 
complaint against the Company 
for redressal of his grievance. The 
Company uploads the action 
taken report on the complaint 
which can be viewed by the 
shareholder. 
The 
Company 
and shareholder can seek and 
provide 
clarifications 
online 
through 
SEBI. 
Shareholders 
can access the SCORES portal 
at 
https://scores.sebi.gov.in. 
Further, SEBI introduced the 
common ODR portal to further 
streamline 
the 
complaint/
dispute resolution mechanism, 
under 
the 
aegis 
of 
stock 
exchanges 
and 
Depositories 
(collectively referred to as market 
infrastructure) by establishing 
an 
online 
conciliation 
and 
arbitration 
process. 
Disputes 
between investors and listed 
companies (including their RTAs) 
can be referred for resolution 
through 
the 
ODR 
portal, 
provided 
such 
complaint/
dispute is not pending before 
any 
arbitral 
process, 
court, 
tribunal or consumer forum. It 
may be noted that in case the 
investor files a dispute on the 
ODR portal while the complaint 
is pending on SCORES, the 
complaint shall automatically be 
treated as disposed on SCORES. 
Shareholders can access the 
ODR portal at https://smartodr.
in.
	
Your 
Company 
continues 
to use a digital platform for 
sharing the information with 
the Director(s) and maintains 
a seamless and safe flow of 
information 
between 
the 
Management and the Board. 
While being secure and user 
friendly, it is also a quick and 
efficient means for sharing 
updates with the Board in an 
environment friendly manner.
v.	
Social Media:
	
The Company utilizes social 
media platforms to engage with its 
stakeholders and provide updates 
on its activities.
Governance of 
Subsidiary Companies
The 
minutes 
of 
the 
Board 
Meeting(s) 
of 
the 
subsidiary 
companies along with the details 
of 
significant 
transactions 
and 
arrangements entered into by the 
subsidiary companies are shared 
with the Board of Director(s) on a 
quarterly basis.
The 
Company 
as 
a 
good 
governance 
practice 
shares 
the 
Board 
minutes 
of 
the 
listed 
subsidiary 
i.e. 
Butterfly 
Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
with the Director(s) along with the 
agenda of the Board Meeting.
General Shareholder Information
11th Annual General Meeting
Date & Day: Friday, August 8, 2025, Time: 11.00 A.M.
Mode: Through video conferencing/ other audio-visual means [Deemed venue for meeting: Registered Office of 
the Company]
Schedule of events at 11th Annual General Meeting
Friday, August 8, 2025 
11:00 A.M. IST
Video conference and 
other 
audio-visual 
means
Participation through 
Video conferencing/ 
Other audio- visual 
means
E-voting 
dates 
August 
04, 
2025, 
from 9:00 A.M to 
August 07, 2025 till 
5:00 P.M.
Date and time
Mode
Participation
E-voting dates
300 - 301
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Dates of Book Closure 
and Dividend Payment 
Date
Record date shall be Wednesday, 
July 23, 2025, and the Dividend 
would be paid/ dispatched within a 
period of 30 (Thirty) days from the 
date of the AGM.
Investor Conferences/ 
Events held in Financial 
Year 2024-25
Your 
Company 
holds 
press 
meet and investor/ analyst calls 
after 
every 
quarterly 
results 
announcement, which is accessible 
to all the shareholders and general 
public. The Company also holds its 
AGM, which is accessible to all the 
shareholders. The details of these 
are sent to the Stock Exchange(s)
and 
updated 
on 
the 
website. 
The Company also participates 
in 
various 
sell-side/ 
broker 
Jun 30, 2024
Sep 30, 2024
Dec 31, 2024
Mar 31, 2024
July 31, 2024
November 
14, 2024
February 
12, 2025
May 15, 2025
July 1, 2024 to 
August 2, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
to November 
18, 2024
January 1, 2025 
to February 
14, 2025
April 01, 2025 to 
May 19, 2025
Quarter ending
Board meeting 
and earnings 
release date
Trading 
window closure
RTA Address for  
Correspondence
For any queries relating to the 
securities 
of 
the 
Company, 
correspondence 
may 
please 
be addressed to its RTA: KFin 
Technologies 
Limited 
at 
Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 
32, Gachibowli, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, 
Hyderabad - 500032
Telephone	
:	 1800 309 4001
Email	
:	 e i n w a r d . r i s @
kfintech.com
Website	
:	 www.kfintech.
com
Contact Person	
:  Ms. 
Krishna 
Priya Maddula
Designation	
:  Senior Manager, 
Corporate  
Registry
SEBI Registration	:	 INR000000221 
For 
the 
benefit 
of 
Member(s), 
documents will continue to be 
accepted at the Registered & 
Corporate Office of the Company 
at: Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited.
Address	
:	05GBD, Godrej Business 
District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli, 
Mumbai 
– 
400 079
Telephone	:	+91 7304587021
Email	
:	crompton.
investorrelations@
crompton.co.in
Website	
:	www.crompton.co.in
Members are requested to quote 
their Folio No./ DP ID & Client ID, 
e-mail address, if any, telephone 
number and full address while 
corresponding with the Company 
and its RTA.
Investor Servicing and 
Grievance Redressal
Your 
Company 
has 
adopted 
Investor 
FAQs 
Handbook 
to 
effectively 
redress 
the 
investor 
grievances 
and 
improve 
the 
services provided to the investors. 
The 
Investor 
FAQs 
Handbook 
serves 
as 
ready 
reference 
material to shareholders holding/ 
dealing in shares. It is designed 
to assist shareholders on matters 
such as transmission of shares, 
dematerialisation 
of 
shares, 
dividend, IEPF, etc. The FAQs are 
uploaded 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website at https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/share-related-
info/ under Investors section at 
share related information.
Share Transfer System
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of 
the 
SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations, 
as amended, securities can be 
transferred only in dematerialised 
form, w.e.f. April 1, 2019, including 
in 
case 
of 
transmission 
or 
transposition of securities, w.e.f. 
January 25, 2022. All share transfers 
and 
other 
share-related 
issues 
are processed by the RTA. Share 
transfer is normally effected within 
a period of 15 (Fifteen) days from 
the date of receipt, if all the required 
documentation 
is 
submitted. 
During the F.Y. 2024-25, no shares 
were transferred in physical form.
Dematerialisation of  
Shares
As on March 31, 2025, 99.74% of 
the total shares of your Company 
representing 
64,21,29,743 
shares 
were 
in 
dematerialized 
form, 
compared with 99.57 % as on 
March 31, 2024.
arranged 
investor 
conferences 
where the Management interacts 
with investors in one-on-one or 
group meetings. The details of 
such participation are sent to 
the exchanges and updated on 
the website.
   Investor Conferences	
   NDR & Top Shareholder connects (Domestic & International)
   Sell-side Analyst Meet	
   Earnings Call
   AGM
Financial Year
The Financial Year of the Company is from April 1 to March 31 of every year.
Financial Calendar
Results: End July/ 
First fortnight 
of August
Results: End October 
/First fortnight 
of November
Results: End 
January/ First 
fortnight of February
Results and Annual 
Audited Results: 
April/ May
First Quarter
Second Quarter
Third Quarter
Last Quarter
Q3
1
1
1
Q1
2
3
1
Q2
1
1
1
2
1
Q4
1
1
2
302 - 303
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Market Information
Stock Code
:
BSE Ltd. - 539876
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001.
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. – CROMPTON
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051.
ISIN - NSDL & CDSL
:
INE299U01018
Corporate 
Identification 
Number 
(CIN)
:
L31900MH2015PLC262254
Listing Fees
Your Company has paid the Listing fees for both the Stock Exchanges for F.Y. 2024-25 and F.Y. 2025-26 for equity 
shares and to the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. for NCDs.
Payment of Depository Fees:
Annual Custody/ Issuer fees for F.Y. 2024-25 has been paid by the Company to National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”).
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Category (Shares)
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Shares held
% of 
Shareholding
1
1 - 5000
2,43,999
3,77,786,55
5.87
2
5001 - 10000
1,255
89,06,497
1.38
3
10001 - 20000
586
81,05,013
1.26
4
20001 - 30000
159
38,63,628
0.60
5
30001 - 40000
75
25,85,183
0.40
6
40001 - 50000
58
26,12,986
0.41
7
50001 - 100000
90
64,66,681
1.00
8
100001 and above
245
57,34,90,520
89.08
Total
2,46,467
64,38,09,163
100.00
Categories of Shareholders as on March 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Category
No. of Shares of 
K 2 each
% of 
Shareholding
1
Alternative Investment Fund
86,73,037  
1.35
2
Banks
33,19,900
0.52
3
Bodies Corporates
81,76,839
1.27
4
Clearing Members
17,381
0.00
5
Directors
11,10,810
0.17
6
Employees
2,92,942
0.05
7
Foreign Institutional Investors
58,174
0.01
8
Foreign Nationals
808
0.00
9
Foreign Portfolio - Corp
19,52,23,223
30.32
10
H U F
12,44,196
0.19
11
I E P F
18,84,478
0.29
12
Independent Directors
410
0.00
13
Key Management Personnel
3,272
0.00
14
Mutual Funds
30,50,07,312
47.38
15
Nationalised Banks
85,783
0.01
16
NBFC
4,895
0.00
17
Non Resident Indian Non Repatriable
27,53,387
0.43
18
Non Resident Indians
18,89,596
0.29
19
Qualified Institutional Buyer
5,01,48,793
7.79
20
Resident Individuals
6,37,29,210
9.90
21
Trusts
1,84,717
0.03
Total:
64,38,09,163
100.00
Categories of Shareholders as on March 31, 2025
30.32%
Foreign 
Portfolio - Corp
1.27%
Bodies  
Corporates
47.38%
Mutual  
Funds
1.35%
Alternative  
Investment Fund
0.17%
Directors &  
KMP
10.09%
Resident 
Individuals & HUF
0.72%
Non Resident  
Indian
0.52%
Banks
7.79%
Qualified  
Institutional  
Buyer
0.39%
Others
304 - 305
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement Showing Shareholding of more than 1% of the Capital as on March 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of the shareholders ( PAN CONSOLIDATED )
Number of 
shares
% Of share 
capital
1
HDFC Mutual Fund
6,16,07,545
9.57
2
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd
3,96,18,204
6.15
3
Mirae Asset Mutual Fund
3,88,11,390
6.03
4
Government Pension Fund Global
2,61,16,987
4.06
5
Canara Robeco Mutual Fund
2,02,05,840
3.14
6
Uti Mutual Fund
1,97,61,011
3.07
7
Franklin India Mutual Fund
1,97,08,028
3.06
8
DSP Mutual Fund
1,78,80,923
2.78
9
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
1,67,32,212
2.60
10
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited
1,54,03,874
2.39
11
Kotak Mahindra Trustee Co Ltd
1,37,97,747
2.14
12
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
1,31,86,826
2.05
13
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority -
1,07,18,673
1.66
14
Kotak Funds - India Midcap Fund
1,04,96,283
1.63
15
Life Insurance Corporation Of India
95,99,305
1.49
16
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
93,18,770
1.45
17
Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund
90,80,652
1.41
18
Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, A Series of Vanguard International 
Equity Index Funds
83,31,964
1.29
19
ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund
69,64,298
1.08
20
Invesco India Mutual Fund
69,41,945
1.08
Break-Up of Shares in Physical and Demat Form as on March 31, 2025
Description
No. of 
Shareholders
Shares
% to Equity
Physical
2,745
16,79,420
0.26
NSDL
86,368
59,17,00,166
91.91
CDSL
1,62,557
5,04,29,577
7.83
TOTAL
2,51,670
64,38,09,163
100.00
Number of Shares
64,21,29,743
16,79,420
Total : 64,38,09,163
Number of shareholders
2,48,925
2,745
Total : 2,51,670
% to Equity
99.74
0.26
Total : 100%
   Dematerialised
   Physical
Outstanding GDRS/ ADRS/ Warrants/ Convertible Instruments as on March 31, 2025
Nil
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities
Your Company actively monitors the foreign exchange movements and takes forward/ options covers as appropriate 
to reduce the risks associated with transactions in foreign currencies.
Utilization of Funds Raised through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions Placement
During the Financial Year, the Company did not raise any funds through preferential allotment or qualified 
institutions placement.
Information on General Body Meetings
The details of the AGMs and Extra Ordinary General Meeting(s) (“EGM”) held during the last 3 (Three) years are as follows:
Information on General Body Meetings
Event
Financial 
year
Venue
Mode
Day, Date, Time 
(IST)
Special Resolution(s) 
passed
10th AGM
2024-25
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East 
Wing, 
Equinox 
Business 
Park, 
LBS 
Marg, 
Kurla 
(West), Mumbai – 400070 
(“Registered Office”)
Through 
Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ 
Other 
Audio 
Visual 
Means (“OAVM”)
Friday, July 26, 
2024, at 11:00 
A.M.
No 
Special 
Resolution 
was passed
9th AGM
2023-24
Registered Office
Through VC/ OAVM
Saturday, 
July 
22, 
2023, 
at 
11:00 A.M.
1.	
R e - a p p o i n t m e n t 
of 
Ms. 
Smita 
Anand 
(DIN: 00059228) as an 
Independent Director for 
a Second Term
2.	
Approval for amendment 
in Crompton Employee 
Stock Option Plan, 2019 
(“ESOP 2019”)
8th AGM
2022-23
Registered Office
Through VC/ OAVM
Friday, July 
22, 
2022, at 03:00 P.M.
No 
Special 
Resolution 
was passed
Postal Ballot
During the Financial Year under review, the following 2 (Two) special resolutions were proposed through postal ballot 
through e-Voting, however the same were not passed with requisite majority:
Date of postal 
ballot notice
Resolution(s) passed
Date of Approval Scrutinizer
Link for postal ballot 
notice and results
October 3, 
2024
To 
approve 
Performance 
based 
Restricted 
Stock 
Units 
Plan 
2024 
(hereinafter referred to as “Share Plan- 
2024/ PSU -2024”)
November 10, 
2024
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala 
(ACS 24091), Partner, 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries
https:/www.crompton.
co.in/pages/investors-
relations#PostalBallots
To grant Stock Units to the employees 
of the Subsidiary Company(ies) (at 
present and/ or in the future) under the 
Performance based Restricted Stock 
Units Plan 2024 (hereinafter referred to 
as “Share Plan- 2024 /PSU -2024”)
306 - 307
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Procedure for Postal Ballot
In compliance with Regulation 44 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Sections 
108, 
110 
and 
other 
applicable provisions of the Act read 
with the Rules issued thereunder 
and the General Circulars issued 
in this regard by the MCA, the 
Company 
provided 
electronic 
voting facility to all its members.
The Company engaged the services 
of National Securities Depository 
Limited (“NSDL”) for the purpose of 
providing electronic voting facility 
to all its members. The Postal Ballot 
Notice was sent to the members 
in electronic form at their email 
addresses 
registered 
with 
the 
depositories/ Company’s RTA.
The Company also published notice in 
the newspapers declaring the details 
of completion of dispatch, e-Voting 
details 
and 
other 
requirements 
in terms of the Act read with the 
Rules issued thereunder and the 
Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India. Voting rights were reckoned 
on the paid-up value of shares of the 
Company registered in the names 
of the shareholders as on the 
cut-off date.
The Scrutinizer submitted his report 
to the Company Secretary of the 
Company, after the completion 
of scrutiny and the consolidated 
results of the voting by postal 
ballot were then announced by the 
Company Secretary as authorised 
by the Board of Director(s) of 
the Company.
The 
results 
were 
displayed 
at 
the 
registered 
office 
of 
the 
Company and on the Company’s 
website 
at 
https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#PostalBallots and were 
available on the website of the 
Stock Exchange(s) and NSDL. The 
results were also on voluntary basis 
intimated through Press Release 
in newspapers.
No Special Resolution is proposed 
to be passed through Postal Ballot 
as on the date of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
Details of special 
resolution(s) proposed to 
be transacted through 
postal ballot.
None of the businesses proposed 
to be transacted at the ensuing 
AGM requires passing of a special 
resolution through postal ballot.
Extraordinary 
General 
Meeting
No extraordinary general meeting 
of the Members was held during the 
Financial Year 2024-25.
Details of Capital Market 
Non-Compliance, if any
In everything we do, we comply 
with the law of the land. All 
disclosures and policies to this 
effect, including details of non- 
compliance, 
regulatory 
orders, 
certifications and complaints, are 
made available in this corporate 
governance report.
No 
penalties/ 
strictures 
were 
imposed on your Company by the 
stock exchanges or SEBI or any 
statutory authority in any matters 
related to the capital markets 
since incorporation.
 Gujarat
Vadodara
Padra Jambusar 
Highway. Village 
Kural, Taluka Padra, 
District Vadodara,  
Gujarat - 391430, India
 Goa
Kundaim
Plot No. 214-A, 
Kundaim Industrial 
Estate, Kundaim,  
Goa - 403 115, India
Bethora
Plot No. 1, Goa IDC 
Industrial Estate, 
Bethora, Panda, Goa - 
403 409, India
 Himachal Pradesh
Baddi
(Unit I) Plot No. 81, HPSIDC, 
Industrial Area Baddi, 
District Solan, Himachal 
Pradesh - 173 205, India
(Unit II) Plot No. 
148,149,150,157, 158 and 
159, HPSIDC, Industrial 
Area, Baddi, District Solan, 
Himachal Pradesh- 173 
205, India
(Unit III) Village Thana, 
Tehsil Baddi, District Solan, 
Himachal Pradesh - 173 
205, India
 Maharashtra
Ahilyanagar
C-19, 
MIDC, Ahmednagar,  
Maharashtra - 414 
111. India
PLANT LOCATIONS
308 - 309
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Credit Ratings
The Company’s borrowing programmes have received the credit ratings 
from CRISIL Ratings Limited (“CRISIL”), and India Ratings and Research 
Private Limited during F.Y. 2024-25. There has been no revision in credit ratings 
during F.Y. 2024-25. The ratings given by these agencies are as follows:
Instrument(s)
Rating Agency
Rating 
Outlook
Non-convertible 
Debentures 
(“NCDs”)
CRISIL 
CRISIL 
AA+
Stable
Long-Term
India Ratings & Research
IND AA+
Stable
Short-Term
India Ratings & Research
IND AA+/ 
IND A1+
Stable
Dividend
Payment of dividend through 
Automated Clearing House 
(“ACH”)
The Company provides the facility for 
direct credit of the dividend to the 
Member(s) Bank Account. The SEBI 
Listing Regulations also mandate 
companies to credit the dividend 
to 
the 
members 
electronically. 
Members are therefore urged to 
avail themselves of this facility to 
ensure safe and speedy credit of 
their dividend into their bank account 
through the banks’ ACH mode.
Members 
who 
hold 
shares 
in 
demat mode should inform their 
depository 
participant, 
whereas 
Members holding shares in physical 
form should inform the Company of 
the core banking account details 
allotted to them by their bankers. 
In cases where the core banking 
account details are not available, 
the Company will issue the demand 
drafts mentioning the existing bank 
details available with the Company.
Unclaimed Dividends
In accordance with the provisions of 
Sections 124 and 125 of the Act and 
Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), 
dividends not encashed/ claimed 
within seven years from the date of 
declaration are to be transferred to 
the IEPF.
The IEPF Rules mandate companies 
to transfer shares of Members whose 
dividends remain unpaid/ unclaimed 
for a period of seven consecutive 
years or more to the demat account 
of IEPF established by the Central 
Government. The Members, whose 
dividends/ shares are transferred 
to 
the 
IEPF, 
can 
claim 
their 
shares/ dividends from the IEPF 
Authority. In accordance with the said 
IEPF Rules, as amended, the Company 
had sent notices to all the Members 
whose 
shares 
were 
due 
to 
be 
transferred to IEPF requesting them to 
comply with the requirements to claim 
back the Dividends and avoid transfer 
of shares and had simultaneously 
published newspaper advertisement 
for the same.
Accordingly, 
the 
inaugural 
dividend of J 1.50 per Equity Share 
aggregating 
to 
J 
42.45 
lakhs 
pertaining to F.Y. 2016-17 which 
remained unpaid or unclaimed was 
transferred to the IEPF Authority 
during F.Y. 2024-25.
As per Section 124(6) of the Act read 
with the IEPF Rules, all shares in respect 
of which dividend has not been paid 
or claimed for seven consecutive 
years or more shall be transferred in 
the name of IEPF. Accordingly, during 
F.Y. 
2024-25 
the 
Company 
has 
transferred 18,84,478 equity shares in 
aggregate to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority on which dividend 
remained unclaimed for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years from the dividend 
declared on July 27, 2017.
The 
Members/ 
Claimants, 
whose 
unclaimed dividends/ shares have 
been 
transferred 
to 
IEPF, 
may 
contact the Company or RTA and 
submit 
the 
required 
documents 
for issue of Entitlement Letter. The 
Members/ Claimants can attach 
the Entitlement Letter and other 
documents 
mentioned 
thereon 
and file IEPF-5 form for claiming the 
dividend / shares available on https://
www.iepf.gov.in. No claims shall lie 
against the Company in respect of the 
dividends/ shares so transferred.
The last date for claiming unclaimed 
and unpaid dividends declared 
by the Company for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2018, and 
thereafter is provided as under, 
details of these shares are also 
available on the Company’s website 
at the following link: https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ShareholderResources
Financial Year
Date of declaration of 
dividend
Last date for claiming 
unpaid/unclaimed 
dividend
2017-18
July 25, 2018
August 30, 2025
2018-19
July 24, 2019
August 29, 2026
2019-20 (Interim)
October 22, 2020
November 27, 2027
2020-21
July 23, 2021
August 28, 2028
2021-22
July 22, 2022
August 27, 2029
2022-23
July 22, 2023
August 27, 2030
2023-24
July 26, 2024
August 31, 2031
The Company has uploaded the 
information in respect of unclaimed 
dividends, as on the date of last 
AGM i.e., July 26, 2024 on the website 
of the Company at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#UnclaimedDividend.
Further, in accordance with the 
provisions contained in Rule 7(2A) of 
the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, 
(IEPF Rules) the Company Secretary 
has been appointed as the Nodal 
Officer. Contact information of the 
Nodal Officer for the purpose of co-
ordination with the IEPF Authority 
are available on the website of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ConInvestors
Unclaimed Shares
9,55,925 equity shares were lying in 
the unclaimed suspense account of 
CG Power and Industrial Solutions 
Limited 
(erstwhile 
Crompton 
Greaves Limited) at the time of 
demerger. Pursuant to the Scheme 
of demerger, equivalent number 
of equity shares were allotted on 
March 22, 2016.
There were 84,552  equity shares 
lying 
in 
Unclaimed 
Suspense 
Account as on March 31, 2025.
Disclosure in Respect of Equity Shares Transferred in the “Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited – 
Unclaimed Suspense Account” is as under:
Particulars
Number of Share holders
Number of Equity Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on 1st April, 2024
3,975
9,07,294
Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of 
shares from suspense account during the year
15
12,568
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense 
account during the year
15
12,568 
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense 
account to IEPF during the year
3,608
8,10,174 
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on 31st March, 2025
352
84,552 
The voting rights on these shares in the suspense account shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares.
Disclosure of Certain Types of Agreements Binding Listed Entities
There are no agreements that require disclosure under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Special Contingency Insurance Policy
The Company had during the year under review obtained Special Contingency Insurance Policy from National Insurance 
Company Limited as required under SEBI circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/70 dated May 25, 2022.
Report On Corporate Governance
This Chapter read together with the “Annexure to Corporate Governance” constitutes the Compliance Report on 
Corporate Governance for F.Y. 2024-25.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
D Sundaram
Place: Mumbai 	
Chairman
Date: May 15, 2025	
DIN: 00016304
310 - 311
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Certificate - for Non Disqualification of Directors
(Pursuant to Regulation 34 (3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
05GBD, Godrej Business District, 
Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited having CIN  L31900MH2015PLC262254 and having registered 
office at 05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079  (hereinafter referred to as 
‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with 
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification 
Number (DIN) status at the portal “https://www.mca.gov.in/) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to 
us by the Company & its officers we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated 
below for the Financial Year ending on 31st March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No.
Particulars
DIN
Date of 
Appointment in 
Company
1.
Mr. Sundaram Damodarannair
00016304
26/08/2015
2.
Mr. Pangulury Mohan Murty
00011179
26/08/2015
3.
Mr. Shantanu Maharaj Khosla
00059877
21/09/2015
4.
Mr. Promeet Promode Ghosh
05307658
16/08/2016
5.
Ms. Smita Anand
00059228
10/12/2018
6.
Mr. Prathivadibhayankara Rajagopalan Ramesh
01915274
21/05/2021
7.
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
06992518
28/01/2022
8.
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
03213517
17/10/2023
9.
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
00591027
17/10/2023
*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
MITESH DHABLIWALA
	
FCS: 8331 CP: 9511
Place: Mumbai	
UDIN: F008331G000351443 
Date: May 15, 2025 	
PR: 6556/2025
Practising Company Secretaries’ Certificate on Corporate 
Governance 
To
The Members of
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2025, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 
27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of Schedule V of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our 
examination was limited to the review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for 
ensuring compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on 
the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations 
made by the Directors and the management and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India, we certify that the Company has generally complied with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 
31, 2025.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
MITESH DHABLIWALA
	
FCS: 8331 CP: 9511
Place: Mumbai	
UDIN:  F008331G000351883 
Date: May 15, 2025	
PR No.: 6556/2025
312 - 313
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Compliance Certificate by the MD & CEO and Chief 
Financial Officer
To
The Members,
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Dear Sir/ Madam,
Sub: Compliance Certificate for the year ended March 31, 2024 – Regulation 17(8) & Part B of Schedule II of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended)
In compliance with Regulation 17(8) & Part B of Schedule II of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, (as amended), it is certified that –
A.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that to the best of our 
knowledge and belief:
	
1.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
	
2.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and comply with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year 
which is fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we 
have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting 
and we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of 
such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify 
these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
1.	
that significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
2.	
that there were no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and
	
3.	
that there were no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement 
therein, if any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal 
control system over financial reporting.
Thanking you,
Promeet Ghosh 	
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
MD & CEO 	
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:05307658	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 15, 2025 
Declaration of Compliance with Code of Conduct under 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
In accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, I 
hereby confirm that all the Directors and Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance 
with the Code of Conduct, as applicable to them, for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
Promeet Ghosh
Place: Mumbai 	
MD & CEO
Date: May 15, 2025 	
DIN:05307658
314 - 315
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L31900MH2015PLC262254
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
2015
4.
Registered office address*
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai 400079
5.
Corporate address*
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai 400079
6.
E-mail
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
7.
Telephone
+91 7304575254
8.
Website
www.crompton.co.in
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
1. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd
2. BSE Ltd
11.
Paid-up Capital
I 128.76 Crore
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Name: Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Designation: Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Email Id: secretarial@crompton.co.in
13.
Reporting boundary- Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together)
 Standalone
14.
Name of assurance provider
TUV India Private Limited
15.
Type of assurance obtained
1.	 For Core Indicators - Reasonable 
2.	 For Non-Core Indicators - Limited 
 
 *The Registered and Corporate Office of the Company was changed from Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, 
Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070 to 05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079 w.e.f November 18, 2024.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
II.	
Products/ services
 
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Electrical Consumer Durables and
Lighting Products
Manufacturing/ Trading
100
 
17. Products/ services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
S. No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1.
Electrical Consumer Durables
27501, 27502, 27503, 28132
85.51
2.
Lighting Products
27400
14.49
III.	 Operations
 
18. Number of locations where plants and/ or operations/ offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of 
plants
Number of 
offices
Total
National
7
23*
30
International
0
0
0
 
 
*Several branch offices of the Company operate from a common physical location. While each office has obtained separate 
Shops and Establishments registrations, they have not been considered as distinct branch offices for the purpose of 
this assessment.
 
19. Markets served by the entity
	
a.	
Number of locations
PAN India
39 Countries
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 1.7%
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers 
	
	
The Company caters to a wide range of consumers, including homeowners, other businesses, corporates, 
architects, interior designers, real-estate developers, government, wholesalers and distributors. The 
Company has National & International customer basis. A mix of Distributors, Retailers, Institutional Buyers 
and Large Format Stores.
SECTION A:
General  
Disclosures
Page 316
SECTION B:
Management and 
Process Disclosures
Page 325
SECTION C: 
Principle wise 
Performance Disclosure
Page 328
316 - 317
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
IV.	 Employees
 
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
1,893
1,722
90.97
171
9.03
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
1,039
873
84.02
166
15.98
3.
Total employees (D + E)
 2,932
2,595
88.51
337
11.49
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
 440
389
88.41
51
11.59
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
3,680
2,744
74.57
936
25.43
6.
Total workers (F + G)
4,120
3,133
76.04
987
23.96
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers
S. 
No
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.
Total differently abled employees 
(D + E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
2
2
100
NIL
NIL
5.
Other than permanent (G)
1
1
100
NIL
NIL
6.
Total differently abled workers  
(F + G)
3
3
100
NIL
NIL
 
21. Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of women
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and % of Females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
9
2
22.22
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33
 
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
(In %)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
27.19
16.89
26.36
24.40
22.90
24.30
36.13
33.17
35.94
Permanent Workers
3.04
11.01
4.00
7.20
13.01
7.95
2.75
3.08
2.79
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
 
23. (a) Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding subsidiary/  
associate companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives 
of 
the 
listed 
entity? (Yes/ No)
1.
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary
100
No
2.
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary
100
No
3.
Crompton CSR Foundation
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary
The Company is limited 
by guarantee and does 
not have share capital.
No
4.
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”)
Subsidiary
75
No
VI.	 CSR Details
	
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/ No) - Yes
	
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in I) 7,028.29 Crore
	
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in I) 3,604.05 Crore
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
 
25. Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Communities1
YES
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
Investors (other 
than shareholders)2 YES
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
Shareholders2
YES
-
-
-
-
-
-
Employees and 
workers3
YES
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location wise
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location wise
Customers4
YES
33,23,954
6,716
-
27,74,927
3,322
-
Value Chain 
Partners5
YES
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
Other  
(please specify)
NIL
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
 
 
The Company is committed to encourage openness, promote transparency and reporting improvements without fear of 
rebuttal. The organisation is committed to creating a culture that encourages high standards of ethics and upholds decent and 
safe working conditions for the entire workforces.
	
	
1 Communities while interacting during the community engagement programmes, can report their grievances.
	
	
2 Investors and stakeholders can correspond with the Company by sending an e-mail to crompton.investorrelations@crompton.
co.in or by calling on +91 7304575254
	
	
3 Employees and workers can report any grievance by sending an e-mail to wbcrompton@crompton.co.in or a letter in a physical 
form in a sealed envelope
	
	
4 Consumers can report grievances through the CRM system, the WhatsApp (+91 74287 13838) and the toll-free number (1800 419 
0505)
	
	
5 Value chain partners can reach us through the Partner Connect tab on the website
318 - 319
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental 
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, 
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
Material issue identified
Product - right product quality
Brand
EHS
Supply
IT security & data protection
Indicate whether risk or opportunity 
(R/ O)
Rationale for identifying the risk 
/ opportunity
Products in compliance with regulatory 
requirements, 
meet 
highest 
quality 
parameters, environmentally sustainable 
and features innovative designs
Brand disruption due to negative 
feedback 
on 
social 
media, 
substandard 
service 
quality 
& 
prevalence of counterfeit product
Safety & Compliance issues
Disruption 
in 
production 
due 
to 
dependency on single source, volatile 
commodity cost
Cyber threats, Data breach, use of 
company information
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Products 
are 
redesigned 
to 
comply with BEE and BIS norms, 
ensuring adherence to government 
regulations.
Quality is embedded across the entire 
lifecycle—from product design and 
manufacturing to the end-to-end 
supply chain—with key metrics like 
PPR and COPQ continuously tracked 
and addressed.
A robust testing mechanism at labs, 
factory locations, and vendor sites 
ensures strict quality compliance.
Consumer feedback from after-sales 
service is integrated to enhance 
product quality and performance.
Established a system for social listening 
and sentiment analysis to proactively 
address consumer feedback.
Implemented 
an 
online 
response 
mechanism 
for 
real-time 
issue 
resolution. 
Set 
up 
a 
nationwide 
network of authorized service centers, 
with trained teams to handle customer 
complaints effectively.
Strengthened counterfeit monitoring 
through 
market 
intelligence 
and 
statutory 
methods, 
including 
trademark 
journal 
publications. 
Actions are taken as per Company’s 
IP policy, with legal measures initiated 
when necessary.
Ensuring compliance with statutory 
and 
regulatory 
requirements, 
including E-waste management and 
ERP policies.
EHS policy adherence is rigorously 
monitored through audits at both in-
house and vendor locations.
Regular 
safety 
campaigns 
are 
conducted 
across 
plants 
and 
corporate 
offices 
to 
enhance 
awareness 
and 
reinforce 
safety 
culture.
Key safety metrics such as Total 
Recordable Incident Frequency Rate, 
near-miss 
incidents, 
and 
first-aid 
cases are systematically tracked and 
reviewed.
Creation 
of 
a 
phased 
plan 
for 
development of local suppliers to 
minimize import dependency. 
Identification 
& 
development 
of 
strategic vendors and suppliers to 
ensure minimum supply interruption. 
Strategic investment in design.
Cost saving initiatives to mitigate 
impact of commodity cost volatility.
The Company established robust Data 
Centre and Disaster Recovery (DR) 
sites to ensure business continuity. 
The Company’s security framework 
includes Data Protection Assessment, 
Mobile 
Device 
Management 
with 
AzureAD Premium, and deployment 
of DLP and CASB solutions. SAP and 
Active Directory are hosted with DR 
capabilities, and annual DR drills are 
conducted to test system resilience. 
Strong access controls are maintained 
through regular User Access Reviews. 
The Company also conducts ongoing 
user awareness sessions and phishing 
simulations to strengthen its cyber 
defence.
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
Negative 
Implications
Positive 
Implications
Risk
Oppurtunity
320 - 321
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Material issue identified
People
Service
Regulatory Compliance
Business Ethics & Anti-Corruption
Energy efficient products
Indicate whether risk or  
opportunity (R/ O)
Rationale for identifying the  
risk/ opportunity
Attrition & Succession Planning
Poor service quality impact the overall 
consumer experience and adversely 
impact the brand
Compliance 
with 
all 
laws 
and 
regulations is critical for business 
continuity
Unfair 
business 
practices 
leads 
to reputational loss and reduced 
shareholder trust
Crompton 
continues 
to 
drive 
innovation 
in 
energy-efficient 
appliances across fans, pumps, and 
lighting. By focusing on 5-star rated 
and sustainable designs, we help 
consumers reduce electricity usage 
and carbon emissions, while supporting 
national energy conservation goals.
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Designed and launched an integrated 
Talent 
& 
Learning 
framework 
to 
strengthen leadership competencies. 
Introduced training programs such 
as Future Leadership Development, 
Values Café, and Sales ka Funda to 
enhance employee skills and improve 
retention. Organized events like Family 
Day, Crompton Day, and festival 
celebrations to foster a vibrant and 
enjoyable workplace. Established a 
new corporate office with upgraded 
infrastructure, including a gym, prayer 
room, expanded collaboration spaces, 
and indoor games, enriching the 
overall employee experience.
Establishment 
of 
a 
Nationwide 
service network with a robust CRM 
system 
to 
efficiently 
addresses 
consumer complaints. Dedicated toll-
free number and online complaint 
registration, ensuring resolution within 
defined TAT.
Continuous monitoring of consumer 
satisfaction scores with proactive 
improvement 
measures. 
Effective 
escalation management, with a focus 
on delivering exceptional service as a 
key differentiator.
The Company maintains a strong 
compliance 
framework 
supported 
by robust internal controls, regular 
audits, and periodic training to ensure 
adherence to all applicable laws and 
regulations. A dedicated secretarial 
and compliance function monitors 
regulatory 
changes 
and 
ensures 
timely implementation across the 
organization, safeguarding business 
continuity.
The Company has a Code of Conduct 
which covers issues related to ethics 
and corruption. It also covers all 
dealings with suppliers, customers, 
business 
partners 
and 
other 
stakeholders. The Company also has 
a Whistle Blower Policy (‘WB Policy’) 
which 
enables 
its 
employees 
to 
report their concerns about unethical 
behaviour.
NA
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
Negative 
Implications
Positive 
Implications
Risk
Oppurtunity
322 - 323
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Material issue identified
Government Initiatives
Premiumization
Indicate whether risk or  
opportunity (R/ O)
Rationale for identifying the  
risk/ opportunity
The Indian government continues 
to launch ambitious social welfare 
and infrastructure schemes such as 
Har Ghar Nal Yojana, Pradhan Mantri 
Awas Yojana, and PM-KUSUM to uplift 
living standards and improve access 
to essential utilities. These initiatives 
open up significant growth avenues 
for Crompton, particularly in segments 
like water pumps, lighting, and energy-
efficient appliances that align with 
rural and semi-urban development 
priorities
A clear shift in consumer preference 
toward premium, high-performance 
products 
is 
redefining the 
home 
appliance and electricals market. 
Consumers 
increasingly 
demand 
appliances that are not only energy-
efficient and durable but also smart, 
intuitive, 
aesthetically 
designed, 
and 
technologically 
advanced. 
Crompton is actively responding to 
this trend by upgrading its product 
design, introducing connected and 
smart appliances, and enhancing 
user experience across its offerings. 
Premiumization is a key pillar of 
our growth strategy, allowing us to 
improve 
margins 
while 
delivering 
greater value to our customers
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
NA
NA
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c.	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
www.crompton.co.in/investors/corporate-governance/
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/ No)
To emphasise the values of transparency and ethical 
behaviour, empowerment, and accountability, the Company 
has formalised the ‘Code of Conduct’ for the Directors and 
employees of the Company. The Code lays down principles and 
standards that govern the actions of the employees during 
the conduct of the Company’s business. It covers all dealings 
with vendors, consumers, and other business partners.
4.	 Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international 
codes/ 
certifications/ labels/standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) standards 
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
All the Company’s manufacturing units are certified for ISO 
14001, ISO 45001 & ISO 9001.
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report (“MDA”) and Integrated 
Annual Report (“IAR”) for our management approach and 
commitments.
6.	 Performance 
of 
the 
entity 
against 
the 
specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, MDA and the IAR for 
our management approach and commitments.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
The Company integrates ESG principles into its business strategy which is central to improving the quality of life of the 
communities it serves. As sustainable management is a crucial component of the Company’s strategy across its entire 
value chain, it is constantly making adequate efforts to protect the environment. Throughout the course of the year, 
the Company remained committed to making its business operations more eco-friendly. Please refer to the Chairman’s 
Message, MDA and the IAR for our management approach and commitments
8.	 Details 
of 
the 
highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation 
and 
oversight 
of 
the 
Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Name: Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Designation: MD & CEO
Email Id: secretarial@crompton.co.in
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide details.
Yes, the Company’s ESG Committee monitors the Company’s 
ongoing commitment to environment, health and safety, 
social responsibility, governance, sustainability concerns, and 
other public policy matters. It has 3 (Three) Members.
Negative 
Implications
Positive 
Implications
Risk
Oppurtunity
324 - 325
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please specify)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
The policies of the Company are reviewed 
periodically or on a need-based basis 
by the Board of Directors, department 
heads, and business heads. During this 
assessment, the efficacy of the policies is 
reviewed, and necessary changes to the 
policies and procedures are implemented.
Annually
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of any 
non-compliances
A Compliance report across all statutory 
requirements is submitted to the Audit 
Committee on a quarterly basis. In 
addition to this, the Control Manager tool 
(Beacon) is also used to track and ensure 
timely compliance.
Quarterly
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
11.
Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working 
of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, provide name of the 
agency.
Internal and external auditors, where needed, assess these policies during their 
audits and reviews. However, no formal evaluation by any internal or external 
agency has been conducted.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the 
Principles material to its business 
(Yes/ No)
NA as all principles are covered.
The entity is not at a stage where 
it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/ No)
The entity does not have the 
financial or/ human and technical 
resources available for the task 
(Yes/ No)
It is planned to be done in the next 
financial year (Yes/ No)
Any other reason (please specify)
List of Policies	
Code of Conduct
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
Vigil Mechanism and  
Whistle Blower Policy
Sustainability Policy
Code of Conduct to 
Regulate, Monitor 
and Report trading by 
Designated Persons
Maternity Leave*
Prevention of Sexual  
Harassment Policy
Product Service  
Policy#
Environment, Health  
and Safety Policy
*The policy is available on the Company’s employee’s portal.
#The policy is available internally in the Company and has been made available to the product 
service centers.
326 - 327
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 
Businesses should conduct and 
govern themselves with integrity, 
and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
PRINCIPLE 4 
Businesses should respect and 
promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in 
their value chains
PRINCIPLE 7 
Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights
PRINCIPLE 2 
Businesses should provide 
goods and services in a manner 
that is sustainable and safe.
PRINCIPLE 5 
Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights
PRINCIPLE 8 
Businesses should promote 
inclusive growth and 
equitable development
PRINCIPLE 3 
Businesses should respect and 
promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in 
their value chains
PRINCIPLE 6 
Businesses should respect and 
make efforts to protect and 
restore the environment
PRINCIPLE 9 
Businesses should engage 
with and provide value 
to their consumers in a 
responsible manner.
Page -  329
Page - 341
Page - 354
Page - 333
Page - 344
Page - 355 
Page - 335
Page - 347
Page - 356
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core 
Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. 
While the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the 
leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest 
to be socially, environmentally, and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner 
that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its 
impact
%age of persons in 
respective 
category 
covered by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
37
•	
Strategy and Annual Budget of the Company;
•	
Internal Financial Control Systems;
•	
CSR Strategy Framework;
•	
Environment, Health and Safety;
•	
ESG framework; and
•	
Risk Management, and so on
100
KMPs
Employees other than Board 
and KMPs
883
•	
Altium
•	
Electronics
•	
Design Thinking
•	
Solidworks
•	
Aeroacoustic Noise prediction software
•	
Excel Selling skills
•	
Channel Management
•	
Negotiation Skills
•	
Interpersonal skills & Emotional Intelligence
•	
Product Trainings
•	
Business Simulations 
•	
Women Safety Program
•	
Project heroes
•	
CLDP
•	
FLDP
•	
Compass@Navigate - Empowering People 
Managers
•	
Value cafe
•	
Advance negotiation skills
•	
Managing Lifestyle Disorders Obesity
•	
Performance Review Train The Trainer
•	
Team Building
100
328 - 329
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its 
impact
%age of persons in 
respective 
category 
covered by the awareness 
programmes
Workers
475
•	
Fire fighting, consequence management 
training,
•	
Environmental awareness,
•	
Chemical safety training,
•	
Behaviour based training, Hand & Finger 
safety training,
•	
Safely Material Handling Training,
•	
Near 
Miss 
& 
Accident 
Reporting 
& 
Investigation, Environment Awareness
•	
Fire Fighting refresher Training
•	
Importance of PPEs
•	
POSH Awareness Training
•	
First Aid refresher Training
•	
Hand & Finger injury prevention & PPE 
importance
•	
Safety Behaviour Observation Procedure
•	
Data Analytics with Power BI,
•	
Awareness 
on 
Grinding 
Machine/ 
Near 
Miss Fan Process (Grinding / Packing), Fan 
Assembly process
•	
Usage of PPE
•	
Machine Safety
•	
Sampling 
Plan 
Awareness 
on 
Assembly 
Process
•	
Awareness on Grinding Contractor Safety 
Management
•	
On Site Emergency Plan
•	
7QC tools
•	
Loding & Unloading and Visitors Protocol
100
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website)
	
Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/
judicial 
institutions
Amount (In K)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal  
been preferred?  
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fines
NIL
Settlement
Compounding fee
	
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NIL
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy
	
The anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies are included in the Company’s COC Policy. All new hires are 
required to undergo training on the COC. The Company believes in maintaining high ethical and legal standards. 
It is committed to imbibing the appropriate regulatory framework to govern its business performance. 
The link to access policy is https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/JQyKgNOWmA_Code-of-
Conduct_19May2023_updated.pdf
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest
	
NA
330 - 331
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables (Accounts payable *365)/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the 
following format
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
103
98
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a)	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
0.01
0.01
b)	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
7
9
c)	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses
100
100
Concentration of 
Sales
a)	 Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
82.41
84.88
b)	 Number of dealers/ distributors to whom sales are made
6,142
6,044
c)	 Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors
6.24
6.29
Share of RPTs in
a)	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total Purchases)
0.65
0.22
b)	 Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.00
0.00
c)	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties/ Total loans & advances)
NIL
NIL
d)	 Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total Investments 
made)
NIL
NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year
	
The Company has built a sustainable supply chain throughout its operations. It aims to improve suppliers 
understanding of their legal obligations, sustainable business practices and the importance of employee health 
and safety through several programmes.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/ No) If Yes, provide details of the same
	
Yes, the COC encourages all its Board Members to refrain from participating in activities that could result in a 
conflict of interest.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable 
and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively
	
a)	
Enhancing capabilities by hiring futuristic talent.
	
b)	
Trained R&D manpower for an average of 20 manhours in the Financial Year 2024-25 in the 
identified competencies.
	
c)	
Augmented R&D infrastructure with a substantial 10,000 sq.ft. facility expansion to accelerate 
technological development.
	
d)	
Digitalized R&D documentation processes and NPD Dashboard.
	
e)	
Implemented the SAP/ PLM Integration for FAN PL(In housing).
	
The Company collaborated with various validation and testing agencies to enhance its R&D capabilities. Some 
of them are mentioned below:
	
a)	
Organized the Startup India Design Challenge in partnership with Start-Up India. This helped to focus on 
critical areas of technology through project-based engagements.
	
b)	
Access to 3 (Three) startups who are working on prototypes.
	
c)	
It has helped the company gain critical insights into new technology development and provided access to 
ready-to-test prototypes.
	
d)	
70% of the R&D expenditure is directed towards sustainable technologies, specifically the energy efficiency 
of fans, lighting and appliances.
(H in Crore)
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of 
improvements in 
environmental 
and social 
impacts
R&D
60.42
38.14
-
Capex
24.24
33.23
-
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
	
	
38.31%
332 - 333
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste
	
The Company holds valid authorizations for Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) concerning both electronic 
waste (e-waste) and plastic waste management. In alignment with these responsibilities, CGCEL collaborates 
with recyclers approved by the Pollution Control Board (PCB) to ensure the proper channelization and recycling 
of such waste materials.
	
Additionally, the Company’s facilities are engaged with PCB-authorized agencies for the disposal of both 
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. The Company is currently in the process of compiling the necessary 
terms and conditions to formalize these engagements.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same? 
	
Yes, the Company has systematically made progress to comply with EPR obligations.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ To Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of Product/ Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/ No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/ No)
If yes, provide the  
web-link.
27503
Ceiling Fan (2 Variants)
32.00
Cradle to Grave
Yes
No
27339
LED Lighting (2 Variants)
3.00
28110
Residential Pump
5.00
27502
Storage Water Heater
5.00
27501
Mixer Grinder
3.00
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/ or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) or through any 
other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
Not applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry)
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No recycled or reused 
input material is being 
used
No recycled or reused 
input material is being 
used
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics including packaging)
NA
1,347 MT
NA
NA
2,015.64 MT
NA
E-waste
NA 26,046.80 MT
NA
NA 15,816.60 MT
NA
Hazardous waste
NA
NA
264 MT
NA
260 MT
260
Other waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total 
products sold in respective category
No products reclaimed
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
Essential Indicators 
1. a.	Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities**
Number 
(B)
% 
(B / A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C / A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D / A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F /A)
Permanent employees
Male
1,722
1,722
100
1,722
100
NA
NA
1,722*
100
Yes
Yes
Female
171
171
100
171
100
171
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
1,893
1,893
100
1,893
100
171
9.03
1,722
90.97
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
873
0
0
873
100
NA
NA
873
100
Yes
Yes
Female
166
0
0
166
100
166
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
1,039
0
0
1,039
100
166
15.98
873
84.02
-
-
	
*Employees can avail leave from their leave pool
 
** Available at applicable locations
334 - 335
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health  
insurance
Accident  
insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity
Benefits
Day Care
facilities**
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
389
389
100
389
100
0
0
389*
100
0
0
Female
51
51
100
51
100
51
100
0
0
0
0
Total
440
440
100
440
100
51
100
389
100
0
0
Other than Permanent workers
Male
2,744
2,744#
100#
2,744
100
0
0
2,744
100
0
0
Female
936
936#
100#
936
100
936
100
0
0
0
0
Total
3,680
3,680#
100#
3,680
100
936
100
2,744
100
0
0
 
* Employees can avail leave from their leave pool
 
**Available at applicable locations
	
#Health Insurance is covered under Government social security scheme (ESIC)
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format 
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
0.47
0.45
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
ESI
Eligibility as per ESIC Act
Eligibility as per ESIC Act
Others – please specify – 
Employee compensation
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/ offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken 
by the entity in this regard
	
The Company is implementing appropriate measures to provide its employees with a better, more accessible 
work Environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
If so, provide a web-link to the policy
	
The Company is committed to creating a culture of fairness, openness, and transparency for all employees, 
including potential candidates. The selection process is based solely on merit—qualification, performance, 
and capability. The Company actively works to prevent discrimination in employment, promotion, transfer, 
training and working conditions. The Company is also committed in ensuring that the wages, work hours, 
and social benefits adhere to local laws, regulations, and market standards. The Company has Human 
Rights policy in place which includes equal opportunity as one of the key principles. The link to the policy is 
Human_Rights_Policy.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to 
work rate
Retention 
rate
Return to 
work rate
Retention 
rate
Male
100
100
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
The Company encourages transparency at all levels. Employees are 
urged to discuss their concerns with their managers, Workers are 
encouraged to share their issues with the worker representative, the 
respective primary manager, or the HR SPOC available in different 
locations. Workers who are engaged on a contractual basis can share 
their concerns with the contractor representative or the Company HR 
SPOC, such as supervisors and contractors. Appropriate actions are 
taken against any employee or workers whose actions are proved to 
be violating the COC.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/ A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/ C)
Total Permanent Employees
1,893
0
0
1,779
0
0
-	
Male
1,722
0
0
1,654
0
0
-	
Female
171
0
0
125
0
0
Total Permanent Workers
440
391
88.86
459
410
89.32
-	
Male
389
340
87.40
401
352
87.78
-	
Female
51
51
100
58
58
100
336 - 337
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
No. (E)
% (E/ D)
No. (F)
% (F/ D)
Employees
Male
1,722
1,020
59.23
1,398
81.18
1,654
1,440
87.06
1,226
74.12
Female
171
171
100
49
28.65
125
51
40.80
38
30.40
Total
1,893
1,191
62.92
1,447
76.44
1,779
1,491
83.81
1,264
71.05
Workers
Male
391
391
100
278
71.10
401
401
100
401
100
Female
52
52
100
0
0
58
58
100
58
100
Total
443
443
100
278
62.75
459
459
100
459
100
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/ C)
Employees
Male
1,722
1,722
100
1,654
1,654
100
Female
171
171
100
125
125
100
Total
1,893
1,893
100
1,779
1,779
100
Workers
Male
Salary revision happens  
as per the LTS terms
Salary revision happens  
as per the LTS terms
Female
Total
10.	 Health and safety management system
	
(a)	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the 
entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
The Company acknowledges the fact that the identification of work-related hazards is crucial for ensuring 
the safety of its people. Each plant implements Aspect Impact and HIRA, i.e. identifying hazards, assessing 
risks and defining controls, to ensure that EHS operations are conducted with care.
	
	
Every manufacturing location has an occupational health and safety management system that is compliant 
with ISO 45001, and all locations are ISO 45001 certified.
	
(b)	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and  
non-routine basis by the entity?
	
	
Process- Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment (HIRA) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
	
	
The Company’s EHS Manual (KAVACH) covers all EHS processes. Under KAVACH, the risk assessment process 
is elaborated with departmental and individual roles and responsibilities, monitoring control measures, 
competency training and awareness of individuals associated with such activities, all in support of our goal 
of preventing incidents, injuries, occupational disease, emergency control and prevention, and ensuring 
business continuity. For all activities, whether routine or irregular (permit and project activities), a trained 
cross-functional team identifies hazards, and risk assessment and management are carried out using 
HIRA, Job Safety Analysis (JSA), Physical hazard analysis through check sheet (PHA), HAZOP for high risk and 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), which are referred to before beginning any activity. Apart from this 
organisation, the Company has undertaken its own self-assessments in areas such as electrical safety, fire 
safety, machine safety, and so on.
	
(c)	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, the Company urges its employees/ workers to record near-miss situations discovered during various 
operations, which are then classified, and an action plan is developed and implemented to prevent a 
recurrence. Each manufacturing facility has a specific protocol in place for reporting work-related hazards, 
injuries, hazardous conditions, and unsafe activities.
	
(d)	 Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, all employees are covered under health insurance and ESI scheme.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person 
hours worked)
Employees
0.07
0.0
Workers
0.0
0.0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
1
0.0
Workers
0.0
0.0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0.0
Workers
0.0
0.0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employees
1
0.0
Workers
0.0
0.0
 
*Including in the contract workforce
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace
	
The Board-approved EHS Policy outlines the Company’s philosophy and commitment to important EHS 
standards. It assists the Company in strengthening EHS performance by creating objectives and targets and 
monitoring key performance indicators, resulting in the organisation-wide promotion of a safety culture. A 
thorough EHS scorecard has been implemented across all units, and its performance is evaluated each month, 
following which preventive and corrective actions are implemented as necessary. The Company adheres to 
the Work Permit System (WPS) and conducts daily toolbox discussions to promote a risk free work environment 
and culture. Safety-related performance is evaluated using a standard, data-driven method and lessons based 
on the current situation are delivered to employees in an effort to prevent similar incidents at work. Also, the 
Company is ISO 45001:2018 certified and conducts regular safety training programs for employees at all levels, 
Routine inspections of the workplace are carried out to identify and address potential hazards, Safety Equipment 
Provision etc.
338 - 339
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
No complaints have been received
No complaints have been received
Health Safety
14.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties)
Health and safety practices
100
(TUV NORD conducted assessment for ISO 45001)
Working Conditions
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and 
on significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions
	
The objective is to create an EHS-oriented mindset focused on engineering control, zero accidents, and 
behaviour control, supported by people. The Company has a safety manual called Kavach covering all aspects 
of safety. Daily incident reporting, safety, behaviour observations and theme-based awareness campaigns 
are conducted. Safety compliance is ensured through gap analysis, warehouse safety evaluation, and OH&S 
management system compliance with ISO 45001:2018. Regular audits and legal compliance checks are 
conducted. The safety culture is promoted through zero-tolerance policies, leading and lagging indicators, and 
empowerment of safety officers.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) 
Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N) 
	
Yes
2. 
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners
	
Yes, the Company has a compliance tool to track all the legal compliances with proper dates. Stakeholders are 
trained to ensure compliance.
3. 
Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ ill-
health/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and 
placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers
No. of employees/workers that 
are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed 
in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment (Yes/ No)
	
The entity provides transition assistance programmes only in cases of retirement, and that too is need-based.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties)
Health and safety practices
100
Working Conditions
100
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners
	
The details of the corrective actions undertaken are as follows:
	
i)	
A vendor handbook encompassing EHS and sustainability check points has been issued as a pre-qualification 
procedure addressing required law compliance.
	
ii)	
The gap after assessment is communicated and an action plan for compliance is prepared and acted on.
	
iii)	
The Company also carries out assessment as per the internal EHS audit procedures and all the observations 
and non conformances are properly recorded and notified.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity
	
The Company adopts a systematic approach to identify key stakeholder groups vital for its operations. Initially, 
the Company consults extensively with its management team, following these steps:
	
i)	
Compiling a comprehensive list of stakeholders.
	
ii)	
Categorising stakeholders into internal and external groups.
	
iii)	
Prioritising stakeholder groups based on their significance to the Company’s operations and objectives.
	
These primary stakeholders encompass consumers (both B2B and B2C), employees, shareholders/ investors, 
suppliers, the community, governments/ regulators.
	
Moreover, the Company extends its stakeholder identification beyond primary groups through an in-depth 
analysis of its business environment, considering factors such as industry dynamics, market trends, and regulatory 
requirements. Through this process, the Company identifies other stakeholders closely linked to its operations, 
such as industry analysts, equity analysts, and the news media, serving as proxies for customers, shareholders, 
and society at large.
	
Additionally, the Company has established organisation-wide processes to facilitate open and constructive 
dialogue with stakeholders regularly. Engaging in such communication channels enhances the Company’s 
understanding of relevant issues and helps recognise the unique attributes of stakeholders contributing 
value. The Company consistently aims to understand their needs, expectations, and interests to improve 
business outcomes.
	
Furthermore, the Company’s stakeholder engagement strategy prioritises two-way communication, enabling 
the integration of diverse perspectives into business practices effectively. This approach ensures that 
stakeholders feel valued and heard, fostering mutual benefits and sustainable relationships.
340 - 341
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/ No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly /
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
•	
Syncup (Internal portal)
•	
Emails
•	
Website
•	
Meetings/ Town hall briefings
•	
Employee engagement 
activities and surveys
•	
Team building, workshops,
•	
Capability building and 
training
•	
Performance management 
system
•	
Employee newsletters
•	
Rewards and recognitions
•	
CSR through employee 
engagement
Continuous
Employees are the most important 
assets of the Company and are 
essential to its long-term success. 
They are critical to increasing the 
Company’s 
competitiveness 
and 
confirming its market leadership.
Community
Yes
•	
CSR initiatives
•	
Volunteering
Continuous
Empowering the community is critical 
to the Company’s long-term business 
sustainability. 
Through 
numerous 
upliftment projects and activities, 
the Company continues to develop 
enduring 
relationships 
with 
the 
communities and transform their lives.
Suppliers
No
•	
One to-one meetings
•	
Regular operational reviews
Continuous
The 
Company 
collaborates 
with 
the suppliers to maintain seamless 
business 
operations 
by 
ensuring 
effective and efficient procurement 
practices.
Consumers 
(B2B), (B2C)
No
•	
Customer engagement 
surveys
Continuous
Consumers’ purchasing habits have 
an influence on the Company, so it is 
critical to have continual contact with 
them to understand their needs and 
desires.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/ No)
Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly /
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Investors/ 
Shareholders
No
•	
Annual general meeting
•	
Financial result declarations
•	
Media releases
•	
Investor calls and meets
•	
One-on-one interactions & 
calls
•	
Group meetings
•	
Investor Conferences
•	
Non-Deal Roadshows
•	
Quarterly Results 
Declaration/ Earning calls
Ongoing
Investors are critical to our success 
and growth. The purpose of these 
engagements 
is 
to 
build 
mutual 
relationship with domestic & foreign 
investors, 
thereby 
enhancing 
their 
understanding of the business model 
as well as to provide updates on new 
business developments.
The management spends significant 
time with shareholders, analysts and 
investors to communicate the strategic 
direction 
of the 
business, 
capital 
allocation priorities and address any 
other queries that they might have 
regarding 
operations 
or 
financial 
performance.
During the year, the company has 
substantially increased their Investor 
engagement and have interacted with 
450+ institutional investors in India & 
abroad (excluding quarterly earnings 
calls and specific event related calls) 
and 40+ sell-side research analysts 
from various broker houses.
Strategic priorities include:
-	
High Return on investment
-	
Capital allocation
-	
Higher 
investments 
towards 
Brand building, R&D and People 
capabilities 
under 
Crompton 
2.0 strategy
-	
ESG impact
-	
Transparent disclosure for investors 
to 
take 
informed 
investment 
decisions
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to 
the Board
	
The contributions of stakeholders were utilised to determine the Company’s material subjects. The outcome 
of this exercise in materiality was transformed into policies by utilizing several other worldwide standards and 
needs. These helps form a framework that is specific to the Company. Also, these frameworks are presented to 
the Board for discussion and approval.
342 - 343
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity
	
After stakeholder consultation, the Company has identified significant environmental and social concerns. 
Material topics were shortlisted and prioritised according to their influence on stakeholders and businesses.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups
	
There are no reportable concerns of vulnerable marginalised groups. However, the Company undertakes various 
CSR activities in local areas that serve the vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder group.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format
	
The Company operates in an open, fair, and transparent manner and is dedicated to upholding the highest 
ethical standards and practices. To expose unethical conduct and encourage professionalism and ethical 
behaviour among its staff, the whistle-blower and code of conduct policies are in place.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
No. (E)
% (E/ D)
No. (F)
% (F/ D)
Employees
Permanent
1,893
-
-
1,893
100
1,779
-
-
1,779
100
Male
1,722
-
-
1,722
100
1,654
-
-
1,654
100
Female
171
-
-
171
100
125
-
-
125
100
Other than Permanent
1,039
-
-
1,039
100
1,235
-
-
1,235
100
Male
873
-
-
873
100
1,068
-
-
1068
100
Female
166
-
-
166
100
167
-
-
167
100
Workers
Permanent
440
-
-
440
100
459
-
-
459
100
Male
389
-
-
389
100
401
-
-
401
100
Female
51
-
-
51
100
58
-
-
58
100
Other than Permanent
3,680
-
-
3,680
100
2,489
-
-
2,489
100
Male
2,744
-
-
2,744
100
1,846
-
-
1,846
100
Female
936
-
-
936
100
643
-
-
643
100
3.	
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages
a.	
Median remuneration/ wages
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD)
7
22,93,306
2
24,30,000
Key Managerial Personnel
2
 4,43,90,010
1
 79,91,448
Employees other than BoD and KMP
1,720
12,06,960
170
16,85,256
Workers
389
4,23,120
51
5,88,036
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
10.23
8.53
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/ No)
	
No, the Company does not have a focal point responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues whereas 
the Company is aware of how severe violations of human rights are. To maintain a safe and productive workplace, 
the Company has adopted a COC, POSH policy and a whistle-blower policy.
	
To familiarise the employees with POSH and whistle‑blower policies as well as the implications of human rights 
issues, the Company also offers training on these topics. Human rights are a sensitive topic, and the Company 
has zero tolerance for human rights violations. Human rights are one of the Company’s key focus areas. Any 
human rights violation, wherever reported, shall be investigated by the Management following the COC policy 
of the Company.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
The Company is committed to supporting internationally accepted human rights principles and standards. 
It has also established procedures and processes to ensure that no human rights violations occur throughout 
the Company’s operations. The Company’s POSH and whistle-blower policies aid employees in reporting 
complaints. All grievances are addressed as and when received by the respective manufacturing unit heads, 
project managers, and business unit heads through Admin/ IR in coordination with HR. All the grievances received 
are duly investigated, and appropriate actions are taken to resolve the issue or complaint. Whenever required, 
disciplinary actions are initiated as deemed fit, and assistance from regulatory authorities is sought.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the
end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the
end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
NIL
NIL
3
NIL
NIL
Discrimination at workplace
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
344 - 345
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the
end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the
end of year
Remarks
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Wages
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other human rights related issues
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
1
3
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
100
66.67
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
NIL
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
	
The Company’s whistle-blower policy has clearly laid down the guidelines to prevent retaliation against a 
complainant. A complainant has the right to complete anonymity unless required by law enforcement agencies. 
The organisation prohibits retaliation against a complainant, such as threats of physical harm, loss of job, 
punitive work assignments, or impact on salary or wages. The Company has Human Rights policy in place which 
includes non-discrimination as one of the key principles. The link to the policy is Human_Rights_Policy.pdf
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/ No)
	
No. However, the Company strongly believes that suppliers and vendors are an integral part of its business and 
contribute to its growth and viability. Regular engagement activities are organized with suppliers and vendors.
10.	 Assessments for the year
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Forced/involuntary labour
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Sexual harassment
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Discrimination at workplace
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Wages
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Others – please specify
NA
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above
	
No complaints related to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, or discriminatory employment were 
received during the reporting year, and none are pending at the end of the reporting year.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints
	
The Company regularly updates its employees about the Code of Conduct through various training programmes.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted
	
None
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, the premises and offices are accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
Particulars
% of value chain partners  
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
The Company expects its value chain partners to adhere to the same values, 
principles and business ethics upheld by the Company in all their dealings. No 
specific assessment with respect to value chain partners has been carried out.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above
	
No corrective action pertaining to Question 4 was necessitated by the Company during the year under review.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
33.90 GJ
33.16 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)
NA
NA
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
NA
NA
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
33.90 GJ
33.16 GJ
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
32,658.33 GJ
32,144.89 GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
2,473.55 GJ
7,007.7 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NA
NA
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
35,131.88 GJ
39,152.59 GJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
35,165.78 GJ
39,185.75 GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations)
(Intensity Unit (GJ / INR Crs.)
5.00
6.13
346 - 347
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(Intensity Unit (GJ / Million USD)
10.34*
NA
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.00
0.00
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
*The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by 
the IMF for India which 20.66 for the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. - 
	
This is not applicable to the Company as it does not fall under the PAT scheme of the Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
34,915.16
39,169
(iii)	Third party water
49,211.34
28,561
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
84,126.5
67,730
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
81,400.7
64,264
Water intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations)
(Intensity Unit (KL / INR Crs.)
11.58
10.06
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(Intensity Unit (KL / Million USD)
23.93*
NA
Water intensity in terms of physical output
0.00
0.00
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
 
*The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by the IMF for India which 
20.66 for the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii) To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(iii) To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv) Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
2725.8 KL to 
CETP
3466 KL to CETP
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v) Others
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
26,854.14 KL to 
Gardening & 
Toilet Flush
30484 KL to 
Gardening & 
Toilet Flush
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
29,579.94
33,950.00
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation
	
At present, the Company does not have a zero-liquid discharge mechanism. However, all its facilities use 100% 
of the treated water from STP and ETP within the premises for horticulture and toilet use. The Company follows 
all the necessary applicable guidelines and directions on maintaining the standards of STP and ETP, as required 
by CPCB and SPCBs. Company is also working on reduction of water consumption at the facility by using the 
waterless urinal, identification of water leakage etc.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
(Unit for last year: KG)
Parameter
Please 
specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
Kg
7.70
NA
SOx
Kg
49.32
22
Particulate matter (PM)
Kg
15.32
NA
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
NA
NA
Others – please specify
-
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3,  
if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
767.69
3,660.00
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3,  
if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
6,595.17
3,927.02
348 - 349
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from operations)
(Intensity Unit (Metric Tonnes Eq. / INR Crs.)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/ 
Crore INR
1.05
1.14
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)
(Intensity Unit (Metric Tonnes Eq. / Million USD)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/ 
Crore INR
2.16*
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
NA
0.00
0.00
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
NA
 
*The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by the IMF for India which 
20.66 for the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details
	
The Company’s innovative products (fans, lighting, pumps and appliances) help to avoid nearly 6% of its GHG 
emissions as compared to last year. At Vadodara and Kundiam Plant, the Company is using natural gas to reduce 
the GHG emissions, whereas in Ahilyanagar and Goa it is using solar.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
111.43
249.92
E-waste (B)
18.99
295.13
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.0171
0.01
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
31
Battery waste (E)
0
4.74
Radioactive waste (F)
NA
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
262.213
1
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
1,553.11
2,052.75
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
1,945.75
2,634.55
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
(Intensity Unit (Metric Tonnes / INR Crs.)
0.28
0.41
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(Intensity Unit (Metric Tonnes / Million USD)
0.57#
NA
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
0.00
0.00
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycled
1,683.53
1,700.5
(ii)	 Re-used
NA
NA
(iii)	Other recovery operations
NA
NA
Total
1,683.53
1700.5
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of 
disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
NA
(i)	 Incineration
0.0171
NA
(ii)	 Landfilling
NA
NA
(iii)	Other disposal operations
245.54*
NA
Total
245.56
NA
	
*Total hazardous waste generated is 262.21MT, disposed till March 2025 is 245.54MT, balance 16.67MT will be disposed in 
upcoming months.
	
#The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by the IMF for India which 
20.66 for the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Yes, TUV India Private Limited
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes
	
Company is consistently making sincere efforts to improve its resource efficiency, eco-friendly packaging and 
trash recycling. It is implementing numerous well-thought-out measures to enhance its waste management 
initiatives. The Company has improved its material efficiency, which has resulted in a decrease in industrial 
waste and raw material consumption, helped in waste segregation and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. 
The Company makes consistent efforts to track and regulate the use of hazardous substances and considers it 
essential to manage its resources responsibly since it benefits the environment, reduces the price of its products 
and ensures consumer acceptance.
	
The Company’s operational units are responsible for ensuring that all hazardous materials are delivered to a 
State Pollution Control Board-approved authorised disposal operator. The Company ensures responsible waste 
management practices involving 100% recycling of plastic waste as per EPR PWM. The disposal of e-waste is 
overseen by a licensed recycler who has been approved by the CPCB and awarded green certificates for the 
same. Moreover, the waste generated within the plant gets segregated at the source through colour-coded 
waste collection bins, awareness on waste management, disposal according to the law of the land, etc.
11.	 If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hot spots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format
S.
No.
Location of operations/ offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
No. The Company does not have any offices or plants located around ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA
Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
NA
350 - 351
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the 
following format
S.
No.
Specify the law/ regulation/ 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
non- compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action taken, 
if any
Yes, the Company complies with all the applicable environmental laws. No material fines were paid in F.Y. 2024-25.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres)
	
For each facility/ plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area- NA
	
(ii)	 Nature of operations- NA
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format - NA
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii)	Third party water
NA
NA
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i) Into Surface water
	
–	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
–	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii) Into Groundwater
	
–	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
–	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii) Into Seawater
	
–	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
–	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv) Sent to third-parties
	
–	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
–	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v) Others
	
–	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
–	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. - Yes, TUV India Private Limited
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
NA
NA
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
NA
NA
NA
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
NA
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.- Scope 3 emissions are not being reported by the Company.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, 
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with 
prevention and remediation activities.
	
NA
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please 
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format
Sr.
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
NA
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words web link
	
The Disaster Management Plan includes description of the institutional arrangements and discussions on various 
aspects of disaster management such as prevention, mitigation, preparedness, mainstreaming, capacity 
development and response. The company and all its manufacturing units have established a comprehensive set of 
actions and recommendations aimed at disaster risk reduction and ensuring effective response. Onsite & offsite 
emergency plan discloses any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the entity and mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken into consideration.
	
The Company and all its manufacturing sites are well equipped with on-site emergency plan which deals 
with measures to prevent and control emergencies within the factory and not affecting outside public or 
environment. As per applicability of manufacturing site the off-site emergency plan is made available which 
deals with measures to prevent and control emergencies affecting public and the environment outside the 
premises. Disaster recovery mechanisms are in place for critical business systems and periodic Evacuation and 
Fire Drills are carried out to simulate such events and ensure that processes and systems work as desired.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard
	
The Company has started EHS assessments for value chain partners under QA VPQ audits.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts
	
The Company has started EHS assessments for value chain partners under QA VPQ audits.
352 - 353
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
8.	
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured
	
i.	
By the listed entity- NIL
	
ii.	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners- NIL
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
The Company is well represented in several business and industry chambers and associations. The Company 
is affiliated with 11 (Eleven) trade and industry chambers and associations
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to
S.
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1.
Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association 
National
2.
Indian Pumps manufacturers association (IPMA)
National
3.
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
National
4.
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)
National
5.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
6.
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National
7.
The Advertising Standards Council of India
National
8.
Indian Society of Advertisers
National
9.
Indian Society of Lighting Engineers
National
10.
Electric lamps and components manufacturers of India (ELCOMA)
National
11.
Indian Fan Manufacturers Association (IFMA)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
For the Financial Year under review, the Company has not received any adverse order from regulatory bodies;  
hence, no corrective actions were required.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
S.
No.
Public policy  
advocated
Method resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by 
Board (Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if available
The Company proactively engages with various stakeholders including industry chambers, associations, government 
and regulatory bodies like BIS, BEE etc. and provides its inputs on various areas such as IS standards for Pumps.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA  
Notification No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web link
NA
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format
S.
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In INR)
NA
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
	
The Company executes several community programmes to develop healthy relationships with the community. 
It regularly interacts with people and communities and tries to address their concerns. The Company ensures 
timely actions are taken to address the concerns raised by communities
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
21.49
27
Directly from within India
99.28
97
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost*
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
NA
NA
Semi-urban
37.76
37.43
Urban
NA
NA
Metropolitan
62.24
62.57
 
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan)
 
*Only permanent employees are considered
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above)
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NA
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies
S.
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In K)
1.
Rajasthan
Sirohi
1,60,02,910
354 - 355
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) No
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? NA
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? NA
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge
S.
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes / No)
Basis of calculating benefit 
share
NA
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
S.
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from  
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable  
and marginalized groups
1.
Water Conservation
58,673
100
2.
Skill and Entrepreneurship Development 
6,396
100
3.
Community Care 
19,550
100
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback
	
Consumers are of utmost importance to the Company. It has established multiple channels for receiving and 
responding to customer complaints. The Company is using a customer relationship management system to 
ensure that all feedback is captured and assigned to the appropriate service associates for resolution. Also, 
WhatsApp bots streamline the process of registering service requests, and the Technician Mobile Application 
helps streamline the Company’s complaint resolution process. Additionally, a toll-free number is provided on the 
website and also on the product labels.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ service that carry 
information about
Particulars
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Plastic waste is 100% collected against CPCB targets.
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
Particulars
FY 2024-25
Remarks
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Advertising
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Cyber-security
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Delivery of essential services
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Restrictive Trade Practices
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Unfair Trade Practices
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other
33,23,954
6,716
27,74,927
3,322
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues
Particulars
Number
Reasons 
for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
NA
Forced recalls
NA
NA
	
There were no product recalls because of safety issues. The Company has a well-defined system of registering 
the complaints through toll-free number & online portal for logging complaints for all Crompton products. The 
Complaints are escalated to Authorised service centers and resolved within the time bound period depending 
on nature of complaint.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy?(Yes/ No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy
	
The Company has a privacy policy in place that offers various security strategies to ensure the data security of 
users and devices.
	
The policy is present on the Company’s website and can be accessed using this link: https://www.crompton.
co.in/privacy-policy/ 
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty/ action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/ services
	
Not applicable
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: NIL
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NIL
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available)
Company website
YouTube
356 - 357
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
 
Social media handles
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services
	
This information is provided in the Instructions/ Installation Manual which is supplied with all products. 
Installation manual given along with the product covers SOP to install & safely operate the product. Updating 
the information on the Product Communication in the form of User Manual, Catalogue etc., Official website, 
Marketing Communication, Sales Training, Customer Education through Installation services personnel etc.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services
	
There is a mechanism in place to release market circular to inform channel partners about Launch of New 
Products, Discontinuation of old Stock Keeping Units, Change in Authorised Listing Price etc.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard 
to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/ services of the entity, significant locations of 
operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company ensures that the information required to be displayed in the product is mentioned on its labels 
or manuals.
	
All the Company’s products that need installation are sold with instruction manuals that contain detailed 
explanations on the safe installation and use of the products. It contains dos and don’ts to ensure the best 
usage. The Company also suggests optimum product ratings to be used in the case of fixtures that are sold 
without light sources. Also, mandatory information and information related to product usage are provided on 
the Company’s website and through various documents (like catalogues, brochures, etc.). In B2B, due to the 
nature of working, which depends on the projects, the products display information required as per BIS and the 
Legal Metrology Act.
	
The mandated product information is displayed on rating plate fixed on product. The instructions about how to 
operate the product safely are mentioned on the product.
	
The additional information/ safety instructions mentioned on the product is as below:
	
1.	
Direction of rotation of motor.
	
2.	
Do not run the pump unless filled with water.
	
3.	
Pour clean & dust free water through water filling plug.
	
4.	
Check for 1mm lift after coupling the pump set.
	
5.	
Fitted with Thermal overload protector.
	
6.	
Run the pump for 30sec minimum daily.
	
7.	
Do not install the pump without strainer.
	
8.	
Do not use float ball cock valve in delivery pipe.
	
The Company carries out the consumer immersion programs to understand the pain points of consumer & what 
improvement needs to be made in product which will add value to consumer.
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements
360
Consolidated Financial Statements
448
Independent Assurance Statement
538
GRI Content Index
544
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
360 - 361
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of  
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Standalone 
Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, including Other Comprehensive 
Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement 
of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, including summary of 
material accounting policy accounting policy and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Standalone Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
Standalone Financial Statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards 
prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the 
Company as at March 31, 2025, and its profit (including 
other comprehensive income), changes in equity and its 
cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section 
of our report. We are independent of the Company 
in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code of 
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by 
us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for 
the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to 
be communicated in our report.
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters were addressed in our audit
1
Assessment of recoverability of the carrying value of 
investments in subsidiary and other intangible assets
(Refer Notes 2D and 3A to the Standalone Financial 
Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has H 1,914.01 crores 
of investments in its subsidiary company, Butterfly 
Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”), and 
carries Trademarks of H 32.91 crores with indefinite useful 
life purchased on acquisition of the said subsidiary.
The Company’s evaluation of the impairment of its 
investments in Butterfly and recoverability of Trademarks 
involves a comparison of its expected recoverable values 
with its carrying values. The recoverable amount of the 
investment is based on value in use (ViU) calculations 
determined based on a discounted cash flow with 
exit multiple method. Determination of ViU involves 
significant estimates, assumptions and judgements 
as regards reasonableness of assumptions involved in 
developing projections of entity’s financial performance, 
exit multiples, and discount rates to be considered.
Considering the uncertainty involved in forecasting 
cash flows and the judgement involved with respect 
to key assumptions used in computing the recoverable 
amount, this audit area is considered a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the impairment process 
and evaluated the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the Company’s 
review of impairment analysis.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the estimated revenue 
and margin projections, the historical accuracy of the 
estimates and its ability to produce accurate long-term 
forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts to assist in examining 
and challenging the reasonableness of the Company’s 
valuation model and reviewing the underlying basis for 
key assumptions, including exit multiplier and discount 
rate.
d)	 Reviewed sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from changes 
to key assumptions applied and compared the assumptions 
to corroborating information including industry reports 
and data from competitors, historic performance, local 
economic developments and industry outlook.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating cash 
flow forecasts with the business plan and budgets approved 
by the Board and tested the mathematical accuracy of 
management’s calculations.
f)	 Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the 
disclosures made in the Standalone Financial Statements.
2
Goodwill
(Refer Notes 2C and 33 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements)
The goodwill balance as of March 31, 2025 of Rs 779.41 
crores pertains to demerger of the Consumer Business 
from Crompton Greaves Limited (now CG Power and 
Industrial Solutions Limited) and Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited in 2015.
Carrying value of goodwill is material as at March 31, 
2025 and inherent uncertainty is involved in forecasting 
and discounting future cash flows, determination of 
discount and terminal growth rates for computing the 
value and the assessment of its recoverability. This audit 
area is considered a key audit matter.
The Company has carried out an impairment assessment 
using the value-in-use (ViU) calculations which is based 
on Discounted Cash Flow with Exit Multiple Method. 
Determination of ViU involves significant estimates, 
assumptions and judgements as regards reasonableness 
of assumptions involved in developing projections 
of entity’s financial performance, exit multiples, and 
discount rates to be considered.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the process of impairment 
assessment and evaluated the design, implementation 
and operating effectiveness of internal controls over the 
accounting and impairment for goodwill arising out of 
business reconstruction transaction.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the future revenue and margin 
projections, the historical accuracy of the estimates and 
its ability to produce accurate long-term forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts to assist in examining 
and challenging the reasonableness of the Company’s 
valuation model and reviewing the underlying basis for key 
assumptions, including terminal growth rates and discount 
rates.
d)	 Reviewed sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from 
changes to key assumptions applied and compared the 
assumptions to corroborating information including 
industry reports and data from competitors, historic 
performance, local economic developments and industry 
outlook.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating cash 
flow forecasts with the business plan and budgets approved 
by the Board and tested the mathematical accuracy of 
management’s calculations.
f)	 Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the 
disclosures made in the Standalone Financial Statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
362 - 363
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matters
How the Key Audit Matters were addressed in our audit
3
Provision for Warranties
(Refer Note 13 to Standalone Financial Statements)
The Company’s business involves the sale of products 
under warranty. The Company also has back-to-
back contractual arrangements with its vendors for 
reimbursement of costs relating to products supplied by 
the vendors.
Warranty provisions, which are inherently judgmental 
in nature, are provided by the Company to record an 
appropriate estimate of the costs of repairing and 
replacing products and spares within the warranty 
period. The Company estimates and provides for liability 
for product warranties in the year in which the products 
are sold. Further, the timing of outflows will vary based 
on the actual warranty claims made during the warranty 
period in the future.
The above estimations of warranty provision require 
significant judgement considering the nature and 
timing of the cash outflows. Also, there is estimation 
uncertainty as regards to the timing and the amount of 
the actual warranty claims that may devolve over the 
warranty period. Accordingly, provision for warranties 
has been determined by us to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the warranty claims 
process and evaluated the design, implementation and 
operating effectiveness of internal controls over the 
provision for warranties.
b)	 Reviewed the historical data of warranty costs incurred in 
regard to the product sales, the trend of claims over the 
warranty period and the comparison between provisions 
previously recognised and actual expenses. Also reviewed 
the historical data of recoveries from vendors against 
warranty claims and defective returns.
c)	 Reviewed reconciliations of sales made during the year 
with sales register to determine completeness on which 
warranty obligation is determined.
d)	 Performed enquiry procedures and reviewed relevant 
documents in evaluating the accuracy of historical 
information prepared by the management (including cost 
of repairs and returns).
e)	 Reviewed the recognition and appropriateness of 
provisions by verifying the computation of defect 
rates, vendors recovery and mathematical accuracy of 
management calculations and obtaining management 
statements, evidence and supporting documents.
f)	 Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the 
relevant disclosures made in the Standalone Financial 
Statements.
Information Other than the 
Standalone Financial Statements and 
Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis and Director’s 
report, but does not include the Standalone Financial 
Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone 
Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We 
have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and 
Board of Directors for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) 
of the Act with respect to the preparation of these 
Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and 
fair view of the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards 
specified under section 133 of the Act. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Standalone Financial Statement that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Management and Board of Directors is also 
responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial 
reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Standalone Financial Statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Standalone Financial Statements.
We give in “Annexure A” a detailed description of 
Auditor’s responsibilities for audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of section 143 of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we 
report that:
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit.
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books.
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including other comprehensive income, the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act.
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate Report in “Annexure C”.
(g)	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Note 
26 to the Standalone Financial Statements.
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-
term 
contracts 
including 
derivative 
contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Company.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
364 - 365
	
iv.	
(1)	
The Management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(2)	 The Management has represented, that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Funding Parties), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, as on the date 
of this audit report, that the Company 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(3)	 Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
and according to the information and 
explanations provided to us by the 
Management in this regard nothing has 
come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as 
provided under (1) and (2) above, contain 
any material mis-statement.
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year in respect of the same declared for 
the previous year is in accordance with section 
123 of the Companies Act 2013 to the extent it 
applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year which is 
subject to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to declaration 
of dividend (Refer Note 10(h) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements).
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Company has used certain 
accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions 
recorded 
in 
the 
software. 
Further, during the course of our audit we did 
not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with. Additionally, 
the audit trail has been preserved by the 
Company as per the statutory requirements 
for record retention.
3.	
In 
our 
opinion, 
according 
to 
information, 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by 
the Company to its directors is within the limits laid 
prescribed under Section 197 read with Schedule V 
of the Act and the rules thereunder.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWQ4521
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Annexure A 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited
Auditor’s Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgment 
and 
maintain 
professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	Ȣ
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	Ȣ
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 
143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.
	Ȣ
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management and 
Board of Directors.
	Ȣ
Conclude on the appropriateness of management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause the 
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
	Ȣ
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the Standalone 
Financial 
Statements 
represent 
the 
underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 
and are therefore, the key audit matters. We describe 
these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine 
that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWQ4521
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
366 - 367
Annexure B 
to Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025
[Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent 
Auditors’ Report]
i.	
(a)	 A.	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars including 
quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets.
	
	
B.	
The Company has maintained proper 
records 
showing 
full 
particulars 
of 
intangible assets.
	
(b)	 Property, plant and equipment and right 
of use assets were physically verified by 
the management according to a phased 
programme designed to cover all items over 
a period of three years which, in our opinion, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of 
the Company and the nature of its assets. 
Pursuant to the programme, a portion of 
property, plant and equipment have been 
physically verified by Management during the 
year. No material discrepancies were noticed 
on such verification.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, the title 
deeds of immovable properties (other than 
properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the lessee) as disclosed in the 
Standalone Financial Statements, are held in 
the name of the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not revalued its 
property, plant and equipment (including right 
of use assets) or intangible assets during the 
year. Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(i)(d) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(e)	
According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us, no proceeding 
has been initiated or pending against the 
Company for holding benami property under 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988, as amended and rules made thereunder. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(i)(e) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
ii.	
(a)	 The inventory (excluding stocks with third 
parties) has been physically verified by the 
management during the year. In respect of 
inventory lying with third parties, these have 
substantially been confirmed by them. In 
our opinion, the frequency, coverage and 
procedure of such verification is reasonable. 
The 
discrepancies 
noticed 
on 
physical 
verification of inventory as compared to book 
records were not 10% or more in aggregate for 
each class of inventory.
	
(b)	 During the year the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of 
H 5 crores in aggregate from Banks on the basis 
of security of current assets. Based on the 
records examined by us in the normal course of 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
quarterly returns / statements filed with such 
Banks are in agreement with the books of 
accounts of the Company.
iii.	
According to the information and explanation 
provided to us, the Company has not made any 
investments in, or provided any guarantee or 
security, or granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to 
companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or 
any other parties. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(iii) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
iv.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no loans, guarantees, and 
security in respect of which provisions of sections 
185 and 186 of the Act is applicable and accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3(iv) of the Order 
to that extent are not applicable to the Company. In 
respect of the investments made by the Company, 
in our opinion the provisions of Section 185 and 186 
of the Act have been complied with.
v.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has neither accepted 
any deposits from the public nor any amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits, within the 
meaning of Sections 73, 74, 75 and 76 of the Act 
and the rules framed there under. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(v) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company. Also, there are no 
amounts outstanding as on March 31, 2025, which 
are in the nature of deposits.
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central 
Government of India, the Company is required to 
maintain cost records as specified under Section 
148(1) of the Act in respect of its products. We have 
broadly reviewed the same, and are of the opinion 
that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and 
records have been made and maintained. We have 
not, however, made a detailed examination of the 
records with a view to determine whether they are 
accurate or complete.
vii.	 (a)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, in our opinion, undisputed 
statutory dues including goods and services 
tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, duty of customs, cess, and other 
material statutory dues have generally been 
regularly deposited with the appropriate 
authorities during the year, though there has 
been a slight delay in a few cases.
	
	
There are no undisputed amounts payable in 
respect of goods and services tax, provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, income-
tax, duty of customs, cess, and other material 
statutory dues in arrears as at March 31, 2025, 
outstanding for a period of more than six 
months from the date they became payable.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanation given to us and examination of records of the Company, the 
outstanding dues of income tax, goods and service tax, customs duty, excise duty, sales tax, value added 
tax, cess and any other material statutory dues, on account of any dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount 
Demanded 
K in crores
Amount 
paid under 
protest 
K in crores
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
The Income Tax Act, 
1961
Tax
113.79
23.28 FY 2010-11, 11-12, 13-
14, 14-15, 15-16, 16-17, 
17-18, 19-20, 20-21, 
21-22, 22-23
Income Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (Appeals), 
Commissioner of 
Income Tax (Appeals)
The Central Excise 
Act, 1944
Tax, Penalty
1.37
- FY 2000-01
Dy. Commissioner, 
Central Excise
The Central Excise 
Act, 1944
Tax
5.23
- FY 2016-17 and  
2017-18
Commissioner of 
Central GST
Goods and Service 
Tax
Tax, Interest and 
penalty
91.09
4.71 FY 2017-18, 2018-19, 
2019-20, 2020-21
Commissioner 
Appeals
The Customs Act, 
1962
Duty and 
Surcharge
10.10
4.02 FY 2017-18 to 2022-23
Commissioner 
Appeals
The Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956, Local 
Sales Tax Act, Works 
Contract Tax, Value 
Added Tax Acts and 
Local Body Tax
Tax and Penalty
138.39
18.08 FY 1998-99 to 1999-00, 
2001-02, 2003-04 to 
2017-18
Commissionerate 
(Appeals)
Tax
2.47
FY 1996-97, 2000-01, 
2002-03 to 05, 2008-09, 
2011-12, 2013-14
Tribunal
Tax
12.45
FY 2013-14, 2014-15, 
2015-16
High Court
viii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no transactions which are 
not accounted in the books of account which have 
been surrendered or disclosed as income during the 
year in Income-tax Assessment of the Company. 
Accordingly, the provision stated under clause 3(viii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and the records 
of the Company examined by us, the Company 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
368 - 369
has not defaulted in repayment of loans or 
borrowings or in payment of interest thereon 
to any lender.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our audit 
procedures, we report that the Company has 
not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank 
or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
	
(c)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us, no money 
was raised by way of term loans. Accordingly, 
the provision stated under clause 3(ix)(c) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanation 
provided to us, there are no funds raised 
during the year. Accordingly, the provision 
stated under clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanation 
given to us and on an overall examination of 
the Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company, we report that the Company has not 
taken any funds from an any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of 
its subsidiaries.
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, we 
report that the Company has not raised loans 
during the year on the pledge of securities held 
in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, reporting under 
Clause 3(ix)(f) of the order is not applicable to 
the Company.
x.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanation given to us, the Company did 
not raise any money by way of initial public 
offer or further public offer (including debt 
instruments) during the year. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(x)(a) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on our examination of 
the records of the Company, the Company 
has not made any preferential allotment or 
private placement of shares or fully, partly, or 
optionally convertible debentures during the 
year. Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(x)(b) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	
Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance 
with 
the 
generally 
accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, we 
report that no material fraud by the Company or 
on the Company has been noticed or reported 
during the year in the course of our audit.
	
(b)	 Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according to 
the information and explanations given to 
us, a report under Section 143(12) of the Act, 
in Form ADT-4, as prescribed under rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
was not required to be filed with the Central 
Government. 
Accordingly, 
the 
provisions 
stated under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	
We have taken into consideration the whistle 
blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year while determining the nature, 
timing, and extent of audit procedures.
xii.	
The Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3(xii)(a) to (c) of 
the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on our examination of the 
records of the Company, transactions with the 
related parties are in compliance with Sections 177 
and 188 of the Act, where applicable and details 
of such transactions have been disclosed in the 
Standalone Financial Statements as required by 
the applicable accounting standards.
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion and based on our examination, 
the Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business.
	
(b)	 We have considered the internal audit reports 
of the Company issued till the date of our audit 
report, for the period under audit.
Annexure B (Contd.)
xv.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, in our opinion, during the year, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with directors or persons connected 
with its directors and accordingly, the reporting on 
compliance with the provisions of Section 192 of 
the Act in clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is not required to be registered 
under Section 45 IA of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934 and accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order are 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company is not engaged in any Non-
Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities 
during the year and accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3 (xvi)(b) of the Order are 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3 (xvi)(c) of 
the Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Group (as defined in the 
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016) does not have any Core 
Investment Company as part of its group. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(xvi)(d) of the order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xvii.	 Based on the overall review of Standalone Financial 
Statements, the Company has not incurred cash 
losses in the current financial year and in the 
immediately preceding financial year. Accordingly, 
the provisions stated under clause 3(xvii) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xviii) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial 
ratios (as disclosed in note 38 to the Standalone 
Financial 
Statements), 
ageing 
and 
expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying 
the 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements, our knowledge of the Board of 
Directors and management plans and based on 
our examination of the evidence supporting the 
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, 
which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that Company is not capable of meeting 
its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Company. We further state that our 
reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor 
any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they 
fall due.
xx.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on our verification, the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Act, are applicable 
to the Company. The Company has made the 
required contributions during the year and there 
are no unspent amounts which are required to be 
transferred either to a Fund specified in schedule VII 
of the Companies Act, 2013 the Act or to a Special 
Account as per the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 the Act read with schedule 
VII to the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(xx)(a) and 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is 
not applicable in respect of audit of Standalone 
Financial Statements. Accordingly, no comment 
in respect of the said clause has been included in 
the report.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWQ4521
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
370 - 371
Annexure C
to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited
[Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent 
Auditors’ Report of even date to the Members of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited on the 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025]
Report on the Internal Financial 
Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (“the 
Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 
2025, based on the internal control with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements criteria established by 
the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the 
“Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’).
Management’s and Board of 
Directors’ Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal control 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note issued by ICAI. These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued 
by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
Standalone 
Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference 
to 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
With reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements
A company's internal financial control with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed 
to 
provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
regarding 
the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
Standalone Financial Statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company's internal financial control with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company's assets that could have a material effect on 
the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal 
Financial Controls With reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWQ4521
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
372 - 373
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
I.	
ASSETS
	
(1)	Non-current assets
	
	
(a)	Property, plant and equipment
2 A
257.67
217.92
	
	
(b)	Capital work-in-progress
2 E
6.30
5.90
	
	
(c)	 Right-of-use assets
2 B
150.92
70.46
	
	
(d)	Goodwill
2 C
779.41
779.41
	
	
(e)	 Other intangible assets
2 D
81.95
52.47
	
	
(f)	 Intangible assets under development
2 F
16.77
45.09
	
	
(g)	Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 A
1,928.21
1,928.21
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 A
10.55
12.65
	
	
	
(iii)	Other financial assets
4 A
9.22
12.56
	
	
(h)	 Deferred tax assets (net)
17 D
64.24
54.56
	
	
(i)	 Non-current tax assets (net)
17 F
8.62
8.62
	
	
( j)	 Other non-current assets
5 A
68.78
80.73
	
Total non-current assets
3,382.64
3,268.58
	
(2)	Current assets
	
	
(a)	Inventories
6
771.92
698.00
	
	
(b)	Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 B
617.98
628.14
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 B
603.16
580.12
	
	
	
(iii)	Cash and cash equivalents
8
193.80
130.79
	
	
	
(iv)	Bank balances other than (iii) above
9
145.04
84.48
	
	
	
(v)	 Other financial assets
4 B
35.12
19.86
	
(c)	 Current tax assets (net)
17 F
-
2.48
	
(d)	Other current assets
5 B
190.81
162.03
	
Total current assets
2,557.83
2,305.90
	
TOTAL ASSETS
5,940.47
5,574.48
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
II.	 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
(a)	Equity share capital
10
128.76
128.62
	
(b)	Other equity
11
3,475.29
3,076.86
	
Total equity
3,604.05
3,205.48
	
Liabilities
	
(1) Non-current liabilities
	
	
(a) Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i) Borrowings
12 A
-
298.97
	
	
	
(ii) Lease liabilities
29
132.33
50.08
	
	
	
(iii) Trade payables
14 A
	
	
	
	
(a)	Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
-
-
	
	
	
	
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
15.94
14.03
	
	
(b) Provisions
13 A
176.52
191.05
	
Total non-current liabilities
324.79
554.13
	
(2)	Current liabilities
	
	
(a)	Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i) Borrowings
12 B
299.81
300.00
	
	
	
(ii) Lease liabilities
29
34.22
30.40
	
	
	
(iii) Trade payables
14 B
	
	
	
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
235.90
220.02
	
	
	
	
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
1,089.36
952.43
	
	
	
(iv)	Other financial liabilities
15
61.25
71.58
	
	
(b)	Other current liabilities
16
131.54
100.53
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
13 B
112.20
111.50
	
	
(d)	Current tax liabilities (net)
17 F
47.35
28.41
	
Total current liabilities
2,011.63
1,814.87
	
Total liabilities
2,336.42
2,369.00
	
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
5,940.47
5,574.48
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
as at 31st March, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
374 - 375
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
 2024-25 
 2023-24 
Income
I.	
Revenue from operations
18
7,028.29
6,388.38
II.	 Other income
19
63.20
60.34
III.	 Total Income (I+II)
7,091.49
6,448.72
IV.	 Expenses
	
Cost of materials consumed
20
1,185.52
1,378.33
	
Purchase of stock-in-trade
21
3,644.79
3,135.17
	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
22
(69.43)
(100.59)
	
Employee benefits expense
23
534.89
474.21
	
Finance costs
24
42.79
72.77
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2
84.21
65.23
	
Other expenses
25
913.13
812.56
	
Total Expenses (IV)
6,335.90
5,837.68
V.	 Profit before tax (III-IV)
755.59
611.04
VI.	 Tax expenses:
17 A
	
Current tax
201.01
130.46
	
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
-
(0.78)
	
Deferred tax (credit) / charge
(8.60)
14.91
	
Total Tax expenses (VI)
192.41
144.59
VII.	Profit for the year (V-VI)
563.18
466.45
VIII. Other comprehensive income
	
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or (loss) 
	
(a)	Remeasurements (loss) / gain on defined benefit plans
(3.20)
0.73
	
(b)	Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently 
to profit or (loss)
17 B
1.08
(0.18)
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (VIII)
(2.12)
0.55
IX.	 Total comprehensive income for the year (VII + VIII)
561.06
467.00
X.	 Earnings per equity share (in K) of face value of K 2 each
32
	
1.	 Basic
8.75
7.29
	
2.	 Diluted
8.75
7.29
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity  
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(A)	Equity Share Capital
As at 31st March,  2025
As at 31st March, 2024
 No. of  
Shares 
 Amount  
K crore 
 No. of  
Shares 
 Amount  
K crore 
Balance as at the beginning of the reporting year
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 7,02,184 
 0.14 
 69,97,260 
 1.40 
Balance as at the end of the reporting year
 64,38,09,163 
 128.76 
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
(B)	Other Equity 
I Crore
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
comprehensive 
income
Total Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding 
account
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
gain / (loss) on 
defined benefit 
plans
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
0.05
209.51
139.12
2,361.15
1.92
2,711.75
Profit for the year
-
-
-
466.45
-
466.45
Dividends paid
-
-
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
Securities premium received
-
87.94
-
-
-
87.94
Amount transferred to / (from) Securities premium
-
64.03
(64.03)
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) Retained earnings
-
-
(2.92)
2.92
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive income for 
the year
-
-
-
-
0.55
0.55
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 23)
-
-
2.07
-
-
2.07
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
0.05
361.48
74.24
2,638.62
2.47
3,076.86
Profit for the year
-
-
-
563.18
-
563.18
Dividends paid
-
-
-
(192.97)
-
(192.97)
Securities premium received
-
20.23
-
-
-
20.23
Amount transferred to / (from) Securities premium
-
7.54
(7.54)
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) Retained earnings
-
-
(1.87)
1.87
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive income for 
the year
-
-
-
-
(2.12)
(2.12)
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 23)
-
-
10.11
-
-
10.11
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
0.05
389.25
74.94
3,010.70
0.35
3,475.29
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
376 - 377
H Crore
Particulars
 2024-25 
 2023-24 
[C] CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Add:	Inflows from financing activities
	
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock options
20.38
89.34
	
Proceeds from short-term borrowings
0.01
-
20.39
89.34
Less:	Outflows from financing activities
	
Payment of dividend to shareholders
192.97
191.16
	
Redemption of non-convertible debentures
300.00
325.00
	
Repayment of lease liabilities
48.15
37.32
	
Interest paid
45.35
69.51
586.47
622.99
Net cash used in financing activities
[C]
(566.08)
(533.65)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
63.01
86.73
( a )	
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period
130.79
44.06
( b )	
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
193.80
130.79
( c )	
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (c = b-a)
63.01
86.73
Components of cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year are:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
 103.80 
 57.79 
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
 90.00 
 73.00 
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)
 -   
 -   
Total cash and cash equivalents
 193.80 
 130.79 
Notes:
(i) 	 The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows as specified in the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards), Rules, 2015 (as amended).
(ii)	 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 2024
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 2025
Receipts
Payments
Unamortized 
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings  
(Refer Note 12A)
298.97
-
-
1.03
(300.00)
-
Current borrowings  
(Refer Note 12B)
300.00
0.01
(300.00)
(0.20)
300.00
299.81
Total
598.97
0.01
(300.00)
0.83
-
299.81
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
 2024-25 
 2023-24 
[A] CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
755.59
611.04
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
84.21
65.23
Finance costs
42.79
72.77
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
1.03
0.72
Share-based payments to employees
10.11
2.07
Net gain on sale or fair valuation of investments (net)
(30.53)
(24.33)
Interest income
(29.40)
(35.28)
Gain on termination of Right-of-use assets
(0.30)
-
Unrealised exchange loss/(gain)
0.16
0.58
78.07
81.76
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes
833.66
692.80
Adjustments for:
Increase in trade receivables
(20.94)
(47.48)
Increase in inventories
(73.92)
(79.25)
Increase in other financial and non financial assets
(23.25)
(49.75)
Increase in trade payables
154.60
278.46
Increase in other financial and non financial liabilities
35.54
29.20
(Decrease)/Increase in provisions
(17.03)
60.20
55.00
191.38
Cash generated from operations
888.66
884.18
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
(172.62)
(88.21)
Net cash generated from operating activities
[A]
716.04
795.97
[B] CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Add:	Inflows from investing activities
	
Interest received
25.19
39.20
	
Proceeds from current investments (net)
40.69
-
	
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
4.54
2.73
70.42
41.93
Less:	Outflows from investing activities
	
Purchase of current investments (net)
-
73.04
	
Decrease in other bank balances and term deposits
60.00
80.00
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
(including assets under development & capital advances)
97.37
64.48
157.37
217.52
Net cash used in investing activities
[B]
(86.95)
(175.59)
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
378 - 379
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
H Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 2023
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 2024
Receipts
Payments
Unamortized 
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings  
(Refer Note 12A)
597.18
-
-
1.79
(300.00)
298.97
Current borrowings  
(Refer Note 12B)
325.00
-
(325.00)
-
300.00
300.00
Total
922.18
-
(325.00)
1.79
-
598.97
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (the 
‘Company’ or ‘Crompton’) is a public limited company 
domiciled in India and incorporated on 25th February, 
2015 under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and is limited by shares, having its registered office at 
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai - 400 079.
The Company is a brand dealing in consumer electrical 
goods, home appliances, electronic equipment, and 
instruments including fans, water heaters, kitchen 
appliances, lighting luminaires and pumps (domestic/ 
agriculture/ 
industrial).Its 
broad 
product 
range 
caters to residential, commercial, and industrial 
sectors, highlighting its versatility. With a focus on 
quality, innovation, and customer satisfaction, the 
Company maintains a strong reputation as a trusted 
industry leader.
The Company's operations are spread across strategic 
locations in India, encompassing Bethora and Kundaim 
in Goa, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, Ahmednagar in 
Maharashtra, and Vadodara in Gujarat. Complementing 
these manufacturing endeavors is the Company's 
cutting-edge 
research 
and 
development 
facility, 
known as the 'Innovation Centre,' situated in Mumbai, 
Maharashtra. This integrated network of manufacturing 
and research facilities underscores the Company's 
commitment to excellence and its relentless pursuit of 
advancement and growth.
The shares of the Company are listed on National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited. 
Further, debt securities (non-convertible debentures) 
of the Company are also listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of the Company 
is L31900MH2015PLC262254.
The standalone financial statements of the Company 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 were approved for 
issue in accordance with the resolution of the Board of 
Directors on 15th May, 2025.
1.	
Material Accounting policies
1.1	 Basis of preparation
a)	
Basis of preparation
	
i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
The 
Company’s 
standalone 
financial 
statements have been prepared on going 
concern basis, in accordance with Indian 
Accounting 
Standards 
(Ind-AS) 
notified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the "Act") read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended and other relevant provisions of 
the Act. The Company’s standalone financial 
statements 
consistently 
apply 
uniform 
accounting policies across all periods.
	
ii)	
Basis of measurement
	
	
The standalone financial statements have 
been prepared on an accrual basis and a 
historical cost convention, except for the 
following assets and liabilities which have 
been measured at fair value:
	Ȣ
Financial instruments measured at fair 
value through profit or loss;
	Ȣ
Net defined benefit(asset)/ liability - Fair 
value of plan assets less present value of 
defined benefit obligation; and
	Ȣ
Share based payment transactions
	
iii)	
Current and non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as 
current or non-current as per the Company’s 
normal operating cycle, paragraph 66 and 
69 of Ind-AS 1 and other criteria as set out in 
Division II of Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013.
	
	
An asset is treated as current when it is:
	Ȣ
Expected to be realized or intended to be 
sold or consumed in normal operating cycle:
	Ȣ
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	Ȣ
Expected to be realized within twelve 
months after the reporting period; or
	Ȣ
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period.
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is treated as current when:
	Ȣ
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
380 - 381
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	Ȣ
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	Ȣ
It is due to be settled within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
	Ȣ
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period.
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
	
	
Based on the nature of products and the time 
between acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realization in cash and cash 
equivalents, the Company has ascertained its 
operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose 
of current or non-current classification of 
assets and liabilities.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified 
as non-current assets and liabilities.
	
iv)	
Presentation currency and rounding-off
	
	
All amounts disclosed in these standalone 
financial statements and notes are presented 
in J (in crore), the functional currency of the 
Company. Items included in the standalone 
financial statements of the Company are 
recorded using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Company 
operates (the ‘functional currency’).
	
	
All values are rounded off to two decimals as 
per the requirement of Division II of Schedule III 
to the Act, unless otherwise indicated.
b)	
Basis of presentation
	
The Balance sheet and the Statement of profit 
and loss are prepared and presented in the format 
prescribed in Division II of Schedule III to the Act. 
The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared 
and presented as per the requirements of Ind-
AS 7, Statement of Cash Flows. The disclosure 
requirements with respect to items in the Balance 
sheet and Statement of profit and loss, as prescribed 
in the Schedule III to the Act, are presented by way 
of notes forming part of the standalone financial 
statements along with the other notes required 
to be disclosed under the notified Accounting 
Standards and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
as amended.
1.2	 Summary of significant accounting estimates, 
assumptions, judgments and accounting policies
a)	
Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
	
The 
preparation 
of 
standalone 
financial 
statements requires the management to make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these judgements, 
assumptions 
and 
estimates 
could 
result 
in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of the asset or liability 
affected in future periods. Continuous evaluation 
is done on the estimation and judgments based on 
historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to 
be reasonable. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognized prospectively.
	
In particulars, information about material areas of 
estimates and judgments in applying accounting 
policies that have the most material effect on the 
amounts recognized in the standalone financial 
statements are described below:
	
i)	
Goodwill impairment
	
	
For testing of impairment of goodwill, if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate 
a potential impairment, as part of the review 
process, the carrying amount of the Cash 
Generating Units (‘CGUs’) (including allocated 
goodwill) is compared with its recoverable 
amount by the Company.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use, both 
of which are calculated by the Company using 
a discounted cash flow analysis. Calculating 
the future net cash flows expected to be 
generated to determine if impairment exists 
and to calculate the impairment involves 
material 
assumptions, 
estimation 
and 
judgment. The estimation and judgments 
involve, but are not limited to, industry trends 
including 
pricing, 
estimating 
long-term 
revenues growth rates, exit multiples and 
operating results. The estimated cash flows 
are developed using internal forecasts. The 
cash flows are discounted using a discount 
rate in order to compute present values. An 
impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods as per Ind-AS 
36 – ‘Impairment of assets’.
	
ii)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provision is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to 
sales for the same types of goods depending 
upon 
the 
warranty 
period 
offered. 
The 
percentage to the sales is applied to derive 
the warranty expense to be accrued. Actual 
warranty claims are settled against warranty 
provision. The warranty claims may not exactly 
match the historical warranty percentage, 
so such estimates are reviewed annually for 
any material changes in assumptions and 
likelihood of occurrence.
	
	
The closing warranty provision is bifurcated 
into current and non-current based on the 
past settlement trend with the non-current 
portion being discounted to derive the present 
value. The assumptions are consistent with 
prior years. (Refer Note 13)
	
	
Estimates 
are 
made 
of 
the 
expected 
reimbursement claim based upon historical 
levels of recoveries from supplier, applied to 
the volume of product under warranty as on 
Reporting date. Supplier reimbursements are 
recognized as separate asset as expected 
recoverable from vendors against warranty as 
recovery from the vendors is considered to be 
virtually certain.
	
	
Expected recoverable from vendors against 
warranty is bifurcated into current and non- 
current based on the past recovery trend with 
the non-current portion being discounted to 
derive the present value. The assumptions are 
consistent with prior years. (Refer Note 5)
	
iii)	
Estimates related to Share-based payments
	
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the 
most appropriate valuation model, which 
is dependent on the terms and conditions 
of the grant. This estimate also requires 
determination of the most appropriate inputs 
to the valuation model including the expected 
life of the share option, volatility and dividend 
yield and making assumptions about them. 
(Refer Note 34)
	
iv)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties 
exist 
with 
respect 
to 
the 
interpretation of tax regulations, changes 
in tax laws, and the amount and timing 
of future taxable income. Given the wide 
range of business relationships, differences 
arising between the actual results and the 
assumptions made, or future changes to 
such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. The Company establishes 
provisions based on reasonable estimates. 
The amount of such provisions is based on 
various factors, such as experience of previous 
tax audits and differing interpretations of 
tax regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. (Refer Note 17)
	
	
Recognition of deferred tax assets/ liability – 
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be 
recognized is based on an assessment of the 
probability of the future taxable income against 
which the deferred tax assets can be utilized.
	
v)	
Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations, 
key actuarial assumptions
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit plans such as 
gratuity and leave encashment are determined 
using 
actuarial 
valuations. 
An 
actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions 
that may differ from actual developments in 
the future. These include the determination 
of the discount rate, future salary increases 
and mortality rates. Due to the complexities 
involved in the valuation and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each year end.
	
	
The principal assumptions are the discount and 
salary growth rate. The discount rate is based 
upon the market yields available on government 
bonds at the accounting date with a term that 
matches that of liabilities. The salary increase 
rate takes into account of inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors on long 
term basis. (Refer Note 30)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
382 - 383
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
Detailed information about each of these 
estimates and judgements is included in 
relevant notes together with information about 
the basis of calculation for each affected line 
item in the standalone financial statements.
	
vi)	
Expected Credit Loss (ECL)
	
	
The Company recognises loss allowance 
using expected credit loss model for financial 
assets which are not measured at Fair Value 
Through Profit or Loss. Expected credit losses 
are weighted average of credit losses with the 
respective risks of default occurring as the 
weights. Credit loss is the difference between 
all contractual cash flows that are due to the 
Company in accordance with the contract and 
all the cash flows that the Company expects 
to receive, discounted at original effective 
rate of interest.
	
	
For Trade receivables, the Company measures 
loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses. The Company computes 
expected credit loss allowance based on a 
provision matrix which takes into account 
historical credit loss experience and is adjusted 
for forward-looking information. The expected 
credit loss allowance is based on ageing of 
receivables and the rates used in provision matrix. 
The assessment of the correlation between 
historical observed default rates, forecast 
economic conditions and ECLs is a significant 
estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to 
changes in circumstances and of forecast 
economic conditions. The Company’s historical 
credit loss experience and forecast of economic 
conditions may also not be representative of 
customer’s actual default in the future.
	
vii)	 Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
	
The Company reviews the useful life of 
property, plant and equipment at the end of 
each reporting period. This reassessment may 
result in change in depreciation expense in 
current and future periods.
	
viii)	 Impairment of Investment
	
	
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost, less accumulated impairment losses, if 
any. Where an indication of impairment exists 
the carrying amount of the investment is 
assessed and written down immediately to its 
recoverable amount.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use, both of 
which are calculated by the Company using a 
discounted cash flow analysis. Calculating the 
future net cash flows expected to be generated 
to determine if impairment exists and to 
calculate the impairment involves material 
assumptions, estimation and judgment. The 
estimation and judgments involve, but are not 
limited to, industry trends including pricing, 
estimating 
long-term 
revenues 
growth 
rates, exit multiple and operating results. 
The estimated cash flows are developed 
using internal forecasts. The cash flows are 
discounted using a discount rate in order to 
compute present values.
	
ix)	
Contingent Liabilities
	
	
It is not practicable for the Company to 
estimate the timings of cash outflows, if any, 
in respect of the pending resolution of the 
respective proceedings as it is determinable 
only on receipt of judgements/decisions 
pending with various forums/authorities.
	
	
The 
Company 
does 
not 
expect 
any 
reimbursements in respect of the contingent 
liabilities. The Company’s pending litigations 
comprise 
of 
proceedings 
pending 
with 
various direct tax, indirect tax and other 
authorities. The Company has reviewed all its 
pending litigations and proceedings and has 
adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities 
where applicable, in its standalone financial 
statements. The Company does not expect 
the outcome of these proceedings to have a 
materially adverse effect on its standalone 
financial statements.
	
x)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Company uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable.
	
xi)	
Intangible Assets Under Development
	
	
The 
Company 
capitalizes 
intangible 
asset under development for a project in 
accordance 
with 
the 
accounting 
policy. 
Initial capitalization of costs is based on 
management’s judgement that technological 
and economic feasibility is confirmed. In 
determining the amounts to be capitalized, 
management makes assumptions regarding 
the expected future cash generation of the 
project and the expected period of benefits.
b)	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) and Capital 
Work-in-Progress
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Land
	
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. For 
freehold land, as no finite useful life can be 
determined, related carrying amounts are 
not amortized.
	
	
Leasehold land is carried at historical cost. For 
leasehold land, cost of land amortized over 
lease term as per lease agreement.
	
	
Other tangible assets
	
	
PPE other than land, is initially recognized at 
acquisition cost or construction cost.
	
	
The cost of an item of PPE comprises:
	Ȣ
its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after 
deducting trade discounts and rebates.
	Ȣ
any costs directly attributable to bringing 
the asset to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating 
in the manner intended by management.
	
	
Where cost of a part of an asset (asset 
component) is material to total cost of the 
asset and useful life of that part is different 
from the useful life of the remaining asset, 
useful life of that material part is determined 
separately, and such asset component is 
depreciated over its separate useful life.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item 
to the location and condition necessary for 
it to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, are recognized in 
the Statement of profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the carrying 
amount of asset or recognized as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Company and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The 
carrying amount of any component accounted 
for as a separate asset is de-recognized when 
replaced. All other repairs and maintenance 
are charged to Statement of Profit and Loss 
during the year in which they are incurred.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (depreciation 
method, useful lives, residual value, and 
impairment)
	
	
PPE are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment 
losses, if any.
	
	
A depreciable amount for assets is the cost of 
an asset or other amount substituted for cost 
less its estimated residual value. Depreciation 
on PPE (other than leasehold land) is provided 
based on useful life of the assets as estimated 
by the management on Straight Line Method. 
The useful lives used are in agreement with 
those specified in Part ‘C’ of Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect 
of following category of property, plant and 
equipment where the useful life is considered 
differently based on technical evaluation, 
taking into account the nature of the asset 
and the estimated usage basis management’s 
best judgement of economic benefits from 
those classes of assets.
	
	
Management believes that such estimated 
useful lives are realistic and reflect a fair 
approximation of the period over which the 
assets are likely to be used.
	Ȣ
Plant and equipment - maximum 21 years
	Ȣ
Furniture and fixtures - maximum 15 years
	Ȣ
Office Equipment – maximum 10 years
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
384 - 385
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
Premium paid on leasehold lands are amortized 
over the period of lease. Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land are depreciated based 
on the management estimate of useful life, 
where the lease period is beyond the life of the 
building. In other cases, buildings constructed 
on leasehold land are amortized over the 
primary lease period of the land.
	
	
Depreciation on addition to/deductions from, 
owned assets is calculated pro rata to the 
period of use. The residual values, useful lives, 
and method of depreciation are reviewed at 
the end of each financial year, and the effect 
of any change in the estimates of useful life/ 
residual value is adjusted prospectively. PPE 
other than land is tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An item of PPE and any significant part initially 
recognized is de-recognized upon disposal 
or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising 
from de-recognition of an item of PPE is 
determined as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and is accordingly recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
v)	
Capital Work-in-Progress
	
	
PPE which are not ready for intended use as 
on the date of Balance sheet are disclosed as 
Capital work-in-progress.
	
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment outstanding 
at each reporting date is classified as capital 
advances under ‘other non-current assets’ and 
the cost of assets not put to use before such 
date are disclosed under ‘Capital work-in-
progress’.
c)	
Goodwill, other intangible assets and intangible 
assets under development
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill represents the future economic 
benefits arising from a business combination 
that are not individually identified and 
separately recognized. Goodwill is carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
(Refer Note 33 for a description of impairment 
testing procedures)
	
	
Other Intangible assets
	
	
Other intangible assets are initially measured 
at cost. Such assets are recognized where it is 
probable that the future economic benefits 
attributable to the assets will flow to the 
Company and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably.
	
	
The cost of an intangible asset comprises:
	Ȣ
its purchase price, including any import 
duties and other taxes (other than those 
subsequently recoverable from the taxing 
authorities)
	Ȣ
any directly attributable expenditure on 
making the asset ready for its intended use.
	
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business 
combination are recognized at fair value at 
the acquisition date.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item 
to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, are recognized in 
the Statement of profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only 
when it increases the future economic benefits 
embodied in the specific asset to which it 
relates. All other expenditures are recognized 
in the statement of profit or loss as incurred.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (amortization 
method, useful lives and residual value)
	
	
Intangible assets are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated amortization and 
impairment losses, if any.
Other intangible assets
Useful life (in years)
Product Development
Up to 5
Computer Software
5- 10
Trademarks
Indefinite
Technical knowhow
Indefinite
	
	
All intangible assets with finite useful life 
are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives, and a possible 
impairment is assessed if there is an indication 
that the intangible asset may be impaired. The 
amortization period and amortization method 
for all intangible assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date. Changes, if any, are accounted 
for as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Intangible assets for which there is no foreseeable 
limit to the period over which they are expected 
to generate net cash inflows are considered to 
have an indefinite life. The assessment of which 
is reviewed annually to determine whether 
it continues, if not, it is impaired or changed 
prospectively basis revised estimates.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An intangible asset is de-recognized on disposal, 
or when no future economic benefits are expected 
from use. Gains or losses arising from derecognition 
of an intangible asset, measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset, are recognized in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
v)	
Research and development cost
	Ȣ
Research cost
Revenue expenditure on research is charged 
to Statement of profit and loss under the 
respective heads of accounts in the period 
in which it is incurred.
	Ȣ
Development cost
Development 
expenditure 
on 
new 
product is capitalized as intangible asset, 
if the Company can demonstrate all of 
the following:
	»
the technical feasibility of completing 
the intangible asset so that it will be 
available for use or sale;
	»
its 
intention 
to 
complete 
the 
development of intangible asset and use 
or sell it;
	»
its ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
	»
How the asset will generate future 
economic 
benefits 
including 
the 
existence of a market for output of the 
intangible asset or the intangible asset 
itself or if it is to be used internally, the 
usefulness of the intangible asset;
	»
the availability of adequate technical, 
financial 
and 
other 
resources 
to 
complete the development and to use 
or sell the intangible asset; and
	»
its ability to measure the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset 
during the development reliably.
Development costs on the intangible assets, 
fulfilling the criteria are amortized over its 
useful life, otherwise are expensed in the 
period in which they are incurred.
	
vi)	
Intangible assets under development
	
	
Intangibles which are not ready for intended use 
as on the date of Balance sheet are disclosed 
as Intangible assets under development.
	
	
Advances 
paid 
for 
the 
acquisition/ 
development 
of 
intangible 
assets 
which 
are outstanding at the reporting date are 
classified under ‘Capital Advances’ under 
‘other non-current assets’.
d)	
Leases
	
The Company as a lessee:
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for land and buildings. The Company 
assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at 
inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset for a period of time 
in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
386 - 387
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset, the Company assesses whether:
	Ȣ
the contract contains an identified asset, which 
is either explicitly identified in the contract or 
implicitly specified by being identified at the 
time the asset is made available to the Company;
	Ȣ
the Company has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the 
identified asset throughout the period of use, 
considering its rights within the defined scope of 
the contract; and
	Ȣ
the Company has the right to direct the use of 
the identified asset throughout the period of use. 
The Company assesses whether it has the right 
to direct ‘how and for what purpose’ the asset is 
used throughout the period of use.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a Right-of-Use asset (‘ROU’) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For these short-
term and low value leases, the Company recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements include the option to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities include 
these options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
	
The Company makes an assessment of the 
expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis 
and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or terminate the 
contract will be exercised. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term 
reflects the current economic circumstances.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at 
or prior to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
The 
ROU 
assets 
are 
depreciated 
from 
the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life 
of the underlying asset. ROU assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose 
of impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e., the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual 
asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount 
is determined for the Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) 
to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized 
cost at the present value of the future lease 
payments. The lease payments are discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if 
not readily determinable, using the incremental 
borrowing rates in the country of domicile of these 
leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related ROU asset 
if the Company changes its assessment whether it 
will exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of 
the lease liability are made up of fixed payments 
(including in-substance fixed), variable payments 
based on an index or rate, amounts expected to 
be payable under a residual value guarantee and 
payments arising from options reasonably certain 
to be exercised.
	
Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability will 
be reduced for payments made and increased for 
interest. It is remeasured to reflect any reassessment 
or modification, or if there are changes in in-
substance fixed payments. When the lease liability 
is remeasured, the corresponding adjustment is 
reflected in the right-of-use asset, or profit and loss 
if the right-of- use asset is already reduced to zero.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Balance sheet and lease payments 
have been classified as financing cash flows.
e)	
Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity. 
Financial 
instruments 
also 
include 
derivative 
contracts such as foreign currency forward 
contracts, interest rate swaps and currency options; 
and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
	
Financial assets
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
All financial assets are recognized initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of financial assets 
not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, 
transaction costs that are attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset are expensed 
off in Statement of Profit and Loss. However, 
Company’s trade receivables that do not 
contain a significant financial component are 
measured at transaction price under Ind-AS 
115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that 
require delivery of assets within a time frame 
established by regulation or convention in 
the marketplace (regular way trades) are 
recognized on the trade date, i.e., the date 
that the Company commits to purchase or sell 
the asset.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in 
the following measurement categories:
	Ȣ
those measured at amortized cost, and
	Ȣ
those to be measured at fair value either 
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) 
or fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) on 
the basis of its business model for managing 
the financial assets and the contractual cash 
flow characteristics of the financial asset.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
After 
initial 
recognition, 
financial 
assets 
are measured at Fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income (‘FVOCI’) or through 
profit or loss (‘FVPL’) or amortized cost.
	
	
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL or 
at FVOCI are subject to review for impairment at 
least at each reporting date to identify whether 
there is any objective evidence that a financial 
asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
	Ȣ
Equity instruments
All equity investments in scope of Ind-
AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity 
instruments which are held for trading are 
classified as FVTPL.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at 
cost, less accumulated impairment losses, 
if any. Where an indication of impairment 
exists the carrying amount of the investment 
is assessed and written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount. On disposal of 
investments in subsidiaries, the difference 
between net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amounts are recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	Ȣ
Debt instruments
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortized cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
	»
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
	»
Contractual terms of the asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (‘SPPI’) on the principal 
amount outstanding.
	
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
	
Subsequent 
measurement 
of 
debt 
instruments depends on the Company’s 
business model for managing the asset 
and the cash flow characteristics of the 
asset. There are three measurement 
categories into which the Company 
classifies its debt instruments:
	»
Amortized cost
Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cash flows, where those 
cash flows represent solely payments 
of principal and interest, are measured 
at amortized cost.
These are measured by applying the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
The EIR method allocates interest 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
388 - 389
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
income over the relevant period by 
applying the EIR (that is the interest 
rate that exactly discounts expected 
future cash flows to the gross carrying 
amount of the asset).
A gain or loss on a debt investment 
(unhedged) 
that 
is 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortized 
cost 
is 
recognized 
in 
the 
Statement 
of 
profit and loss when the asset is de-
recognized 
or 
impaired. 
Interest 
income from these financial assets is 
included in finance income using the 
EIR method.
	»
Fair value through other 
comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’)
Financial assets that are held within 
a business model whose objective is 
achieved by both, selling financial 
assets 
and 
collecting 
contractual 
cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest, are subsequently 
measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive 
income. 
Fair 
value 
movements are recognized in the other 
comprehensive income (OCI).
Interest income is measured using the 
EIR method and impairment losses, if 
any are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. On derecognition, 
cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognized in OCI is reclassified from 
the equity to ‘other income’ in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	»
Fair value through profit or loss 
(‘FVTPL’)
A financial asset not classified as either 
amortized cost or FVOCI, is classified 
as FVTPL. Such financial assets are 
measured at fair value with all changes 
in fair value, including interest income 
and dividend income if any, recognized 
in ‘other income’ in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial asset (or where applicable, a part 
of a financial asset or part of similar assets) is 
primarily de-recognized (i.e., removed from 
the Company’s balance sheet) when:
	Ȣ
The rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset have expired, or
	Ȣ
The Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from the asset or has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash flows in full without material delay 
to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement; and either (a) the Company 
has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company 
has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, but has transferred control of 
the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates 
if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Company continues to 
recognize the transferred asset to the extent 
of the Company’s continuing involvement. In 
that case, the Company also recognizes an 
associated liability. The transferred assets 
and the associated liability are measured on 
a basis that reflects the rights and obligations 
that the Company has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form 
of a guarantee over the transferred asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying 
amount of the asset and the maximum amount 
of consideration that the Company could be 
required to repay.
	
	
On derecognition of financial asset in its 
entirety, the difference between the carrying 
amount measured at the date of derecognition 
and the consideration received is recognized 
in profit or loss.
	
	
If the Company enters into transactions 
whereby it transfers assets recognized on 
its balance sheet but retains either all or 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of the 
transferred assets, the transferred assets are 
not de-recognized, and the proceeds received 
are recognized as a collateralized borrowing.
	
v)	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses on a forward-looking 
basis the expected credit losses associated 
with its assets carried at amortized cost. The 
impairment methodology applied depends on 
whether there has been a Material increase in 
credit risk.
	
	
The 
Company 
applies 
expected 
credit 
loss 
(‘ECL’) 
model 
for 
recognition 
and 
measurement of impairment loss on the 
following financial assets and credit risk 
exposure based on change in credit quality 
since initial recognition:
	Ȣ
Financial assets that are debt instruments, 
and are measured at amortized cost
	Ȣ
Trade receivables using the simplified 
approach within Ind-AS 109, using a 
provision matrix in the determination of the 
lifetime expected credit losses. During this 
process the probability of non-payment 
of the trade receivables is assessed. This 
probability is then multiplied by the amount 
of the expected loss arising from default 
to determine the lifetime expected credit 
loss for the trade receivables. This does not 
require the Company to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognizes impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs 
at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition.
	
	
In case the Company identifies any trade 
receivables 
as 
doubtful/bad, 
then 
it 
supersedes the above modus operandi, and 
the doubtful/bad receivables are provided to 
the extent is doubtful/bad.
	
	
ECL allowance recognized (or reversed) during 
the period is recognized as expense (or income) 
in the statement of profit and loss under the 
head ‘Other expenses’.
	
vi)	
Write-off
	
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial 
asset is written off when the Company has 
no reasonable expectations of recovering 
the financial asset in its entirety or a portion 
thereof. 
A 
write-off 
constitutes 
a 
de-
recognition event.
	
Financial liabilities
	
The 
Company’s 
financial 
liabilities 
comprise 
of borrowings including bank overdrafts and 
derivative financial instruments, trade payable and 
other liabilities.
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair 
value. In the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, financial liability is recognized net of 
directly attributable transaction costs.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Company classifies all financial liabilities 
as subsequently measured at amortized 
cost, except for financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, 
including derivatives that are liabilities, shall 
be subsequently measured at fair value.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortized cost using the EIR method. The 
EIR is a method of calculating the amortized 
cost of a financial liability and of allocating 
interest expense over the relevant period at an 
EIR. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash payments through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where 
appropriate, a shorter period.
	
	
Financial liabilities carried at fair value through 
profit or loss are measured at fair value with 
all changes in fair value recognized in the 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
Financial liability is de-recognized when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
390 - 391
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification 
is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognized in the Statement of 
profit and loss.
	
Other financial liabilities
	
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
are 
measured 
at 
amortized cost using the effective interest method.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the 
net amount is reported in the balance sheet where 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognized amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable 
right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of 
business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty.
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, 
such as foreign currency forward contracts and 
foreign currency option contracts to manage 
its exposure to foreign exchange risks. For these 
contracts, hedge accounting is not followed, and 
such designated derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognized at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized 
as financial liability at the time of issuance of 
guarantee. A financial guarantee contract is a 
contract that requires the issuer to make specified 
payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payments 
when due in accordance with the terms of a 
debt instrument.
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are initially measured at their fair values 
and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently 
measured at the higher of:
	Ȣ
The amount of loss allowance determined in 
accordance with impairment requirements of 
Ind-AS 109; and
	Ȣ
The amount initially recognized less, when 
appropriate, 
the 
cumulative 
amount 
of 
income recognized.
f)	
Fair Value Measurement:
	
The Company measures financial instruments such 
as derivatives at fair value at each reporting date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes 
place either:
	Ȣ
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	Ȣ
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability 
accessible to the Company.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, including 
assumptions about risk, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest. A 
fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1: Financial instruments measured using 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Company 
can access at measurement date are included in 
Level 1;
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that 
are not traded in an active market is determined 
using valuation techniques which maximize the 
use of observable market data and rely as little 
as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all 
significant inputs require to fair value an instrument 
are observable, the instrument is included in 
Level 2; and
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not 
based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in Level 3.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the standalone financial statements regularly, 
the 
Company 
determines 
whether 
transfers 
have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by 
reassessing categorization (based on the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
i)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is any indication that an asset may 
be impaired.
	
An asset is impaired when the carrying amount 
of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is higher of the fair value of 
asset less costs of disposal and value in use, which 
means the present value of future cash flows 
expected to arise from the continuing use of the 
asset and its eventual disposal discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
	
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets 
are grouped at their lowest levels for which there 
are separately identifiable cash inflows which are 
largely independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets or groups of assets (cash generating units).
	
Losses are recognized in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss and reflected in an allowance account. 
When the Company considers that there are no 
realistic prospects of recovery of the asset, the 
relevant amounts are written off.
	
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed if, and 
only if, the reversal can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment loss was 
recognized or relates to a change in the estimate 
of the recoverable amount in the previous periods.
	
The carrying amount of an asset is increased to 
its revised recoverable amount, provided that this 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined (net of any accumulated 
amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss 
been recognized for the asset in prior years.
j)	
Inventories
	
Inventories are initially recognized at cost, and 
subsequently at the lower of cost and net realizable 
value. Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of 
conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. 
Weighted average cost is used to determine the 
cost of ordinarily interchangeable items.
	
Raw materials, packaging materials and stores 
and spare parts:
	
Cost includes purchase price, (excluding those 
subsequently recoverable by the enterprise from 
the concerned revenue authorities), freight inwards 
and other expenditure incurred in bringing such 
inventories to their present location and condition. 
In determining the cost, the weighted average cost 
method is used.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realizable value. However, these inventories 
are valued at net realizable value if the finished 
products in which they are to be incorporated are 
expected to be sold at a loss.
	
Work in progress, manufactured finished goods 
and traded goods:
	
The cost of work in progress and manufactured 
finished goods is determined on a weighted 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
392 - 393
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
average basis and comprises direct material, cost 
of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing 
these inventories to their present location and 
condition. The cost of traded goods is determined 
on a weighted average basis.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realizable value. Provision for obsolescence 
on inventories is considered on the basis of 
management’s estimate based on demand and 
market of the inventories.
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
cost of completion and the estimated costs 
necessary to make the sale.
	
The comparison of cost and net realizable value is 
made on an item-by-item basis.
k)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
cash at banks, call deposits and other short- term, 
highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash 
equivalents consist of balances with banks which 
are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
	
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
cash in banks and short-term deposits net of 
bank overdraft.
l)	
Business Combination
	
The Company applies the acquisition method 
in accounting for business combinations. The 
consideration transferred by the Company to 
obtain control of a business is calculated as the sum 
of the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities 
incurred, and the equity interests issued by the 
Company as at the acquisition date i.e., date on 
which it obtains control of the acquiree which 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising 
from a contingent consideration arrangement.
	
Directly 
attributable 
transaction 
costs 
are 
included in the initial measurement of investments 
in subsidiaries accounted for at cost. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair 
values on the acquisition date. Intangible Assets 
acquired in a Business Combination and recognized 
separately from Goodwill are initially recognized 
at their fair value at the acquisition date (which is 
regarded as their cost).
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible Assets 
acquired in a Business Combination are reported 
at cost less accumulated amortization and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis 
as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognized for non-controlling interests, and any 
previous interest held, over the net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such 
goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
m)	 Equity share capital
	
Financial instruments issued by the Company are 
classified as equity only to the extent that they do 
not meet the definition of a financial liability or 
financial asset.
	
The Company’s ordinary shares are classified as 
equity instruments.
n)	
Borrowings and loans
	
Borrowings and loans are initially recognized at 
fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. It is 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
the EIR method.
	
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
transaction costs that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate.
	
Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption amount is 
recognized in the Statement of profit and loss over 
the period of borrowing using the EIR.
o)	
Employee benefit plans
	
i)	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
	
A Short-term employee benefits including 
salaries, wages, short term compensated 
absences (such as a paid annual leave) where 
the absences are expected to occur within 
twelve months after the end of the period 
in which the employees render the related 
service, 
performance 
incentives, 
bonuses 
payable and ex-gratia etc. are payable 
within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the 
related services, and non-monetary benefits 
for current employees are estimated and 
measured on an undiscounted basis.
	
ii)	
Post-employment benefits:
	Ȣ
Defined contribution plans:
A defined contribution plan is a plan under 
which the Company pays fixed contributions 
in respect of the employees into a separate 
fund. The Company has no legal or 
constructive obligation to pay further 
contributions after its payment of the fixed 
contribution. The contributions made by 
the Company towards defined contribution 
plans, namely, State governed provident 
fund, 
superannuation 
fund, 
employee 
state insurance scheme, employee pension 
scheme and labour welfare fund, are 
charged to the profit or loss in the period to 
which the contributions relate.
	Ȣ
Defined benefit plans:
The Company has an obligation towards 
gratuity which is being considered as 
defined benefit plan covering eligible 
employees. Under the defined benefit plan, 
the amount that an employee will receive 
on retirement is defined by reference to the 
employee’s length of service, final salary, 
and other defined parameters. The legal 
obligation for any benefits remains with the 
Company, even if plan assets for funding the 
defined benefit plan have been set aside.
	
	
The Company’s obligation towards defined 
benefit plan is determined using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations 
being carried out at each reporting date, 
which recognizes each period of service as 
giving rise to additional unit of employee 
benefit entitlement and measures each unit 
separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present 
value of the estimated future cash flows. The 
discounting rate used for determining the 
present value of the obligation under defined 
benefit plans, is based on the market yields 
on government securities as at the reporting 
date, having maturity periods approximately 
to the terms of related obligations.
	
	
Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from Investment 
plan amendments are recognized immediately 
in the Statement of profit or loss as past 
service cost.
	
	
The liability recognized in the statement of 
financial position for defined benefit plans 
is the present value of the Defined Benefit 
Obligation (DBO) at the reporting date less 
the fair value of plan assets. Management 
estimates the DBO annually with the assistance 
of independent actuaries.
	
	
Actuarial 
gains/losses 
resulting 
from 
re-
measurements 
of 
the 
liability/asset 
are 
included in Other Comprehensive Income.
	
	
In the case of funded plans, the fair value 
of the plan asset is reduced from the gross 
obligations under the defined benefit plans to 
recognize the obligation on a net basis.
	
iii)	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
	
Liability in respect of compensated absences 
becoming due or expected to be availed more 
than one-year after the reporting date is 
estimated on the basis of actuarial valuation 
performed by an independent actuary using 
the projected unit credit method.
	
	
Actuarial 
gains 
and 
losses 
arising 
from 
past experience and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are charged to statement of 
profit and loss in the period in which such gains 
or losses are determined.
	
iv)	
Termination benefits:
	
	
Termination benefits are recognized as an 
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
394 - 395
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
v)	
Share-based Payments:
	
	
Employees of the Company receive remuneration 
in the form of Share-based Payments in 
consideration of the services rendered.
	
	
Under 
the 
equity 
settled 
share-based 
payment, the fair value on the grant date of 
the award given to employees is recognized 
as 
‘employee 
benefit 
expense’ 
with 
a 
corresponding increase in equity over the 
vesting period.
	
	
The fair value of the options at the grant date 
is calculated by an independent valuer basis 
‘Black Scholes model’. At the end of each 
reporting period, apart from the non-market 
vesting condition, the expense is reviewed and 
adjusted to reflect changes to the level of options 
expected to vest. When the options are exercised, 
the Company issues fresh equity shares.
p)	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments
	
A provision is recognized when the Company has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of past events and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate of the amount 
can be made, timing or amount of the outflow may 
still be uncertain. Provisions are recognized at the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
present obligation at the reporting date. If the effect 
of time value of money is material, provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash 
flows using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognized as a finance cost.
	
A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a 
possible but not probable obligation arising from 
past events, or a present obligation that may, but 
probably will not, require an outflow of resources, 
or a present obligation whose amount cannot be 
estimated reliably. Contingent liabilities do not 
warrant provisions but are disclosed. In those cases, 
where the outflow of economic resources as a result 
of present obligations is considered improbable 
or remote, no liability is recognized, or disclosure 
is made.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements when an inflow of economic 
benefit is probable. However, when the realization 
of income is virtually certain, then the related 
asset is not a contingent asset, and its recognition 
is appropriate.
	
Any reimbursement that the Company can be 
virtually certain to collect from a third party 
concerning the obligation is recognized as a 
separate asset. However, this asset may not exceed 
the amount of the related provision.
	
Commitments are future liabilities for contractual 
expenditure, classified and disclosed as estimated 
amount of contracts remaining to be extracted on 
capital account and not provided for.
q)	
Income taxes
	
Tax expense recognized in profit or loss comprises 
the sum of deferred tax and current tax. It is 
recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
except when it relates to an item that is recognized 
in OCI or directly in equity, in which case, the tax is 
also recognized in OCI or directly in equity. (Refer 
Note 17)
	
i)	
Current tax
	
	
Current tax is determined as the amount of tax 
payable in respect of taxable income for the 
year. The Company’s current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period, and any adjustments to tax 
payable in respect of previous years.
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset 
only if:
	Ȣ
there is a legally enforceable right to set 
off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority; and
	Ȣ
there is intention either to settle on a net 
basis, or to realize the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
	
ii)	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of 
temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
income. However, deferred tax liabilities are 
not recognized if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill. Deferred income 
tax is also not accounted for if it arises from 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination 
that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit 
(tax loss).
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
on 
temporary 
differences 
associated with investments in subsidiary is 
not provided if reversal of these temporary 
differences can be controlled by the Company 
and it is probable that reversal will not occur in 
the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
are 
calculated, without discounting, at tax rates 
that are expected to apply to their respective 
period of realization, provided those rates are 
enacted or substantively enacted by the end 
of the reporting period.
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
assets 
are 
recognized 
for 
deductible temporary differences (if any) 
to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which 
they can be used. The existence of unused tax 
losses is strong evidence that future taxable 
profit may not be available. Therefore, in 
case of history of recent losses, the Company 
recognizes a deferred tax asset only to the 
extent that it has sufficient taxable temporary 
difference 
or 
there 
is 
convincing 
other 
evidence that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available against which such deferred tax 
asset can be realized.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
are reviewed at each reporting date and 
are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realized.
	
	
Unrecognized 
deferred 
tax 
assets 
are 
reassessed at each reporting date and 
recognized to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which they can be used.
	
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to be applied to temporary 
differences when they reverse, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date and are expected to apply 
when the related deferred income tax asset 
is realized, or the deferred income tax liability 
is settled.
	
	
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are 
recognized as a component of tax income or 
expense in profit or loss, except where they 
relate to items that are recognized in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
in which case the related deferred tax is also 
recognized in other comprehensive income or 
equity, respectively.
	
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities 
are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to set off the recognized amounts and 
there is an intention to settle the asset and the 
liability on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is 
a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities; and 
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax 
liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority.
r)	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it 
is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Company and the revenue can be 
reliably measured.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by 
the Ind-AS 115 to determine that how much and 
when revenue is recognized, what is the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues etc. In 
accordance with the same, revenue is recognized 
through a five-step approach:
	Ȣ
Identify the contract(s) with customer;
	Ȣ
Identify separate performance obligations in the 
contract;
	Ȣ
Determine the transaction price;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
396 - 397
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	Ȣ
Allocate 
the 
transaction 
price 
to 
the 
performance obligations; and
	Ȣ
Recognize 
revenue 
when 
a 
performance 
obligation is satisfied.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by Ind-
AS as above to recognize revenue from contracts 
with customers when it satisfies a performance 
obligation by transferring promised goods or 
services to a customer. Revenue is recognized to 
the extent of transaction price allocated to the 
performance obligation satisfied. Performance 
obligation is satisfied over time when the transfer 
of control of assets (goods or services) to a 
customer is done over time and in other cases, 
performance obligations are satisfied at a point 
in time. For performance obligation satisfied 
over time, the revenue recognition is done by 
measuring 
the 
progress 
towards 
complete 
satisfaction of performance obligation and the 
progress is measured in terms of a proportion of 
actual cost incurred to date, to the total estimated 
cost attributable to the performance obligation. 
Revenue excludes goods and services tax which is 
recorded separately.
	
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable, net of 
discounts and other indirect taxes.
	
In Cost Plus Contracts - Revenue is recognized by 
including eligible contractual items of expenditures 
plus proportionate margin as per contract.
	
Estimates of revenues, costs or extent of progress 
toward completion are revised if circumstances 
change. Any resulting increases or decreases in 
estimated revenues or costs are reflected in profit or 
loss in the period in which the circumstances that give 
rise to the revision become known by management.
	
i)	
Sale of Goods
	
	
The Company recognizes revenue from the 
sale of goods measured upon satisfaction of 
performance obligation which is at a point in 
time when control of the goods is transferred 
to the customer, generally on delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on the 
transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for volume discounts, rebates, scheme 
allowances, 
price 
concessions, 
incentives, 
returns, if any, as specified in the contracts with 
the customers and any taxes or duties collected 
on behalf of the Government such as Goods 
and Services Tax. Due to the short nature of the 
credit period given to customers, there is no 
financing component in the contract.
	
	
Revenue is only recognized to the extent that 
it is highly probable a significant reversal will 
not occur. Appropriate provisions are recorded 
for returns and discounts/incentives which are 
estimated on the basis of historical experience, 
market assessment and various discount 
programs launched by the Company.
	
ii)	
Rendering of services
	
	
The Company primarily earns revenue from 
installation, 
operations 
and 
maintenance 
services which is recognized over the period 
when services are rendered.
	
	
Revenue from services is recognized as and 
when services are rendered and there are no 
unfulfilled obligations. Revenue from services 
is measured at fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, after deduction of 
any sort of discounts and any taxes or duties 
collected on behalf of the government such as 
goods and services tax.
s)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that the Company incurred in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs that are 
directly attributable to the acquisition and/or 
construction of a qualifying asset, till the time such 
qualifying asset becomes ready for its intended 
use, are capitalized. A qualifying asset is one that 
necessarily takes a substantial period to get ready 
for its intended use.
	
All other borrowing costs are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss on an accrual basis as per 
the EIR method.
t)	
Earnings per share (EPS)
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing 
the net profit for the period attributable to 
the equity shareholders of the Company (after 
deducting attributable taxes) by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period. The weighted average number 
of equity shares outstanding during the year and 
for all the years presented, is adjusted for events, 
such as bonus shares, other than the conversion 
of potential equity shares, that have changed the 
number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the year is 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
u)	
Segment accounting
	
The segment reporting of the Company has 
been prepared in accordance with Ind-AS-108, 
“Operating Segment” (specified under the section 
133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 
2015 (as amended from time to time) and other 
relevant provision of the Act).
	
The Operating Segment is the level at which 
discrete financial information is available and 
for which the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) monitors the operating results of its 
business segments separately for the purpose of 
making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Segment performance is 
evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured 
consistently with profit or loss in the standalone 
financial statements.
	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a 
segment on the basis of relationship to operating 
activities of the segment. Revenue, expenses 
and exceptional items which relate to enterprise 
as a whole and are not allocable to a segment 
on reasonable basis have been disclosed as 
“unallocable”.
	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent 
assets and liabilities in respective segments. 
Investments, tax related assets, borrowings and 
other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated 
to a segment on reasonable basis have been 
disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
Segment revenue resulting from transactions with 
other business segments is accounted on the basis 
of transfer price agreed between the segments. 
Such transfer prices are either determined to yield 
a desired margin or agreed on a negotiated basis.
v)	
Statement of cash flows
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby profit or loss before tax is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of non-cash nature and any 
deferrals or accruals of past or future cash receipts 
or payments. The cash flows from operating, 
investing and financing activities of the Company 
are segregated based on the available information.
	
Cash 
and 
cash 
equivalents 
(including 
bank 
balances) shown in the Statement of cash flows 
exclude items which are not available for general 
use as at the date of balance sheet.
w)	
Recent accounting pronouncements
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified 
Companies 
(Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024 to amend the following 
Ind-AS which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1st April 2024. The Company 
has applied these amendments for the first time in 
the standalone financial statements.
	
i)	
Ind AS 116, Leases
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amended Ind AS 116, Leases, 
with respect to lease liability in a sale and 
leaseback transaction.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements 
that a seller-lessee uses in measuring the 
lease liability arising in a sale and leaseback 
transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee does 
not recognize any amount of the gain or loss 
that relates to the right of use it retains.
	
	
The amendment is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1st 
April 2024 and must be applied retrospectively 
to sale and leaseback transactions entered 
into after the date of initial application of Ind 
AS 116.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
398 - 399
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
These amendments do not have any material 
impact on the amount recognized in these 
standalone financial statements.
	
ii)	
Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts
	
	
The Ministry of corporate Affairs (“MCA”) 
notified the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, 
under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2024, which 
is effective from annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1st April 2024.
	
	
Ind 
AS 
117 
Insurance 
Contracts 
is 
a 
comprehensive new accounting standard for 
insurance contracts covering recognition and 
measurement, presentation and disclosure. 
Ind AS 117 replaces Ind AS 104 Insurance 
Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies to all types of 
insurance contracts, regardless of the type of 
entities that issue them as well as to certain 
guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few 
scope exceptions will apply.
	
	
The application of Ind AS 117 had no impact 
on 
the 
Company’s 
standalone 
financial 
statements as the Company has not entered 
any contracts in the nature of insurance 
contracts covered under Ind AS 117.
	
iii)	
New standards and amendments issued but 
not effective
	
	
There are no such standards which are notified 
but not yet effective.
	
iv)	
The other amendments to Ind-AS notified 
by these rules are primarily in the nature 
of clarifications.
2	 Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets	
H Crore
ASSETS
 Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2024
Additions
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
1st April, 
2024
For the 
year*
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
31st March, 
2024
A.	 Property, plant and 
equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
 99.52
 -
 -
 99.52
 -
 -
 -
 -
 99.52
 99.52
	
Leasehold land
 2.69
 -
 -
 2.69
 0.85
 0.03
 -
 0.88
 1.81
 1.84
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
 52.18
 4.00
 0.02
 56.16
 14.79
 3.92
 0.01
 18.70
 37.46
 37.39
	
Leasehold improvements
 5.80
 20.10
 -
 25.90
 3.23
 0.91
 -
 4.14
 21.76
 2.57
	
Plant and equipment
 128.52
 26.04
 3.57
 150.99
 74.53
 19.39
 1.36
 92.56
 58.43
 53.99
	
Furniture and fixtures
 6.77
 4.10
 0.24
 10.63
 4.54
 0.84
 0.20
 5.18
 5.45
 2.23
	
Office equipment
 26.44
 18.75
 1.81
 43.38
 18.80
 6.04
 1.71
 23.13
 20.25
 7.64
	
Vehicles
 16.96
 6.79
 5.14
 18.61
 4.22
 3.33
 1.93
 5.62
 12.99
 12.74
	
Sub-total A
 338.88
 79.78
 10.78
 407.88
 120.96
 34.46
 5.21
 150.21
 257.67
 217.92
B.	 Right-of-Use assets 
(Refer Note 29)
 137.26
 124.64
 45.08
 216.82
 66.80
 42.03
 42.93
 65.90
 150.92
 70.46
	
Sub-total B
 137.26
 124.64
 45.08
 216.82
 66.80
 42.03
 42.93
 65.90
 150.92
 70.46
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 33)
 779.41
 -
 -
 779.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
 779.41
 779.41
	
Sub-total C
 779.41
 -
 -
 779.41
 -
 -
 -
 -
 779.41
 779.41
D.	 Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
 13.31
 0.55
 -
 13.86
 10.69
 1.19
 -
 11.88
 1.98
 2.62
	
Technical knowhow
 1.90
 -
 -
 1.90
 1.89
 -
 -
 1.89
 0.01
 0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
 32.91
 -
 -
 32.91
 -
 -
 -
 -
 32.91
 32.91
	
Product development
 24.49
 39.07
 -
 63.56
 7.56
 8.95
 -
 16.51
 47.05
 16.93
	
Sub-total D
 72.61
 39.62
 -
 112.23
 20.14
 10.14
 -
 30.28
 81.95
 52.47
Total A + B + C + D
 1,328.16
 244.04
 55.86  1,516.34
 207.90
 86.63
 48.14
 246.39  1,269.95  1,120.26
*During the year, the Company has capitalised depreciation of J 2.42 crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under 
development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
H Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2023
Additions
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
1st April, 
2023
For the 
year*
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2023
A.	 Property, plant and 
equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
99.52
-
-
99.52
-
-
-
-
99.52
99.52
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.82
0.03
-
0.85
1.84
1.87
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
52.08
0.10
-
52.18
12.25
2.54
-
14.79
37.39
39.83
	
Leasehold improvements
5.95
-
0.15
5.80
1.89
1.35
0.01
3.23
2.57
4.06
	
Plant and equipment
118.97
16.20
6.65
128.52
60.80
18.38
4.65
74.53
53.99
58.17
	
Furniture and fixtures
6.75
0.02
-
6.77
3.80
0.74
-
4.54
2.23
2.95
	
Office equipment
24.24
3.47
1.27
26.44
14.53
5.39
1.12
18.80
7.64
9.71
	
Vehicles
10.55
9.13
2.72
16.96
3.17
2.61
1.56
4.22
12.74
7.38
	
Sub-total A
320.75
28.92
10.79
338.88
97.26
31.04
7.34
120.96
217.92
223.49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
400 - 401
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2023
Additions
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
1st April, 
2023
For the 
year*
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2023
B.	 Right-of-Use assets 
(Refer Note 29)
121.36
33.16
17.26
137.26
52.51
31.55
17.26
66.80
70.46
68.85
	
Sub-total B
121.36
33.16
17.26
137.26
52.51
31.55
17.26
66.80
70.46
68.85
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 33)
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
	
Sub-total C
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
D.	 Other intangibles 
assets
	
Computer software
12.32
0.99
-
13.31
9.24
1.45
-
10.69
2.62
3.08
	
Technical knowhow	
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Product development
16.45
8.04
-
24.49
2.19
5.37
-
7.56
16.93
14.26
	
Sub-total D
63.58
9.03
-
72.61
13.32
6.82
-
20.14
52.47
50.26
Total A + B + C + D
1,285.10
71.11
28.05 1,328.16
163.09
69.41
24.60
207.90 1,120.26 1,122.01
*During the year, the Company has capitalised depreciation of J 4.18 crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under 
development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
E.	
Capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’)
(i)	
CWIP movement
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
As at 1st April
 5.90 
 2.64 
Add: Additions during the year
 68.15 
 5.10 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 67.75 
 1.84 
As at 31st March
 6.30 
 5.90 
(ii)	 CWIP Ageing schedule
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
 6.30 
 6.30 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
5.12
0.78
-
-
5.90
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
F.	
Intangible assets under development (‘IAUD’)
(i)	
IAUD movement
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
As at 1st April
 45.09 
 21.05 
Add: Additions during the year
 10.75 
 32.08 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 39.07 
 8.04 
As at 31st March
 16.77 
 45.09 
(ii) IAUD Ageing schedule
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
 8.34 
 5.57 
 2.86 
 -   
 16.77 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
 26.74 
 18.35 
 -   
 -   
 45.09 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	
Carrying amount of intangible assets given as collateral for borrowings is J 779.41 crore; (Previous year 
J 779.41 crore).
	
(ii)	 There are no such title deeds of immovable property which are not held in name of the Company.
	
(iii)	 There have been no proceedings initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding benami 
property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
	
(iv)	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or 
intangible assets or both during the current or previous year.
	
(v)	
In the opinion of the management, there are no events or changes in circumstances that indicate the 
impairment of property, plant and equipment and Intangible Assets in terms of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of 
Assets’. Accordingly, no provision for impairment has been made.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
402 - 403
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
3	 Investments	
A	
Non-current investments
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Investments in equity instruments (fully paid-up)
In Subsidiary companies
At Cost
Quoted equity shares
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
1,914.01
1,914.01
{1,34,09,663 (March 31, 2024 : 1,34,09,663) ordinary shares of J 10 each}
1,914.01
1,914.01
Unquoted equity shares
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
6.70
6.70
{67,00,000 (March 31, 2024 : 67,00,000) ordinary shares of J 10 each}
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
7.50
7.50
{75,00,000 (March 31, 2024 : 75,00,000) ordinary shares of J 10 each}
14.20
14.20
1,928.21
1,928.21
Details of investments:
Aggregate book value of:
Quoted investments
1,914.01
1,914.01
Unquoted investments
14.20
14.20
1,928.21
1,928.21
Aggregate market value of:
Quoted investments
802.50
1,023.09
Unquoted investments
-
-
802.50
1,023.09
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The investments are in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
2.	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
3.	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company considered indicators of impairment such as decline in 
quoted value of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”).
	
The recoverable amount is based on a value-in-use calculation using the discounted cash flow method. The 
value-in-use calculation is made using exit multiple and pre-tax budgeted EBITDA projections of the next five 
years which is considered by the Board as a reasonable period. Key assumptions for the value in use computations 
are those regarding the discount rates, exit multiple, market demand, sales volume and sales prices, cost to 
produce, margins etc. The projections are based on both past performance and the expectations of future 
performance and assumptions therein. The Company estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect 
the current market rate adjusted for specific company risk. The weighted average post-tax discount rates used 
for discounting the cash flows projections is 14.50% and average revenue growth considered is 22.86%, which is 
aligned to the average growth rate for the industry.
	
The Company has conducted sensitivity analysis over key assumptions viz. revenue growth rates and discount 
rate used. While it is unlikely for assumptions to move adversely together, it would require over an 14.00% change 
in revenue growth or a 20.34% change in discount rate, for the recoverable amount of the investments to be 
equal to its carrying amount. These sensitivities are carried in isolation and also do not take account of potential 
mitigating actions. 
	
Information about subsidiaries
H Crore
Name of the company
Country of 
incorporation Principal activities
Proportion (%) of equity interest
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024 
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
India
Lighting business
100%
100%
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
India
Lighting business
100%
100%
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
India
Kitchen appliances business
75%
75%
B	
Current investments
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
162.32
220.18
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
455.66
407.96
617.98
628.14
Details of investments:
Aggregate book value of:
Quoted investments
162.32
220.18
Unquoted investments (accounted based on NAV)
455.66
407.96
617.98
628.14
Aggregate market value of:
Quoted investments
162.32
220.18
Unquoted investments
-
-
162.32
220.18
Particulars
Face Value 
per Bond/ 
Unit
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2025
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2024
K Crore
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
Bajaj Finance Limited
10,00,000
-
240
-
25.08
ZCB HDB Financial Services INE756I07EF0
10,00,000
204
100
24.98
11.31
HDB Financial Services INE756I07EB9
10,00,000
300
-
29.91
-
HDB Financial Services INE756I07ES3
1,00,000
2,500
-
25.58
-
Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
10,00,000
250
250
24.98
24.90
Kotak Mahindra Investments Ltd
1,00,000
4,000
-
41.56
-
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 
INE916DA7RU6
10,00,000
50
-
5.26
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
404 - 405
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Particulars
Face Value 
per Bond/ 
Unit
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2025
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2024
K Crore
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 
INE916DA7RC4
10,00,000
-
250
-
25.80
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited 
INE916DA7RD2
10,00,000
-
200
-
21.04
L&T Finance Limited
10,00,000
39
-
3.93
-
LIC ZCB
10,00,000
-
400
-
44.89
L&T ZCB
10,00,000
50
-
6.12
-
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services 
Ltd INE774D07UL8
10,00,000
-
250
-
26.20
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services 
Ltd INE774D07UW5
4,00,000
-
2,000
-
19.75
ZCB HDB Financial Services Apr 2024 
INE756I07DN6
10,00,000
-
180
-
21.21
Total (A)
162.32
220.18
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
ABSL Crisil-IBX Financial Services 3 to 6 
months Debt Index Fund - Dir - Growth
10
98,20,569
-
10.05
-
Aditya Birla SL Liquid Fund - Direct - 
Growth
100
1,46,967
1,59,388
6.15
6.21
Aditya Birla SL Money Manager Fund -  
Direct - Growth
100
7,26,374
3,85,226
26.71
13.13
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
63,166
30,200
18.21
8.11
Axis Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
3,50,925
3,15,365
49.69
41.38
Bajaj Finserv Liquid Fund - Direct - 
Growth
1,000
2,28,702
1,66,482
25.89
17.54
Bajaj Finserv Money Market Fund -  
Dir - Growth
1,000
4,02,332
-
45.79
-
Bandhan Liquid Fund - Dir - Growth
1,000
55,165
-
17.28
-
Bandhan Money Manager Fund - Dir - 
Growth
10
69,40,784
-
29.71
-
Baroda BNP Paribas Liquid Fund - Direct 
- Growth
1,000
-
36,451
-
10.15
DSP Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
-
-
-
DSP Savings Fund - Direct - Growth
10
42,51,894
69,49,778
22.64
34.39
Franklin India Liquid Fund - Super IP - 
Direct - Growth
1,000
-
13,962
-
5.06
HDFC Money Market Fund - Direct - 
Growth
1,000
17,588
72,387
10.05
38.37
HSBC Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
34,063
-
8.20
ICICI Pru CRISIL-IBX Financial Services 3-6 
Months Debt Index Fund - Dir - Growth
10
49,99,750
5.02
ICICI Prudential Money Market - Direct - 
Growth
100
-
5,56,478
-
19.43
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund- Direct- Growth
100
-
3,10,705
-
11.10
Invesco India Low Duration Fund -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
-
28,995
-
10.38
Particulars
Face Value 
per Bond/ 
Unit
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2025
Number of 
Bonds/ Units 
as at 31st 
March, 2024
K Crore
As at 
31st March, 2025
As at 
31st March, 2024
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
42,015
42,015
16.17
14.85
Kotak CRISIL-IBX Financial Services 3-6 
Months Debt Index Fund - Dir - Growth
1,000
99,89,122
-
10.06
-
Kotak Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
68,073
1,01,549
30.26
41.87
Mirae Asset Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
90,159
51,508
24.70
13.14
Nippon India Liquid Fund- Direct- Growth
1,000
-
27,598
-
16.31
Nippon India Money Market - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,05,086
1,13,416
43.32
43.35
Tata Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
13,215
-
5.04
Tata Money Market - Direct - Growth
1,000
64,041
-
30.20
-
UTI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
21,608
-
8.55
UTI Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,10,340
1,45,922
33.76
41.40
Total (B)
455.66
407.96
Total (A+B)
617.98
628.14
	
(Refer Note 37 A for information about fair value measurement and Note 37 D (i) for credit risk of investments.)
4	 Other financial assets
A	
Other financial assets - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
 9.22 
 12.56 
 9.22 
 12.56 
B	
Other financial assets - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
 35.09 
 19.70 
Fair value of derivative assets
 0.03 
 0.16 
 35.12 
 19.86 
5	 Other assets
A	
Other assets - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured - considered good
Capital advances (net) (Refer Note 26)
18.15
9.89
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
28.35
48.56
Amount paid under protest
22.28
22.28
68.78
80.73
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
406 - 407
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
B	
Other assets - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured - considered good
Advance to suppliers
 18.68 
 23.62 
Balances with Indirect tax authorities
 4.43 
 4.43 
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
 68.01 
 45.93 
Prepaid expenses
 32.69 
 44.16 
Right to return goods (Refer Note 16)
 9.64 
 -   
Others
 57.36 
 43.89 
 190.81 
 162.03 
6	 Inventories
	
(At lower of cost and net realisable value)
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Raw materials
87.96
82.97
Add: Goods-in-transit
0.16
0.37
88.12
83.34
Work-in-progress
40.04
34.33
Finished goods
138.50
165.49
Add: Goods-in-transit
49.56
38.05
188.06
203.54
Stock-in-trade
356.07
309.52
Add: Goods-in-transit
94.66
62.01
450.73
371.53
Stores, spares and packing materials
4.97
5.26
771.92
698.00
	
Note:	
	
	
	
Inventories are hypothecated with the bankers against working capital facilities (Refer Note 12)
7	 Trade receivables	
A	
Trade receivables - Non current	
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured
Considered good
 10.55 
 12.65 
 10.55 
 12.65 
B	
Trade receivables - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured
Considered good
608.17
584.32
Haiving significant increase in credit risk
32.17
21.18
Credit impaired
23.90
31.54
664.24
637.04
Less: Allowance for credit losses
(61.08)
(56.92)
603.16
580.12
	
Trade Receivables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
Years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
451.80
110.47
22.45
9.29
10.61
10.43
615.05
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
11.40
-
-
11.40
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
1.81
17.33
19.14
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
-
1.10
2.57
-
-
-
3.67
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
20.77
-
-
20.77
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
3.87
0.89
4.76
Allowance for credit losses
(61.08)
Total
451.80
111.57
25.02
41.46
16.29
28.65
613.71
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
408 - 409
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
Years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
439.52
77.27
26.93
20.51
13.15
4.42
581.80
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
6.47
-
-
6.47
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
0.10
-
-
14.73
16.21
31.04
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
-
5.67
9.51
-
-
-
15.18
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
14.71
-
-
14.71
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
0.38
0.11
0.49
Allowance for credit losses
(56.92)
Total
439.52
83.04
36.44
41.69
28.26
20.74
592.77
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 The net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
	
(b)	 Book debts are hypothecated with the bankers against Working capital demand loan.(Refer Note 12)
	
(c)	
Refer Note 37 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment 
losses for trade receivables and fair values.
	
(d)	 No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with 
any other person or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.
	
(e)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
8	 Cash and cash equivalents
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
103.80
57.79
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
90.00
73.00
193.80
130.79
9	 Bank balances (other than Cash and cash equivalents)	
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 months
 140.00 
 80.00 
Earmarked balances with banks
	
Unclaimed dividend account
 5.04 
 4.48 
 145.04 
 84.48 
10	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Authorised capital
Equity shares of J 2 each
67,00,00,000
134.00
65,50,00,000
131.00
Issued, subscribed and paid-up
Equity shares of J 2 each, fully paid-up
64,38,09,163
128.76
64,31,06,979
128.62
64,38,09,163
128.76
64,31,06,979
128.62
a.	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the 
reporting period
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
Shares issued on account of exercising Employee 
stock option schemes
 7,02,184 
 0.14 
 69,97,260 
 1.40 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 64,38,09,163 
 128.76 
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
b.	
Rights, preferences and restrictions on shares
	
The Company has one class of share capital, i.e., equity shares having face value of J 2 per share. Each holder 
of equity share is entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible 
to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to 
their shareholding.
c.	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
% holding
Number
% holding
Equity shares of K 2 each fully paid
-
-
6,07,17,312
9.44%
Mirae Asset Balanced Advantage Fund
-
-
6,37,22,029
9.91%
HDFC Mutual Fund - HDFC S&P BSE 500 ETF
6,16,07,545
9.57%
-
-
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd - A/C Nippon India 
Growth
3,96,18,204
6.15%
-
-
Mirae Asset Nifty India Manufacturing ETF
3,88,11,390
6.03%
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
410 - 411
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
d.	
Shares reserved for issuance under Stock Option Plans of the Company at face value of K 2 
(Also Refer Note 34)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2016 (ESOP 2016)
2,00,445
0.04
6,06,233
0.12
Crompton Performance Share Plan 1 2016 (PSP 1)
-
-
-
-
Crompton Performance Share Plan 2 2016 (PSP 2)
-
-
-
-
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2019 (ESOP 2019)
76,35,653
1.53
78,83,560
1.58
e.	
No class of shares have been issued as bonus shares or for consideration other than cash by the Company during 
the period of five years immediately preceding the current year end.
f.	
No class of shares have been bought back by the Company during the period of five years immediately preceding 
the current year end.
g.	
There are no shares reserved for issue under options and contracts/ commitments for the sale of 
shares/ disinvestment.
h.	
The Board of Directors have recommended payment of final dividend of J 3 (Rupees Three only) per equity share 
of the face value of J 2 each for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
i.	
Promoter Shareholding
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2025	
	
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
-
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2024
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
-
	
Note: 
	
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received 
from shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial 
ownerships of shares.
11	 Other equity
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Capital reserve 
 0.05 
 0.05 
Securities premium
 389.25 
 361.48 
Employee stock option outstanding account
 74.94 
 74.24 
Retained earnings
 3,010.70 
 2,638.62 
Other comprehensive income
 0.35 
 2.47 
 3,475.29 
 3,076.86 
	
Note: For movements in reserves - refer Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity.
	
Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital reserve
	
Capital reserve was created on cancellation of shares as per statutory requirement.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium was created on issue of shares at premium in accordance with Employee Stock Option Plans 
(ESOP).
	
Employee stock option outstanding
	
The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement 
of profit and loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, net-off less any transfers to general 
reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
12	 Borrowings
	
The Company has categorised all borrowings at Amortised Cost in accordance with the requirements of Ind 
AS 109.
A	
Borrowings - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortized cost
Secured
7.40% Series A Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
-
300.00
7.65% Series B Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
Unamortized Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
-
(1.03)
300.00
598.97
Less: Current maturities of long-term borrowings
(300.00)
(300.00)
-
298.97
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
412 - 413
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
B	
Borrowings - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortized cost
Secured 
Working capital demand loan from bank
 0.01 
 -   
Current maturities of non-convertible debentures (Refer Note 12 A)
 300.00 
 300.00 
Unamortized Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
 (0.20)
 -   
 299.81 
 300.00 
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Non-Convertible Debentures
	
	
(i)	
Terms of Debentures:
Particulars of Debentures
Series A Tranche 2 (2022 issue)
Series B Tranche 2 (2022 issue)
Face value per debenture (J)
10,00,000
10,00,000
Date of allotment
22nd July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
As at 31st March, 2025 (J crore)
-
300.00
As at 31st March, 2024 (J crore)
300.00
300.00
Interest
7.40% p.a. payable annually
7.65% p.a. payable annually
Terms of repayment
Due for redemption on  
22-07-2024
Due for redemption on  
22-07-2025,with call option  
on 22-07-2024
Secured by charge
on ‘Crompton’ and ‘Crompton Greaves’ Brand  
(including assignment of license, agreements, if any)
	
	
(ii)	 Funds raised from Non-Convertible Debentures were utilised for the purpose it were obtained.
	
	
(iii)	 During the year, the Company redeemed Secured Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to J 300 
crore, Series A Tranche 2 (2022 issue), along with interest thereon, on 22nd July, 2024.
	
(b)	 Working capital loan facility is secured by way of charge on the Crompton’s inventories and trade receivables, 
carrying interest @ 9.10% p.a.
	
(c)	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
13	 Provisions
A	
Provisions - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 30)
 -   
 8.21 
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 30)
 17.15 
 15.48 
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
 157.93 
 165.69 
	
Provision for Statutory dues
 1.44 
 1.67 
 176.52 
 191.05 
B	
Provisions - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 30)
 -   
 0.33 
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 30)
 2.87 
 3.12 
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
 96.56 
 95.22 
	
Provision for Statutory dues
 12.67 
 12.67 
	
Provision for Other litigation Claims
 0.10 
 0.16 
 112.20 
 111.50 
	
Notes:
	
(1)	 Movement in provisions (2024-25)
H Crore
Particulars
 Warranty 
 Statutory Dues 
 Other  
litigation claims 
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
 260.91 
 14.34 
 0.16 
Provision made during the year (net)
 140.81 
 0.23 
 -   
Amounts used during the year
 (105.59)
 (0.46)
 (0.06)
Unused amounts reversed during the year
 (41.64)
 -   
 -   
Carrying amount at the end of the year
 254.49 
 14.11 
 0.10 
Current
 96.56 
 12.67 
 0.10 
Non-Current
 157.93 
 1.44 
 -   
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
414 - 415
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
Movement in provisions (2023-24)
H Crore
Particulars
Warranty
Statutory Dues
Other  
litigation claims
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
202.20
15.88
0.06
Provision made during the year (net)
151.52
1.54
1.29
Amounts used during the year
(82.37)
(3.08)
(1.19)
Unused amounts reversed during the year
(10.44)
-
-
Carrying amount at the end of the year
260.91
14.34
0.16
Current
95.22
12.67
0.16
Non-Current
165.69
1.67
-
(2)	 Nature of provisions:
	
(a)	 Provision for employee benefits represents liability on account of post medical retirement benefits, 
compensated absences and gratuity as per statutory requirements.
	
(b)	 Product warranties: The Company gives warranties on certain products and services, undertaking to 
repair / replace products, which fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made 
represents the amount of the expected cost of meeting such obligation on account of repair / replacement. 
The timing of outflows is expected to be within a period of two to five years.
	
(c)	 Provision for statutory dues represents liability on account of non-collection of declaration forms and 
other legal matters which are in appeal under the Acts / Rules.
	
(d)	 Provision for other litigation obligation claims represents liabilities that are expected to materialise in 
respect of matters in appeal.
14	 Trade payables
A	
Trade payables - Non current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note below)
 -   
 -   
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 15.94 
 14.03 
 15.94 
 14.03 
B	
Trade payables - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Acceptances
87.53
156.81
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note below)
235.90
220.02
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
1,001.83
795.62
1,325.26
1,172.45
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Micro, Small and Medium enterprises have been identified by the Company on the basis of the information 
available. Total outstanding dues to suppliers which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period 
and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) 
as at 31st March, 2025. The disclosure pursuant to the said Act is as under:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025 
/2024-25
31st March, 2024 
/2023-24
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier at the end of each accounting year
Principal
235.90
220.02
Interest
0.02
0.02
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006 along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
-
-
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
year) but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
0.02
0.02
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
	
(b)	 Identification of micro and small enterprises is basis intimation received from vendors.
	
(c)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
	
	
Trade Payables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
(i)	 MSME
181.86
54.04
-
-
0.00
235.90
(ii)	 Others
606.19
453.55
12.28
8.30
24.98
1,105.30
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
788.05
507.59
12.28
8.30
24.98
1,341.20
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
(i)	 MSME
169.52
50.50
-
-
-
220.02
(ii)	 Others
623.31
283.77
41.47
5.98
11.93
966.46
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
792.83
334.27
41.47
5.98
11.93
1,186.48
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
416 - 417
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
15	 Current financial liabilities - Others 
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
15.91
31.33
Unclaimed dividend
5.04
4.48
Security deposits
36.95
34.28
Other payables - to related parties (Refer Note 31)
3.35
1.49
61.25
71.58
16	 Other current liabilities
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Advances from customers
6.23
4.26
Statutory dues payables
51.74
46.62
Employee benefit payables
57.10
48.25
Refund liability*
14.37
Others
2.10
1.40
131.54
100.53
	
*The Company has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to J 14.37 crores, which is in the normal 
course of business. The Company has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods J 9.64 crores. The costs to recover the 
products are not material because the customers usually return the product in a saleable condition.
17	 Income taxes
A.	 Tax expense recognised in Statement of profit and loss comprises:
H Crore
Particulars
 2024-25 
 2023-24 
Current tax
 201.01 
 130.46 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 -   
 (0.78)
Deferred tax (credit) / charge
 (8.60)
 14.91 
Tax expense for the year
 192.41 
 144.59 
B.	 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurements (loss) / gain on post 
employment defined benefit plans and 
tax thereon
(3.20)
1.08
(2.12)
0.73
(0.18)
0.55
(3.20)
1.08
(2.12)
0.73
(0.18)
0.55
C.	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Profit before tax
755.59
611.04
Applicable tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
190.17
153.79
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (Refer Note below)
-
(0.78)
Corporate social responsibility disallowance
3.37
3.47
Impact of Share based payment expense
(0.43)
(10.04)
Others
(0.70)
(1.85)
Income tax expense for the current year
192.41
144.59
Effective tax rate
25.46%
23.66%
	
Notes:
	
Based on assessment order received during the previous year, the Company had written-back an amount of 
J 2.00 crore in respect of tax liability of AY 2021-22. Further, additional provision for taxes of J1.22 was made basis 
the return of income filed for AY 2023-24. Both the amounts are adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 
31st March, 2024.
D.	 Components of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) recognised in Balance sheet and 
Statement of profit and loss:
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and loss and 
other comprehensive income
As at  
31st March, 2025
As at  
31st March, 2024
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Employee stock option outstanding 
17.87
17.22
0.65
(15.59)
(b)
Provision allowed under tax on payment 
basis
11.97
12.63
(0.66)
0.55
(c)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances 
14.69
13.65
1.04
3.03
(d)
Difference between Written down value 
of Property, Plant and Equipment and 
Intangible assets as per books of accounts 
and Income Tax
(2.10)
(1.57)
(0.53)
(1.02)
(e)
Fair valuation of Investments
(2.81)
(3.37)
0.56
(1.11)
(f)
Impact of Revenue recognition
18.46
12.60
5.86
0.01
(g)
Impact of Right-of-use asset
35.53
24.94
10.59
7.94
(h)
Impact of lease liabilities
(31.07)
(22.13)
(8.94)
(7.72)
(i)
Other temporary differences (including tax 
related to items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss)
1.70
0.59
1.11
(1.18)
Deferred tax income / (expense)
9.68
(15.09)
Net deferred tax assets 
64.24
54.56
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
418 - 419
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
E.	
Reconciliation of deferred tax assets/(liabilities):
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Opening balance as at 1st April
54.56
69.66
(b)
Tax income / (expense) during the period recognised in:
(i)	 Statement of profit and loss in profit or loss
8.60
(14.91)
(ii)	 Statement of profit and loss under OCI
1.08
(0.18)
Closing balance as at 31st March
64.24
54.56
F.	
Tax assets and liabilities
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(a)
Non-current tax assets (net of tax provision)
 8.62 
 8.62 
(b)
Current tax assets (net of tax provision)
 -   
 2.48 
(c)
Current tax liabilities (net of tax assets)
 47.35 
 28.41 
	
During the current year, the Company has received income tax refunds amounting to J 13.29 crore for the 
FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24.
18 	Revenue from Operations
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
A.	 Sales of products and services
	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Sale of products (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
5,936.13
5,358.06
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
1,015.17
989.80
6,951.30
6,347.86
	
Sale of services
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
48.96
9.79
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
1.76
2.90
50.72
12.69
7,002.02
6,360.55
B.	 Other operating revenue
	
Export benefits and other incentives
2.25
2.30
	
Scrap sales
23.56
24.96
	
Royalty Income
0.46
0.57
26.27
27.83
7,028.29
6,388.38
	
(Also refer Note 35 and 36)
19	 Other income
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Interest income
29.40
35.28
Income from subsidiaries
2.87
0.31
Fair value gain on investments measured at fair value through profit or loss
30.53
24.33
Others
0.40
0.42
63.20
60.34
20	 Cost of materials consumed
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Opening inventories
83.34
103.67
Add: Purchases
1,155.95
1,312.29
Less: Closing inventories
(88.12)
(83.34)
Cost of raw materials consumed
1,151.17
1,332.62
Add: Sub-contracting charges
34.35
45.71
1,185.52
1,378.33
21	 Purchases of stock-in-trade
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Electric consumer durables
3,032.33
2,624.19
Lighting products
612.46
510.98
3,644.79
3,135.17
22	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-
progress
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Opening inventories :
Finished goods
203.54
175.00
Stock-in-trade
371.53
296.11
Work-in-progress
34.33
37.70
609.40
508.81
Less:
Closing inventories:
Finished goods
188.06
203.54
Stock-in-trade
450.73
371.53
Work-in-progress
40.04
34.33
678.83
609.40
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
420 - 421
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Changes in inventories:
Finished goods
15.48
(28.54)
Stock-in-trade
(79.20)
(75.42)
Work-in-progress
(5.71)
3.37
(69.43)
(100.59)
23	 Employee benefits expense
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Salaries, wages, bonus and other benefits
467.68
421.50
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer Note 30)
14.87
13.52
Gratuity (Refer Note 30)
3.56
3.25
Compensated absences (Refer Note 30)
5.66
4.93
Staff welfare expenses
33.01
28.94
Share-based Payments to employees (Refer Note 34)
10.11
2.07
534.89
474.21
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 For remuneration paid to key management personnel Refer Note 31
	
(b)	 During the year, the Company has capitalised Employee benefits expense of J 7.90 crore (Previous year J 12.47 
crore) under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per 
Ind AS 38. 
24 	Finance costs
I Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Interest on borrowing
30.67
66.01
Interest on lease liability (Refer Note 29)
12.03
6.64
Interest others
0.09
0.12
42.79
72.77
25 	Other expenses
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Consumption of stores and spares
13.47
15.05
Power and fuel
9.03
9.87
Rent
14.62
9.80
Repair to property, plant and equipment
3.62
4.07
Insurance
3.78
3.65
Rates and taxes
2.21
4.88
Freight and forwarding outward
228.46
194.96
Packing materials
79.36
82.84
After sales service
75.32
67.30
Sales promotion
101.19
81.11
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer Note 28)
13.37
13.81
Advertising
154.86
136.05
Legal and professional charges
92.74
87.61
Payment to the auditors (Refer Note below)
1.08
1.11
Bad Debts written off
18.23
8.86
Allowance for credit losses
4.16
12.02
Extended Producer's Responsibility
18.25
14.20
Miscellaneous expenses
79.38
65.37
913.13
812.56
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Other expenses include expenditure on research and costs not eligible for capitalisation (Refer Note 27)
	
(b)	 During the year, the Company has capitalised Other expenses of J 2.93 crore (Previous year J 12.52 crore) under 
Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
	
Payment to the auditors
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Auditors' remuneration (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
Statutory Audit fees
0.59
0.59
	
Other services
	
(i)	 Certification work
0.04
0.03
	
(ii)	 Others
0.37
0.37
	
Reimbursement of expenses
0.08
0.12
1.08
1.11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
422 - 423
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
26	 Contingent liabilities and commitments
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
A
Contingent Liabilities:
(to the extent not provided for)
(a)
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
32.03
20.72
(b)
Income tax liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
113.79
89.33
(c)
Excise duty/ customs duty / service tax liability that may arise in respect of 
matters in appeal
11.33
11.25
(d)
GST/ Entry Tax/ Sales tax / VAT liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
215.64
166.41
(e)
Corporate and bank guarantees for debt given on behalf of subsidiary company
249.00
249.00
(f)
Extended Producer's Responsibility
24.18
-
B
Commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account 
and not provided for (net of advances)
9.12
8.32
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
	
(b)	 It is not practicable to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any, in respect of matters at (a) to (f) above, 
pending resolution of the arbitration/appellate proceedings.
27	 Expenditure on research and development
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Capital expenditure*
24.24
33.23
Sub-total (a)
24.24
33.23
(b)
Revenue expenditure
Raw materials consumed 
2.71
0.06
Employee benefits 
28.93
22.74
Depreciation and amortisation
15.14
8.58
Other expenses
	
Consumption of stores and spares
1.38
3.10
	
Repairs and maintenance
0.19
0.01
	
Miscellaneous expenses
12.07
3.65
	
Sub-total (b)
60.42
38.14
Total (a) + (b)
84.66
71.37
	
*includes J 13.31 crore (Previous year J 29.17 crore) capitalised under Product Development & IAUD as a Development cost as per Ind 
AS 38.
28	 Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
13.37
13.81
Amount of expenditure incurred by the Company during the year
(i)	 Construction / acquision of any asset
-
-
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above:
-	
In cash
	
Nature of CSR activities
	
	
Community Development
1.57
2.38
	
	
Monitoring & Evaluation
0.11
0.23
	
	
Skill Development
5.09
5.76
	
	
Water Conservation
6.00
6.38
	
	
Administration
0.60
0.50
-	
Yet to be paid in cash
-
-
Total CSR expenditure
13.37
15.25
Contribution to Crompton (CSR) Foundation- a trust controlled by the Company 
in relation to CSR expenditure as per Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures  
(Refer Note 31)
12.78
13.31
29	 Leases
	
Company as lessee
	
A	
Right-of-Use assets
H Crore
Cost
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
137.26
121.36
Additions
124.64
33.16
Disposal / derecognized during the year
(45.08)
(17.26)
Closing Balance (a)
216.82
137.26
H Crore
Accumulated depreciation
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
66.80
52.51
Depreciation expense
42.03
31.55
Disposal / derecognized during the year
(42.93)
(17.26)
Closing Balance (b)
65.90
66.80
Closing Balance (a-b)
150.92
70.46
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
424 - 425
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
B	
Lease liabilities
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
80.48
78.00
Addition
124.64
33.16
Accredition of interest
12.03
6.64
Payments
(48.15)
(37.32)
Adjustments for derecognition
(2.45)
-
Closing Balance
166.55
80.48
Current maturities of lease liabilities
34.22
30.40
Non-current lease liabilities
132.33
50.08
	
C	
Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Depreciation expense of Right-of-Use assets
42.03
31.55
Interest expense on lease liabilities
12.03
6.64
Short term and low value leases
14.62
9.80
Total
68.68
47.99
	
D	
Maturity analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted)
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Less than one year
45.00
35.21
One to five years
110.56
54.97
More than five years
51.41
0.58
Total
206.97
90.76
	
E	
Amounts recognised in statement of Cash Flows
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Total Cash outflow for leases	
48.15
37.32
	
F	
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to new lease liabilities throughout the year is 7.11%
	
G	
(a)	 Company applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less 
than 12 months of lease term and low value asset.
	
	
(b)	 Lease contracts entered by the Company pertains to warehouses and offices taken on lease to conduct 
its business in the ordinary course. The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment 
towards variable rent as per the contract.
	
	
(c)	
The Company has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. Significant 
judgement is exercised by management in determining whether these extension and termination 
options are reasonably certain to be exercised.
30	 Employee Benefits
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2(o))
	
Amount of J 24.41 crore (Previous year J 23.00 crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee 
benefits expense as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 23)
H Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2024-25
2023-24
Provident fund
 12.22 
 11.40 
Superannuation fund
 1.00 
 1.10 
Employee state insurance scheme
 0.07 
 0.07 
Labour welfare scheme
 0.01 
 0.00 
Gratuity
 3.62 
 3.34 
National Pension Scheme
 1.83 
 1.30 
Compensated Absences
 5.66 
 4.93 
Post retirement medical benefits (Refer Note i below)
 -   
 0.86 
Total
 24.41 
 23.00 
	
Note:- During the year, the Company has capitalised employees benefits of J 0.31 crore (previous year - J 0.44 
crore) under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind 
AS 38.
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2(o)) as per Actuarial Valuation are 
as under:
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical Benefits
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
(Funded)
(Funded)
(Non funded) 
(Refer note i 
below)
(Non funded)
I
Change in present value of defined 
benefit obligation during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation 
at the beginning of the year
32.68
29.24
-
7.55
Amount recognised in statement of  
profit and loss
	
Interest cost
2.36
2.19
-
0.56
	
Current service cost
3.85
3.47
-
0.63
	
Past service cost
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other  
comprehensive income
	
Actuarial loss / (gain)
0.03
1.83
-
0.13
	
Benefits paid
(4.72)
(4.05)
-
(0.33)
	
Present Value of defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the year
34.20
32.68
-
8.54
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
426 - 427
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical Benefits
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
(Funded)
(Funded)
(Non funded) 
(Refer note i 
below)
(Non funded)
II
Change in fair value of plan assets during 
the year
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of 
the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
Expected return on plan assets
2.59
2.32
-
-
Contributions
(4.00)
-
-
-
Benefits paid from the fund
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
-
-
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
0.42
2.70
-
-
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.00
35.99
-
-
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
2.59
2.32
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
0.42
2.70
-
-
Actual return on plan assets
3.01
5.02
-
-
IV
Net asset / (liability) recognised in the 
balance sheet
Present Value of defined benefit obligation 
at the end of the year
(34.20)
(32.68)
-
(8.54)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.00
35.99
-
-
Asset / (Liability) recognised  
in the balance sheet (Refer Note 13 for 
current and non-current classification)
0.80
3.31
-
(8.54)
V
Expenses recognised in the  
statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
3.85
3.47
-
0.63
Interest cost
(0.23)
(0.13)
-
0.56
Past Service cost
-
-
-
-
3.62
3.34
-
1.19
VI
Expenses recognised in the  
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss / (gain) on Obligation For the 
Period
0.03
1.83
-
0.13
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
(0.42)
(2.70)
-
-
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
-
-
Net (Income) / Expense For the Period 
Recognized in OCI
(0.39)
(0.87)
-
0.13
VII
The major categories of  
plan assets as a percentage of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
-
NA
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical Benefits
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
(Funded)
(Funded)
(Non funded) 
(Refer note i 
below)
(Non funded)
VIII Sensitivity analysis for  
significant assumptions:
(Decrease) / Increase on present value of 
defined benefits obligation at the end of the year
1% increase in discount rate
(1.87)
(1.72)
-
(1.18)
1% decrease in discount rate
2.09
1.92
-
1.51
1% increase in salary escalation rate
2.09
1.93
-
-
1% decrease in salary escalation rate
(1.90)
(1.76)
-
-
1% increase in employee turnover rate
0.06
0.01
-
-
1% decrease in employee turnover rate
0.05
(0.02)
-
-
1% increase in Medical inflation rate
-
-
-
1.53
1% decrease in Medical inflation rate
-
-
-
(1.20)
IX
Maturity profile of  
defined benefit obligations
-
Within the next 12 months
5.00
5.56
-
0.39
Between 1 and 5 years
13.58
12.33
-
1.65
Between 5 and 10 years
15.78
15.69
-
2.55
X
Actuarial assumptions
-
Discount rate (p.a.)
6.84%
7.21%
-
7.40%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
6.84%
7.21%
-
N.A
Employee turnover rate
6.00%
6.00%
-
6.00%
Salary escalation rate
6.00%
6.00%
-
N.A
Mortality rate during employment
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
-
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
Medical premium inflation rate
N.A
N.A
-
2.00%
(c)	 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on 
a change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity 
to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been 
applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change 
compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The Company makes contributions to the Gratuity Trust, which manages the investment. The Trust is a funded 
defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. The Scheme provides for lump sum payment to vested employees 
at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment as per the Company’s Gratuity 
Scheme. Vesting occurs as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
(e)	 The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 
31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current 
service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(f)	 Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet 
date for the estimated term of the obligations.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
428 - 429
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(g)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on 
investments of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the 
seniority, the promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
(i)	 Employee benefit expenses include write back of J 12.57 crores during the year related to post-retirement 
medical benefits, consequent to discontinuation of the scheme.
	
Compensated absences
	
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at 
balance sheet date. The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
	
The leave obligation cover the Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of J 17.15 crore 
(Previous year J 15.48 crore) is presented as non-current and J 2.87 (Previous year J 3.12 crore) is presented 
as current. The Company has recognised J 5.66 (Previous year J 4.93 crore) for compensated absences in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
31	 Related Party Disclosures
i)	
List of related parties over which control exist:
	
Name of the subsidiary companies:
	
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
	
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
ii)	 Other Related Parties:
	
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd (upto 30th April, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
iii)	 Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out during 
the year:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Gratuity Trust
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Superannuation Fund
iv)	 Key Management Personnel:
	
Mr. H. M. Nerurkar, Chairman and Independent Director (upto 20th October, 2023)
	
Mr. D. Sundaram, Chairman and Independent Director
	
Mr. P. M. Murty, Independent Director
	
Ms. Smita Anand, Independent Director
	
Mr. P.R. Ramesh, Independent Director
	
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, Independent Director
	
Mr. Anil Chaudhry, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non-Executive Director (upto April 23, 2023); Executive Director (From April 24, 2023 to 
April 30, 2023); Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (from May 01, 2023)
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Managing Director (upto April 30, 2023); Vice Chairman and Executive Director 
(from 1st May, 2023 to 30th April, 2024); Non executive Vice Chairman (from 1st May, 2024)
	
Mr. Mathew Job, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (upto 30th April, 2023)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Chief Financial Officer
	
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
v)	 Details of related party transactions:
H Crore
Sr. 
No.
Nature of transaction
2024-25
2023-24
1
Services received
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
1.02
0.43
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd
-
0.33
Total
1.02
0.76
2
Services rendered
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
0.05
0.05
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
0.05
0.05
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
8.90
6.61
Total
9.00
6.71
3
Purchase of products
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
31.08
9.67
Total
31.08
9.67
4
Sales of products
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
-
0.12
Total
-
0.12
5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
0.09
-
Total
0.09
-
6
Contributions (Employer's) to Post Retirement Funds
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation 
Fund
1.00
1.10
Total
1.00
1.10
7
Compensation to Key Management Personnel
Short-term benefits*
26.48
125.01
Share-based Payments (Refer Note b below)
6.99
(3.31)
Director's sitting fees
0.51
0.41
Commission
3.07
1.60
Total
37.05
123.71
8
Donations paid
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
12.78
13.31
Total
12.78
13.31
	
*Short-term benefits for the current year include Nil (previous year: ₹ 101.60 crore) on account of exercise of stock options
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Liabilities for post retirement benefits being Gratuity and Leave encashment are provided on actuarial basis 
for the Company as a whole. The amount pertaining to Key management personnel are not included above.
	
b)	
The Company has granted shares under various Schemes to the eligible Key Management Personnel. The 
amount mentioned is the fair value of the grant (credited) / charged to Statement of profit and loss.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
430 - 431
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
vi)	 Amount due to / from related parties
H Crore
Sr. 
No.
Nature of transaction
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
1
Other Receivable
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Gratuity Trust
 0.80 
 3.31 
Total
 0.80 
 3.31 
2
Other Payable
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
 3.35 
 1.49 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
 0.08 
 0.09 
Commission Payable to Key Management Personnel
3.07
 1.60 
Total
6.50
 3.18 
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s 
length basis. Outstanding balances at the year-end with related parties are unsecured and interest free, and will 
be settled/ recovered in cash.
	
The Company has not made any allowance for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party trade receivables 
nor has any guarantee been given or received during the year ended 31st March 2025 and 31st March 2024 relating 
to related party transactions.
32	 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of 
Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(a)	Basic earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
J crore
563.18
466.45
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding during the year
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Earnings per share - Basic (one equity share of J 2 each)
J
8.75
7.29
(b)	Diluted earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
J crore
563.18
466.45
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for basic EPS during 
the year
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on 
account of Employee Stock Option Schemes (refer note below)
Nos
-
-
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for diluted EPS during 
the year
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Earnings per share - Diluted (one equity share of J 2 each)
₹
8.75
7.29
	
Note:
	
78,36,098 (previous year: 84,89,793) number of share options are outstanding as on 31st March, 2025 which are 
anti-dilutive in nature
33	 Impairment testing of Goodwill
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Company’s operating division (not at 
segment level), which is not higher than the Company’s operating segments. The aggregate carrying amounts 
of goodwill allocated to each unit are as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Electric Consumer Durables
590.10
590.10
Lighting Products
189.31
189.31
Total
779.41
779.41
	
The recoverable amount is based on a value-in-use calculation using the discounted cash flow method. The 
value-in-use calculation is made using exit multiple and pre-tax budgeted EBITDA projections of the next five 
years which is considered by the Board as a reasonable period.
	
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows:
	
a)	
Earnings (before interest and tax) margin: The margins have been estimated based on past experience 
after considering incremental revenue and savings from the efficiencies and cost saving initiatives driven 
by the Company.
	
b)	
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to a cash generating 
unit and is estimated based on the weighted average cost of capital.
	
c)	
Long-term growth rate: The growth rates used are in line with the long-term average growth rates of the 
Company and are consistent with the internal / external sources of information.
	
The assumptions used are reviewed annually as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. 
These estimates may differ from actual results. The values assigned to each of the key assumptions reflect the 
Management’s past experience as their assessment of future trends, and are consistent with external / internal 
sources of information.
	
Based on the above assumptions and analysis, no impairment was identified for any of the cash generating unit 
as at 31st March 2025 and 31st March, 2024 as the recoverable value of the cash generating unit exceeded the 
carrying value.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
432 - 433
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
The Company has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used (revenue growth and 
EBITDA margin) and discount rate applied. An analysis of the sensitivity of the computation to a change in key 
parameters (operating margin, discount rates and average growth rate), based on reasonable assumptions, 
did not identify any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the cash generating units would 
decrease below its carrying amount.
34	 Share-based Payments
	
Employee stock options - equity settled
(a)	 The Members of the Company have approved by way of postal ballots grant of Employee stock options under 
various Schemes. The plan envisaged grant of shares to eligible employees at market price/pre-determined 
value as determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the Board of Directors from 
time to time.
	
Disclosures:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025 
/ 2024-25
31st March, 2024 
/ 2023-24
Share-based Payments to employee
10.11
2.07
Employee Stock option outstanding
74.94
74.24
(b)	 The position of the existing schemes is summarized as under:
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Date of Shareholder's 
approval
19-01-
2020 and 
amended on 
06-01-2021
22/10/2016
22/10/2016
22/10/2016
19-01-
2020 and 
amended on 
06-01-2021
22/10/2016
22/10/2016
22/10/2016
Total number of options 
approved under ESOS
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
Vesting requirements
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
Exercise price or pricing 
formula (J)
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange, as on the day 
prior to the date on which 
the NRC approves the 
Grant.
92.83
185.66 Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange, as on the day 
prior to the date on which 
the NRC approves the 
Grant.
92.83
185.66
Maximum term of 
Options granted (years)
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would vest 
not earlier than one year 
and not later than 10 years 
from the date of grant
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would vest 
not earlier than one year 
and not later than 10 years 
from the date of grant
Source of shares 
(Primary, Secondary  
or combination)
Primary
Variation in terms  
of options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options
(c)	 Options movement during the year:-
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
No. of options outstanding 
at the beginning of the year
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
No. of options granted 
during the year
9,50,000
-
-
-
25,55,000
-
-
-
No. of options forfeited / 
lapsed during the year
9,01,511
-
-
-
32,38,390
1,26,413
-
-
No. of options vested during 
the year
10,15,249
-
-
-
10,01,558
89,978
-
-
No. of options exercised 
during the year
2,96,396
4,05,788
-
-
-
2,59,930
44,10,033
23,27,297
Money realised by exercise 
of options (J)
11,22,19,471 9,15,94,433
-
-
- 5,19,53,343 40,93,83,363 43,20,85,961
No. of options outstanding 
at the end of the year
76,35,653
2,00,445
-
-
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
No. of options exercisable at 
the end of the year
32,24,403
2,00,445
-
-
25,48,560
6,06,233
-
-
Weighted Average 
Remaining Contractual  
Life (in years)
4.47
1.98
-
-
5.81
2.25
-
-
(d)	 Weighted average information for year:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Weighted average 
exercise price of options 
granted during the year 
whose
Exercise price equals 
market price (J)
432.05
-
-
-
268.09
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater 
than market price (J)
-
-
-
-
294.65
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (J)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Weighted average fair 
value of options granted 
during the year whose
Exercise price equals 
market price (J)
118.64
-
-
-
108.59
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater 
than market price (J)
-
-
-
-
102.80
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (J)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
434 - 435
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(e)	 The Black-Scholes Valuation Model has been used for computing weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:-
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
Price of the underlying share in market at the time of the option grant (J)
432.05
261.84
Exercise price (J)
432.05
261.84
Risk free interest rate (based on government securities)
6.56%
6.93%
Expected life (years)
3.04
5.56
Expected volatility
29.86%
33.06%
Dividend yield
0.69%
0.95%
(f)	 Number and Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options 
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
84,89,793
353.40
1,62,96,856
274.51
Granted during the year
9,50,000
432.05
25,55,000
259.09
Forefeited during the year
9,01,511
380.77
33,64,803
391.73
Exercised during the year
7,02,184
290.26
69,97,260
127.68
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
78,36,098
365.44
84,89,793
345.19
Exercisable at the end of the year
34,24,848
383.57
31,54,793
371.36
(g)	 Weighted average share price of options exercised during the year is J 419.43 (Previous year J 276.20).
35	 Operating Segments
A.	 General Information
	
The Company has determined following reporting segments based on the information reviewed by the 
Company's CODM.
	
a)	
Electric Consumer Durables
	
b)	
Lighting Products
	
The above business segments have been identified considering:
	
a)	
the nature of products and services
	
b)	
the differing risks and returns
	
c)	
the internal organisation and management structure, and
	
d)	
the internal financial reporting systems.
	
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Management Committee as explained in the Director’s Report section.
B.	 Information about reportable segments
I Crore
2024-25
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting 
Products
Total
Revenue
External Customers
6,010.00
1,018.29
7,028.29
Inter-segment
-
-
-
Total revenue
6,010.00
1,018.29
7,028.29
Segment profit
928.33
119.68
1,048.01
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortization expense
22.67
8.42
31.09
Segment assets
1,662.22
316.66
1,978.88
Segment liabilities
1,459.86
376.68
1,836.54
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
52.16
3.85
56.01
I Crore
2023-24
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting Products
Total
Revenue
External Customers
5,392.18
996.20
6,388.38
Inter-segment
-
-
-
Total revenue
5,392.18
996.20
6,388.38
Segment profit
774.65
105.36
880.01
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortization expense
17.81
7.93
25.74
Segment assets
1,433.19
353.19
1,786.38
Segment liabilities
1,251.44
357.30
1,608.74
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
57.63
10.41
68.04
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
436 - 437
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
C.	 Reconciliations of information on reportable segments
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)	Revenue
	
Total revenue for reportable segments
7,028.29
6,388.38
	
Total revenue (Refer Note 18)
7,028.29
6,388.38
(b)	Profit before exceptional items and tax
	
Total profit before exceptional items and tax for reportable segments
1,048.01
880.01
	
Unallocated amounts:
	
Expense on share-based payment to employees
(10.11)
(2.07)
	
Finance costs
(42.79)
(72.77)
	
Other unallocable expenditure net of unallocable Income
(239.52)
(194.13)
	
Total profit before exceptional items and tax from operations as reported in 
Statement of profit and loss
755.59
611.04
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(c)	 Assets
	
Total assets for reportable segments
1,978.88
1,786.38
	
Other unallocated amounts
	
Goodwill
779.41
779.41
	
Other assets
3,117.94
2,954.13
	
Deferred tax assets (net)
64.24
54.56
	
Total assets as reported in Balance sheet
5,940.47
5,574.48
(d)	Liabilities
	
Total liabilities for reportable segments
1,836.54
1,608.74
	
Other unallocated amounts
	
Borrowings
300.00
598.97
	
Other liabilities
199.88
161.29
	
Total liabilities as reported in Balance sheet
2,336.42
2,369.00
36	 Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”
A.	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss with contracted price
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Revenue as per contracted price
7,603.82
6,879.13
Less: Adjustments*
(601.80)
(518.58)
Total revenue from contract with customers
7,002.02
6,360.55
	
* includes discounts, schemes, sales return & others.
B.	
The Company does not have any contract asset or liability as at 31st March, 2025 (Previous year: nil)
C.	 Disaggregation of revenue based on products
	
Information given above concerning reportable segment-wise revenue are sufficient to meet the required 
disclosures under Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with respect to disaggregation of revenue.
D.	 Geographic information
	
The Company mainly caters to Indian Market, accordingly, secondary information/ geographical segment is 
not applicable.
E.	
Information about major customers
	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues.
37	 Financial instruments – Disclosures
A.	 Accounting classification and fair values
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, 
including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and 
financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Trade receivables
-
10.55
10.55
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
9.22
9.22
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
617.98
-
617.98
617.98
-
-
617.98
Trade receivables
-
603.16
603.16
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
193.80
193.80
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash 
equivalents
-
145.04
145.04
-
-
-
-
Derivative Assets
0.03
-
0.03
0.03
-
-
0.03
Other current financial assets
-
35.09
35.09
-
-
-
-
618.01
996.86
1,614.87
618.01
-
-
618.01
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
132.33
132.33
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
15.94
15.94
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
299.81
299.81
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
34.22
34.22
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,325.26
1,325.26
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
61.25
61.25
-
-
-
-
-
1,868.81
1,868.81
-
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
438 - 439
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Trade receivables
-
12.65
12.65
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
12.56
12.56
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
628.14
-
628.14
628.14
-
-
628.14
Trade receivables
-
580.12
580.12
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
130.79
130.79
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash 
equivalents
-
84.48
84.48
-
-
-
-
Derivative Assets
0.16
-
0.16
0.16
-
-
0.16
Other current financial assets
-
19.70
19.70
-
-
-
-
628.30
840.30
1,468.60
628.30
-
-
628.30
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
298.97
298.97
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
50.08
50.08
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
14.03
14.03
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
300.00
300.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
30.40
30.40
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,172.45
1,172.45
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
71.58
71.58
-
-
-
-
-
1,937.51
1,937.51
-
-
-
-
	
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current 
financial assets and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the 
short-term maturities of these instruments.
B.	 Fair value heirarchy
	
The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into three categories 
depending on the inputs used in the valuation technique. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable 
inputs (Level 3 measurements).
	
The categories used are as follows:
	Ȣ
Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in active market;
	Ȣ
Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and
	Ȣ
Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.”
C.	 Measurement of fair values
	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as 
well as the significant unobservable inputs used.
	
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
Valuation technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship 
between significant 
unobservable inputs 
and fair value 
measurement
Derivative instruments - 
forwards foreign exchange 
contracts
The Company has used discounted mark to 
market of forward contracts using current 
forward rates for remaining tenure of the 
forward contract as provided by respective 
banks.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Derivative instruments - options 
foreign exchange contracts
Fair value of foreign currency options 
contract is provided by bank's with whom the 
derivatives are entered into.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Investment in mutual funds
The fair value of the units of mutual fund 
scheme are based on net asset value at the 
reporting date.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Non current financial assets 
and liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
Discounted cash flows: The valuation model 
considers the present value of expected 
receipt/ payment discounted using 
appropriate discounting rates.
Not applicable
Not applicable
D.	 Financial risk management
	
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
	Ȣ
Credit risk;
	Ȣ
Liquidity risk; and
	Ȣ
Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk 
management framework. The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) for identification, 
evaluation and mitigation of operations, strategic and external risks. RMC has the overall responsibility for 
monitoring and recovering the Risk Management Plan and associated practices of the Company.
	
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, 
to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies 
and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities. The 
Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and 
constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
	
The RMC oversees how management monitors compliance with the company’s risk management policies and 
procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by 
the Company. The committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both 
regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to 
the audit committee.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
440 - 441
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
i.	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument 
fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from 
customers, investment in mutual funds and cash and cash equivalents.The Company makes provision on 
trade receivables based on Expected Credit loss (ECL) method based on provision matrix.
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each 
customer. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously 
monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal 
course of business. The Company has a detailed review mechanism of overdue trade receivables at various 
levels in the organisation to ensure proper attention and focus on realisation.
	
	
Summary of the Company’s exposure to credit risk by age of the outstanding from various customers is 
as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Not past due
451.80
439.52
Past due 1–360 days
136.59
119.48
Past due 361- 720 days
41.46
41.69
More than 720 days
44.94
49.00
674.79
649.69
	
	
Expected credit loss assessment
	
	
Exposures to customers outstanding at the end of each reporting period are reviewed by the Company to 
determine incurred and expected credit losses. Management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past 
due are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was 
as follows:
Particulars
 K Crore 
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
 44.90 
Impairment loss recognised
 20.88 
Write off of bad debts
 (8.86)
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
 56.92 
Impairment loss recognised
 22.39 
Write off of bad debts
 (18.23)
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
 61.08 
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits
	
	
The Company held cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits with banks and financial institutions. The credit 
worthiness of such banks and financial institutions is evaluated by the management on an on-going basis and 
is considered to be good. Investment of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities.
	
	
Derivatives
	
	
The derivatives (forwards and options for foreign currency payments) are entered into with banks and 
financial institution counterparties with good credit ratings.
	
	
Investment in mutual funds
	
	
The Company limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only with counterparties that have a good credit 
rating. The Company does not expect any losses from non performance by these counter parties
	
	
Other than trade receivables, the Company has no other financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
	
ii.	
Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become 
due at reasonable price. The Company manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will 
always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, 
without incurring unacceptable losses or risk to the Company’s reputation.
	
	
The Company monitors cash flow requirements and aims at optimising its cash return on investments and 
to maintain the level of its cash and bank balance and other highly marketable mutual fund investments at 
an amount in excess of expected cash outflows on financial liabilities.
	
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
contractual cash flows are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year  
or less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than  
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings (including interest)
-
-
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
161.97
-
35.07
75.49
51.41
	
Trade payables
15.64
5.65
0.87
9.12
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
315.72
315.72
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
45.00
45.00
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,325.26
1,325.26
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
36.95
36.95
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year 
or less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings (including interest)
298.97
-
298.97
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
55.55
-
25.17
29.80
0.58
	
Trade payables
14.03
3.79
6.05
4.19
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
331.33
331.33
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
35.21
35.21
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,172.45
1,172.45
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
34.28
34.28
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
442 - 443
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
iii.	
Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 
equity prices – will affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market 
risk is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables 
and payables. The Company is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange rate risk, 
interest rate risk and the market value of investments. Thus, Company’s exposure to market risk is a function 
of investing and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign currency. The objective of market 
risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency revenues and costs.
	
	
Market risk comprises two types of risks: currency risk and interest rate risk
	
a)	
Currency risk
	
	
The Company is exposed to currency risk on account of its receivable and payables in foreign currency. 
The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupee. The Company uses forward foreign exchange 
contracts and options foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, with a maturity of less than 
one year from the reporting date.
	
	
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
	
	
Following is the derivative financial instruments to hedge the foreign exchange rate risk:
Category
Instrument
Currency Cross 
Currency
Amounts  
($ in million)
Buy/
Sell
Year
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Option Contract
USD
INR
 0.26 Buy
As at 31st March, 2025
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Forward Contract
USD
INR
 - Buy
As at 31st March, 2025
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities denominated in USD are as below:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Financial assets
Trade receivables
17.18
17.57
17.18
17.57
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
8.97
31.48
8.97
31.48
Net foreign currency exposure
8.21
(13.91)
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
A reasonably possible strengthening/ (weakening) of the Indian Rupee against foreign currencies at reporting 
date would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies 
and affected profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in 
particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
H Crore
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2025
USD
5%
 0.41 
 (0.41)
 0.41 
 (0.41)
H Crore
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2024
USD
5%
 (0.70)
 0.70 
 (0.70)
 0.70 
	
b)	
Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in 
the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing 
investments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the interest rates.
	
	
Exposure to Interest Rate Risk / Sensitivity
	
	
Company’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Company’s interest-
bearing financial instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follows.
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
	
Bank deposits
230.00
153.00
	
Total
230.00
153.00
Financial liabilities
	
Non-current borrowings
-
298.97
	
Current borrowings
299.80
300.00
Variable-rate Instruments
Financial liabilities
	
Current borrowings
0.01
-
Total
299.81
598.97
	
	
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
	
	
The Company does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
444 - 445
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
38	 Financial performance ratios
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
31st March, 
2025
31st 
March, 
2024
Variance
Refer 
Note
A.	 Performance Ratios
	
Net Profit Margin  
(in %)
Profit after tax
Total Income
7.94%
7.23%
9.79%
	
Net Capital Turnover 
ratio (in times)
Revenue from operations Working Capital
8.31
8.08
2.87%
	
Return on Capital 
Employed (in %)
Earnings before interest 
and taxes
Tangible Capital 
Employed
28.55%
27.61%
3.40%
	
Return on  
equity (in %)
Net Profit after Taxes
Average 
Shareholder's Equity
16.54%
15.43%
7.17%
	
Return on  
Investment (in %)
Net gain on investment
Weighted average 
investments
7.98%
7.52%
6.12%
(a)
	
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(in times)
Profit After Tax + Interest 
+ Depreciation
Finance Cost + 
Repayments made 
during the year
2.01
1.52
32.24%
(b)
B.	 Leverage Ratio
	
Debt-Equity  
Ratio (in times)
Total Debt
Equity
0.08
0.19
-55.48%
(b)
C.	 Liquidity Ratio
	
Current ratio  
(in times)
Current Assets
Current liabilities excl. 
current Borrowings
1.49
1.52
-1.84%
D.	 Activity Ratios
	
Inventory Turnover  
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Inventory
6.48
6.70
-3.28%
	
Debtors Turnover  
(in times)
Revenue from operations Average Trade 
Receivables
11.65
11.23
3.74%
	
Trade Payables 
Turnover ratio  
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Accounts 
payables
3.77
4.20
-10.31%
	
Note: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
	
(a)	 Return on inventment increased due to improved yield and duration of investment.
	
(b)	 Movement in ratios is on account of repayment of borrowings during the year.
39	 Assets Pledged as Security
	
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
a)	 Inventories
	
Raw Material 
93.09
88.60
	
Finished Goods
638.79
575.07
	
Work in progress
40.04
34.33
b)	 Trade receivables
613.71
592.77
Total assets pledged as security (a+b)
1,385.63
1,290.77
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Borrowings were applied for the purpose for which they were obtained. Bank returns/ stock statements 
filed by the Company with its bankers are in agreement with books of accounts.
	
(b)	 According to the sanction terms laid out by the consortium lenders, there is exclusive first pari passu charge 
on stock of raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods, stores and spares, bills receivables and book 
debts, both present and future.
40	 Details of relationship with struck-off companies
Name of the struck off Company
Nature of transactions 
with struck off Company
Balance 
outstanding 
as at  
31st March, 2025
(K Crore)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2024
(K Crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
Company, 
if any, to be 
disclosed
Air Temp Solutions Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Alif Trading Company
Receivables
-
0.00
Customer
Federro Electronics Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
H.K. Power Corporation Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Hammer Head Technologies Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Kapson Power Technology Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Kiapco Infrastructure Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Ncs Infocomm Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Revive Industries Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
S.S. Electro Works Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Seven Hills Impex Limited*
Advance from customer
0.01
0.01
Customer
Shakedi Shengtai Electrics Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Shreeskanda Systems Private Limited
Receivables
0.00
0.01
Customer
Super Market Grocery Supplies Private 
Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Suzusons Care Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Takkar Interna.Trademart Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Techno India Wtr & Waste Wtr Private Limited Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Triveni Machinery Private Limited*
Receivables
6.08
4.15
Customer
Venus Dealmark Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
	
*The company was struck off or under the process of striking off as at 31st March, 2025
41	 Capital Management
	
Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Company’s capital management. The 
Company manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimize 
returns to shareholders. The capital structure of the Company is based on management’s judgement of its 
strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market 
confidence. The management and the Board of Directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of 
dividends to shareholders. The Company may take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, 
its capital structure.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
446 - 447
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
The Board of Directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with 
higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
	
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘total equity’. For this purpose, adjusted 
net debt is defined as total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash 
equivalents and other bank balances. Total equity comprises all components of equity.
	
The Company’s adjusted net debt-to-equity ratio at 31st March, 2025 was as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Total equity
3,604.05
3,205.48
Total borrowings (including current portion of long-term debts)
299.81
598.97
Less: cash and cash equivalents
193.80
130.79
Less: other bank balances
145.04
84.48
Net debt
(39.03)
383.70
Overall financing
3,565.02
3,589.18
Gearing ratio
(0.01)
0.11
	
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current and 
previous year.
	
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, among other things, aims to ensure 
that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital 
structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call 
loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and 
borrowing during the current and previous year.
42	 There has been no delay in charges or satisfaction to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
43	 The Company does not have any transactions not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961.
44	 The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current and 
previous year.
45	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
46	 The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-
employment, received Presidential assent on 28th September, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette 
of India. Further, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 13th November, 
2020. However, the effective date from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for 
quantifying the financial impact are also not yet issued. The Company will assess the impact of the Code and 
will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and 
the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
47	 No significant subsequent events have been observed which may require an adjustments to the 
financial statements.
48	 Amount shown as J 0.00 represents amount below J 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand).
49	 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
448 - 449
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of  
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Report on the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding 
Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), 
which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including summary of material accounting 
policy and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, and based on 
consideration of reports of other auditors on separate 
financial statements and on the other financial 
information of subsidiaries, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements give the information required by 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under 
section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind 
AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, of their consolidated state of affairs of the 
Group as at March 31, 2025, and its consolidated profit 
(including other comprehensive income), consolidated 
changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for 
the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group in accordance 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by Institute of 
Chartered Accountant of India (“ICAI”), and the 
relevant provisions of the Act and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained and on consideration of audit reports of 
other auditors referred to in the “Other Matter” section 
below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to 
be communicated in our report:
Sr. 
No
Key audit matter
How the key audit matters were addressed in our audit
1
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives
(Refer Notes 2D and 36 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
The goodwill balance as of March 31, 2025 of H 1,285.46 
crores pertains to:
(i)	 H 779.41 crores on account demerger of the 
Consumer Business from Crompton Greaves Limited 
(now CG Power and Industrial Solutions Limited) and 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited in 
2015; and
(ii)	 H 506.05 crores on account of business acquisition 
of 
Butterfly 
Gandhimathi 
Appliances 
Limited 
(“Subsidiary”).
Other Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
pertains to brand and trademarks purchased on 
account of acquisition of subsidiary amounting to 
H 1,195.97.
Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives is material as at March 31, 2025 
and inherent uncertainty is involved in forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, determination of discount 
rates for computing the value in use and the assessment 
of its recoverability. This audit area is considered a key 
audit matter.
The Company has carried out an impairment assessment 
using the value-in-use (ViU) calculations which is based 
on discounted cash flow with exit multiple method. 
Determination of ViU involves significant estimates, 
assumptions and judgements as regards reasonableness 
of assumptions involved in developing projections 
of entity’s financial performance, exit multiples, and 
discount rates to be considered.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the impairment process 
and tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over impairment 
assessment process for goodwill and other intangible 
assets with indefinite useful lives arising out of business 
reconstruction and acquisition transactions.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the future revenue and margin 
projections, the historical accuracy of the estimates and 
its ability to produce accurate long-term forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts to assist in examining the 
reasonableness of the Company’s valuation model and 
analysing the underlying key assumptions, including exit 
multiplier and discount rate.
d)	 Evaluated the sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from 
changes to key assumptions applied and compared the 
assumptions to corroborating information including 
industry reports and data from competitors and historic 
performance.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating 
cash flow forecasts with the business plan and budgets 
approved by the Board and tested the mathematical 
accuracy of management’s calculations.
f)	 Assessed 
the 
adequacy 
and 
appropriateness 
of 
the disclosures made in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
450 - 451
Sr. 
No
Key audit matter
How the key audit matters were addressed in our audit
2
Provision for Warranties
(Refer Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Company’s business involves the sale of products 
under warranty. The Company also has back-to-
back contractual arrangements with its vendors for 
reimbursement of costs relating to products supplied by 
the vendors.
Warranty provisions, which are inherently judgmental 
in nature, are provided by the Company to record an 
appropriate estimate of the costs of repairing and 
replacing products and spares within the warranty 
period. The Company estimates and provides for liability 
for product warranties in the year in which the products 
are sold. Further, the timing of outflows will vary based 
on the actual warranty claims made during the warranty 
period in the future.
The above estimations of warranty provision require 
significant judgement considering the nature and timing 
of the cash outflows. Also, there is estimation uncertainty 
as regards the timing and the amount of the actual 
warranty claims that may devolve over the warranty 
period. Accordingly, the provision for warranties has 
been determined by us to be a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the warranty claims 
process and tested the design, implementation and 
operating effectiveness of internal controls over the 
provision for warranties.
b)	 Reviewed the historical data on warranty costs incurred 
in regard to the product sales, the trend of claims over the 
warranty period and the comparison between provisions 
previously recognised and actual expenses. Also reviewed 
the historical data of recoveries from vendors against 
warranty claims and defective returns.
c)	 Reviewed reconciliations of sales made during the year 
with the sales register to determine completeness on 
which warranty obligation is determined.
d)	 Performed enquiry procedures and reviewed relevant 
documents in evaluating the accuracy of historical 
information prepared by the management (including cost 
of repairs and returns).
e)	 Reviewed the recognition and appropriateness of 
provisions by verifying the computation of defect 
rates, vendors recovery and mathematical accuracy of 
management calculations and obtaining management 
statements, evidence and supporting documents.
f)	 Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the 
relevant disclosures made in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
3
Recognition of Revenue – Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
Revenue 
of 
the 
Company 
mainly 
arises 
from 
manufacturing and trading of a wide range of domestic 
kitchen and electrical appliances to its customers.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognized on satisfaction 
of performance obligations as per the terms of the 
contract with customers. This requires detailed analysis 
of each contract / customer purchase order regarding 
timing of revenue recognition.
We have considered recognition revenue as one of the 
key audit matters as there is a risk of revenue being 
recorded before the control of goods are transferred to 
the customer and also in the inappropriate accounting 
period.
The component’s auditor (being other firm of chartered 
accountants) have performed the following procedures:
a)	 We assessed the Company’s accounting policy for revenue 
recognition by comparing with the applicable accounting 
standard.
b)	 Testing the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key internal controls over timing of 
recognition of revenue from sale of goods.
c)	 Verification of selected samples of customer contracts/ 
Purchase Orders to confirm the terms of delivery.
d)	 Our test of details includes specific procedures focused on 
cut-off to verify only revenue pertaining to current year is 
recognized based on terms and conditions set out in sales 
contracts.
Information Other than the 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of 
Directors are responsible for the other information. The 
other information comprises the information included 
in the ¬Management Discussion and Analysis and 
Director’s report but does not include the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the 
other 
information 
is 
materially 
inconsistent 
with the Consolidated Financial Statements, or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we 
have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and 
Board of Director for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board 
of Directors are responsible for the preparation 
and presentation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements in term of the requirements of the Act 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash 
flows of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of 
the Act. The respective Management and Board of 
Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, 
as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
the respective Management and Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Management and Board of Directors 
of the companies included in the Group are also 
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of each company.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with Standards on Auditing 
(“SAs”) will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
We give in “Annexure A” a detailed description of 
Auditor’s responsibilities for Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements of three 
subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total 
assets of H 501.77 crores as at March 31, 2025, total 
revenues of H 875.83 crores and net cash outflow 
amounting to H 31.39 crores for the year ended on 
that date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been 
furnished to us by the Management and our opinion 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as 
it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in terms of 
sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on 
the reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the 
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
452 - 453
above matter with respect to our reliance on the work 
done and reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports 
of the other auditors on the Separate Financial 
Statements of the subsidiaries referred to in the 
Other Matter section above we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We 
have 
sought 
and 
obtained 
all 
the 
information and explanations which to the best 
of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports of 
the other auditors.
	
c.	
The 
Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheet, 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
including 
other 
comprehensive 
income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
comply 
with 
the 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 
133 of the Act.
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiary companies, none 
of the directors of the Group companies, 
incorporated in India are disqualified as on 
March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Group, and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate report in 
“Annexure B”.
	
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position 
of the Group– Refer Note 29 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable losses on long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to 
the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary 
companies 
incorporated 
in India.
	
	
iv.	
1.	
The 
respective 
Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries, which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements 
have 
been 
audited 
under the Act have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities with the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, as on the date 
of this audit report, that such parties 
shall, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
2.	
The 
respective 
Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries, which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements 
have 
been 
audited 
under the Act have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, that, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief, no funds 
have been received by the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities with the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, as on the date 
of this audit report, that the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
3.	
Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries, 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, 
and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us by 
the Management of the Holding 
company in this regard nothing 
has come to our or other auditors’ 
notice that has caused us or the 
other auditors to believe that the 
representations 
under 
sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as provided 
under (1) and (2) above, contain any 
material mis-statement
	
	
v.	
On the basis of our verification and 
on consideration of the reports of the 
statutory auditors of subsidiaries, that 
are Indian companies under the Act, we 
report that:
	
	
	
a.	
the final dividend paid by the Holding 
Company during the year in respect 
of the same declared for the previous 
year is in accordance with section 
123 of the Companies Act 2013 to 
the extent it applies to payment 
of dividend.
	
	
	
b.	
The Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company 
have 
proposed 
final 
dividend for the year which is subject 
to the approval of their respective 
members at the ensuing Annual 
General 
Meeting. 
The 
dividend 
declared is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act to the extent 
it applies to declaration of dividend. 
(Refer Note 12(h) to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements)
	
	
vi.	
Based 
on 
our 
examination, 
which 
included test checks, and based on the 
other auditor’s reports of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India have 
used certain accounting software for 
maintaining their respective books of 
account for the year ended March 31, 
2025 which have a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same 
has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. Further, during the course of our 
audit, we and above referred subsidiaries, 
did not come across any instance of 
audit trail feature being tampered with. 
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year 
has been preserved by the Holding 
Company and above referred subsidiaries 
as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention.
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
454 - 455
2.	
In our opinion, according to information, explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Group 
to its directors is within the limits laid prescribed under Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act and the 
rules thereunder.
3.	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, following companies incorporated 
in India and included in the consolidated financial statements, have certain remarks given by the respective 
auditors in their reports under the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (CARO):
Sr. 
No
Name of the Company
CIN
Type of Company
Clause number of the 
CARO Report which is 
qualified or Adverse
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
L28931TN1986PLC012728
Subsidiary
Clause ii (b)
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWS4325
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Annexure A 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgment 
and 
maintain 
professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	Ȣ
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	Ȣ
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Holding Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.
	Ȣ
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the management 
and Board of Directors.
	Ȣ
Conclude on the appropriateness of the management 
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
	Ȣ
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including 
the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
	Ȣ
Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group to express an 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements 
of such entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, which have 
been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 
and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe 
these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine 
that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWS4325
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
456 - 457
Annexure B 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited
[Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent 
Auditors’ Report of even date to the Members of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025]
Report on the Internal Financial 
Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Holding Company”) as of and for the year ended March 
31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Holding Company which includes the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiary companies (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
“the Group”), which are companies incorporated in 
India, as of that date.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the Group, 
which are companies incorporated in India, have, in 
all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements criteria established 
by the respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
Management’s and Board of 
Directors’ Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The respective Management and the Board of Directors 
of the Group, which are companies incorporated in 
India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal control 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
criteria established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI. These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the respective company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, and the timely preparation of 
reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Group, which are companies 
incorporated in India, based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed 
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference 
to 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matter 
paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Group, which are companies 
incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
With Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
A Company's internal financial control with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
Consolidated Financial Statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company's internal financial control 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company's assets that could have a material effect on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal 
Financial Controls With Reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it relates 
to three subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated 
in India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of 
this matter.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 118247
Date: May 15, 2025 	
UDIN: 25118247BMOXWS4325
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
458 - 459
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
I.	
ASSETS
	
(1)	Non-current assets
	
	
(a)	Property, plant and equipment
2 A
426.70
399.06
	
	
(b) Capital work-in-progress
2 E
14.17
11.42
	
	
(c)	 Right-of-use assets
2 B
164.87
76.23
	
	
(d)	Goodwill
2 C
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
	
(e)	 Other intangible assets
2 D
1,417.96
1,436.08
	
	
(f)	 Intangible assets under development
2 F
20.13
47.06
	
	
(g)	Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Trade receivables
7 A
10.55
12.65
	
	
	
(ii)	 Other financial asset
4 A
15.34
19.10
	
	
(h)	 Deferred tax assets (net)
20 D
12.85
-
	
	
(i)	 Non-current tax assets (net)
20 F
8.62
8.62
	
	
( j)	 Other non-current assets
5 A
70.67
81.22
	
Total non-current assets
3,447.32
3,376.90
	
(2)	Current assets
	
	
(a)	Inventories
6
881.67
830.44
	
	
(b)	Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3
721.14
689.10
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 B
691.16
720.89
	
	
	
(iii)	Cash and cash equivalents
8
203.68
172.06
	
	
	
(iv)	Bank balances other than (iii) above
9
149.36
88.71
	
	
	
(v)	 Loans
10
0.13
0.36
	
	
	
(vi)	Other financial assets
4 B
36.57
20.02
	
	
(c)	 Current tax assets (net)
20 F
0.76
3.25
	
	
(d)	Other current assets
5 B
197.99
178.97
	
	
(e)	 Assets held for sale
11
-
1.00
	
Total current assets
2,882.46
2,704.80
TOTAL ASSETS
6,329.78
6,081.70
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
II.	 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
(a)	Equity share capital
12
128.76
128.62
	
(b)	Other equity
13
3,261.37
2,871.00
	
Equity attributable to equity holders of parent
3,390.13
2,999.62
	
(c)	 Non-controlling interests
14
457.62
449.35
	
Total equity
3,847.75
3,448.97
	
Liabilities
	
(1)	Non-current liabilities
	
	
(a)	Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
15 A
-
298.97
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
32
139.12
52.79
	
	
	
(iii)	Trade payables
17 A
	
	
	
	
(a)	Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and  
Small Enterprises
-
-
	
	
	
	
(b)	Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than  
Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
15.94
14.03
	
	
(b)	Deferred tax liabilities (net)
20 D
-
9.94
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
16 A
179.25
193.73
	
Total non-current liabilities
334.31
569.46
	
(2)	Current liabilities
	
	
(a)	Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
15 B
299.81
300.00
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
32
39.66
31.43
	
	
	
(iii)	Trade payables
17 B
	
	
	
	
(a)	Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and  
Small Enterprises 
257.87
261.57
	
	
	
	
(b)	Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than  
Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
1,136.88
1,052.89
	
	
	
(iv)	Other financial liabilities
18
62.42
76.89
	
	
(b)	Other current liabilities
19
146.90
113.13
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
16 B
154.75
203.97
	
	
(d)	Current tax liabilities (net)
20 F
49.43
23.39
	
Total current liabilities
2,147.72
2,063.27
	
Total liabilities
2,482.03
2,632.73
	
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
6,329.78
6,081.70
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
as at 31st March, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
460 - 461
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
 2024-25 
 2023-24 
Income
I.	
Revenue from operations
21
7,863.55
7,312.81
II.	 Other income
22
68.83
67.39
III.	 Total Income (I+II)
7,932.38
7,380.20
IV.	 Expenses
	
Cost of materials consumed
23
1,628.62
1,829.03
	
Purchase of stock-in-trade
24
3,694.26
3,288.84
	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and  
work-in-progress
25
(49.55)
(117.56)
	
Employee benefits expense
26
639.03
589.87
	
Finance costs
27
47.98
79.19
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2
152.83
128.82
	
Other expenses
28
1,063.00
1,008.94
	
Total Expenses (IV)
7,176.17
6,807.13
V.	 Profit before tax (III-IV)
756.21
573.07
VI.	 Tax expenses:
20 A
	
Current tax
215.15
134.30
	
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(1.12)
(0.78)
	
Deferred tax(credit) / charge
(21.90)
(2.23)
	
Total Tax expenses (VI)
192.13
131.29
VII.	Profit for the year (V-VI)
564.08
441.78
VIII.	Other comprehensive income
	
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or (loss) 
	
(a) Remeasurements loss on defined benefit plans
(2.45)
(0.40)
	
(b)	Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified subsequently to 
profit or (loss)
20 B
0.89
0.10
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (VIII)
(1.56)
(0.30)
IX.	 Total comprehensive income for the year (VII+VIII)
562.52
441.48
	
Profit attributable to:
	
	
Owners of the Holding Company
555.95
439.92
	
	
Non-controlling interests
8.13
1.86
	
Other Comprehensive income attributable to:
	
	
Owners of the Holding Company
(1.70)
(0.09)
	
	
Non-controlling interests
0.14
(0.21)
	
Total Comprehensive income attributable to:
	
	
Owners of the Holding Company
 554.25 
439.83
	
	
Non-controlling interests
8.27
1.65
X.	 Earnings per equity share (in K) of face value of K 2 each
35
	
1.	 Basic
8.64
6.88
	
2.	 Diluted
8.64
6.88
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(A)	Equity Share Capital
I Crore
As at 31st March,  2025
As at 31st March, 2024
 No. of  Shares 
 Amount  K crore 
 No. of  Shares 
 Amount  K crore 
Balance as at the beginning of the reporting year
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
Changes in equity share capital during the year
7,02,184
0.14
69,97,260
1.40
Balance as at the end of the reporting year
64,38,09,163
128.76
64,31,06,979
128.62
(B)	Other Equity
I Crore
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
comprehensive 
income
Equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders of 
the parent
Non- 
Controlling 
Interest
Total 
Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding 
account
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
gain / (loss) on 
defined benefit 
plans
Balance as at 01-04-2023
0.05
209.51
140.41
2,181.73
1.07
2,532.77
447.71
2,980.48
Profit for the year
-
-
-
439.92
-
439.92
1.86
441.78
Dividends paid
-
-
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
Securities premium received
-
87.94
-
-
-
87.94
-
87.94
Amount transferred to / (from) 
Securities premium
-
64.03
(64.03)
-
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) 
Retained earnings
-
-
(2.92)
2.92
-
-
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
-
-
(0.09)
(0.09)
(0.21)
(0.30)
Employee compensation expense for 
the year (Refer Note 26)
-
-
2.36
-
-
2.36
-
2.36
Balance as at 31-03-2024
0.05
361.48
75.82
2,432.67
0.98
2,871.00
449.35
3,320.35
Profit for the year
-
-
-
555.95
-
555.95
8.13
564.08
Dividends paid
-
-
-
(192.97)
-
(192.97)
-
(192.97)
Securities premium received
-
20.23
-
-
-
20.23
-
20.23
Amount transferred to / (from) 
Securities premium
-
7.54
(7.54)
-
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) 
Retained earnings
-
-
(1.87)
1.87
-
-
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
-
-
(1.70)
(1.70)
0.14
(1.56)
Employee compensation expense for 
the year (Refer Note 26)
-
-
8.86
-
-
8.86
-
8.86
Balance as at 31-03-2025
0.05
389.25
75.27
2,797.52
(0.72)
3,261.37
457.62
3,718.99
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
462 - 463
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
[A] CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
756.21
573.07
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
152.83
128.82
Finance costs
47.98
79.19
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
1.01
0.57
Share-based payments to employees
8.86
2.36
Net gain on sale or fair valuation of investments (net)
(36.17)
(26.77)
Interest income
(31.66)
(38.61)
Gain on termination of Right-of-use asset
(0.30)
-
Unrealised exchange loss (net)
0.18
0.51
142.73
146.07
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes
898.94
719.14
Adjustments for:
Decrease / (Increase) in trade receivables
31.83
(47.49)
Increase in inventories
(51.23)
(86.59)
Increase in other financial and non financial assets
(14.46)
(45.73)
Increase in trade payables
82.49
281.53
Increase in other financial and non financial liabilities
34.18
25.32
(Decrease) / Increase in provisions
(66.15)
95.59
16.66
222.63
Cash generated from operations
915.60
941.77
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
(178.19)
(98.36)
Net cash generated from operating activities
[A]
737.41
843.41
[B] CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Add: Inflows from investing activities
	
Interest received
27.66
43.17
	
Proceeds from non-current investments (net)
-
0.35
	
Proceeds from current investments (net)
4.13
-
	
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
6.73
3.28
38.52
46.80
Less: Outflows from investing activities
	
Purchase of current investments (net)
-
114.50
	
Decrease in other bank balances and term deposits
60.11
55.40
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
(including assets under development & capital advances)
109.50
83.79
169.61
253.69
Net cash used in investing activities
[B]
(131.09)
(206.89)
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
[C] CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Add: Inflows from financing activities
	
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock options
20.38
89.34
	
Proceeds from short-term borrowings
0.01
-
20.39
89.34
Less: Outflows from financing activities
	
Payment of dividend to shareholders
192.97
191.24
	
Redemption of non-convertible debentures
300.00
325.00
	
Payment of lease liabilities
52.79
39.01
	
Interest paid
49.33
75.39
595.09
630.64
Net cash used in financing activities
[C]
(574.70)
(541.30)
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
31.62
95.22
(a)	Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
172.06
76.84
(b)	Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
203.68
172.06
(c)	 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (c = b-a)
31.62
95.22
Components of cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year are:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
113.68
60.78
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
90.00
111.28
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)
-
-
Total cash and cash equivalents
203.68
172.06
Notes:
(i)	
The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows as specified in the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards), Rules, 2015 (as amended).
(ii)	 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities :
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 2024
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 2025
Receipts
Payments
Unamortized 
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings  
(Refer Note 15A)
298.97
-
-
1.03
(300.00)
-
Current borrowings  
(Refer Note 15B)
300.00
0.01
(300.00)
(0.20)
300.00
299.81
Total
598.97
0.01
(300.00)
0.83
-
299.81
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
464 - 465
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 2023
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 2024
Receipts
Payments
Unamortized 
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings  
(Refer Note 15A)
597.18
-
-
1.79
(300.00)
298.97
Current borrowings  
(Refer Note 15B)
325.00
-
(325.00)
-
300.00
300.00
Total
922.18
-
(325.00)
1.79
-
598.97
	
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Corporate Information
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (the 
‘Company’ or ‘Crompton’ or ‘Holding Company’) and 
its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as ‘the Group’), domiciled in India 
and incorporated under the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
The Group is a leading brand dealing in consumer 
electrical 
goods, 
home 
appliances, 
electronic 
equipment, and instruments including fans, water 
heaters, kitchen appliances, lighting luminaires and 
pumps (domestic/ agriculture/ industrial).Its broad 
product range caters to residential, commercial, and 
industrial sectors, highlighting its versatility. With a 
focus on quality, innovation, and customer satisfaction, 
the Group maintains a strong reputation as a trusted 
industry leader.
The Group's operations are spread across strategic 
locations in India, encompassing Bethora and Kundaim 
in Goa, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, Ahmednagar in 
Maharashtra, Vadodara in Gujarat and Chennai in Tamil 
Nadu. Complementing these manufacturing endeavors 
is the Group's cutting-edge research and development 
facility, known as the 'Innovation Centre,' situated 
in Mumbai, Maharashtra. This integrated network of 
manufacturing and research facilities underscores the 
Group's commitment to excellence and its relentless 
pursuit of advancement and growth.
The shares of the Company are listed on National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited. 
Further, debt securities (non-convertible debentures) 
of the Company are also listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of the Company 
is L31900MH2015PLC262254.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively, the ‘Group’). Refer Note 46 for list 
of subsidiaries.
These consolidated financial statements of the Group 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 were approved for 
issue in accordance with the resolution of the Board of 
Directors on 15th May, 2025.
1.	
Material Accounting policies
1.1	 Basis of preparation and consolidation
a)	
Basis of preparation
	
i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
The Group’s consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared on going concern basis, in 
accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind-AS) notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the "Act") read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended and other relevant 
provisions of the Act. The Group’s consolidated 
financial 
statements 
consistently 
apply 
uniform 
accounting 
policies 
across 
all 
periods, aligning them with those used by the 
Holding Company.
	
ii)	
Basis of measurement
	
	
These 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
have been prepared on an accrual basis and 
a historical cost convention, except for the 
following assets and liabilities which have 
been measured at fair value:
	Ȣ
Financial instruments measured at fair 
value through profit or loss;
	Ȣ
Net defined benefit(asset)/ liability - Fair 
value of plan assets less present value of 
defined benefit obligation; and
	Ȣ
Share based payment transactions
	
iii)	
Current and non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified 
as current or non-current as per the Group's 
normal operating cycle, paragraph 66 and 
69 of Ind-AS 1 and other criteria as set out in 
Division II of Schedule III to the Companies 
Act, 2013.
	
	
An asset is treated as current when it is:
	Ȣ
Expected to be realized or intended to be 
sold or consumed in normal operating cycle:
	Ȣ
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	Ȣ
Expected to be realized within twelve 
months after the reporting period; or
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
466 - 467
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	Ȣ
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period.
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is treated as current when:
	Ȣ
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle;
	Ȣ
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	Ȣ
It is due to be settled within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
	Ȣ
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period.
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
	
	
Based on the nature of products and the time 
between acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realization in cash and cash 
equivalents, the Group has ascertained its 
operating cycle as 12 months for the purpose 
of current or non-current classification of 
assets and liabilities.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified 
as non-current assets and liabilities.
	
iv)	
Presentation currency and rounding-off
	
	
All amounts disclosed in these consolidated 
financial statements and notes are presented 
in J (in crore), the functional currency of the 
Group. Items included in the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group are recorded 
using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates (the 
‘functional currency’).
	
	
All values are rounded off to two decimals as 
per the requirement of Division II of Schedule III 
to the Act, unless otherwise indicated.
b)	
Basis of presentation and consolidation
	
The Consolidated Balance sheet and the Statement 
of profit and loss are prepared and presented in 
the format prescribed in Division II of Schedule III 
to the Act. The Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows has been prepared and presented as per 
the requirements of Ind-AS 7, Statement of Cash 
Flows. The disclosure requirements with respect 
to items in the Balance sheet and Statement of 
profit and loss, as prescribed in the Schedule III to 
the Act, are presented by way of notes forming 
part of the financial statements along with the 
other notes required to be disclosed under the 
notified Accounting Standards and the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended.
	
Consolidation
	
The Consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at 31 March 2025.
	
Where the Group has control over an investee, it 
is classified as a subsidiary. The Group controls 
an investee if all three of the following elements 
are present:
	
(a)	 power over the investee,
	
(b)	 exposure 
to 
variable 
returns 
from 
the 
investee, and
	
(c)	
the ability of the investor to use its power to 
affect those variable returns.
	
Control 
is 
reassessed 
whenever 
facts 
and 
circumstances indicate that there may be a change 
in any of these elements of control.
	
Procedure
	
i)	
The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared using uniform accounting 
policies for like transactions and other events in 
similar circumstances. The accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements are consistent with those 
of the previous year.
	
	
The financial statements of all entities used for 
the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to 
the same reporting date as that of the Holding 
Company, i.e., the year ended on 31st March.
	
ii)	
The consolidated financial statements of 
the Company and its subsidiaries have been 
combined on a line by-line basis by adding 
together the book values of like items of 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses, after 
eliminating intra-group balances, intra-group 
transactions and the unrealized profits/losses, 
unless cost/revenue cannot be recovered.
	
iii)	
The excess cost to the Group of its investment 
in subsidiaries, on the acquisition dates over 
and above the Group’s share of equity in the 
subsidiaries, is recognized as ‘Goodwill on 
Consolidation’ in the consolidated financial 
statements. The said Goodwill is not amortized, 
however, it is tested for impairment at each 
Reporting date and the impairment loss, if any, 
is provided for.
	
iv)	
Non-controlling interests (‘NCI’) in the net 
assets 
of 
consolidated 
subsidiaries 
are 
identified and presented in the consolidated 
Balance Sheet separately within equity.
	
	
Non-controlling 
interests 
represent 
that 
part of the total comprehensive income and 
net assets of subsidiaries attributable to 
the interests which is not owned, directly or 
indirectly, by the Holding Company.
	
	
NCI are measured at their proportionate share 
of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets at the 
date of acquisition. Changes in the Group’s 
equity interest in a subsidiary that do not 
result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions.
	
	
The profit/loss and other comprehensive 
income 
attributable 
to 
non- 
controlling 
interests of subsidiaries are shown separately 
in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss and consolidated statement of changes 
in equity.
1.2	 Summary of significant estimates, assumptions, 
judgements and accounting policies
a)	
Significant accounting estimates 
and assumptions
	
The 
preparation 
of 
consolidated 
financial 
statements requires the management to make 
judgments, use estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these judgements, 
assumptions 
and 
estimates 
could 
result 
in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of the asset or liability 
affected in future periods. Continuous evaluation 
is done on the estimation and judgments based on 
historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to 
be reasonable. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognized prospectively.
	
In particular, information about material areas of 
estimates and judgments in applying accounting 
policies that have the most Material effect on the 
amounts recognized in the consolidated financial 
statements are described below:
	
i)	
Goodwill impairment
	
	
For testing of impairment of goodwill, if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate 
a potential impairment, as part of the review 
process, the carrying amount of the Cash 
Generating Units (‘CGUs’) (including allocated 
goodwill) is compared with its recoverable 
amount by the Group.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use, both 
of which are calculated by the Group using 
a discounted cash flow analysis. Calculating 
the future net cash flows expected to be 
generated to determine if impairment exists 
and to calculate the impairment involves 
Material 
assumptions, 
estimation 
and 
judgment. The estimation and judgments 
involve, but are not limited to, industry trends 
including 
pricing, 
estimating 
long-term 
revenues growth rates, exit multiples and 
operating results. The estimated cash flows 
are developed using internal forecasts. The 
cash flows are discounted using a discount 
rate in order to compute present values. An 
impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods as per Ind-AS 
36 – ‘Impairment of assets’.
	
ii)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provision is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to 
sales for the same types of goods depending 
upon 
the 
warranty 
period 
offered. 
The 
percentage to the sales is applied to derive 
the warranty expense to be accrued. Actual 
warranty claims are settled against warranty 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
468 - 469
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
provision. The warranty claims may not exactly 
match the historical warranty percentage, 
so such estimates are reviewed annually for 
any material changes in assumptions and 
likelihood of occurrence.
	
	
The closing warranty provision is bifurcated 
into current and non-current based on the 
past settlement trend with the non-current 
portion being discounted to derive the present 
value. The assumptions are consistent with 
prior years. (Refer Note 16)
	
	
Estimates 
are 
made 
of 
the 
expected 
reimbursement claim based upon historical 
levels of recoveries from supplier, applied to 
the volume of product under warranty as on 
Reporting date. Supplier reimbursements are 
recognized as separate asset as expected 
recoverable from vendors against warranty as 
recovery from the vendors is considered to be 
virtually certain.
	
	
Expected recoverable from vendors against 
warranty is bifurcated into current and non- 
current based on the past recovery trend with 
the non-current portion being discounted to 
derive the present value. The assumptions are 
consistent with prior years. (Refer Note 5)
	
iii)	
Estimates related to Share-based payments
	
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the 
most appropriate valuation model, which 
is dependent on the terms and conditions 
of the grant. This estimate also requires 
determination of the most appropriate inputs 
to the valuation model including the expected 
life of the share option, volatility and dividend 
yield and making assumptions about them. 
(Refer Note 37)
	
iv)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties 
exist 
with 
respect 
to 
the 
interpretation of tax regulations, changes 
in tax laws, and the amount and timing 
of future taxable income. Given the wide 
range of business relationships, differences 
arising between the actual results and the 
assumptions made, or future changes to 
such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. The Group establishes 
provisions, based on reasonable estimates. 
The amount of such provisions is based on 
various factors, such as experience of previous 
tax audits and differing interpretations of 
tax regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. (Refer Note 20)
	
	
Recognition of deferred tax assets/ liability – 
The extent to which deferred tax assets can 
be recognized is based on an assessment of 
the probability of the future taxable income 
against which the deferred tax assets can 
be utilized.
	
v)	
Measurement of Defined Benefit 
Obligations, key actuarial assumptions
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit plans such as 
gratuity and leave encashment are determined 
using 
actuarial 
valuations. 
An 
actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions 
that may differ from actual developments in 
the future. These include the determination 
of the discount rate, future salary increases 
and mortality rates. Due to the complexities 
involved in the valuation and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each year end.
	
	
The principal assumptions are the discount 
and salary growth rate. The discount rate is 
based upon the market yields available on 
government bonds at the accounting date 
with a term that matches that of liabilities. 
The salary increase rate takes into account 
of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors on long term basis. (Refer 
Note 33)
	
	
Detailed information about each of these 
estimates and judgements is included in 
relevant notes together with information about 
the basis of calculation for each affected line 
item in the consolidated financial statements.
	
vi)	 Expected Credit Loss (ECL)
	
	
The Group recognises loss allowance using 
expected credit loss model for financial 
assets which are not measured at Fair Value 
Through Profit or Loss. Expected credit losses 
are weighted average of credit losses with the 
respective risks of default occurring as the 
weights. Credit loss is the difference between 
all contractual cash flows that are due to the 
Group in accordance with the contract and 
all the cash flows that the Group expects to 
receive, discounted at original effective rate 
of interest.
	
	
For Trade receivables, the Group measures 
loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses. The Group computes 
expected credit loss allowance based on a 
provision matrix which takes into account 
historical credit loss experience and is adjusted 
for forward-looking information. The expected 
credit loss allowance is based on ageing of 
receivables and the rates used in provision 
matrix. The assessment of the correlation 
between historical observed default rates, 
forecast economic conditions and ECLs is a 
significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is 
sensitive to changes in circumstances and of 
forecast economic conditions. The Group’s 
historical credit loss experience and forecast 
of economic conditions may also not be 
representative of customer’s actual default in 
the future.
	
vii)	 Useful lives of property, plant 
and equipment
	
	
The Group reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each 
reporting period. This reassessment may result 
in change in depreciation expense in current 
and future periods.
	
viii)	 Contingent Liabilities
	
	
It is not practicable for the Group to estimate 
the timings of cash outflows, if any, in respect 
of the pending resolution of the respective 
proceedings as it is determinable only on 
receipt of judgements/decisions pending with 
various forums/authorities.
	
	
The Group does not expect any reimbursements 
in respect of the contingent liabilities. The 
Group’s 
pending 
litigations 
comprise 
of 
proceedings pending with various direct tax, 
indirect tax and other authorities. The Group 
has reviewed all its pending litigations and 
proceedings and has adequately provided for 
where provisions are required and disclosed 
as contingent liabilities where applicable, 
in consolidated financial statements. The 
Group does not expect the outcome of these 
proceedings to have a materially adverse 
effect on its financial statements.
	
ix)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable.
	
x)	
Intangible Assets Under Development
	
	
The Group capitalizes intangible asset under 
development for a project in accordance with 
the accounting policy. Initial capitalization of 
costs is based on management’s judgement 
that technological and economic feasibility is 
confirmed. In determining the amounts to be 
capitalized, management makes assumptions 
regarding the expected future cash generation 
of the project and the expected period 
of benefits.
b)	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) and 
Capital Work-in-Progress
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Land
	
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. For 
freehold land, as no finite useful life can be 
determined, related carrying amounts are 
not amortized.
	
	
Leasehold land is carried at historical cost. For 
leasehold land, cost of land amortized over 
lease term as per lease agreement.
	
	
Other Tangible assets
	
	
PPE other than land, is initially recognized at 
acquisition cost or construction cost.
	
	
The cost of an item of PPE comprises:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
470 - 471
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	Ȣ
its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after 
deducting trade discounts and rebates.
	Ȣ
any costs directly attributable to bringing 
the asset to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating 
in the manner intended by management.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a 
business combination are recognized at fair 
value at the acquisition date.
	
	
Where cost of a part of an asset (asset 
component) is material to total cost of the 
asset and useful life of that part is different 
from the useful life of the remaining asset, 
useful life of that material part is determined 
separately, and such asset component is 
depreciated over its separate useful life.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item 
to the location and condition necessary for 
it to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, are recognized in 
the Statement of profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognized as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The 
carrying amount of any component accounted 
for as a separate asset is de-recognized when 
replaced. All other repairs and maintenance 
are charged to Statement of Profit and Loss 
during the year in which they are incurred.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (depreciation 
method, useful lives, residual value, and 
impairment)
	
	
PPE are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment 
losses, if any.
	
	
A depreciable amount for assets is the cost of 
an asset or other amount substituted for cost 
less its estimated residual value. Depreciation 
on PPE (other than leasehold land) is provided 
based on useful life of the assets as estimated 
by the management on Straight Line Method. 
The useful lives used are in agreement with 
those specified in Part ‘C’ of Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect 
of following category of property, plant and 
equipment where the useful life is considered 
differently based on technical evaluation, 
taking into account the nature of the asset 
and the estimated usage basis management’s 
best judgement of economic benefits from 
those classes of assets.
	
	
Management believes that such estimated 
useful lives are realistic and reflect a fair 
approximation of the period over which the 
assets are likely to be used.
	Ȣ
Plant and equipment - maximum 21 years
	Ȣ
Furniture and fixtures - maximum 15 years
	Ȣ
Office Equipment – maximum 10 years
	
	
Premium paid on leasehold lands are amortized 
over the period of lease. Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land are depreciated based 
on the management estimate of useful life, 
where the lease period is beyond the life of the 
building. In other cases, buildings constructed 
on leasehold land are amortized over the 
primary lease period of the land.
	
	
Depreciation on addition to/deductions from, 
owned assets is calculated pro rata to the 
period of use. The residual values, useful lives, 
and method of depreciation are reviewed at 
the end of each financial year, and the effect 
of any change in the estimates of useful life/ 
residual value is adjusted prospectively. PPE 
other than land is tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An item of PPE and any significant part 
initially recognized is de-recognized upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use. Any gain or loss 
arising on de-recognition of an item of PPE is 
measured as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and is accordingly recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
v)	
Capital Work-in-Progress
	
	
PPE which are not ready for intended use as 
on the date of Balance sheet are disclosed as 
Capital work-in-progress.
	
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment outstanding 
at each reporting date is classified as capital 
advances under ‘other non-current assets’ and 
the cost of assets not put to use before such 
date are disclosed under ‘Capital work-in- 
progress’.
c)	
Goodwill, Other Intangible assets and Intangible 
assets under development
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill represents the future economic 
benefits arising from a business combination 
that are not individually identified and 
separately recognized. Goodwill is carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
(Refer Note 36 for a description of impairment 
testing procedures)
	
	
Other Intangible assets
	
	
Other Intangible assets are initially measured 
at cost. Such assets are recognized where 
it is probable that the future economic 
benefits attributable to the assets will flow 
to the Group and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably.
	
	
The cost of an intangible asset comprises:
	Ȣ
its purchase price, including any import 
duties and other taxes (other than those 
subsequently recoverable from the taxing 
authorities); and,
	Ȣ
any directly attributable expenditure on 
making the asset ready for its intended use.
	
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business 
combination are recognized at fair value at 
the acquisition date.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item 
to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, are recognized in 
the Statement of profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only 
when it increases the future economic benefits 
embodied in the specific asset to which it 
relates. All other expenditure is recognized in 
the statement of profit or loss as incurred.	
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (amortization 
method, useful lives and residual value)
	
	
Intangible assets are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated amortization and 
impairment losses, if any.
Other intangible assets
Useful life (in years)
Product Development
Up to 5
Non-compete*
5
Distribution Networks*
8
Computer Software
5-10
Trademark
Indefinite
Technical knowhow/R&D
Indefinite
Brand*
Indefinite
	
	
*Intangible 
assets 
acquired 
through 
Business 
combination
	
	
All intangible assets with finite useful life 
are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives, and a possible 
impairment is assessed if there is an indication 
that the intangible asset may be impaired. The 
amortization period and amortization method 
for all intangible assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date. Changes, if any, are accounted 
for as changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Intangible assets for which there is no 
foreseeable limit to the period over which they 
are expected to generate net cash inflows 
are considered to have an indefinite life. 
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether it continues, 
if not, it is impaired or changed prospectively 
basis revised estimates.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
472 - 473
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An intangible asset is de-recognized on 
disposal, or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from use. Gains or losses arising 
from derecognition of an intangible asset, 
measured as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset, are recognized in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss
	
v)	
Research and development cost
	
	
•	 Research cost
Revenue expenditure on research is charged 
to Statement of profit and loss under the 
respective heads of accounts in the period 
in which it is incurred.
	
	
•	 Development cost
Development expenditure on new product is 
capitalized as intangible asset, if the Group 
can demonstrate all of the following:
	Ȣ
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available 
for use or sale;
	Ȣ
its intention to complete the development 
of intangible asset and use or sell it;
	Ȣ
its ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
	Ȣ
How the asset will generate future 
economic benefits including the existence 
of a market for output of the intangible 
asset or the intangible asset itself or if it is 
to be used internally, the usefulness of the 
intangible asset;
	Ȣ
the availability of adequate technical, 
financial and other resources to complete 
the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset; and
	Ȣ
its ability to measure the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
the development reliably.
Development costs on the intangible assets, 
fulfilling the criteria are amortized over its 
useful life, otherwise are expensed in the 
period in which they are incurred.
	
vi)	 Intangible assets under development
	
	
Intangible assets which are not ready for 
intended use as on the date of Balance 
sheet are disclosed as Intangible assets 
under development.
	
	
Advances 
paid 
towards 
the 
acquisition/
development 
of 
Intangible 
assets 
which 
are outstanding at each reporting date are 
classified as capital advances under ‘other 
non- current assets’.
d)	
Leases
	
The Group as a lessee:
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for land and buildings. The Group assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception 
of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if 
the contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration. To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Group assesses whether:
	Ȣ
the contract contains an identified asset, which 
is either explicitly identified in the contract or 
implicitly specified by being identified at the 
time the asset is made available to the Group;
	Ȣ
the Group has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the 
identified asset throughout the period of use, 
considering its rights within the defined scope of 
the contract; and
	Ȣ
the Group has the right to direct the use of the 
identified asset throughout the period of use. 
The Group assesses whether it has the right to 
direct ‘how and for what purpose’ the asset is 
used throughout the period of use.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognizes a Right-of-Use asset (‘ROU’) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of 12 months or less (short-term 
leases) and low value leases. For these short-term 
and low value leases, the Group recognizes the 
lease payments as an operating expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements include the option to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities include 
these options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
	
The Group makes an assessment of the expected 
lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby 
assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any 
options to extend or terminate the contract will 
be exercised. The lease term in future periods is 
reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects 
the current economic circumstances.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at 
or prior to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
The 
ROU 
assets 
are 
depreciated 
from 
the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life 
of the underlying asset. ROU assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose 
of impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e., the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual 
asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount 
is determined for the Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) 
to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized 
cost at the present value of the future lease 
payments. The lease payments are discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if 
not readily determinable, using the incremental 
borrowing rates in the country of domicile of 
these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with 
a corresponding adjustment to the related ROU 
asset if the Group changes its assessment whether 
it will exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of 
the lease liability are made up of fixed payments 
(including in substance fixed), variable payments 
based on an index or rate, amounts expected to 
be payable under a residual value guarantee and 
payments arising from options reasonably certain 
to be exercised.
	
Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability 
will be reduced for payments made and increased 
for interest. It is remeasured to reflect any 
reassessment or modification, or if there are 
changes in in-substance fixed payments. When 
the lease liability is remeasured, the corresponding 
adjustment is reflected in the right-of-use asset, or 
profit and loss if the right-of- use asset is already 
reduced to zero.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Balance sheet and lease payments 
have been classified as financing cash flows.
e)	
Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity. 
Financial 
instruments 
also 
include 
derivative 
contracts such as foreign currency forward 
contracts, interest rate swaps and currency options, 
and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
	
Financial assets
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
All financial assets are recognized initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of financial assets 
not recorded at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs that are attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset are 
expensed off in Statement of Profit and 
Loss. However, the Group’s trade receivables 
that do not contain a significant financial 
component are measured at transaction price 
under Ind-AS 115 ‘Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers’. Purchases or sales of financial 
assets that require delivery of assets within 
a time frame established by regulation or 
convention in the marketplace (regular way 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
474 - 475
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
trades) are recognized on the trade date, i.e., 
the date that the Group commits to purchase 
or sell the asset.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	Ȣ
those measured at amortized cost, and
	Ȣ
those to be measured at fair value either 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
(‘FVOCI’) or fair value through profit or loss 
(‘FVTPL’) on the basis of its business model 
for managing the financial assets and the 
contractual cash flow characteristics of the 
financial asset.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
After 
initial 
recognition, 
financial 
assets 
are measured at Fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income (‘FVOCI’) or through 
profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) or amortized cost.
	
	
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL or 
at FVOCI are subject to review for impairment 
at least at each reporting date to identify 
whether there is any objective evidence that 
a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired.
	
	
•	 Equity instruments
All equity investments in scope of Ind-
AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity 
instruments which are held for trading are 
classified as FVTPL.
Investment in equity instruments issued by 
subsidiary companies is measured at cost 
less impairment.
	
	
•	 Debt instruments
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortized cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
	Ȣ
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
	Ȣ
Contractual terms of the asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (‘SPPI’) on the principal 
amount outstanding.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Group’s business model 
for managing the asset and the cash flow 
characteristics of the asset. There are three 
measurement categories into which the Group 
classifies its debt instruments:
	
	
•	 Amortized cost
Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual 
cash 
flows, 
where 
those 
cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest, are measured at 
amortized cost.
These are measured by applying the 
effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method. The 
EIR method allocates interest income over 
the relevant period by applying the EIR (that 
is the interest rate that exactly discounts 
expected future cash flows to the gross 
carrying amount of the asset).
A gain or loss on a debt investment 
(unhedged) that is subsequently measured 
at amortized cost is recognized in the 
Statement of profit and loss when the asset is 
de-recognized or impaired. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in 
finance income using the EIR method.
	
	
•	 Fair value through other comprehensive 
income (‘FVOCI’)”
Financial assets that are held within a 
business model whose objective is achieved 
by 
both, 
selling 
financial 
assets 
and 
collecting contractual cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest, 
are subsequently measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income. Fair 
value movements are recognized in the 
other comprehensive income (OCI).
Interest income is measured using the EIR 
method and impairment losses, if any, are 
recognized in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss. On derecognition, 
cumulative 
gain 
or 
loss 
previously 
recognized in OCI is reclassified from the 
equity to ‘other income’ in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
•	 Fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’)
A financial asset not classified as either 
amortized cost or FVOCI, is classified as 
FVTPL. Such financial assets are measured 
at fair value with all changes in fair value, 
including interest income and dividend 
income if any, recognized in ‘other income’ 
in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
	
A financial asset (or where applicable, 
a part of a financial asset or part of 
similar assets) is primarily de-recognized 
(i.e., removed from the Group’s balance 
sheet) when:
	Ȣ
The rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or
	Ȣ
The Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset 
or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under 
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and 
either (a) the Group has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, or (b) the Group has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, 
but has transferred control of the asset.
	
	
	
When the Group has transferred its 
rights to receive cash flows from an 
asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and 
rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of the asset, 
nor transferred control of the asset, 
the Group continues to recognize the 
transferred asset to the extent of the 
Group’s continuing involvement. In that 
case, the Group also recognizes an 
associated liability. The transferred assets 
and the associated liability are measured 
on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the 
form of a guarantee over the transferred 
asset is measured at the lower of the 
original carrying amount of the asset and 
the maximum amount of consideration 
that the Group could be required to repay.
	
	
	
On derecognition of financial asset in 
its entirety, the difference between the 
carrying amount measured at the date 
of derecognition and the consideration 
received is recognized in profit or loss.
	
	
	
If the Group enters into transactions 
whereby it transfers assets recognized on 
its balance sheet but retains either all or 
substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the transferred assets, the transferred 
assets are not de-recognized, and the 
proceeds received are recognized as a 
collateralized borrowing
	
	
v)	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
	
The Group assesses on a forward-looking 
basis the expected credit losses associated 
with its assets carried at amortized cost. 
The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a 
Material increase in credit risk.
	
	
	
The 
Group 
applies 
expected 
credit 
loss (‘ECL’) model for recognition and 
measurement of impairment loss on the 
following financial assets and credit 
risk exposure based on change in credit 
quality since initial recognition:
	Ȣ
Financial 
assets 
that 
are 
debt 
instruments, and are measured at 
amortized cost
	Ȣ
Trade receivables using the simplified 
approach within Ind-AS 109, using a 
provision matrix in the determination 
of the lifetime expected credit losses. 
During this process the probability of 
non-payment of the trade receivables 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
476 - 477
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
is assessed. This probability is then 
multiplied by the amount of the 
expected loss arising from default to 
determine the lifetime expected credit 
loss for the trade receivables. This does 
not require the Group to track changes 
in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, 
right from its initial recognition.
In case the Group identifies any trade 
receivables as doubtful/bad, then it 
supersedes the above modus operandi, 
and the doubtful/bad receivables are 
provided to the extent is doubtful/bad.
	
	
	
ECL allowance recognized (or reversed) 
during the period is recognized as expense 
(or income) in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss under the head ‘Other 
expenses’.
	
	
vi)	
Write-off
	
	
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial 
asset is written off when the Group has 
no reasonable expectations of recovering 
the financial asset in its entirety or a 
portion thereof. A write-off constitutes a 
de-recognition event.
	
Financial liabilities
	
The 
Group’s 
financial 
liabilities 
comprise 
of 
borrowings 
including 
bank 
overdrafts 
and 
derivative financial instruments, trade payable and 
other liabilities.
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair 
value. In the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, financial liability is recognized net of 
directly attributable transaction costs.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Group classifies all financial liabilities 
as subsequently measured at amortized 
cost, except for financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, 
including derivatives that are liabilities, shall 
be subsequently measured at fair value.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortized cost using the EIR method. The 
EIR is a method of calculating the amortized 
cost of a financial liability and of allocating 
interest expense over the relevant period at 
EIR. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash payments through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where 
appropriate, a shorter period.
	
	
Financial liabilities carried at fair value through 
profit or loss are measured at fair value with 
all changes in fair value recognized in the 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
Financial liability is de-recognized when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification 
is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognized in the Statement of 
profit and loss.
	
Other financial liabilities
	
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
are 
measured 
at 
amortized cost using the effective interest method.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the 
net amount is reported in the balance sheet where 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognized amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable 
right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of 
business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparty.
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, 
such as foreign currency forward contracts and 
foreign currency option contracts to manage 
its exposure to foreign exchange risks. For these 
contracts, hedge accounting is not followed, and 
such designated derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognized at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized 
as financial liability at the time of issuance of 
guarantee. A financial guarantee contract is a 
contract that requires the issuer to make specified 
payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payments 
when due in accordance with the terms of a 
debt instrument.
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group 
are initially measured at their fair values and, if 
not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently 
measured at the higher of:
	Ȣ
The amount of loss allowance determined in 
accordance with impairment requirements of 
Ind-AS 109; and
	Ȣ
The amount initially recognized less, when 
appropriate, 
the 
cumulative 
amount 
of 
income recognized.
f)	
Fair Value Measurement:
	
The Group measures financial instruments such as 
derivatives at fair value at each reporting date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes 
place either:
	Ȣ
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	Ȣ
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability 
accessible to the Group.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, including 
assumptions about risk, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest. A 
fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1: Financial instruments measured using 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in an active markets 
for identical assets or liabilities that the Group 
can access at measurement date are included in 
Level 1;
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that 
are not traded in an active market is determined 
using valuation techniques which maximize the use of 
observable market data and rely as little as possible 
on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
require to fair value an instrument are observable, 
the instrument is included in Level 2; and
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not 
based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in Level 3.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
consolidated financial statements regularly, the 
Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
478 - 479
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
that is significant to the fair value measurement as 
a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
i)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is any indication that an asset may 
be impaired.
	
An asset is impaired when the carrying amount 
of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is higher of the asset’s fair value 
less costs of disposal and value in use, which means 
the present value of future cash flows expected to 
arise from the continuing use of the asset and its 
eventual disposal discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset.
	
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets 
are grouped at their lowest levels for which there 
are separately identifiable cash inflows which are 
largely independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets or groups of assets (cash generating units).
	
Losses are recognized in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss and reflected in an allowance account. 
When the Group considers that there are no 
realistic prospects of recovery of the assets, the 
relevant amounts are written off.
	
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed if, and 
only if, the reversal can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment loss was 
recognized or relates to a change in the estimate 
of the recoverable amount in the previous periods.
	
The carrying amount of an asset is increased to 
its revised recoverable amount, provided that this 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined (net of any 
accumulated amortization or depreciation) had no 
impairment loss been recognized for the asset in 
prior years.
j)	
Inventories
	
Inventories are initially recognized at cost, and 
subsequently at the lower of cost and net realizable 
value. Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of 
conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. 
Weighted average cost is used to determine the 
cost of ordinarily interchangeable items.
	
Raw materials, packaging materials and stores 
and spare parts:
	
Cost includes purchase price, (excluding those 
subsequently recoverable by the enterprise from 
the concerned revenue authorities), freight inwards 
and other expenditure incurred in bringing such 
inventories to their present location and condition. 
In determining the cost, the weighted average cost 
method is used.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realizable value. However, these inventories 
are valued at net realizable value if the finished 
products in which they are to be incorporated are 
expected to be sold at a loss.
	
Work in progress, manufactured finished goods 
and traded goods:
	
The cost of work in progress and manufactured 
finished goods is determined on a weighted 
average basis and comprises direct material, cost 
of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing 
these inventories to their present location and 
condition. The cost of traded goods is determined 
on a weighted average basis.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realizable value. Provision for obsolescence 
on inventories is considered on the basis of 
management’s estimate based on demand and 
market of the inventories.
	
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
cost of completion and the estimated costs 
necessary to make the sale.
	
The comparison of cost and net realizable value is 
made on an item-by-item basis.
k)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
cash at banks, call deposits and other short- term, 
highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash 
equivalents consist of balances with banks which 
are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
	
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, 
cash in banks and short-term deposits net of 
bank overdraft.
l)	
Business combination
	
The Group applies the acquisition method in 
accounting 
for 
business 
combinations. 
The 
consideration transferred by the Holding Company 
to obtain control of a business is calculated as 
the sum of the fair values of assets transferred, 
liabilities incurred, and the equity interests issued 
by the Company as at the acquisition date i.e., date 
on which it obtains control of the acquiree which 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising 
from a contingent consideration arrangement.
	
Acquisition-related costs are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss as incurred, except 
to the extent related to the issue of debt or 
equity securities. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed in a business combination 
are measured initially at their fair values on the 
acquisition date. Intangible Assets acquired in a 
Business Combination and recognized separately 
from Goodwill are initially recognized at their fair 
value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as 
their cost).
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible Assets 
acquired in a Business Combination are reported 
at cost less accumulated amortization and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis 
as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognized for non-controlling interests, and any 
previous interest held, over the net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such 
goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
m)	 Equity share capital
	
Financial instruments issued by the Group are 
classified as equity only to the extent that they do 
not meet the definition of a financial liability or 
financial asset.
	
The Group’s ordinary shares are classified as 
equity instruments.
n)	
Borrowings and loans
	
Borrowings and loans are initially recognized at 
fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. It is 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
the EIR method.
	
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
transaction costs that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate.
	
Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption amount is 
recognized in the Statement of profit and loss over 
the period of borrowings using the EIR.
o)	
Employee benefit plans
	
i)	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
	
A Short-term employee benefits including 
salaries, wages, short term compensated 
absences (such as a paid annual leave) where 
the absences are expected to occur within 
twelve months after the end of the period 
in which the employees render the related 
service, 
performance 
incentives, 
bonuses 
payable and ex-gratia etc. are payable 
within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the 
related services and non-monetary benefits 
for current employees are estimated and 
measured on an undiscounted basis.
	
ii)	
Post-employment benefits:
	
	
•	 Defined contribution plans:
A defined contribution plan is a plan under 
which the Group pays fixed contributions in 
respect of the employees into a separate 
fund. The Group has no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further contributions after 
its payment of the fixed contribution. The 
contributions made by the Group towards 
defined contribution plans, namely, State 
governed provident fund, superannuation 
fund, employee state insurance scheme, 
employee pension scheme and labour 
welfare 
fund, 
are 
charged 
to 
the 
profit or loss in the period to which the 
contributions relate.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
480 - 481
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
•	 Defined benefit plans:
The Group has an obligation towards 
gratuity which is being considered as 
defined benefit plan covering eligible 
employees. Under the defined benefit plan, 
the amount that an employee will receive 
on retirement is defined by reference to the 
employee’s length of service, final salary, 
and other defined parameters. The legal 
obligation for any benefits remains with the 
Group, even if plan assets for funding the 
defined benefit plan have been set aside.
The Group’s obligation towards defined 
benefit plan is determined using the 
Projected 
Unit 
Credit 
Method, 
with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at 
each reporting date, which recognizes each 
period of service as giving rise to additional 
unit of employee benefit entitlement and 
measures each unit separately to build up 
the final obligation.
The obligation is measured at the present 
value of the estimated future cash flows. 
The discounting rate used for determining 
the present value of the obligation under 
defined benefit plans, is based on the 
market yields on government securities 
as at the reporting date, having maturity 
periods approximately to the terms of 
related obligations.
Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from Investment 
plan 
amendments 
are 
recognized 
immediately in the Statement of profit or 
loss as past service cost.
The liability recognized in the statement of 
financial position for defined benefit plans 
is the present value of the Defined Benefit 
Obligation (DBO) at the reporting date less 
the fair value of plan assets. Management 
estimates the DBO annually with the 
assistance of independent actuaries.
Actuarial gains/losses resulting from re-
measurements of the liability/asset are 
included in Other Comprehensive Income.
In the case of funded plans, the fair value 
of the plan asset is reduced from the gross 
obligations under the defined benefit plans 
to recognize the obligation on a net basis.
	
iii)	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
	
Liability in respect of compensated absences 
becoming due or expected to be availed more 
than one-year after the reporting date is 
estimated on the basis of actuarial valuation 
performed by an independent actuary using 
the projected unit credit method.
	
	
Actuarial 
gains 
and 
losses 
arising 
from 
past experience and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are charged to statement of 
profit and loss in the period in which such gains 
or losses are determined.
	
iv)	
Termination benefits:
	
	
Termination benefits are recognized as an 
expense in the period in which they are incurred.
	
v)	
Share-based Payments:
	
	
Employees of the Group receive remuneration 
in the form of Share-based Payments in 
consideration of the services rendered.
	
	
Under 
the 
equity 
settled 
share-based 
payment, the fair value on the grant date of 
the award given to employees is recognized 
as 
‘employee 
benefit 
expense’ 
with 
a 
corresponding increase in equity over the 
vesting period.
	
	
The fair value of the options at the grant date 
is calculated by an independent valuer basis 
‘Black Scholes model’. At the end of each 
reporting period, apart from the non-market 
vesting condition, the expense is reviewed 
and adjusted to reflect changes to the level of 
options expected to vest. When the options are 
exercised, the Group issues fresh equity shares.
p)	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent 
assets and commitments
	
A provision is recognized when the Group has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of past events and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate of the amount 
can be made. Timing or amount of the outflow may 
still be uncertain. Provisions are recognized at the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the present obligation at the reporting date. If the 
effect of time value of money is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognized 
as a finance cost.
	
A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a 
possible but not probable obligation arising from 
past events, or a present obligation that may, but 
probably will not, require an outflow of resources, 
or a present obligation whose amount cannot be 
estimated reliably. Contingent liabilities do not 
warrant provisions but are disclosed. In those cases, 
where the outflow of economic resources as a result 
of present obligations is considered improbable 
or remote, no liability is recognized, or disclosure 
is made.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements when an inflow of economic 
benefit is probable. However, when the realization 
of income is virtually certain, then the related 
asset is not a contingent asset, and its recognition 
is appropriate.
	
Any reimbursement that the Group can be virtually 
certain to collect from a third party concerning 
the obligation is recognized as a separate asset. 
However, this asset may not exceed the amount of 
the related provision.
	
Commitments are future liabilities for contractual 
expenditure, classified and disclosed as estimated 
amount of contracts remaining to be extracted on 
capital account and not provided for.
q)	
Income taxes
	
Tax expense recognized in profit or loss comprises 
the sum of deferred tax and current tax. It is 
recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
except when it relates to an item that is recognized 
in OCI or directly in equity, in which case, the tax is 
also recognized in OCI or directly in equity. (Refer 
Note 20)
	
i)	
Current tax
	
	
Current tax is determined as the amount of tax 
payable in respect of taxable income for the 
year, or on the basis of book profits wherever 
minimum alternate tax (‘MAT’) is applicable. 
The Group’s current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period, 
and any adjustments to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset 
only if:
	Ȣ
there is a legally enforceable right to set 
off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority; and
	Ȣ
there is intention either to settle on a net 
basis, or to realize the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
	
ii)	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of 
temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
income. However, deferred tax liabilities are 
not recognized if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill. Deferred income 
tax is also not accounted for if it arises from 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination 
that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit 
(tax loss).
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
on 
temporary 
differences 
associated with investments in subsidiary is 
not provided if reversal of these temporary 
differences can be controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that reversal will not occur in 
the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
are 
calculated, without discounting, at tax rates 
that are expected to apply to their respective 
period of realization, provided those rates are 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
482 - 483
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
enacted or substantively enacted by the end 
of the reporting period.
	
	
Deferred 
tax 
assets 
are 
recognized 
for 
deductible temporary differences (if any) 
to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which 
they can be used. The existence of unused tax 
losses is strong evidence that future taxable 
profit may not be available. Therefore, in case 
of history of recent losses, the Group recognizes 
a deferred tax asset only to the extent that it 
has sufficient taxable temporary difference 
or there is convincing other evidence that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available 
against which such deferred tax asset can 
be realized.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
are reviewed at each reporting date and 
are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realized.
	
	
Unrecognized 
deferred 
tax 
assets 
are 
reassessed at each reporting date and 
recognized to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which they can be used.
	
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to be applied to temporary 
differences when they reverse, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date and are expected to apply 
when the related deferred income tax asset 
is realized, or the deferred income tax liability 
is settled.
	
	
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are 
recognized as a component of tax income or 
expense in profit or loss, except where they 
relate to items that are recognized in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
in which case the related deferred tax is also 
recognized in other comprehensive income or 
equity, respectively.
	
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities 
are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to set off the recognized amounts and 
there is an intention to settle the asset and the 
liability on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is 
a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities; and 
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax 
liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority.
r)	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is 
probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
	
The Group uses the principles laid down by the 
Ind-AS 115 to determine that how much and 
when revenue is recognized, what is the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues etc. In 
accordance with the same, revenue is recognized 
through a five-step approach:
	Ȣ
Identify the contract(s) with customer;
	Ȣ
Identify separate performance obligations in 
the contract;
	Ȣ
Determine the transaction price;
	Ȣ
Allocate 
the 
transaction 
price 
to 
the 
performance obligations; and
	Ȣ
Recognize 
revenue 
when 
a 
performance 
obligation is satisfied.
	
The Group uses the principles laid down by Ind-
AS as above to recognize revenue from contracts 
with customers when it satisfies a performance 
obligation by transferring promised goods or 
services to a customer. Revenue is recognized to 
the extent of transaction price allocated to the 
performance obligation satisfied. Performance 
obligation is satisfied over time when the transfer 
of control of assets (goods or services) to a 
customer is done over time and in other cases, 
performance obligations are satisfied at a point 
in time. For performance obligation satisfied 
over time, the revenue recognition is done by 
measuring 
the 
progress 
towards 
complete 
satisfaction of performance obligation and the 
progress is measured in terms of a proportion of 
actual cost incurred to date, to the total estimated 
cost attributable to the performance obligation. 
Revenue excludes goods and services tax which is 
recorded separately.
	
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable, net of 
discounts and other indirect taxes.
	
In Cost Plus Contracts - Revenue is recognized by 
including eligible contractual items of expenditures 
plus proportionate margin as per contract.
	
In Fixed Price Contracts – Revenue is recognized 
on the basis of the stage of completion of the 
contract. The Group has assessed that the stage of 
completion is determined as the proportion of the 
total time expected to complete the performance 
obligation to that has lapsed at the end of the 
reporting period, which is an appropriate measure 
of progress towards complete satisfaction of these 
performance obligations under Ind-AS 115.
	
Estimates of revenues, costs or extent of progress 
toward completion are revised if circumstances 
change. Any resulting increases or decreases in 
estimated revenues or costs are reflected in profit 
or loss in the period in which the circumstances 
that give rise to the revision become known 
by management.
	
i)	
Sale of Goods
	
	
The Group recognizes revenue from the sale 
of goods measured upon satisfaction of 
performance obligation which is at a point in 
time when control of the goods is transferred 
to the customer, generally on delivery of the 
goods. Revenue is measured based on the 
transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted 
for 
volume 
discounts, 
rebates, 
scheme 
allowances, 
price 
concessions, 
incentives, and returns, if any, as specified 
in the contracts with the customers and any 
taxes or duties collected on behalf of the 
Government such as Goods and Services Tax. 
Due to the short nature of the credit period 
given to customers, there is no financing 
component in the contract.
	
	
Revenue is only recognized to the extent that 
it is highly probable a significant reversal will 
not occur. Appropriate provisions are recorded 
for returns and discounts/incentives which are 
estimated on the basis of historical experience, 
market assessment and various discount 
programs launched by the Group.
	
ii)	
Rendering of services
	
	
The Group primarily earns revenue from 
installation, 
operations 
and 
maintenance 
services, which is recognized over the period 
when services are rendered.
	
	
Revenue from services is recognized as and 
when services are rendered and there are no 
unfulfilled obligations. Revenue from services 
is measured at fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, after deduction of 
any sort of discounts and any taxes or duties 
collected on behalf of the government such as 
goods and services tax.
	
iii)	
Contract assets
	
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to 
the customer. Contract assets are in the nature 
of unbilled receivables, which arise when the 
Group satisfies a performance obligation 
but does not have an unconditional right to 
consideration. 
Receivables 
represent 
the 
Group’s right to an amount of consideration 
that is unconditional. Contract assets are 
subject to impairment assessment.
s)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other 
costs that the Group incurred in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs that are 
directly attributable to the acquisition and/or 
construction of a qualifying asset, till the time such 
qualifying asset becomes ready for its intended 
use, are capitalized. A qualifying asset is one that 
necessarily takes a substantial period to get ready 
for its intended use.
	
All other borrowing costs are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss on an accrual basis as 
per the EIR method.
t)	
Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing 
the net profit for the period attributable to the 
equity shareholders of the Group (after deducting 
attributable taxes) by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and for all 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
484 - 485
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
the years presented is adjusted for events, such 
as bonus shares, other than the conversion of 
potential equity shares, that have changed the 
number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the year is 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
u)	
Segment accounting
	
The segment reporting of the Group has been 
prepared 
in 
accordance 
with 
Ind-AS-108, 
“Operating Segment” (specified under the section 
133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rule 
2015 (as amended from time to time) and other 
relevant provision of the Act).
	
The Operating Segment is the level at which discrete 
financial information is available and for which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) monitors 
the operating results of its business segments 
separately for the purpose of making decisions 
about 
resource 
allocation 
and 
performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated 
based on profit or loss and is measured consistently 
with profit or loss in the financial statements.
	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a 
segment on the basis of relationship to operating 
activities of the segment. Revenue, expenses 
and exceptional items which relate to enterprise 
as a whole and are not allocable to a segment 
on reasonable basis have been disclosed as 
“unallocable”.
	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent 
assets and liabilities in respective segments. 
Investments, tax related assets, borrowings and 
other assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated 
to a segment on reasonable basis have been 
disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
Segment revenue resulting from transactions with 
other business segments is accounted on the basis 
of transfer price agreed between the segments. 
Such transfer prices are either determined to yield 
a desired margin or agreed on a negotiated basis.
v)	
Statement of cash flows
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby profit or loss before tax is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of non-cash nature and any 
deferrals or accruals of past or future cash receipts 
or payments. The cash flows from operating, 
investing and financing activities of the Group are 
segregated based on the available information.
	
Cash 
and 
cash 
equivalents 
(including 
bank 
balances) shown in the Statement of cash flows 
exclude items which are not available for general 
use as at the date of balance sheet.
w)	
Recent accounting pronouncements
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified 
Companies 
(Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024 to amend the following 
Ind-AS which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1st April 2024. The Company 
has applied these amendments for the first time in 
the standalone financial statements.
	
i)	
Ind AS 116, Leases
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amended Ind AS 116, Leases, 
with respect to lease liability in a sale and 
leaseback transaction.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements 
that a seller-lessee uses in measuring the 
lease liability arising in a sale and leaseback 
transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee does 
not recognize any amount of the gain or loss 
that relates to the right of use it retains.
	
	
The amendment is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 
1st 
April 
2024 
and 
must 
be 
applied 
retrospectively 
to 
sale 
and 
leaseback 
transactions entered into after the date of 
initial application of Ind AS 116.
	
	
These amendments do not have any material 
impact on the amount recognized in these 
standalone financial statements.
ii)	
Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts
	
The 
Ministry 
of 
corporate 
Affairs 
(“”MCA””) 
notified the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective from 
annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1st 
April 2024.
	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a comprehensive 
new accounting standard for insurance contracts 
covering 
recognition 
and 
measurement, 
presentation and disclosure. Ind AS 117 replaces 
Ind AS 104 Insurance Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies 
to all types of insurance contracts, regardless of 
the type of entities that issue them as well as to 
certain guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few scope 
exceptions will apply.
	
The application of Ind AS 117 had no impact on the 
Company’s standalone financial statements as 
the Company has not entered any contracts in the 
nature of insurance contracts covered under Ind 
AS 117.
iii)	
New standards and amendments issued but 
not effective
	
There are no such standards which are notified but 
not yet effective.
iv)	
The other amendments to Ind-AS notified by these 
rules are primarily in the nature of clarifications.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
486 - 487
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
2	 Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets
H Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2024
Additions
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
1st April, 
2024
For the 
year*
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
31st March, 
2025
As at 
31st March, 
2024
A.	 Property, plant and 
equipment
	
Land:
	
Freehold land  
(Refer Note ii)
178.95
-
-
178.95
-
-
-
-
178.95
178.95
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.85
0.03
-
0.88
1.81
1.84
	
Buildings:
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
98.14
4.53
0.02
102.65
18.76
5.94
0.01
24.69
77.96
79.38
	
Leasehold improvements
5.80
20.10
-
25.90
3.23
0.91
-
4.14
21.76
2.57
	
Plant and equipment 
(Including Tools & Dies)
187.44
28.28
13.23
202.49
85.02
30.19
10.11
105.10
97.39
102.42
	
Furniture and fixtures
10.49
4.12
2.85
11.76
5.97
1.33
2.81
4.49
7.27
4.52
	
Electrical installations 
and equipment
5.69
0.52
0.70
5.51
1.43
0.72
0.69
1.46
4.05
4.26
	
Office equipment
32.14
18.82
4.43
46.53
20.84
7.51
4.28
24.07
22.46
11.30
	
Vehicles
16.03
8.27
5.58
18.72
2.21
3.63
2.17
3.67
15.05
13.82
	
Sub-total A
537.37
84.64
26.81
595.20
138.31
50.26
20.07
168.50
426.70
399.06
B.	 Right-of-Use assets 
(Refer Note 32)
143.84
138.48
45.97
236.35
67.61
47.06
43.19
71.48
164.87
76.23
	
Sub-total B
143.84
138.48
45.97
236.35
67.61
47.06
43.19
71.48
164.87
76.23
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 36) 1,285.46
-
- 1,285.46
-
-
-
- 1,285.46 1,285.46
	
Sub-total C
1,285.46
-
- 1,285.46
-
-
-
- 1,285.46 1,285.46
D.	 Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
14.83
0.61
2.18
13.26
11.37
1.39
2.18
10.58
2.68
3.46
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Brand
1,163.06
-
- 1,163.06
-
-
-
- 1,163.06 1,163.06
	
Non-Compete
108.45
-
-
108.45
43.38
21.69
-
65.07
43.38
65.07
	
Distribution networks
205.06
-
-
205.06
51.26
25.63
-
76.89
128.17
153.80
	
Product development
25.48
39.20
-
64.68
7.71
9.22
-
16.93
47.75
17.77
	
Sub-total D
1,551.69
39.81
2.18 1,589.32
115.61
57.93
2.18
171.36 1,417.96 1,436.08
Total A + B + C + D
3,518.36
262.93
74.96 3,706.33
321.53
155.25
65.44
411.34 3,294.99 3,196.83
*During the year, the Group has capitalised depreciation of J 2.42 crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development 
as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
H Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2023
Additions
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
1st April, 
2023
For the 
year*
Deletions
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2024
As at 
31st March, 
2023
A.	 Property, plant and 
equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
178.95
-
-
178.95
-
-
-
-
178.95
178.95
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.82
0.03
-
0.85
1.84
1.87
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
98.28
0.28
0.42
98.14
14.29
4.62
0.15
18.76
79.38
83.99
	
Leasehold improvements
5.95
-
0.15
5.80
1.89
1.35
0.01
3.23
2.57
4.06
	
Plant and equipment 
(Including Tools & Dies)
173.59
25.80
11.95
187.44
64.34
27.83
7.15
85.02
102.42
109.25
	
Furniture and fixtures
9.87
0.65
0.03
10.49
4.34
1.64
0.01
5.97
4.52
5.53
	
Electrical installations 
and equipment
5.22
0.58
0.11
5.69
0.65
0.85
0.07
1.43
4.26
4.57
	
Office equipment
26.71
6.77
1.34
32.14
14.87
7.16
1.19
20.84
11.30
11.84
	
Vehicles
9.48
10.07
3.52
16.03
1.52
2.68
1.99
2.21
13.82
7.96
	
Sub-total A
510.74
44.15
17.52
537.37
102.72
46.16
10.57
138.31
399.06
408.02
B.	 Right-of-Use assets 
(Refer Note 32)
128.79
33.16
18.11
143.84
52.84
32.03
17.26
67.61
76.23
75.95
	
Sub-total B
128.79
33.16
18.11
143.84
52.84
32.03
17.26
67.61
76.23
75.95
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 36) 1,285.46
-
- 1,285.46
-
-
-
- 1,285.46 1,285.46
	
Sub-total C
1,285.46
-
- 1,285.46
-
-
-
- 1,285.46 1,285.46
D.	 Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
13.48
1.35
-
14.83
9.40
1.97
-
11.37
3.46
4.08
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Brand
1,163.06
-
- 1,163.06
-
-
-
- 1,163.06 1,163.06
	
Non-Compete
108.45
-
-
108.45
21.69
21.69
-
43.38
65.07
86.76
	
Distribution networks
205.06
-
-
205.06
25.63
25.63
-
51.26
153.80
179.43
	
Product development
16.45
9.03
-
25.48
2.19
5.52
-
7.71
17.77
14.26
	
Sub-total D
1,541.31
10.38
- 1,551.69
60.80
54.81
-
115.61 1,436.08 1,480.51
Total A + B + C + D
3,466.30
87.69
35.63 3,518.36
216.36
133.00
27.83
321.53 3,196.83 3,249.94
*During the year, the Group has capitalised depreciation of J 4.18 crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development 
as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
E.	
Capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’)
(i)	
CWIP Movement
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
As at 1st April
11.42
5.46
Add: Additions during the year
74.37
17.87
Less: Capitalized during the year
71.62
11.91
As at 31st March
14.17
11.42
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
488 - 489
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(ii)	 CWIP Ageing schedule 
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
10.08
1.58
0.08
-
11.74
Projects temporarily suspended
-
1.16
0.89
0.38
2.43
Total
10.08
2.74
0.97
0.38
14.17
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
8.88
1.01
-
-
9.89
Projects temporarily suspended
-
1.07
0.46
-
1.53
Total
8 .88
2.08
0.46
-
11.42
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
F.	
Intangible Assets under Development (‘IAUD’)
(i)	
IAUD Movement
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
As at 1st April
 47.06 
 21.05 
Add: Additions during the year
 12.27 
 35.04 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 39.20 
 9.03 
As at 31st March
20.13
 47.06 
(ii)	 IAUD Ageing schedule
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
9 .56
7.18
2.86
-
19.60
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
0.53
0.53
Total
9 .56
7.18
2.86
0.53
20.13
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
28.71
18.35
0.00
(0.00)
47.06
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
28.71
18.35
0.00
(0.00)
47.06
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	
Carrying amount of intangible assets given as collateral for borrowings is J 779.41 crore; (Previous year 
J 779.41 crore).
	
(ii)	 There are no such title deeds of immovable property which are not held in name of the Group.
	
(iii)	 There have been no proceedings initiated on or are pending against the Group for holding benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
	
(iv)	 The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible 
assets or both during the current or previous year.
3	 Investments
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Current investments
Measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
162.32
220.18
Investment in Mutual funds (Quoted)
103.16
60.96
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
455.66
407.96
721.14
689.10
Details of investments:
Aggregate book value of:
Quoted investments
265.48
281.14
Unquoted investments (accounted based on NAV)
455.66
407.96
721.14
689.10
Aggregate market value of:
Quoted investments
265.48
281.14
265.48
281.14
Notes: 
1.	
The investments are in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
3.	
Refer Note 40 A for information about fair value measurement and Note 40 D (i) for credit risk of investments.
4	 Other financial assets
A	
Other financial assets - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
 15.34 
 19.10 
 15.34 
 19.10 
B	
Other financial assets - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
 36.57 
 20.02 
 36.57 
 20.02 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
490 - 491
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
5	 Other assets
A	
Other assets - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured - considered good
Capital advances (net) (Refer Note 29)
 20.04 
 10.38 
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
 28.35 
 48.56 
Amount paid under protest
 22.28 
 22.28 
 70.67 
 81.22 
B	
Other assets - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured - considered good
Advance to suppliers
20.18
29.51
Balances with Indirect tax authorities
7.36
11.05
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
68.01
45.93
Prepaid expenses
34.95
47.45
Contract Assets
0.26
0.26
Right to return goods (refer note 19)
9.64
-
Others
57.59
44.77
197.99
178.97
6	 Inventories
	
(At lower of cost and net realisable value)
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Raw materials
92.47
86.92
Add: Goods-in-transit
0.78
1.93
93.25
88.85
Work-in-progress
49.74
43.52
Finished goods
178.76
206.33
Add: Goods-in-transit
49.56
38.05
228.32
244.38
Stock-in-trade
378.20
351.46
Add: Goods-in-transit
94.66
62.01
472.86
413.47
Stores, spares and packing materials
37.50
40.22
881.67
830.44
	
Note:
	
Inventories are hypothecated with the bankers against working capital facilities (Refer Note 15)
7	 Trade receivables
A	
Trade receivables - Non current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured
Considered good
10.55
12.65
10.55
12.65
B	
Trade receivables - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured
Considered good
678.87
725.97
Having significant increase in credit risk
53.87
21.28
Credit impaired
26.34
42.41
759.08
789.66
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
(67.92)
(68.77)
691.16
720.89
	
Trade Receivables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
Years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
496.21
136.76
22.45
9.29
10.61
10.43
685.75
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
1.81
31.29
-
-
33.10
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
0.49
0.48
1.21
2.07
17.33
21.58
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
-
1.10
2.57
-
-
-
3.67
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
20.77
-
-
20.77
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
3.87
0.89
4.76
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
(67.92)
Total
496.21
138.35
27.31
62.56
16.55
28.65
701.71
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
492 - 493
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
Years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
492.30
150.07
40.06
23.44
13.15
4.42
723.44
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
6.47
0.09
-
6.56
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
0.10
-
-
14.73
16.90
31.73
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
-
5.67
9.51
-
-
-
15.18
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
14.71
0.01
-
14.72
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
0.38
10.30
10.68
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
-
-
-
-
-
-
(68.77)
Total
492.30
155.84
49.57
44.62
28.36
31.62
733.54
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 The net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
	
(b)	 Book debts are hypothecated with the bankers against Working capital demand loan & Term Bank loan.
(Refer Note 15)
	
(c)	
Refer Note 40 for information about the Group’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment losses 
for trade receivables and fair values.
	
(d)	 No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with any 
other person or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.
	
(e)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
8	 Cash and cash equivalents
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
113.68
60.78
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
90.00
111.28
203.68
172.06
9	 Bank balances (other than Cash and cash equivalents)	
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 months
 140.00 
 80.00 
Earmarked balances with banks
	
Unclaimed dividend account
 5.31 
 4.77 
	
Bank Balance as Margin money
 4.05 
 3.94 
 149.36 
 88.71 
10	 Loans
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Unsecured considered good
Others (to employees)
0.13
0.36
0.13
0.36
	
Note - In line with Circular No 04/2015 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs dated 10/03/2015, loans given to 
employees as per the Group’s policy are not considered for the purposes of disclosure under Section 186(4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
11	 Assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‘held for sale’ when all 
the following criteria are met :
	
(i)	
decision has been made to sell;
	
(ii)	 the assets are available for immediate sale in its present condition;
	
(iii)	 the assets are being actively marketed; and
	
(iv)	 sale has been agreed or is expected to be concluded within 12 month of the Balance sheet date.
	
Subsequently, such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as ‘held for sale’ are measured as the 
lower of its carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated 
or amortised.
	
The Group had decided to move from inhouse to outsourcing within some of the non-core activities and 
classified certain assets as ‘asset held for sale’ and consequently provided an impairment loss of J 2.12 crore in 
FY 2023-24. Asset held for sale is disposed in 2024-25 and the WDV as on 31st March, 2025 is Nil. The details of 
whereas as under:
H Crore
Groups of assets held for sale
WDV as at 
31st March, 2025
Impairment 
value as at 
31st March, 2025
Asset value as at 
31st March, 2025
Plant & Machinery
-
-
-
Electrical equipment
-
-
-
Lease hold improvements
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
494 - 495
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Groups of assets held for sale
WDV as at 
31st March, 2024
Impairment value 
as at 
31st March, 2024
Asset value as at 
31st March, 2024
Plant & Machinery
 2.81 
 1.82 
 0.99 
Electrical equipment
 0.04 
 0.03 
 0.01 
Lease hold improvements
 0.27 
 0.27 
 -   
Total
 3.12 
 2.12 
 1.00 
12	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Authorised capital
Equity shares of J 2 each
 67,00,00,000 
 134.00 
 65,50,00,000 
 131.00 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up
Equity shares of J 2 each, fully paid-up
 64,38,09,163 
 128.76 
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 64,38,09,163 
 128.76 
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
a.	
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the 
reporting period
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
Shares issued on account of exercising Employee 
stock option schemes
 7,02,184 
 0.14 
 69,97,260 
 1.40 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 64,38,09,163 
 128.76 
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
b.	
Rights, preferences and restrictions on shares
	
The Group has one class of share capital, i.e., equity shares having face value of J 2 per share. Each holder of 
equity share is entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible 
to receive the remaining assets of the Group after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to 
their shareholding.
c.	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Group
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
% holding
Number
% holding
Equity shares of K 2 each fully paid
HDFC Mutual Fund - HDFC Arbitrage Fund
-
-
6,07,17,312
9.44%
Mirae Asset Balanced Advantage Fund
-
-
6,37,22,029
9.91%
HDFC Mutual Fund - HDFC S&P BSE 500 ETF
6,16,07,545
9.57%
-
-
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd - A/C Nippon India 
Growth
3,96,18,204
6.15%
-
-
Mirae Asset Nifty India Manufacturing ETF
3,88,11,390
6.03%
-
-
d.	
Shares reserved for issuance under Stock Option Plans of the Group at face value of K 2 (Also 
Refer Note 37)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2025
As at 31st March, 2024
Number
Amount
K crore
Number
Amount
K crore
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2016 (ESOP 2016)
2,00,445
0.04
6,06,233
0.12
Crompton Performance Share Plan 1 2016 (PSP 1)
-
-
-
-
Crompton Performance Share Plan 2 2016 (PSP 2)
-
-
-
-
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2019 (ESOP 2019)
76,35,653
1.53
78,83,560
1.58
e.	
No class of shares have been issued as bonus shares or for consideration other than cash by the Group during the 
period of five years immediately preceding the current year end.
f.	
No class of shares have been bought back by the Group during the period of five years immediately preceding 
the current year end.
g.	
There are no shares reserved for issue under options and contracts/ commitments for the sale of 
shares/ disinvestment.
h.	
The Board of Directors have recommended payment of final dividend of J 3 (Rupees three only) per equity share 
of the face value of J 2 each for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
i.	
Promoter Shareholding
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2025
Promoter name 
No. of 
shares 
% of  
total shares
% change  
during the year
NIL
Total
-
-
-
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2024
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
-
	
Note:
	
As per records of the Group, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received 
from shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial 
ownerships of shares.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
496 - 497
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
13	 Other equity
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Capital reserve
0.05
0.05
Securities premium
389.25
361.48
Employee stock option outstanding account
75.27
75.82
Retained earnings
2,964.41
2,599.56
Other comprehensive income
(0.72)
0.98
Equity - Loss on acquisition of NCI
(166.89)
(166.89)
3,261.37
2,871.00
	
Note: For movements in reserves - refer Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
	
Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital reserve
	
Capital reserve was created on cancellation of shares as per statutory requirement.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium was created on issue of shares at premium in accordance with Employee Stock Option Plans 
(ESOP).
	
Employee stock option outstanding
	
The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement 
of profit and loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, net-off less any transfers to general reserve, 
dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
	
Equity - Loss on acquisition of NCI
	
Changes in a parent’s ownership interest that do not result in a change in control of the subsidiary is accounted 
as equity transactions (i.e., no gain or loss is recognized in earnings). The carrying amount of the NCI is adjusted 
to reflect the change in the NCI’s ownership interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by 
which the NCI is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized in equity and 
attributed to the equity holders of the parent.
14	 Non controlling interest
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 449.35 
 447.71 
Profit attributable during the year
 8.13 
 1.86 
Other comprehensive income attributable during the year
 0.14 
 (0.21)
Balance at the end of the year
 457.62 
 449.35 
	
The table below provides information in respect of subsidiary as at 31st March, 2025:
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation 
and operation
% of NCI
NCI
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
India
25%
457.62
15	 Borrowings
	
The Group has categorised all borrowings at Amortised Cost in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 109.
A	
Borrowings - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortized cost
Secured
7.40% Series A Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
-
300.00
7.65% Series B Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
Unamortized Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
-
(1.03)
300.00
598.97
Less: Current maturities of long-term borrowings
(300.00)
(300.00)
-
298.97
B	
Borrowings - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Measured at amortized cost
Secured
Working capital demand loan from bank
0.01
-
Current maturities of non-convertible debentures (Refer Note 15 A)
300.00
300.00
Unamortized Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
(0.20)
-
299.81
300.00
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Non-Convertible Debentures
	
	
(i)	
Terms of Debentures:
Particulars of Debentures
Series A Tranche 2 (2022 issue)
Series B Tranche 2 (2022 issue)
Face value per debenture (J)
10,00,000
10,00,000
Date of allotment
22nd July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
As at 31st March, 2025 (J crore)
-
300.00
As at 31st March, 2024 (J crore)
300.00
300.00
Interest
7.40% p.a. payable annually
7.65% p.a. payable annually
Terms of repayment
Due for redemption on  
22nd July, 2024
Due for redemption on  
22nd July, 2025,with call option  
on 22nd July, 2024
Secured by charge
on ‘Crompton’ and ‘Crompton Greaves’ Brand (including assignment 
of license, agreements, if any)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
498 - 499
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
(ii)	 Funds raised from Non-Convertible Debentures were utilised for the purpose it were obtained.
	
	
(iii)	 During the year, the Group redeemed Secured Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to J 300 crore, 
Series A Tranche 2 (2022 issue), along with interest thereon, on 22nd July, 2024.
	
(b)	 Working capital loan facility is secured by way of charge on the Crompton’s inventories and trade receivables, 
carrying interest @ 9.10% p.a.
	
(c)	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
16	 Provisions
A	
Provisions - Non-current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 33 A)
-
8.21
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 33)
19.88
18.16
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
157.93
165.69
	
Provision for Statutory dues
1.44
1.67
179.25
193.73
B	
Provisions - current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 33 A)
-
0.33
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 33)
3.16
3.41
	
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 33)
2.74
2.65
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
107.37
106.24
	
Provision for Statutory dues
12.67
12.67
	
Provision for Other litigation Claims
0.10
0.16
	
Others
28.71
78.51
154.75
203.97
	
Notes:
	
(1)	 Movement in provisions (2024-25)
H Crore
Particulars
Warranty
Statutory 
Dues
Other litigation 
claims
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
 271.93 
 14.34 
 0.16 
Provision made during the year (net)
 143.37 
 0.23 
 -   
Amounts used during the year
 (108.36)
 (0.46)
 (0.06)
Unused amounts reversed during the year
 (41.64)
 -   
 -   
Carrying amount at the end of the year
 265.30 
 14.11 
 0.10 
Current
 107.37 
 12.67 
 0.10 
Non-Current
 157.93 
 1.44 
 -   
	
	
Movement of provisions (2024-25)
H Crore
Particulars
Others
Total
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
 78.51 
 364.94 
Provision made during the year (net)
 (49.80)
 93.80 
Amounts used during the year
 -   
 (108.88)
Unused amounts reversed during the year 
 -   
 (41.64)
Carrying amount at the end of the year
 28.71 
 308.22 
Current
 28.71 
 148.85 
Non-Current
 -   
 159.37 
	
	
Movement in provisions (2023-24)
H Crore
Particulars
Warranty
Statutory 
Dues
Other litigation 
claims
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
 213.47 
 15.88 
 0.06 
Provision made during the year (net)
 154.55 
 1.54 
 0.10 
Amounts used during the year
 (85.65)
 (3.08)
 -   
Unused amounts reversed during the year
 (10.44)
 -   
 -   
Carrying amount at the end of the year
 271.93 
 14.34 
 0.16 
Current
 106.24 
 12.67 
 0.16 
Non-Current
 165.69 
 1.67 
 -   
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
500 - 501
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
Movement of provisions (2023-24)
H Crore
Particulars
Others
Total
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
 42.48 
 271.89 
Provision made during the year (net)
 36.03 
192.22
Amounts used during the year
 -   
(88.73)
Unused amounts reversed during the year 
 -   
(10.44)
Carrying amount at the end of the year
 78.51 
 364.94 
Current
 78.51 
 197.58 
Non-Current
 -   
 167.36 
	
(2)	 Nature of provisions:
	
	
(a)	 Provision for employee benefits represents liability on account of post medical retirement benefits, 
compensated absences and gratuity as per statutory requirements.
	
	
(b)	 Product warranties: The Group gives warranties on certain products and services, undertaking to 
repair / replace products, which fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision 
made represents the amount of the expected cost of meeting such obligation on account of repair / 
replacement. The timing of outflows is expected to be within a period of two to five years.
	
	
(c)	
Provision for statutory dues represents liability on account of non-collection of declaration forms 
and other legal matters which are in appeal under the Acts / Rules.
	
	
(d)	 Provision for other litigation obligation claims represents liabilities that are expected to materialise 
in respect of matters in appeal.
	
	
(e)	
Other provisions represent provision for expenses.
17	 Trade payables
A	
Trade payables - Non current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises (Refer Note below)
-
-
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
15.94
14.03
15.94
14.03
B	
Trade payables - Current
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Acceptances
87.53
156.81
Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises (Refer Note below)
257.87
261.57
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
1,049.35
896.08
1,394.75
1,314.46
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Micro, Small and Medium enterprises have been identified by the Group on the basis of the information 
available. Total outstanding dues to suppliers which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period 
and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) 
as at 31st March, 2025. The disclosure pursuant to the said Act is as under:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025 
/2024-25
31st March, 2024 
/2023-24
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier at the end of each accounting year
Principal
257.87
261.57
Interest
0.03
0.02
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006 along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
0.14
18.51
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
year) but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
0.02
0.09
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006
-
0.02
	
(b)	 Identification of micro and small enterprises is basis intimation received from vendors.
	
(c)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 90 day terms.
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
(i)	 MSME
203.83
54.04
-
-
0.00
257.87
(ii)	 Others
636.78
468.95
13.52
8.59
24.98
1,152.82
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
840.61
522.99
13.52
8.59
24.98
1,410.69
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
(i)	 MSME
210.93
50.64
-
-
-
261.57
(ii)	 Others
671.69
317.73
59.53
6.04
11.93
1,066.92
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
882.62
368.37
59.53
6.04
11.93
1,328.49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
502 - 503
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
18	 Current financial liabilities - Others
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
15.91
31.33
Unclaimed dividend
5.31
4.77
Security deposits
39.35
36.97
Creditors for capital goods and services
0.87
0.56
Financial guarantee liability
0.00
0.02
Fair value of derivative liabilities
0.98
3.24
62.42
76.89
19	 Other current liabilities
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Advances from customers
10.35
9.62
Statutory dues payables
55.15
48.64
Employee benefit payables
62.67
52.91
Refund liability*
14.37
-
Others
4.36
1.96
146.90
113.13
	
*The Group has recognised a refund liability for the Sales return from customers amounting to J 14.37 crores, which is in the normal 
course of business. The Group has also recognised a right to recover the returned goods J 9.64 crores. The costs to recover the products 
are not material because the customers usually return the product in a saleable condition.
20	 Income taxes
A.	 Tax expense recognised in Statement of profit and loss comprises:
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Current tax
215.15
134.30
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(1.12)
(0.78)
Deferred tax credit
(21.90)
(2.23)
Tax expense for the year
192.13
131.29
B.	 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurements loss on post employment 
defined benefit plans and tax thereon
(2.45)
0.89
(1.56)
(0.40)
0.10
(0.30)
(2.45)
0.89
(1.56)
(0.40)
0.10
(0.30)
C.	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Profit before tax
756.21
573.07
Applicable tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
190.32
144.23
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (Refer Note below)
(1.12)
(0.78)
Corporate social responsibility disallowance
3.37
3.47
Impact of Share based payment expense
(0.43)
(10.04)
Others
(0.01)
(5.59)
Income tax expense for the current year
192.13
131.29
Effective tax rate
25.41%
22.91%
	
Notes:
	
a)	
The Group has written back an amount of J 1.12 Crore for excess provision for taxes made in the earlier 
years. The said amount has been adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
	
b)	
Based on assessment order received during the previous year, the Group has written-back an amount of J 
2.00 crore in respect of tax liability of AY 2021-22. Further, additional provision for taxes of J1.22 crore was 
made basis the return of income filed for AY 2023-24. Both the amounts are adjusted against tax expense 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
D.	 Components of deferred tax liabilities recognised in Balance sheet and Statement of profit 
and loss:
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and loss and 
other comprehensive income
As at  
31st March, 2025
As at  
31st March, 2024
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Employee stock option outstanding
17.87
17.22
0.65
(15.59)
(b)
Provision allowed under tax on payment basis
13.88
14.97
(1.09)
0.15
(c)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances
16.41
15.93
0.48
2.27
(d)
Difference between Written down value 
of Property, Plant and Equipment and 
Intangible assets as per books of accounts 
and Income Tax
(10.71)
(11.75)
1.04
5.82
(e)
Fair valuation of Investments
(3.19)
(3.60)
0.41
(1.34)
Impact of Revenue Recognition, Right-of-
use Asset, and Lease Liabilities
(f)
Impact of Revenue recognition
18.46
12.60
5.86
0.01
(g)
Impact of Right-of-use asset
32.02
23.49
8.53
8.96
(h)
Impact of lease liabilities
(28.00)
(21.19)
(6.81)
(8.50)
(i)
Difference between fair value & book value 
of Property, plant and equipment and 
Intangible assets acquired through Business 
Combination
(46.41)
(58.51)
12.10
12.10
( j)
Provision for Advances
0.21
0.31
(0.10)
(0.27)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
504 - 505
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and loss and 
other comprehensive income
As at  
31st March, 2025
As at  
31st March, 2024
2024-25
2023-24
(k)
Financial Guarantee
-
-
-
(0.11)
(l)
MAT Credit Entitlement
-
-
-
-
(m)
Other temporary differences (including tax 
related to items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss)
2.31
0.59
1.72
(1.17)
Deferred tax income
22.79
2.33
Net deferred tax asset/ (liabilities)
12.85
(9.94)
E.	
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities:
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Opening balance as at 1st April
(9.94)
(12.27)
(b)
Tax income during the period recognised in:
(i)	 Statement of profit and loss in profit or loss
21.90
2.23
(ii)	 Statement of profit and loss under OCI
0.89
0.10
Closing balance as at 31st March  
12.85
(9.94)
F.	
Tax assets and liabilities
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(a)
Non-current tax assets (net of tax provision)
8.62
8.62
(b)
Current tax assets (net of tax provision)
0.76
3.25
(c)
Current tax liabilities (net of tax assets)
49.43
23.39
	
During the current year, the Group has received income tax refunds including interest amounting to J 19.79 crore 
for the FY 2022-23 and FY 2023-24.
21	 Revenue from Operations
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
A.	 Sales of products and services
	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Sale of products (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
5,936.13
5,378.42
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
1,015.18
989.81
	
(iii)	Butterfly Products
822.74
911.20
7,774.05
7,279.43
	
Sale of services
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
48.96
(10.58)
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
3.73
4.87
52.69
(5.71)
7,826.74
7,273.72
B.	 Other operating revenue
	
Export benefits and other incentives
2.25
2.30
	
Scrap sales
34.56
36.79
36.81
39.09
7,863.55
7,312.81
	
(Also Refer Note 38 and 39)
22	 Other income
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Interest income
31.66
38.61
Fair value gain on investments measured at fair value through profit or loss
36.17
26.77
Gain on fair valuation of investments
-
-
Others
1.00
2.01
68.83
67.39
23	 Cost of materials consumed
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Opening inventories
88.85
117.70
Add: Purchases
1,598.67
1,754.47
Less: Closing inventories
(93.25)
(88.85)
Cost of raw materials consumed
1,594.27
1,783.32
Add: Sub-contracting charges
34.35
45.71
1,628.62
1,829.03
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
506 - 507
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
24	 Purchases of stock-in-trade
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Electric consumer durables
3,001.48
2,615.92
Lighting products
614.07
512.58
Butterfly Products
78.71
160.34
3,694.26
3,288.84
25	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Opening inventories :
Finished goods
244.38
209.75
Stock-in-trade
413.47
325.38
Work-in-progress
43.52
48.68
Less:
701.37
583.81
Closing inventories:
Finished goods
228.32
244.38
Stock-in-trade
472.86
413.47
Work-in-progress
49.74
43.52
750.92
701.37
Changes in inventories:
Finished goods
16.06
(34.63)
Stock-in-trade
(59.39)
(88.09)
Work-in-progress
(6.22)
5.16
(49.55)
(117.56)
26	 Employee benefits expense
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Salaries, wages, bonus and other benefits
559.28
520.63
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer Note 33)
17.82
16.93
Gratuity (Refer Note 33)
5.41
4.93
Compensated absences (Refer Note 33)
6.84
6.67
Staff welfare expenses
40.82
38.35
Share-based Payments to employees (Refer Note 37)
8.86
2.36
639.03
589.87
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 For remuneration paid to key management personnel Refer Note 34
	
(b)	 During the year, the Group has capitalised Employee benefits expense of J 8.99 crore (Previous year J 14.20 
crore) under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per 
Ind AS 38.
27	 Finance costs
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Interest on borrowing
34.46
71.27
Interest on lease liability (Refer Note 32)
13.24
7.18
Interest other
0.09
0.12
Others finance cost
0.19
0.62
47.98
79.19
28	 Other expenses
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Consumption of stores and spares
13.47
15.05
Power and fuel
17.46
19.57
Rent
18.19
14.76
Repair to property, plant and equipment
6.72
7.44
Insurance
4.64
5.03
Rates and taxes
5.10
6.62
Freight and forwarding outward
271.11
248.27
Packing materials
79.36
82.84
After sales service
85.60
76.54
Sales promotion
150.87
161.14
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer Note 31)
14.14
14.93
Advertising
154.88
136.05
Legal and professional charges
93.17
94.93
Payment to the auditors (Refer Note below)
1.40
1.39
Bad Debts written off
29.21
9.21
Allowance for doubtful debt
-
12.37
Extended Producer's Responsibility
19.82
15.40
Miscellaneous expenses
97.86
87.40
1,063.00
1,008.94
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Other expenses include expenditure on research and costs not eligible for capitalisation (Refer Note 30)
	
(b)	 During the year, the Group has capitalised Other expenses of J 2.73 crore (Previous year J 13.92 crore) under 
Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
508 - 509
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
Payment to the auditors
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Auditors' remuneration (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
Statutory Audit fees
0.88
0.81
	
Other services
	
(i)	 Certification work
0.05
0.06
	
(ii)	 Others
0.38
0.39
	
Reimbursement of expenses
0.09
0.13
1.40
1 .38
29	 Contingent liabilities and commitments
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
A
Contingent Liabilities:
(to the extent not provided for)
(a)	Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
32.14
20.72
(b)	Income tax liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
113.79
89.33
(c)	 Excise duty/ customs duty / service tax liability that may arise in respect of 
matters in appeal
12.00
11.92
(d)	GST/ Entry Tax/ Sales tax / VAT liability that may arise in respect of matters 
in appeal
217.71
170.18
(e)	 Extended Producer's Responsibility
24.18
-
B
Commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account 
and not provided for (net of advances)
11.91
9.11
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 The Group does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
	
(b)	 It is not practicable to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any, in respect of matters at (a) to (e) above, 
pending resolution of the arbitration/appellate proceedings.
30	 Expenditure on research and development
H Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)
Capital expenditure*
25.75
36.47
Sub-total (a)
25.75
36.47
(b)
Revenue expenditure
Raw materials consumed
2.71
0.23
Employee benefits
30.45
23.58
Depreciation and amortisation
15.14
8.58
Other expenses
Consumption of stores and spares
1.51
3.10
Repairs and maintenance
0.19
0.01
Miscellaneous expenses
12.57
4.17
Sub-total (b)
62.57
39.67
Total (a) + (b)
88.32
76.14
	
*includes J 14.83 crore (Previous year J 30.33 crore) capitalised under Product Development & IAUD as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
31	 Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year
14.13
14.89
Amount of expenditure incurred by the Group during the year
(i)	 Construction / acquision of any asset
-
-
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above:
-	
In cash
	
Nature of CSR activities
	
	
Community Development
2.34
3.50
	
	
Monitoring & Evaluation
0.11
0.23
	
	
Skill Development
5.09
5.76
	
	
Water Conservation
6.00
6.38
	
	
Administration
0.60
0.50
-	
Yet to be paid In cash
-
-
Total CSR expenditure
14.14
16.37
Contribution to Crompton (CSR) Foundation- a trust controlled by the Company in 
relation to CSR expenditure as per Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures (Refer Note 34)
12.78
13.31
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
510 - 511
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
32	 Leases
	
Group as lessee
A	
Right-of-Use assets
H Crore
Cost
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
143.84
128.79
Additions
138.48
33.16
Disposal / derecognized during the year
(45.97)
(18.11)
Closing Balance (a)
236.35
143.84
H Crore
Accumulated depreciation
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
67.61
52.84
Depreciation expense
47.06
32.03
Disposal / derecognized during the year
(43.19)
(17.26)
Closing Balance (b)
71.48
67.61
Closing Balance (a-b)
164.87
76.23
B	
Lease liabilities
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Opening Balance
84.22
82.93
Addition
138.10
33.16
Accredition of interest
13.24
7.18
Payments
(52.79)
(39.01)
Adjustments for derecognition
(3.99)
(0.04)
Closing Balance
178.78
84.22
Current maturities of lease liabilities
39.66
31.43
Non-current lease liabilities
139.12
52.79
C	
Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Depreciation expense of Right-of-Use assets
47.06
32.03
Interest expense on lease liabilities
13.24
7.18
Short term and low value leases
23.89
11.04
Total
84.19
50.25
D	
Maturity analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted)
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Less than one year
51.23
36.64
One to five years
117.69
57.48
More than five years
51.41
1.23
Total
220.33
95.35
E	
Amounts recognised in statement of Cash Flows
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Total Cash outflow for leases
52.79
39.01
F	
(a)	 The Group applied the exemption not to recognize right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 
12 months of lease term and low value asset.
	
(b)	 Lease contracts entered by the Group pertains to warehouses, offices and plant & equipments taken on 
lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Group does not have any lease restrictions and 
commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
	
(c)	
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. Significant 
judgement is exercised by management in determining whether these extension and termination options 
are reasonably certain to be exercised.
33	 Employee Benefits
A	
Holding Company (Crompton)
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o))
	
Amount of J 24.41 crore (Previous year J 23.00 crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee 
benefits expense as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 26)
H Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2024-25
2023-24
Provident fund
12.22
11.40
Superannuation fund
1.00
1.10
Employee state insurance scheme
0.07
0.07
Labour welfare scheme
0.01
0.00
Gratuity
3.62
3.34
National Pension Scheme
1.83
1.30
Compensated absences
5.66
4.93
Post retirement medical benefits (Refer Note i below)
-
0.86
Total
24.41
23.00
	
Note:- During the year, the Holding Company has capitalised employees benefits of J 0.31 crore (previous year - 
J 0.44 crore) under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per 
Ind AS 38.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
512 - 513
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o)) as per Actuarial Valuation are as under:
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical Benefits
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
(Funded)
(Funded)
(Non funded) 
(Refer note i 
below)
(Non funded)
I
Change in present value of defined 
benefit obligation during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation 
at the beginning of the year
32.68
29.24
-
7.55
Amount recognised in  
statement of profit and loss
	
Interest cost
2.36
2.19
-
0.56
	
Current service cost
3.85
3.47
-
0.63
	
Past service cost
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in  
other comprehensive income
	
Actuarial losses / (gains)
0.03
1.83
-
0.13
	
Benefits paid
(4.72)
(4.05)
-
(0.33)
Present Value of defined benefit  
obligation at the end of the year
34.20
32.68
-
8.54
II
Change in fair value of plan assets  
during the year
Fair value of plan assets at the  
beginning of the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
Expected return on plan assets
2.59
2.32
-
-
Contributions
(4.00)
-
-
-
Benefits paid from the fund
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other  
comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
0.42
2.70
-
-
Fair value of plan assets  
at the end of the year
35.00
35.99
-
-
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
2.59
2.32
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
0.42
2.70
-
-
Actual return on plan assets
3.01
5.02
-
-
IV
Net asset / (liability) recognised  
in the balance sheet
Present Value of defined benefit  
obligation at the end of the year
(34.20)
(32.68)
-
(8.54)
Fair value of plan assets  
at the end of the year
35.00
35.99
-
-
Asset / (Liability) recognised  
in the balance sheet (Refer Note 16 for 
current and non-current classification)
0.80
3.31
-
(8.54)
V
Expenses recognised in the  
statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
3.85
3.47
-
0.63
Interest cost
(0.23)
(0.13)
-
0.56
Past Service cost
-
-
-
-
3.62
3.34
-
1.19
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical Benefits
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
(Funded)
(Funded)
(Non funded) 
(Refer note i 
below)
(Non funded)
VI
Expenses recognised in the  
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial losses / (gains) on Obligation  
For the Period
0.03
1.83
-
0.13
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
(0.42)
(2.70)
-
-
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
-
-
Net (Income)/Expense For the Period 
Recognized in OCI
(0.39)
(0.87)
-
0.13
VII
The major categories of plan assets as a 
percentage of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
-
NA
VIII Sensitivity analysis for significant 
assumptions:
Increase/(Decrease) on present value  
of defined benefits obligation at the  
end of the year
	
1% increase in discount rate
(1.87)
(1.72)
-
(1.18)
	
1% decrease in discount rate
2.09
1.92
-
1.51
	
1% increase in salary escalation rate
2.09
1.93
-
-
	
1% decrease in salary escalation rate
(1.90)
(1.76)
-
-
	
1% increase in employee turnover rate
0.06
0.01
-
-
	
1% decrease in employee turnover rate
0.05
(0.02)
-
-
	
1% increase in Medical inflation rate
-
-
-
1.53
	
1% decrease in Medical inflation rate
-
-
-
(1.20)
IX
Maturity profile of defined benefit 
obligations
-
-
-
-
Within the next 12 months
5.00
5.56
-
0.39
Between 1 and 5 years
13.58
12.33
-
1.65
Between 5 and 10 years
15.78
15.69
-
2.55
X
Actuarial assumptions
-
Discount rate (p.a.)
6.84%
7.21%
-
7.40%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
6.84%
7.21%
-
N.A
Employee turnover rate
6.00%
6.00%
-
6.00%
Salary escalation rate
6.00%
6.00%
-
N.A
Mortality rate during employment
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
-
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
(2012-14)
Medical premium inflation rate
N.A
N.A
-
2.00%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
514 - 515
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(c)	
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the 
key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the 
same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types 
of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The Holding Company makes contributions to the Gratuity Trust, which manages the investment. The Trust is a 
funded defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. The Scheme provides for lump sum payment to vested 
employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment as per the Compant’s 
Gratuity Scheme. Vesting occurs as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
(e)	 The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 
31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current 
service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(f)	 Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet 
date for the estimated term of the obligations.
(g)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on 
investments of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the 
seniority, the promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
(i)	
Employee benefit expenses include write back of J 12.57 crores during the year related to post-retirement 
medical benefits, consequent to discontinuation of the scheme.
	
Compensated absences
	
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at 
balance sheet date. The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
	
The leave obligation cover the Holding Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of 
J 17.15 crore (Previous year J 15.48 crore) is presented as non-current and J 2.87 crore (Previous year J 3.12 
crore) is presented as current. The Holding Company has recognised J 5.66 crore (Previous year J 4.93 crore) for 
compensated absences in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B	
Subsidiary Company (Butterfly)
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o))
	
Amount of J 6.04 crore (Previous year J 6.71 crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee benefits 
expense as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 26)
H Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2024-25
2023-24
Provident fund
2.54
2.90
Employee deposit linked insurance scheme
0.10
0.47
Labour welfare scheme
0.01
0.01
Gratuity
1.79
1.59
National Pension Scheme
0.11
-
Compensated absences
1.18
1.74
Employee state insurance scheme
0.31
-
Total
6.04
6.71
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o)) as per Actuarial Valuation are as under:
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
2024-25
2023-24
I
Change in present value of defined benefit obligation during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
11.61
10.35
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
	
Interest cost
0.75
0.68
	
Current service cost
1.64
1.44
	
Past service cost
-
0.05
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
	
Actuarial loss / (gain)
(0.78)
1.03
Benefits paid
(1.77)
(1.94)
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
11.45
11.61
II
Change in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
8.96
7.47
Expected return on plan assets
0.60
0.58
Contributions
0.95
2.95
Benefits paid from the fund
(1.77)
(1.94)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
-
-
Actuarial (loss) / gain
(0.03)
(0.10)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
8.71
8.96
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
0.60
0.58
Actuarial (loss) / gain
(0.03)
(0.10)
Actual return on plan assets
0.56
0.48
IV
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
(11.45)
(11.61)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
8.71
8.96
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (Refer Note 16 for current and  
non-current classification)
(2.74)
(2.65)
V
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
1.64
1.44
Interest cost
0.15
0.10
Past Service cost
-
0.05
1.79
1.59
VI
Expenses recognised in the Other comprehensive income
Actuarial Losses on Obligation For the Period
(0.78)
1.03
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
0.03
0.10
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
Net Expense For the Period Recognized in OCI
(0.75)
1.13
VII
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
516 - 517
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
2024-25
2023-24
VIII Sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions:
Increase/(Decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligation at the end 
of the year
	
0.50% increase in discount rate
(0.58)
(0.58)
	
0.50% decrease in discount rate
0.59
0.63
	
0.50% increase in salary escalation rate
0.60
0.63
	
0.50% decrease in salary escalation rate
(0.60)
(0.59)
	
0.50% increase in employee turnover rate
-
-
	
0.50% decrease in employee turnover rate
-
-
IX
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
-
-
Within the next 12 months
0.48
0.57
Between 1 and 5 years
3.15
2.31
Between 5 and 10 years
5.04
5.15
X
Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)
6.66%
6.97%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
6.66%
6.97%
Employee turnover rate
3.00%
3.00%
Salary escalation rate
7.00%
7.00%
(c)	 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective 
assumptions occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on 
a change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity 
to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been 
applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change 
compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The subsidary makes contributions to the Insurer Managed Funds (LIC).
(e)	 The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 
31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current 
service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(f)	 Discount rate has been determined by reference to market yields on 31st March, 2025 on government bonds of 
term consistent with estimated term of the obligations as per para 83 of Ind AS 19. The source of determining the 
market yields is the Zero Coupon Sovereign Rupee Yield Curve estimated by the Clearing Corporation of India 
Limited (CCIL) as on 31st March, 2025.
(g)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on 
investments of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the 
seniority, the promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
	
Compensated absences
	
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at 
balance sheet date. The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
	
The leave obligation cover the Subsidiary Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of 
J 2.72 crore (Previous year J 2.68 crore) is presented as non-current and J 0.26 crore (Previous year J 0.29 crore) 
is presented as current. The Subsidiary Company has recognised J 1.18 crore (Previous year J 1.74 crore) for 
compensated absences in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
34	 Related Party Disclosures
i)	
List of related parties over which control exist:
	
Name of the subsidiary companies:
	
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
ii)	 Other Related Parties:
	
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd (upto 30th April, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
iii)	 Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out during 
the year:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Gratuity Trust
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Superannuation Fund
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust Fund
iv)	 Key Management Personnel:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
	
Mr. H. M. Nerurkar, Chairman and Independent Director (upto 20th October, 2023)
	
Mr. D. Sundaram, Chairman and Independent Director
	
Mr. P. M. Murty, Independent Director
	
Ms. Smita Anand, Independent Director
	
Mr. P.R. Ramesh, Independent Director
	
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, Independent Director
	
Mr. Anil Chaudhry, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non-Executive Director (upto 23rd April, 2023); Executive Director (From 24th April, 2023 to 30th 
April, 2023); Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (from 1st May, 2023)
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Managing Director (upto 30th April, 2023); Vice Chairman and Executive Director (from 1st 
May, 2023 to 30th April, 2024); Non executive Vice Chairman (from 1st May, 2024)
	
Mr. Mathew Job, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (upto 30th April, 2023)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Chief Financial Officer
	
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
Mr. M. Padmanabhan, Independent Director (upto 31st July, 2024)
	
Mr. A. Balasubramanian, Independent Director (upto 31st July, 2024)
	
Mr. G.S. Samuel, Independent Director (upto 31st July, 2024)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
518 - 519
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
Mr. T.R. Srinivasan, Independent Director (upto 31st July, 2024)
	
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan, Independent Director
	
Mr. K.E. Ranganathan , Independent Director (from 4th April, 2024)
	
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, Managing Director (upto 14th June, 2024)
	
Ms. Swetha Sagar G, Manager & Chief Business Officer (from 15th June, 2024)
	
Mr. R. Nagarajan, Chief Financial Officer (upto 05th April, 2023)
	
Mr. P.M.Murty - Chairman, Non- Executive Director
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Non- Independent Director
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non- Independent Director (from 12th May, 2023)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Non-Independent Director (from 9th November, 2023)
	
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar, Non-Independent Director (from 9th November, 2023)
	
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya - Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (upto 7th April, 2025)
	
Mr. V A Joseph - Chief Financial Officer (from 9th November, 2023)
	
Ms. Ananda Shalini - Chief Financial Officer (from 06th April, 2023 to 20th October, 2023)
v)	 Details of related party transactions:
H Crore
Sr. 
No.
Nature of transaction
2024-25
2023-24
1
Services received
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd
-
0.33
Total
-
0.33
2
Contributions (Employer's) to Post Retirement Funds
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation 
Fund
1.00
1.10
Total
1.00
1.10
3
Compensation to Key Management Personnel
Short-term benefits*
29.49
127.39
Share-based Payments (Refer Note b below)
6.99
(3.31)
Director's sitting fees
0.90
0.90
Commission
3.45
1.68
Total
40.83
126.66
4
Donations paid
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
12.78
13.31
Total
12.78
13.31
	
*Short-term benefits for the current year include Nil (previous year: J 101.60 crore) on account of exercise of stock options.
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Liabilities for post retirement benefits being Gratuity and Leave encashment are provided on actuarial basis 
for the Group as a whole. The amount pertaining to Key management personnel are not included above.
	
b)	
The Group has granted shares under various Schemes to the eligible Key Management Personnel. The 
amount mentioned is the fair value of the grant (credited) / charged to Statement of profit and loss.
vi)	 Amount due to / from related parties
H Crore
Sr. 
No.
Nature of transaction
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
1
Other Receivable
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Gratuity Trust
0.80
3.31
Total
0.80
3.31
2
Other Payable
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
0.08
0.09
Commission Payable to Key Management Personnel
3.45
1.68
Total
3.53
1.77
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s 
length basis. Outstanding balances at the year-end with related parties are unsecured and interest free, and will 
be settled/ recovered in cash.
	
The Group has not made any allowance for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party trade receivables 
nor has any guarantee been given or received during the year ended 31st March 2025 and 31st March 2024 relating 
to related party transactions.
35 	Earnings Per Share (EPS)
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 
by the weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Group by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of 
Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)	Basic earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
J crore
555.95
439.92
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding during the year
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Earnings per share - Basic (one equity share of J 2 each)
J
8.64
6.88
(b)	Diluted earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
J crore
555.95
439.92
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for basic EPS during the year 
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares  
on account of Employee Stock Option Schemes (refer note below)
Nos
-
-
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding  
for diluted EPS during the year
Nos
64,35,11,955
63,97,21,335
	
Earnings per share - Diluted (one equity share of J 2 each)
J
8.64
6.88
	
Note:
	
78,36,098 (previous year: 84,89,793) number of share options are outstanding as on 31st March, 2025 which are 
anti-dilutive in nature.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
520 - 521
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
36	 Impairment testing of Goodwill
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating division (not at segment 
level), which is not higher than the Group’s operating segments. The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill 
allocated to each unit are as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Electric Consumer Durables
 590.10 
 590.10 
Lighting Products
 189.31 
 189.31 
Butterfly
 506.05 
 506.05 
Total
 1,285.46 
 1,285.46 
	
The recoverable amount is based on a value-in-use calculation using the discounted cash flow method. The 
value-in-use calculation is made using exit multiple and pre-tax budgeted EBITDA projections of the next five 
years which is considered by the Board as a reasonable period.
	
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows:
	
a)	
Earnings (before interest and tax) margin: The margins have been estimated based on past experience 
after considering incremental revenue and savings from the efficiencies and cost saving initiatives driven 
by the Group.
	
b)	
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to a cash generating 
unit and is estimated based on the weighted average cost of capital.
	
c)	
Long-term growth rate: The growth rates used are in line with the long-term average growth rates of the 
Group and are consistent with the internal / external sources of information.
	
The assumptions used are reviewed annually as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. 
These estimates may differ from actual results. The values assigned to each of the key assumptions reflect the 
Management’s past experience as their assessment of future trends, and are consistent with external / internal 
sources of information.
	
Based on the above assumptions and analysis, no impairment was identified for any of the cash generating unit 
as at 31st March 2025 and 31st March, 2024 as the recoverable value of the cash generating unit exceeded the 
carrying value.
	
The Group has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used (revenue growth and 
EBITDA margin) and discount rate applied. An analysis of the sensitivity of the computation to a change in key 
parameters (operating margin, discount rates and average growth rate), based on reasonable assumptions, 
did not identify any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the cash generating units would 
decrease below its carrying amount.
37	 Share-based Payments
	
Employee stock options - equity settled
(a)	 The Members of the Group have approved by way of postal ballots grant of Employee stock options under 
various Schemes. The plan envisaged grant of shares to eligible employees at market price/pre-determined 
value as determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the Board of Directors from 
time to time.
	
Disclosures:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025 
/ 2024-25
31st March, 2024 
/ 2023-24
Share-based Payments to employee
8.86
2.36
Employee Stock option outstanding
75.27
75.82
(b)	 The position of the existing schemes is summarized as under -
Particulars
31st March, 2025 / 2024-25
31st March, 2024 / 2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Date of Shareholder's 
approval
19th January, 
2020 and 
amended on 
06th January 
2021
22 October, 
2016
22 October, 
2016
22 October, 
2016
19th January, 
2020 and 
amended on 
06th January 
2021
22 October, 
2016
22 October, 
2016
22 October, 
2016
Total number of options 
approved under ESOS
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
Vesting requirements
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
Exercise price or pricing 
formula (J)
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange, as on the day 
prior to the date on which 
the NRC approves the 
Grant.
92.83
185.66 Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange, as on the day 
prior to the date on which 
the NRC approves the 
Grant.
92.83
185.66
Maximum term of 
Options granted (years)
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would vest 
not earlier than one year 
and not later than 10 years 
from the date of grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would vest 
not earlier than one year 
and not later than 10 years 
from the date of grant.
Source of shares 
(Primary, Secondary or 
combination)
Primary
Variation in terms of 
options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
522 - 523
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
(c)	 Options movement during the year:-
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
No. of options outstanding 
at the beginning of the year
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
No. of options granted 
during the year
9,50,000
-
-
-
25,55,000
-
-
-
No. of options forfeited / 
lapsed during the year
9,01,511
-
-
-
32,38,390
1,26,413
-
-
No. of options vested 
during the year
10,15,249
-
-
-
10,01,558
89,978
-
-
No. of options exercised 
during the year
2,96,396
4,05,788
-
-
-
2,59,930
44,10,033
23,27,297
Money realised by exercise 
of options (J)
11,22,19,471 9,15,94,433
-
-
- 5,19,53,343 40,93,83,363 43,20,85,961
No. of options outstanding 
at the end of the year
76,35,653
2,00,445
-
-
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
No. of options exercisable 
at the end of the year
32,24,403
2,00,445
-
-
25,48,560
6,06,233
-
-
Weighted Average 
Remaining Contractual 
Life (in years)
4.47
1.98
-
-
5.81
2.25
-
-
(d)	 Weighted average information for year:
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Weighted average 
exercise price of options 
granted during the year 
whose
Exercise price equals 
market price (J)
432.05
-
-
-
268.09
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater 
than market price (J)
-
-
-
-
294.65
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (J)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Weighted average fair 
value of options granted 
during the year whose
Exercise price equals 
market price (J)
118.64
-
-
-
108.59
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater 
than market price (J)
-
-
-
-
102.80
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (J)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(e)	 The Black-Scholes Valuation Model has been used for computing weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:-
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
Price of the underlying share in market at the time of the option grant (J)
432.05
261.84
Exercise price (J)
432.05
261.84
Risk free interest rate (based on government securities)
6.56%
6.93%
Expected life (years)
3.04
5.56
Expected volatility
29.86%
33.06%
Dividend yield
0.69%
0.95%
(f)	 Number and Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
84,89,793
353.40
1,62,96,856
274.51
Granted during the year
9,50,000
432.05
25,55,000
259.09
Forefeited during the year
9,01,511
380.77
33,64,803
391.73
Exercised during the year
7,02,184
290.26
69,97,260
127.68
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
78,36,098
365.44
84,89,793
345.19
Exercisable at the end of the year
34,24,848
383.57
31,54,793
371.36
(g)	 Weighted average share price of options exercised during the year is J 419.43 (Previous year J 276.20).
38	 Operating Segments
A.	 General Information
	
The Group has determined following reporting segments based on the information reviewed by the Group’s 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’).
	
a)	
Electric Consumer Durables
	
b)	
Lighting Products
	
c)	
Butterfly (acquisition through business combination)
	
The above business segments have been identified considering:
	
a)	
the nature of products and services
	
b)	
the differing risks and returns
	
c)	
the internal organisation and management structure, and
	
d)	
the internal financial reporting systems.
	
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, 
has been identified as the Management Committee as explained in the Director’s Report section.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
524 - 525
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
B.	 Information about reportable segments
I Crore
2024-25
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting 
Products
Butterfly
Total
Revenue
External Customers
6,010.00
1,020.27
833.28
7,863.55
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
Total revenue
6,010.00
1,020.27
833.28
7,863.55
Segment profit
928.33
119.63
46.38
1,094.34
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortization expense
22.67
8.42
23.09
54.18
Segment assets
1,662.22
345.03
465.20
2,472.45
Segment liabilities
1,459.86
385.28
139.92
1,985.06
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
52.16
3.85
6.46
62.47
I Crore
2023-24
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting  
Products
Butterfly
Total
Revenue
External Customers
5,392.18
998.17
922.46
7,312.81
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
Total income
5,392.18
998.17
922.46
7,312.81
Segment profit
774.65
105.32
8.19
888.16
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortization expense
17.81
7.93
18.06
43.80
Segment assets
1,433.19
394.44
525.12
2,352.75
Segment liabilities
1,251.44
380.59
232.93
1,864.96
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
57.63
10.41
17.57
85.61
C.	 Reconciliations of information on reportable segments
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
(a)	Revenue
	
Total revenue for reportable segments
7,863.55
7,312.81
	
Total revenue (Refer Note 21)
7,863.55
7,312.81
(b)	Profit before tax
	
Total profit before tax for reportable segments
1,094.34
888.16
	
Unallocated amounts:
	
Expense on share-based payment to employees
(8.86)
(2.36)
	
Finance costs
(47.98)
(79.19)
	
Other unallocable expenditure net of unallocable Income
(281.29)
(233.54)
	
Total profit before tax from operations as reported in Statement of profit and loss
756.21
573.07
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
(c)	 Assets
	
Total assets for reportable segments
2,472.45
2,352.75
	
Other unallocated amounts:
	
Goodwill
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
Other assets
2,559.02
2,443.49
	
Deferred tax assets (net)
12.85
-
	
Total assets as reported in Balance sheet
6,329.78
6,081.70
(d)	Liabilities
	
Total liabilities for reportable segments
1,985.06
1,864.96
	
Other unallocated amounts:
	
Borrowings
300.00
598.97
	
Other liabilities
196.97
168.80
	
Total liabilities as reported in Balance sheet
2,482.03
2,632.73
39	 Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”
A.	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss with contracted price
H Crore
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Revenue as per contracted price
8,521.04
8,016.45
Less: Adjustments*
(694.30)
(742.73)
Total revenue from contract with customers
7,826.74
7,273.72
	
* includes discounts, schemes, sales return & others.
B.	
The group has contract asset as at 31st March, 2025 J 0.26 crore (Previous year: J 0.26 crore)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
526 - 527
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
C.	 Disaggregation of revenue based on products
	
Information given above concerning reportable segment-wise revenue are sufficient to meet the required 
disclosures under Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with respect to disaggregation of revenue.
D.	 Geographic information
	
The Group mainly caters to Indian Market, accordingly, secondary information/ geographical segment is 
not applicable.
E.	
Information about major customers
	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues.
40	 Financial instruments – Disclosures
A.	 Accounting classification and fair values
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, 
including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and 
financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Non-current investment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables
-
10.55
10.55
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
15.34
15.34
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
721.14
-
721.14
721.14
-
-
721.14
Trade receivables
-
691.16
691.16
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
203.68
203.68
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than  
cash and cash equivalents
-
149.36
149.36
-
-
-
-
Loans
-
0.13
0.13
-
-
-
-
Other current financial assets
-
36.57
36.57
-
-
-
-
721.14
1,106.79
1,827.93
721.14
-
-
721.14
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
139.12
139.12
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
15.94
15.94
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
299.81
299.81
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
39.66
39.66
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,394.75
1,394.75
-
-
-
-
Derivative liabilities
0.98
-
0.98
0.98
-
-
0.98
Other current financial liabilities
0.00
61.44
61.44
-
-
0.00
0.00
0.98
1,950.72
1,951.70
0.98
-
0.00
0.98
H Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Non Current Investment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables
-
12.65
12.65
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
19.10
19.10
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
689.10
-
689.10
689.10
-
-
689.10
Trade receivables
-
720.89
720.89
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
172.06
172.06
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than  
cash and cash equivalents
-
88.71
88.71
-
-
-
-
Loans
-
0.36
0.36
-
-
-
-
Other current financial assets
-
20.02
20.02
-
-
-
-
689.10
1,033.79
1,722.89
689.10
-
-
689.10
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
298.97
298.97
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
52.79
52.79
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
14.03
14.03
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
300.00
300.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
31.43
31.43
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,314.46
1,314.46
-
-
-
-
Derivative liabilities
3.24
-
3.24
3.24
-
-
3.24
Other current financial liabilities
0.02
73.63
73.65
-
-
0.02
0.02
3.26
2,085.31
2,088.57
3.24
-
0.02
3.26
	
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current 
financial assets and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the 
short-term maturities of these instruments.
B.	 Fair value heirarchy
	
The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into three categories 
depending on the inputs used in the valuation technique. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable 
inputs (Level 3 measurements).
	
The categories used are as follows:
	Ȣ
Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in an active market;
	Ȣ
Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and
	Ȣ
Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
528 - 529
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
C.	 Measurement of fair values
	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as 
well as the significant unobservable inputs used.
	
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
Valuation technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship 
between significant 
unobservable inputs 
and fair value 
measurement
Derivative instruments - 
forwards foreign exchange 
contracts
The Group has used discounted mark to market 
of forward contracts using current forward 
rates for remaining tenure of the forward 
contract as provided by respective banks.	
Not applicable
Not applicable
Derivative instruments - options 
foreign exchange contracts
Fair value of foreign currency options 
contract is provided by bank’s with whom the 
derivatives are entered into.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Investment in mutual funds
The fair value of the units of mutual fund 
scheme are based on net asset value at the 
reporting date.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Non current financial assets 
and liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
Discounted cash flows: The valuation model 
considers the present value of expected 
receipt/ payment discounted using 
appropriate discounting rates.
Not applicable
Not applicable
D.	 Financial risk management
	
The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
	Ȣ
Credit risk;
	Ȣ
Liquidity risk; and
	Ȣ
Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Group’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk 
management framework. The Group has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) for identification, 
evaluation and mitigation of operations, strategic and external risks. RMC has the overall responsibility for 
monitoring and recovering the Risk Management Plan and associated practices of the Group.
	
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to 
set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies 
and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The 
Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and 
constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
	
The RMC oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the 
Group. The committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular 
and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the 
audit committee.
	
i.	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument 
fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, 
investment in mutual funds and cash and cash equivalents.The Group makes provision on trade receivables 
based on Expected Credit loss (ECL) method based on provision matrix.
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. 
Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the 
creditworthiness of customers to which the Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The 
Group has a detailed review mechanism of overdue trade receivables at various levels in the organisation 
to ensure proper attention and focus on realisation.
	
	
Summary of the Group’s exposure to credit risk by age of the outstanding from various customers is 
as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Not past due
496.21
492.30
Past due 1–360 days
165.66
205.41
Past due 361- 720 days
62.56
44.62
more than 720 days
45.20
59.98
769.63
802.31
	
	
Expected credit loss assessment
	
	
Exposures to customers outstanding at the end of each reporting period are reviewed by the Group to 
determine incurred and expected credit losses. Management believes that the unimpaired amounts that 
are past due are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of 
customer credit risk.
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was 
as follows:
Particulars
K crore
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
56.40
Impairment loss recognised
23.18
Write off of bad debts
(10.81)
Balance as at 1st April, 2024
68.77
Impairment loss recognised
28.36
Write off of bad debts
(29.21)
Balance as at 31st March, 2025
67.92
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits
	
	
The Group held cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits with banks and financial institutions. The credit 
worthiness of such banks and financial institutions is evaluated by the management on an on-going basis and 
is considered to be good. Investment of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities.
	
	
Derivatives
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
530 - 531
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
	
	
The derivatives (forwards and options for foreign currency payments) are entered into with banks and 
financial institution counterparties with good credit ratings.
	
	
Investment in mutual funds
	
	
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only with counterparties that have a good credit 
rating. The Group does not expect any losses from non performance by these counter parties.
	
	
Other than trade receivables, the Group has no other financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
	
ii.	
Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due 
at reasonable price. The Group manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always 
have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without 
incurring unacceptable losses or risk to the Group’s reputation.
	
	
The Group monitors cash flow requirements and aims at optimising its cash return on investments and to 
maintain the level of its cash and bank balance and other highly marketable mutual fund investments at an 
amount in excess of expected cash outflows on financial liabilities.
	
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
contractual cash flows are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2025
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year 
or less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
169.10
-
42.20
75.49
51.41
	
Trade payables
15.64
5.65
0.87
9.12
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
315.72
315.72
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
51.23
51.23
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,394.75
1,394.75
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
40.33
40.33
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year 
or less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings
298.97
-
298.97
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
58.71
-
27.67
30.46
0.58
	
Trade payables
14.03
3.79
6.05
4.19
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
331.33
331.33
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
36.64
36.64
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,314.46
1,314.46
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
40.23
40.23
-
-
-
	
iii.	
Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 
equity prices – will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk 
is attributable to all market risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and 
payables. The Group is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate 
risk and the market value of investments. Thus, Group’s exposure to market risk is a function of investing and 
revenue generating and operating activities in foreign currency. The objective of market risk management 
is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency revenues and costs.
	
	
Market risk comprises two types of risks: currency risk and interest rate risk”
	
a)	
Currency risk
	
	
The Group is exposed to currency risk on account of its receivable and payables in foreign currency. The 
functional currency of the Group is Indian Rupee. The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and 
options foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, with a maturity of less than one year from the 
reporting date.
	
	
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
	
	
Following is the derivative financial instruments to hedge the foreign exchange rate risk:
Category
Instrument
Currency Cross 
Currency
Amounts  
($ in million)
Buy/
Sell
Year
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Option Contract
USD
INR
 0.26 Buy
As at 31st March, 2025
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Forward Contract
USD
INR
 - Buy
As at 31st March, 2025
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities denominated in USD are as below:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Financial assets
Trade receivables
17.18
17.57
17.18
17.57
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
8.97
31.48
8.97
31.48
Net foreign currency exposure
8.21
(13.91)
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
A reasonably possible strengthening/ (weakening) of the Indian Rupee against foreign currencies at 
reporting date would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
532 - 533
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
currencies and affected profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all 
other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales 
and purchases.
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2025
USD
5%
0.41
(0.41)
0.41
(0.41)
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2024
USD
5%
(0.70)
0.70
(0.70)
0.70
	
b)	
Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest 
rate risk is the risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in 
the interest rates. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing 
investments will fluctuate because of fluctuations in the interest rates.
	
	
Exposure to Interest Rate Risk / Sensitivity
	
	
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing 
financial instruments as reported to the management of the Group is as follows.
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
	
Bank deposits
234.05
195.22
Total
234.05
195.22
Financial liabilities
	
Non-current borrowings
-
298.97
	
Current borrowings
299.80
300.00
Variable-rate Instruments
Financial liabilities
	
Current borrowings
0.01
-
Total
299.81
598.97
	
	
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
	
	
The Group does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
41	 Financial performance ratios:
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
31st March, 
2025
31st 
March, 
2024
Variance
Refer 
Note
A.	 Performance Ratios
	
Net Profit Margin  
(in %)
Profit after tax
Total Income
7.11%
5.99%
18.70%
	
Net Capital Turnover 
ratio (in times)
Revenue from operations Working Capital
7.60
7.77
-2.14%
	
Return on Capital 
Employed (in %)
Earnings before interest 
and taxes
Tangible Capital 
Employed
76.65%
96.81%
-20.82%
	
Return on equity  
(in %)
Net Profit after Taxes
Average Shareholder's 
Equity
15.46%
13.48%
14.69%
	
Return on Investment 
(in %)
Net gain on investment
Weighted average 
investments
7.91%
7.36%
7.47%
(a)
	
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio  
(in times)
Profit After Tax + Interest 
+ Depreciation
Finance Cost + 
Repayments made 
during the year
1.14
1.61
-29.30%
(b)
B.	 Leverage Ratio
	
Debt-Equity Ratio  
(in times)
Total Debt
Equity
0.08
0.17
-55.15%
(b)
C.	 Liquidity Ratio
	
Current ratio  
(in times)
Current Assets
Current liabilities excl. 
current Borrowings
1.56
1.53
1.68%
D.	 Activity Ratios
	
Inventory Turnover  
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Inventory
6.16
6.35
-3.03%
	
Debtors Turnover  
(in times)
Revenue from operations Average Trade 
Receivables
10.96
10.30
6.36%
	
Trade Payables 
Turnover ratio  
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Accounts 
payables
3.85
4.21
-8.48%
	
Note: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
	
(a)	 Return on inventment increased due to improved yield and duration of investment.
	
(b)	 Movement in ratios is on account of repayment of borrowings during the year.
42	 Assets Pledged as Security
	
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
a)	 Inventories
	
Raw Material 
93.09
88.60
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
534 - 535
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
H Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
	
Finished Goods
638.79
575.07
	
Work in progress
40.04
34.33
b)	 Trade receivables
613.71
592.77
	
Total assets pledged as security (a+b)
1,385.63
1,290.77
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Borrowings were applied for the purpose for which they were obtained. Bank returns/ stock statements 
filed by the Holding Company with its bankers are in agreement with books of accounts.
	
(b)	 According to the sanction terms laid out by the consortium lenders, there is exclusive first pari passu charge 
on stock of raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods, stores and spares, bills receivables and book 
debts, both present and future.
43	 Details of relationship with struck-off companies
Name of the struck off Company
Nature of transactions 
with struck off Company
Balance 
outstanding 
as at  
31st March, 2025
(K Crore)
Balance 
outstanding  
as at  
31st March, 2024
(K Crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company, 
if any, to be 
disclosed
Air Temp Solutions Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Alif Trading Company
Receivables
-
0.00
Customer
Federro Electronics Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
H.K. Power Corporation Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Hammer Head Technologies Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Kapson Power Technology Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Kiapco Infrastructure Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Ncs Infocomm Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.01
Customer
Revive Industries Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
S.S. Electro Works Private Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Seven Hills Impex Limited*
Advance from customer
0.01
0.01
Customer
Shakedi Shengtai Electrics Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Shreeskanda Systems Private Limited
Receivables
0.00
0.01
Customer
Super Market Grocery Supplies Private 
Limited*
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Suzusons Care Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Takkar Interna.Trademart Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Techno India Wtr & Waste Wtr Private Limited Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
Triveni Machinery Private Limited*
Receivables
6.08
4.15
Customer
Venus Dealmark Private Limited
Advance from customer
-
0.00
Customer
	
*The company was struck off or under the process of striking off as at 31st March, 2025
44	 Capital Management
	
Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Group’s capital management. The 
Group manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimize returns 
to shareholders. The capital structure of the Group is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and 
day-to-day needs with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence. 
The management and the Board of Directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends 
to shareholders. The Group may take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its 
capital structure.
	
The Board of Directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with 
higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
	
The Group monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘total equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt 
is defined as total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents 
and other bank balances. Total equity comprises all components of equity.
	
The Group’s adjusted net debt-to-equity ratio at 31st March, 2025 was as follows:
H Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2025
As at
31st March, 2024
Total equity
3,847.75
3,448.97
Total borrowings (including current portion of long-term debts)
299.81
598.97
Less: cash and cash equivalents
203.68
172.06
Less: other bank balances
149.36
88.71
Net debt
(53.23)
338.20
Overall financing
3,794.52
3,787.17
Gearing ratio
(0.01)
0.09
	
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current and 
previous year.
	
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, among other things, aims to ensure 
that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital 
structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call 
loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and 
borrowing during the current and previous year.
45	  Additional Information pursuant to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
	
For the year ended 31st March, 2025
Name of Entity
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities                 
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive 
income
Share in total 
comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
Parent Company
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
536 - 537
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
Name of Entity
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities                 
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive 
income
Share in total 
comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount   
(K crore)
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
91.03% 3,502.70
93.91%
529.73
135.90%
 (2.12)
93.79%
 527.61 
Indian Subsidiaries
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.24%
9.34
0.14%
0.77
0.00%
-
0.14%
0.77
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.27%
10.43
0.19%
1.05
0.00%
-
0.19%
1.05
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
8.45%
325.28
5.77%
32.53
-35.90%
0.56
5.88%
33.09
	
For the year ended 31st March, 2024
Name of Entity
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K crore)
Parent Company
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
91.01% 3,138.83
97.95%
432.74
-183.33%
0.55
98.14%
433.29
Indian Subsidiaries
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.25%
8.57
0.15%
0.65
0.00%
-
0.15%
0.65
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.27%
9.38
0.23%
1.00
0.00%
-
0.23%
1.00
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
8.47%
292.19
1.67%
7.39
283.33%
(0.85)
1.48%
6.54
46	 Separate Financial Statements
	
The Group has following subsidiary companies:
H Crore
S.No Name of the subsidiary companies
Principal place 
of business
Proportion 
of direct 
ownership as on 
31st March, 2025
Proportion 
of direct 
ownership as on 
31st March, 2024
1
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
India
100%
100%
2
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
India
100%
100%
3
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
India
75%
75%
47	 There has been no delay in charges or satisfaction to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
48	 The Group does not have any transactions not recorded in the books of account that has been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961.
49	 The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current and previous year.
50	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
51	 The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-
employment, received Presidential assent on 28th September, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette 
of India. Further, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 13th November, 
2020. However, the effective date from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for 
quantifying the financial impact are also not yet issued. The Group will assess the impact of the Code and will 
give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the 
related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
52	 No significant subsequent events have been observed which may require an adjustments to the 
financial statements.
53	 Amount shown as J 0.00 represents amount below J 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand).
54	 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and 
Firm’s Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Sanjiv Kakkar
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 00591027
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
15th May, 2025
15th May, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
538 - 539
 
 
 
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
TCVINDIA 
Independent Assurance Statement 
To 
The Directors and Management, 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited, 
05 GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400079 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (hereafter 'CROMPTON') commissioned TUV India Private Limited (TUVI) to 
conduct independent external assurance of the Non-Financial Information disclosed in their Integrated Report based on 
Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) (hereinafter 'the 
Report'). The report was prepared in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and the requirements of 
BRSR disclosures. The assurance activity consists of BRSR Core disclosures (09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR 
Dllil.J following the (BRSR Core - Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures for value chain stipulated in SEBI circular 
SEBIIHOICFO/CFO-SEC-2/PICIR/2023/122 dated 12/0712023 and Industry Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core 
circular 
SEBIIHOICFDICFD-PoD-1/PICIR/20241177 dated 20/12/2024) with "Reasonable Assurance" in conjunction with "Limited 
Assurance" for the GR/ and 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and Leadership Indicators. The BRSR is based on the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), SEBI circular: SEBI/HOICFOICM0-2/PIC!R/20211562 dated 10105/2021 
followed by the notification number SEBIILAD-NROIGN/2023/131 dated 14/06/2023 pertaining to BRSR requirement. Integrated 
Report covers CROMPTON's ESG KPls for the period of 01 April 2024 to 31 March 2025, and the verification was conducted 
within the reporting boundary during February and March 2025. This assurance engagement was conducted in reference 
with BRSR, the terms of our engagement and ISAE 3000 (Revised) requirement. 
Mana ement's Res onsibilit 
CROMPTON developed the BRSR's content pertaining to the 
GR/ disclosures 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and 
Leadership Indicators including the Core disclosures (09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core). CROMPTON 
management is responsible for carrying out the collection, analysis, and disclosure of the information presented in the 
BRSR (web-based and print), including website maintenance, integrity, and for ensuring its quality and accuracy in 
reference with the applied criteria stated in the BRSR, such that it's free of intended or unintended material misstatements. 
CROMPTON will be responsible for archiving and reproducing the disclosed data to the stakeholders and regulators upon 
request. 
&•1¥1,hl~hl'l,i,ffiij 
The scope of work includes the assurance of the following GR/ disclosures 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and Leadership 
Indicators and 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core disclosed in the BRSR report. The BRSR core requirements 
encompass essential disclosures pertaining to organization's Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). In particular, 
the assurance engagement included the following: 
1. 
Review of General Disclosure, Management & Process and the disclosures against all 09 BRSR principles submitted 
by CROMPTON; 
2. 
Review of 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core submitted by CROMPTON, 
3. 
Review of the quality of information, 
4. Review of evidence (on a random samples) for limited assurance of GR/ disclosures 09 BRSR principles covering 
Essential and Leadership Indicators and reasonable assurance of 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core. 
TUVI has verified the below Essential and Leadership Indicators disclosed in the BRSR 
Principles 
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with 
integrity0 and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable. 
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner 
that is sustainable and safe. 
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
e_[Tlpl~~ including those in their value chains. 
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive 
to all its stakeholders. 
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and 
restore the environment. 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and 
regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
trans arent. 
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development. 
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 
consumers in a responsible manner 
TOV® 
Essential Indicators 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 
1,2,3,4 
1,2,3,4,5,6, 7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 
~,1_5_ 
1,2 
~
M_.2,_§,_(l_,_1.Q_.11 
1,2*,3,4,5,6, 7,8,9, 10, 11, 12·, 
13 
1,2 
1*,2*,3,4, 5 
1,2,3,4*,5,6*, 7 
Leadership Indicators 
1, 2 
1,2, 3, 4', 5 
1,2,3,4, 5, 6 
1,2,3 
Ll,l,1, 4 , 5 
1,2,3*,4*, 5, 6,7, 8 
1*,2,3*, 4 *, 5*, 6 
1,2,3, 4 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TtlVNORDGROUP 
• 
TCVINDIA 
Note: *Marked indicators not applicable as per the nature of company's product and service offerings. 
TUVI has verified the below 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core disclosed in the BRSR 
Attributes 
KPI 
Green-house gas (GHG) 
Total Scope 1 emissions (with breakup by type) - GHG (CO,e) Emission in MT - Direct emissions from 
footprint 
organization's owned- or controlled sources - Monitored 
Water footprint 
Energy footprint 
Embracing circularity-
details related to waste 
management by the entity 
Enhancing Employee 
Wellbeing and Safety 
Total Scope 2 emissions in MT - Indirect emissions from the generation of energy that is purchased 
from a uti lity provider - renewable energy and grid electricity- Monitored 
GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1+2), Total Scope 1 and Scope2 emissions (MT)/ Total Revenue from 
Operations adjusted for PPP - Calculated 
GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1+2), (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (MT) /Total output of Product 
or Services- in terms of Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent per square feet (Calcula~ 
Total water consumption (in kl) - Monitored and estimated 
Water consumption intensity - kl/ Total Revenue from Operations adjusted for PPP - Calculated 
Water consumption intensity- kl / Total output of Product or Services in terms of kl/million USD -
Calculated 
Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment (kl) - Calculated based on estimated values 
Total energy consumed in GJ - calculated on measuredlorowned premised and estimates for co-
sharing offices 
% of energy consumed from renewable sources - In% terms - Monitored 
Energy intensity -GJ/ Rupee adjusted for PPP - Calculated 
Plastic Waste (A) - Monitored, E-waste (B) - Monitored, Bio-medical waste (C) - Monitored, 
1 ~onstruction and Demolition waste - (D) Monitored, Battery waste (E)- Monitored, Radioactive waste 
~ (F) - NA 
Other Hazardous waste (Q) - see the list below 
Lead Scrap, Used Cloth, Grinding Ash, Empty Containers, Used Oil, Residue Containing Oil, Spent 
So~ 
Process Waste,_f]f:_Sludge - Monitored 
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (ti)- see the list below 
Organic waste: Corrugated Boxes and Pipes, Plastic Waste, Al uminum Scrap, Copper Scrap, MS 
Sera(], Cast Iron, Rotor Ring, Poly Bags, Paper, Garbage, Wood Scrap - Monitored; 
Totalwaste generated (A +B + C + D +- E + F + G + H)_iri_MT - Monitored; 
Waste intensity-MT/ Rupee adjusted for PPP - Calculated 
Waste intensity-MT/ Total output of Product or Services-Calculated 
Each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (MT) - Monitored 
Each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (lntensity)J<cg of Waste Recycled Recovered / Total Waste g_e_nerated - Calculated 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (MT)-
Monitored 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (Intensity) 
kg of Waste Recycled Recovered /Total Waste generated - Calculated 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers - cost incurred as a% of total 
revenue of the company - In % terms - Monitored and calculated 
Details of safety related incidents for employees and workers (including contract-workforce e.g. 
workers in the company
1s construction sites) 
Number of Permanent Disabilities - Monitored 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked) - Monitored 
No. of fatalities - Monitored 
Enabling Gender Diversity 
Gross wages paid to females as% of wages paid - In% terms - Calculated 
in Business 
Complaints on POSH 
~ ) Total Complaints on Sexual Harassment (1:QSH) re orted - Monitored 
2) Complaints on POSH as a % of female em_ployees I workers - Monitored 
Enabling Inclusive 
Development 
Fairness in Engaging with 
Customers and Suppliers 
Open-ness of business 
~ ) Corl}fllaints on POSH upheld - Monitored 
Input material sourced from fo llowing sources as % of total purchases - Directly sourced from MSMEs/ 
small ~
ducers and from within India - In % terms - As% of total purchases by value - Monitored 
Job creation in smaller towns - Wages paid to persons employed in smaller towns (permanent or non-
permanent /on contract) as% of total wage cost - In % terms - As% of total wage cost - Monitored 
Instances involving loss/ breach of data of customers as a percentage of total data breaches or cyber 
security events - In % terms - Monitored 
Number of days of accounts payable - (Accounts payable '365) / Cost of goods/services procured -
Calculated 
Concentration of 
purchases & sales 
done with trading 
houses, dealers, 
and related parties 
Loans and 
advances & 
investments with 
related parties 
~ 
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases 
'2) Number of trading houses where purchases are made from 
3) Purchases from top 10 trading houses as% of total purchases from trading 
houses 
~ ) Sales to dealers/ distributors as% of total sales 
~ )_lilJmber of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made 
3) Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as% of total sales to dealers/ 
distributors 
Share of RPTs (as respective %age) in- Purchases, Sales, Loans & advances, 
Investments - Calculated 
TUVI has verified the disclosures reported under the GRI index, sample disclosures are listed below: 
General Disclosures 2021 
1 2-1,2-2,2-3,2-5, 2-7 
GRl-3 Material Topic 
-1=1,3-2,3-3 
Topic Standards 
Disclosure 
Procurement Practices 
GRI 204-1 
Energy 
______________ 
GRl-302: 1,3,~ _§_ 
Water and Effluents 
GRl-303: 1,3,4,5 
Emissions 
GRl-305: 1~~._§,l_ 
Waste 
___________ 
GRl-306: 1~,3.~5 
Employment 
GRl-401: 1,2,3 --
Occupational Health and Safety_ 
GRl-403: 1-10 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TOV® 
TtlVNORDGROUP 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
540 - 541
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
TCVINDIA 
Training and Education 
Diversity and E ual Opportunity 
Local Communities 
Su~
r Social Assessment 
Public Policy 
Customer Health and Safety 
Notes: 
GRl-404: 1-3 
GRl-405: 2 
GRl-413: 1 
GRl-414: 1-2 
GRI 415: 1 
GRI 416: 1 
Energy and GHG: Average electricity bills are considered for the month of March 2025 for Baroda (Guest House), Bethora 
(Guest House), Ranchi Office, Chennai Office, Kund/i Office, Jaipur Office, Guwahati Warehouse and Cuttack Warehouse. 
Average PNG consumption is considered for Baroda (Guest House). 
Water consumption in offices and warehouses: Ail warehouses and the offices located at Guwahati, Kolkata, Patna, 
Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar, Head Office, Thane, Jalandhar, Jaipur, Lucknow, Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Bangalore, 
Cochin, Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai-Andheri, Nagpur, Indore and Ahmedabad derived water consumption based on 
standard assumption of 45 litl personl day to estimate water withdrawal. 
The reporting boundaries includes 07 manufacturing plants (Ahmednagar, Baddi Plant 1, Baddi Plant 2, Baddi Plant 3, 
Baroda, Bethora and Kundaim), 01 Corporate Office and 22 offices (Andheri Office was shifted to HO in November 2024), 
03 guest house (Chennai, Bethora, Baroda) and 13 warehouses at 11 locations (East Zone (06), North Zone (02), Central 
Zone (05)). 
On-site verifications were conducted at, 
1. 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electrical ltd, Kural, Jambusar - Padra Rd, Padra, Gujarat 391431 - 24/02/2025 and 
25/02/2025, 
2. 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited, 05 GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400079 - 26/ 03/2025 
The assurance activities were carried out together with a desk review of entire plants and offices as per reporting 
boundary. 
jijfflffflffltffl 
TUVI did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information disclosed in the Report, including targets, 
expectations, and ambitions. Consequently, TUVI draws no conclusion on the prospective information. During the assurance 
process, TUVI did not come across any limitation to the agreed scope of the assurance engagement. TUVI did not verify any 
ESG goals and claim through this assignment. TUVI verified data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity 
of data entirely lies with CROMPTON. Any dependence of person or third party may place on the BRSR Report is entirely at 
its own risk. TUVI has taken reference of the financial figures from the audited financial reports. CROMPTON will be 
responsible for the appropriate application of the financial data. The application of this assurance statement is limited w.r.t 
SEBI circular SEBI/H0/CF0/CF0-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated Jul 12 2023 and lndustrv Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core circular 
SEBIIH0ICFDICF0-PoD-1/ P/CIR/20241177 dated 20/1212024). This assurance statement does not endorse any environmental 
and social claims (related to the product, manufacturing process, packaging, disposal of product etc.) as well as 
advertisements by the reporting organization. TUVI does not permit use of this statement for Greenwashing or misleading 
claims. The reporting Organization is responsible for ensuring adherence to relevant laws. 
m,f.l,t41ffiHW 
TUVl's responsibility in relation to this engagement is to perform a limited level of BRSR assurance for GR! 2021 09 BRSR 
principles covering Essential and Leadership Indicators and_reasonable level of assurance for 09 attributes as per Annexure I -
Format of BRSR Core and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. Our engagement did not include an 
assessment of the adequacy or the effectiveness of CROMPTON's strategy, management of ESG-related issues or the 
sufficiency of the Report against BRSR reporting principles, other than those mentioned in the scope of the assurance. 
TUVl's responsibility regarding this verification is in reference to the agreed scope of work, which includes assurance of 
non-financial quantitative and qualitative information disclosed by CROMPTON. Reporting Organization is responsible for 
archiving the related data for a reasonable time period. The intended users of this assurance statement are the 
management of 'CROMPTON'. The data is verified on a sample basis, the responsibility for the authenticity of data lies with 
the reporting organization. TUVI expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility 1) for any decision a person or entity 
would make based on this assurance statement and 2) for any damages in case of erroneous data is reported. This 
assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to TUVI by CROMPTON are 
complete and true. 
Verification Methodolo 
During the assurance engagement, TUVI adopted a risk-based approach, focusing on verification efforts with respect to 
disclosures. TUVI has verified the disclosures and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, 
information flows, and controls. In doing so: 
a) 
TUVI examined and reviewed the documents, data, and other information made available by CROMPTON for non-
financial GR! 2021 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and Leadership Indicators and 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format 
of BRSRCore (non-financial disclosures) 
b) 
TUVI conducted interviews with key representatives, including data owners and decision-makers from different 
functions of CROMPTON 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TOV® 
TtlVNORDGROUP 
• 
TCVINDIA 
c) 
TUVI performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the sustainability-related policies and 
data management (qualitative and qualitative) 
d) 
TUVI reviewed the adherence to reporting requirements of ' BRSR" and "GRI". 
0 
ortunities for Im rovement 
The following are the opportunities for improvement reported to CROMPTON. However, they are generally consistent with 
CROMPTON management's objectives and programs. CROMPTON already identified below topics and Assurance team 
endorse the same to achieve the Sustainable Goals of organization. 
i. 
CROMPTON may publish the results of its Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to enhance stakeholder awareness regarding 
the environmental benefits of its products. 
ii. 
CROMPTON may explore opportunities to provide additional training to its personnel on the grievance redressal 
mechanism to strengthen internal processes. 
iii. 
CROMPTON may consider monitoring all categories of indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in accordance with 
ISO 14064-1 standards. 
iv. 
CROMPTON may implement a formal internal audit process at regular intervals to ensure the accuracy and reliability 
of its Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) data. 
Conflict of Interest 
In the context of BRSR requirements set by SEBI, addressing conflict of interest is crucial to maintain high integrity and 
independence of assurance engagements. As per SEBI guidelines, assurance providers need to disclose any potential 
conflict of interest that could compromise the independence or neutrality of their assessments. TUVI diligently identifies 
any relationships, affiliations, or financial interests that could potentially cause conflict of interest. We proactively 
implement measures to mitigate or manage these conflicts, ensuring independence and impartiality in our assurance 
engagements. We provide clear and transparent disclosures about any identified conflicts of interest in our assurance 
statement. We recognize that failure to address conflict of interest adequately could undermine the creditability of the 
assurance process and the reliability of the reported information. Therefore, we strictly adhere to SEBI guidelines and take 
necessary measures to avoid, disclose, or mitigate conflicts of interest effectively. 
Our Conclusion 
In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the disclosures on BRSR Core KPI described in the BRSR 
report along with the referenced information provides a fair representation of the 9 attributes, and meets the general 
content and quality requirements of the BRSR. TUVI confirms its competency to conduct the assurance engagement for 
the BRSR as per SEBI guidelines. Our team possesses expertise in ESG verification, assurance methodologies, and 
regulatory frameworks. We ensure independence, employ robust methodologies, and maintain continuous improvement to 
deliver reliable assessments. 
Disclosures: TUVI is of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the BRSR requirements. CROMPTON refers 
to general disclosure to report contextual information about CROMPTON, while the Management & Process disclosures the 
management approach for each indicator 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and Leadership Indicators as well as 09 attributes 
as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core. 
Limited Assurance Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed; nothing has come to our attention that causes 
us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement was not prepared in all material respects. 
TUVI found the information to be reliable in all principles, with regards to the reporting criteria of the BRSR. 
Reasonable Assurance: As per SEBI reasonable assurance requirements including scope of Assurance, Assurance 
methodologies (risk- based approach and data validation techniques), mitigating conflicts of interests, documentation on 
evidence and communication on findings, TUVI can effectively validate the accuracy and reliability of the information 
presented in the BRSR, instilling confidence in stakeholders and promoting transparency and credibility in ESG reporting 
practices. 
BRSR complies with the below requirements 
a) Governance, leadership and oversight: The messages of top management, the business model to promote inclusive 
growth and equitable development, action and strategies, focus on services, risk management, protection and 
restoration of environment, and priorities are disclosed appropriately. 
b) Connectivity of information: CROMPTON discloses 09 BRSR principles covering Essential and Leadership Indicators and 09 
attributes as per Annexure I - Format of BRSR Core and their inter-relatedness and dependencies with factors that affect 
the organization's ability to create value over time. 
c) Stakeholder responsiveness: The Report covers mechanisms of communication with key stakeholders to identify 
major concerns to derive and prioritize the short, medium and long-term strategies. The Report provides insights into 
the organization's relationships (nature and quality) with its key stakeholders. In addition, the Report provides a fair 
representation of the extent to which the organization understands, takes into account and responds to the 
legitimate needs and interests of key stakeholders. 
d) Materiality: The material issues within 9 attributes and corresponding KPI as per BRSR requirement are reported 
properly. 
e) 
Conciseness: The Report reproduces the requisite information and communicates clear information in as few words 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TOV® 
TtlVNORDGROUP 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
542 - 543
 
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
TOVINDIA 
as possible. The disclosures are expressed briefly and to the point sentences, graphs, pictorial, tabular representation 
is applied. At the same time, due care is taken to maintain continuity of information flow in the BRSR. 
f) 
Reliability and completeness: CROMPTON has established internal data aggregation and evaluation systems to derive 
the performance. CROMPTON confirms that, all data provided to TUVI, has been passed through QA/QC function. The 
majority of the data and information was verified by TUVl's assurance team (on sample basis) during the BRSR 
verification and found to be fairly accurate. All data, is reported transparently, in a neutral tone and without material 
error. 
g) Consistency and comparability: The information presented in the BRSR is on yearly basis. and found reliable and 
complete manner. Thus, the principle of consistency and comparability is established. 
GRI Disclosures 
In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the "disclosures on ESG performance" and reference 
information provide a fair representation of the material topics, related strategies, and meets the general content and 
quality requirements of the GRI Standards. 
CROMPTON appropriately discloses the KPl's and actions that focus on the creation of value over the short, medium and 
long term. The selected KPl's disclosures by CROMPTON are fairly represented. On the basis of the procedures we have 
performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited level of 
assurance engagement was not prepared, in identified ESG information is not reliable in all material respects, with regards 
to the reporting criteria. 
TUVI did not perform any assurance of procedures on the prospective information, such as targets, expectations, and 
ambitions, disclosed in the ESG information. Consequently, TUVI draws no conclusion on the prospective information. This 
assurance statement has been prepared in reference with the terms of our engagement. 
Disclosures: TUVI is of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the GRI Standards reporting requirements. 
CROMPTON refers to general disclosure to Report contextual information about CROMPTON, while the 'Management 
Approach' is discussed to Report the management approach for each material topic. 
Universal Standard: CROMPTON followed GRI 1: Foundation 2021: Requirements and principles for using the GRI 
Standards; GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021: Disclosures about the reporting organization. General Disclosures were 
followed when reporting information about an organization's profile, strategy, ethics and integrity, governance, stakeholder 
engagement practices, and reporting process and GRI 3: Material Topics 2021: Disclosures and guidance about the 
organization's material topics. GRl3 was selected for Management's Approach on reporting information about how an 
organization manages a material topic. 
TUVI is of the opinion that this report has been prepared in reference with the GRI Standards. 
Topic Specific Standard: 300series (Environmental topics), and 400 series (Social topics); These Topic- specific Standards 
were used to Report information on the organization's impacts related to environmental and social topics. TUVI is of the 
opinion that the reported material topics and Topic-specific Standards that CROMPTON used to prepare its Report are 
appropriately identified and addressed. 
Limited Assurance Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed; nothing has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement was not prepared in all material 
respects. TUVI found the ESG information to be reliable in all principles, with regards to the reporting criteria of the GRI 
Standards. 
Evaluation of the adherence to adherence with contemporary Principles 
Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Stakeholder identification and engagement has been carried out by CROMPTON on a periodic 
basis to bring out key stakeholder concerns as material topics of significant stakeholders. In our view. the Report meets the 
requirements. 
Sustainability Context: CROMPTON established the relationship between ESG and organizational strategy within the 
Report, as well as the context in which disclosures are made. In our view, the Report meets the requirements with regards 
to the ESG Context. 
Materiality: The materiality assessment process has been carried out, based on the requirements of the GRI Standards, 
considering topics that are internal and external to the CROMPTON's range of businesses. The Report fairly brings out the 
aspects and topics (KPl's), and its respective boundaries of the diverse operations of CROMPTON. In our view, the Report 
meets the requirements. 
Responsiveness: TUVI believes that the responses to the material aspects are fairly articulated in the report, i.e. 
disclosures on CROMPTON policies and management systems including governance. In our view, the Report meets the 
requirements. 
Impact: CROMPTON communicates its ESG performance through regular, transparent internal and external reporting 
throughout the year, aligned with BRSR, GRESB, GRI as part of its policy framework that include POSH, ESG, Code of 
Conduct Policy, Whistle Blower Policy etc. (https://www.crompton.co.in/ pages/corporate-governance). CROMPTON 
Reports on ESG performance to Board of Directors, who oversees and monitors the implementation and performance of 
objectives, as well as progress against goals and targets for addressing ESG related issues. CROMPTON completed the 
process of establishing contemporary goals and targets against which performance will be monitored and disclosed 
periodically. 
Completeness: The Report has fairly disclosed the selected non-financial KPl's, as per GRI Standards. In our view, the 
Report meets the requirements. 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TOV® 
TOVNORDGROUP 
• 
TOVINDIA 
Reporting Principles for defining report quality: The majority of the data and information was verified by TUVl's 
assurance team during the remote assessment and found to be fairly accurate. The disclosures related to ESG issues and 
performances are reported in a balanced manner and are clear in terms of content and presentation. In our view, the Report 
meets the requirements 
Reliability: The majority of the data and information was verified by TUVl's assurance team and found to be fairly accurate. 
Some inaccuracies in the data identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, 
interpretation and aggregation errors and these errors have been corrected. Therefore, in reference with the GRI Standards 
and limited level assurance engagement, TUVI concludes that the ESG data and information presented in the Report is 
fairly reliable and acceptable. In our view, the Report meets the requirements. 
Neutrality: The disclosures related to ESG issues and performance are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and 
presentation. In our view, the Report meets the requirements. 
Independence and Code of Conduct: TUVI follows IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants) Code 
which, adopts a threats and safeguards approach to independence. We recognize the importance of maintaining 
independence in our engagements and actively manage threats such as self-interest, self-review, advocacy, and 
familiarity. The assessment team was safeguarded from any type of intimidation. By adhering to these principles, we 
uphold the trust and confidence of our clients and stakeholders. In line with the requirements of the SEBI circular 
SEBIIH0I CF0I CF0-SEC-2/P/CIR/20231122 dated 12/0712023 and Industry Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core circular 
SEBI/H0/CF0/CFO-Po0-7/ P/ CIR/ 2024/ 177 dated 20/12/2024. 
TUVI solely focuses on delivering verification and assurance services and does not engage in the sale of service or the 
provision of any non-audit/non-assurance services, including consulting. 
Quality control: The assurance team complies with quality control standards, ensuring that the engagement partner 
possesses requisite expertise and the assigned team collectively has the necessary competence to perform engagements 
in reference with standards and regulations. Assurance team follows the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence, due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. In accordance with International Standard 
on Quality Control, TUVI maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. 
Our Assurance Team and lnde endence 
TUVI is an independent, neutral third-party providing ESG Assurance services with qualified environmental and social 
specialists. TUVI states its independence and impartiality and confirms that there is "no conflict of interest" with regard to 
this assurance engagement. In the reporting year, TUVI did not work with CROMPTON on any engagement that could 
compromise the independence or impartiality of our findings, conclusions, and observations. TUVI was not involved in the 
preparation of any content or data included in the BRSR, with the exception of this assurance statement. TUVI maintains 
complete impartiality towards any individuals interviewed during the assurance engagement. 
For and on behalf of TUV India Private Limited 
Manojkumar Borekar 
Product Head - Sustainability Assurance Service 
TUV India Private Limited 
TOV® 
Date: 09/06/2025 
Place: Mumbai, India 
Project Reference No: 8123417001 
www.tuv-nord.com/in 
TOVNORDGROUP 
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
544 - 545
GRI content index
GRI content index
Statement of use
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited has reported the information cited in this GRI 
content index for the period  April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD
DISCLOSURE
SECTION
LOCATION
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details
Who we are, BRSR
(Section A Q1-Q24)
8-13, 316-317
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s 
sustainability reporting
About the report, BRSR
(Section A Q21)
6-7, 316-317
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact 
point
About the report, BRSR
(Section A-Para I)
6-7, 316-317, 325
2-5 External assurance
About the report, 
BRSR Section A
6-7, 316-317,  
347-354
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business 
relationships
Value Chain Partners, BRSR
(Section - A), Section - B, 
Principle 1 LQ-1,  
Principle 3- LQ-3, LQ 5, LQ-6,
Principle 5, LQ-4,  
Principle 6, LQ-6, LQ-7
80-81, 89, 110-113, 
319, 325, 332,  
340-341, 347, 353
2-7 Employees
IAR- Employee Engagement, 
People, Board Report- 
Employee Engagement,
BRSR (Section-A Q20)
16, 74-75, 88,  
102-109, 211-212, 
318
2-9 Governance structure and composition
Governance framework,  
CG Report
140-159, 244-245
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest 
governance body
Governance- Role of the board, 
CG Report - Role of the Board
147, 150, 245-246
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
BRSR (Section-B Q8)
325
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in 
overseeing the management of impacts
BRSR (Section-B Q9)
325
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing 
impacts
BRSR (Section-B Q9)
325
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in 
sustainability reporting
BRSR (Section-B Q8)
325
2-15 Conflicts of interest
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ6 & EQ7), L2 331-332
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
BRSR (Section - A Q25)
319
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest 
governance body
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ1)
329
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the 
highest governance body
Board evaluation, 
Board's report
150, 197-198
2-19 Remuneration policies
Board Report, CG Report, 
Nomination & Remuneration 
policy, BRSR (Section B 1a, 
Principle 5 EQ3)
198-199, 200, 271, 
325, 345
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
BRSR (Section B1a,  
Principle 5 EQ3)
325, 345
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
Board Report - Ratio of 
remuneration of Directors & 
KMPs, BRSR (Principle 5 EQ3)
234, 345
GRI STANDARD
DISCLOSURE
SECTION
LOCATION
2-22 Statement on sustainable development 
strategy
BRSR (Section-B Q7)
325
2-23 Policy commitments
BRSR (Section-B 1-5)
325
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
BRSR (Section-B Q10)
326
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
BRSR (Section-A Q26)
320-324
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising 
concerns
BRSR (Section-A Q26)
320-324
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
CG Report, BRSR (Principle 1 
EQ2, Principle 6 E Q13)
291, 330-331, 352
2-28 Membership associations
Memberships and 
collaborations, BRSR (Principle 
7 EQ1a, 1b)
143, 354
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
Our stakeholders, BRSR
(Principe 4 EQ1 and Q2)
86-89, 341-343
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics
Materiality assessment
90-91
3-2 List of material topics
Materiality assessment
90-91
3-3 Management of material topics
Materiality assessment, 
BRSR(Principle 4 LQ1, LQ2)
90-91, 343-344
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed
Economic Value Contribution
94-95
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change
Risk Management, BRSR
(Section-A Q26)
160-167, 320-324
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement plans
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ2),
(Principle 3 LQ4)
336, 341
201-4 Financial assistance received from 
government
Governance,  
BRSR (Section-A Q26)
143, 320-324
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 
gender compared to local minimum wage
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ2)
344
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 
supported
BRSR (Principle 8 EQ4)
355
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
BRSR (Principle 8 EQ4)
355
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ4, EQ5)
331
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures
A Culture of Integrity, BRSR
(Principle 1 EQ1)
159, 329-330
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ5, EQ7)
331
GRI 206:  
Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
BRSR (Principle 7 EQ2)
354
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
546 - 547
GRI content index
GRI STANDARD
DISCLOSURE
SECTION
LOCATION
GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
Investors
94-95
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
 risk management,  
Section-A- Q26,
(Principle 1 EQ2, EQ3)
160-167, 320-324, 
330-331
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
Engaging with our 
stakeholders, (BRSR Principle 4
EQ1, EQ2)
86-89, 341-343
GRI 301: Materials 
2016
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
Energy Management
130-134
301-2 Recycled input materials used
BRSR Principle 2, EQ-3, LQ3, 
LQ4
334-335
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging 
materials
Energy efficiency, waste 
management, BRSR  
(Principle 2- EQ3, LQ5)
134-137, 334-335
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization
How we create value, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ1)
16, 347-348
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organization
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ1)
347-348
302-3 Energy intensity
Major environmental
sustainability initiatives, 
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ1)
131, 347-348
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
Environment
128-139
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services
Environment
128-139
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resource
Water management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
135-136, 348, 352
303-2 Management of water discharge-related 
impacts
Water management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
135-136, 348, 352
303-3 Water withdrawal
Water management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
135-136, 348, 352
303-4 Water discharge
Water management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
135-136, 348, 352
303-5 Water consumption
Water management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
135-136, 348, 352
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ7)
134, 349-350
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ7)
134, 349-350
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ7)
349-350
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions,  
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ7)
134, 349-350
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 
and other significant air emissions
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ6)
349
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-
related impacts
Waste management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ9)
137, 350-351
306-2 Management of significant waste-
related impacts
Waste management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ9)
137, 350-351
306-3 Waste generated
Waste management, BRSR
(Principle 6 EQ9)
137, 350-351
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
Waste management, EPR,  
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ4)
137, 138, 348-349
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ3)
348
GRI STANDARD
DISCLOSURE
SECTION
LOCATION
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria
Supplier selection process
159
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken
BRSR (Principle 6 LQ6)
353
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee 
turnover
BRSR Section A, Point 22
318
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employees
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ2)
336-337
401-3 Parental leave
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ5)
337
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
Health and safety 
performance, BRSR  
(Principle 3 EQ10, EQ12)
107, 338-339
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigation
Enterprise risk management
framework, BRSR Principle 3 
EQ10 (b), (c)
160-167, 338-339
403-3 Occupational health services
Health and safety 
performance,  
BRSR (Principle 3, EQ10(d))
107, 339
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)
338
403-5 Worker training on occupational health 
and safety
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)
338
403-6 Promotion of worker health
Health and safety 
performance,  
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ12, EQ13)
107, 339-340
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationships
Value chain partners,  
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ15)
80-81, 340
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management system
BRSR Principle 3 EQ10(a)
338
403-9 Work-related injuries
Health and safety 
performance, BRSR  
(Principle 3 EQ11)
107, 339
403-10 Work-related ill health
Health and safety 
performance, BRSR  
(Principle 3 EQ11)
107, 339
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employee
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ1,  
Principle 3 EQ8)
329-330, 338
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs
People, BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)
102-109, 338
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career development 
reviews
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ9)
338
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees
Inclusive workspace, BRSR
(Section A Q21)
318
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to men
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ3)
108, 345
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions taken
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
345
GRI 408: Child Labor 
2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of child labor
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
345
GRI content index
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CROMPTON GREAVES CONSUMER ELECTRICALS LIMITED   |   INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25
GRI STANDARD
DISCLOSURE
SECTION
LOCATION
GRI 409: Forced or 
Compulsory Labor 
2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
345
GRI 410:
Security Practices 
2016
410-1 Security personnel trained in
human rights policies or procedures
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ1)
344
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
Communities,  
BRSR (Principle 8 LQ6)
114-127, 356
413-2 Operations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on local 
communities
Communities, BRSR  
(Principle 8 LQ6)
114-127, 356
GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteria
Supplier selection process
159
414-2 Negative social impacts in the
supply chain and actions taken
BRSR ( Principle 8 LQ1)
355
GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions
Donations and 
political contributions
143
GRI 416: Customer 
Health and
Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and
safety impacts of product and service
categories
BRSR (Principle 9 EQ2)
356
GRI 417: Marketing 
and Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling
BRSR (Principle 9 LQ4)
358
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
Digital enablement,  
BRSR (Principle 9 EQ3)
84-85, 356
GRI content index
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
05GBD, Godrej Business District, Pirojshanagar, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400079. India
www.crompton.co.in 
CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254
