 
 
     Dixon Technologies (India) Limited 
 
 
 
1st September, 2025 
 
To                                                         
Secretary 
Listing Department 
BSE Limited 
Department of Corporate Services 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001 
To                                                         
Secretary 
Listing Department 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai – 400 051 
Scrip Code - 540699 
ISIN: INE935N01020 
Scrip Code - DIXON 
ISIN: INE935N01020 
 
 
Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2024-25 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations 2015, we are submitting herewith the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (‘BRSR’) for FY 2024-25 which also forms part of the Annual Report FY 2024-25. Kindly take the 
aforesaid on your record and oblige. 
 
The aforesaid documents are available on the website of the Company at www.dixoninfo.com . 
 
Kindly take the aforesaid on your record and oblige.  
 
Thanking you,  
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
For DIXON TECHNOLOGIES (INDIA) LIMITED 
 
 
______________ 
Ashish Kumar 
Chief Legal Counsel & Group Company Secretary 
 
Encl: as above 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regd. Office: B-14 & 15, Phase-II, Noida-201305, (U.P.) India, Ph.:0120-4737200 
            E-mail: info@dixoninfo.com • Website: http://www.dixoninfo.com, Fax: 0120-4737263 
CIN: L32101UP1993PLC066581 
Ashish 
Kumar
Digitally signed by 
Ashish Kumar 
Date: 2025.09.01 
23:56:00 +05'30'
                            (Formerly known as “Mazars Advisory LLP”) 
                            Regd. Office: 106-107, First Floor, Mercantile house, 15 Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi-110001, India. Tel: 011-43684444 
               51-52, Sector 18, Phase-IV, Udyog Vihar,  
               Gurugram, Haryana 122015, India 
               Tel +91 124 481 4444  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT ON IDENTIFIED 
SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION IN DIXON TECHNOLOGIES (INDIA) LIMITED’S 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR CORE) 
To the Board of Directors of Dixon Technologies (India) Limited 
We have undertaken to perform a reasonable assurance engagement for Dixon Technologies (India) 
Limited (the ‘Company’) as per the “Scope, Boundary and Limitations” paragraph given below, vide 
agreement dated 26 August 2024 in respect of the agreed Sustainability Information listed below in 
accordance with the “Criteria” stated below. This Sustainability Information is as included in the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR’) of the Company for the year ended 31 
March 2025. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team, including professionals 
with suitable skills and experience in auditing environmental, social, and economic information 
(Chartered Accountants, Company Secretary, Lawyer, Engineers and Environment Professionals).  
Identified Sustainability Information 
The Identified Sustainability Information for the year ended 31 March 2025 is summarized below: 
The Identified Sustainability Information of the Company are the nine Key Performance Indicators 
out of BRSR of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2025 (BRSR Core’). The Reporting 
Boundary for BRSR is on a standalone basis as disclosed under Question No. 13 of Section A of the 
BRSR.  
Our reasonable assurance engagement was with respect to the year ended 31 March 2025 information 
only unless otherwise stated and we have not performed any procedures with respect to earlier periods 
and, therefore, do not express any opinion thereon.  
Criteria 
The Criteria used by the Company to prepare the Identified Sustainability Information is summarized 
below: 
The Company prepared the Identified Sustainability Information based on the requirements of:  
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (the “SEBI”) (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended); 
BRSR 
Requirements 
for 
listed 
entities 
per 
Master 
Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated 11 November 2024; 
SEBI Press Release PR No.36/2024 dated 18 December 2024; 
Industry Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated 20 December 2024; and 
SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD - PoD- 1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated 28 March 2025. 
 
Management’s Responsibilities 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing the “Criteria” for preparing Identified 
Sustainability Information, including the reporting boundary of BRSR taking into account applicable 
Laws and Regulations, if any, related to reporting on Identified Sustainability Information, 
identification of key aspects, engagement with stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of 
the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the “Criteria”. This responsibility includes 
design, implementation and maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of BRSR and 
the measurement of Identified Sustainability Information, which is free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.  
Inherent limitations 
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure 
non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques 
and can affect comparability between entities.  
Measurement of BRSR Core metrics, some of which are estimates, is subject to inherent measurement 
uncertainty, for example, GHG footprint, Water footprint, Energy footprint, Waste. Obtaining 
sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion does not reduce the uncertainty in the amounts 
and metrics 
 
 
Our Independence and Quality Control 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code 
of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by 
the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code’), which is founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence, and due care, confidentiality, 
and professional behavior.   
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management (‘ISQM’) 1, “Quality Management for 
Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services 
Engagements” and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality management, including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional 
standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance opinion on the Identified Sustainability 
Information covered in the “Scope, Boundary, and Limitations” paragraph given below, based on the 
procedures we have performed and evidence we have obtained. 
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (‘ISAE’) 3000 (Revised), “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards 
Board. This standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the Identified Sustainability Information are prepared, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the Reporting “Criteria”. A reasonable assurance engagement involves assessing 
the risks of material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud 
or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances. 
We also followed the data and assurance approach provided under Annexure I of SEBI’s Circular no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122, dated 12 July 2023, prescribing the format of 
BRSR Core. 
Scope, Boundary and Limitations 
The scope of our reasonable assurance covers the Identified Sustainability Information for the 
period 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025, with the Reporting Boundary for BRSR being limited to the 
Company on a standalone basis, as disclosed under Question No. 13 of Section A of the BRSR. 
The data review and validation of the Company was performed through physical site visits and/or 
together with desktop reviews.  
Our reasonable assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we do not express an opinion 
on the same: 
Operations of the Company other than those covered in the “Scope and Boundary”. 
Aspects of BRSR and data/information (qualitative or quantitative) other than Identified 
Sustainability Information. 
Data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e., Financial Year 2024-25. 
The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future 
intentions provided by the Company. 
Data related to Company’s environmental, economic and financial performance, strategy and other 
related linkages expressed in the Company’s Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 or any other 
Report, containing Identified Sustainability Information. 
Effectiveness of management’s internal controls of the Company, while we considered the same 
when determining the nature and extent of our procedures; however, our reasonable assurance 
engagement was not designed to provide assurance on these internal controls. 
The Company’s compliance with Acts, Regulations and Guidelines, other than those as specified in 
Identified Sustainability Information. 
Assurance Procedures  
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, 
observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, evaluating the appropriateness of 
quantification methods and reporting policies, analytical procedures and agreeing or reconciling with 
underlying records. 
Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above, we: 
Obtained an understanding of the following: 
Company’s business activities, processes and its operating locations, as identified by the 
Company.  
Identified Sustainability Information and related disclosures. 
Assessment criteria and their suitability for the evaluation and/or measurements of the 
Identified Sustainability Information. 
Interviewed people involved to understand the reporting process, governance, data management 
systems and controls in place during the reporting period. 
Performed substantive testing on a sample basis of Identified Sustainability Information, as 
covered in the “Scope, Boundary and Limitations” to verify whether the data was appropriately 
recorded, collated, measured and reported with underlying supporting documents. 
Checked the consistency of the data/information within the Identified Sustainability Information. 
Tested the mathematical accuracy of the data provided on a test-check basis. 
Assessed the level of adherence of the “Criteria”, as mentioned above by the Company while 
reporting.  
Verified the financial numbers, which are also used for Identified Sustainability Information from 
the Integrated Annual Report 2024-25.  
Assessed the appropriateness of various assumptions, estimations and thresholds used by the 
Company in the preparation of Identified Sustainability Information.
Undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data used in 
Identified Sustainability Information.
Enquired to corroborate with the relevant management personnel to understand the progress 
against the Sustainability commitments.
  
Obtained written representations from Company’s Management. 
We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
reasonable assurance opinion. 
Other information 
The Company’s management is responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s Integrated Annual Report (but does not 
include the Identified Sustainability Information and assurance report thereon).  
Our opinion on the Identified Sustainability Information does not cover the other information and 
we do not express any form of assurance thereon. 
In connection with our assurance engagement of the Identified Sustainability Information, our 
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the Identified Sustainability Information or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 
Opinion 
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, Identified 
Sustainability Information for the year ended 31 March 2025 are prepared in all material respects, in 
accordance with the “Criteria”. 
Emphasis of Matter 
We draw attention to the following matters: 
The financial numbers used in some of the indicators of the Identified Sustainability Information 
are extracted from the Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 and hence are not audited by us. 
The Company presently follows manual processes for non-financial (ESG) data management 
systems and currently not integrated with other Reporting Systems. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters. 
Intended use or purpose  
The Identified Sustainability Information and our reasonable assurance report are intended for users 
who have reasonable knowledge of the BRSR Core attributes, the reporting criteria and Identified 
Sustainability Information and who have read the information in the Identified Sustainability 
Information with reasonable diligence and understand that the Identified Sustainability Information is 
prepared and assured at appropriate levels of materiality.  
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
 For FORVIS MAZARSLLP
 
  
 
 Firm Registration No.: AAI-2887 
 
 
 Sarika Gosain 
 Partner  
 
 
 Gurugram 
 25 August 2025 
