DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIM I TED 
2nd September 2025 
Corporate Relations Department, 
Bombay Stock Exchar.ge Limited, 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Listing Department, 
Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001 
Scrip Code: 505242 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
"Exchange Plaza", Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra 
East, Mumbai 400 051. 
Scrip Code: DYNAMATECH 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Sub: Annual General Meeting - Annual Report 2024-25 
This is to inform you that the 50·h (Fiftieth) Annual General Meeting ('AGM') of the Company will 
be convened on Tuesday, the 30·h September 2025, at 11 :00 a.m. (1ST), at JKM Plaza, Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore - 562149, in accordance, with the relevant 
circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI). 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) and 34 (2) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, we are submitting herewith the Notice of AGM and Annual 
Report of the Company along with the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for FY 
2024-25, which is being sent in electronic mode to the Members. 
Pursuant to Regulation 42 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the Register of Members of the Company will remain closed from 24·h 
September 2025 to 30·h September 2025 (both dates inclusive) for the purpose of 50·h AGM. 
The Annual Report containing the Notice of AGM is also uploaded on the Company's website 
www.dynamatics.com. 
We kindly request you to take this letter along with the enclosures on record. 
Thanking you, 
Yours faithfully, 
For Dynamatic Technologies Limited 
V 
dM. 0fA . . 
Shivaramv~ 
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary 
Membership No.: ACS 19173 
Enclosure: as above 
CC' 
National Securities Depository Central Depository Services 
Limited 
(I ndia) Limited 
301, 3rd Floor, Naman 
Marathon Futurex, A-Wing, 
Chambers, Plot C-32, G-
25th floor, NM Joshi Marg, 
Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai, 
Bandra East, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra - 400 013 
Maharashtra - 400 051 
Mrs. C Rajitha Cholleti, 
Kfin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally 
Mandai, Hyderabad, 
Telanqana - 500 032 
Registered Office 
Dynamatic Technologies limited 
JKM Plaza Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55 KIADB Aerospace Park 
Bangalore 562 149 India 
Tel +91 80 2111 1223 +91 80 2204 0535 
www.dynamatics.com 
Corporate Identity Number: L7220QKA 1973PLC002308 
D Y N A M A T I C  T E C H N O L O G I E S  L I M I T E D
ANNUAL REPORT
2024-25
The best way to predict the future is to create it.
- Peter Drucker
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited and its 
subsidiaries, I take pleasure in presenting 
you with Audited Financial Statements for 
the year 2024-25.
During the year under review, your Company 
recorded Consolidated Net Revenue of         
`14,038 million with Consolidated EBITDA of 
`1,583 million & Profit After Tax of `430 million.
Aerospace: Driving Growth and Strategic 
Positioning
Our Aerospace division remained the engine 
of Dynamatic’s success, delivering strong 
revenues and industry-leading margins, thereby 
reinforcing its role as the cornerstone of our 
business. Even in the face of persistent global 
supply chain disruptions, shortage of critical 
materials, and delivery delays impacting 
major OEMs, our robust order book and deep 
customer trust have kept us firmly on course.
This year marks a transformative chapter 
in Dynamatic Technologies’ journey, as 
we achieved a pivotal leap in the deep 
industrialisation of the Airbus A220 program 
within India’s rapidly growing aerospace 
ecosystem.
The inauguration of our refurbished and 
precision-calibrated A220 door assembly jigs 
represents not just a facility upgrade, but a 
fundamental enhancement of our aerospace 
manufacturing architecture and significant value 
to the customer.
This milestone was officially marked by 
Mr. Juergen Westermeier, Chief Procurement 
Officer at Airbus, and 
Mr. Thierry Cloutet, Head of Procurement for 
Airbus India & South Asia.
These state-of-the-art jigs – engineered to 
micron-level tolerances, form the backbone 
for serial production of the A220’s main 
passenger doors, service doors, cargo doors, 
and over-wing emergency exit doors. The jigs 
we have commissioned are therefore not only 
production assets but capital-intensive process 
Industrialisation of A220 Door Jigs Laser Tracking & Calibration
Inauguration of the A220 Doors Calibrated Jigs
A220 Doors assembly line
enablers that will serve multiple build cycles and 
variants over the A220’s program life. 
A significant force multiplier in this program 
has been our strategic relationship with India’s 
leading aerospace manufacturers - Aequs, 
Sansera and Ferra Aerospace. The success of 
this ecosystem validates India’s capability to 
produce flight-critical aerostructures at a globally 
competitive benchmark. 
Looking ahead, our A220 industrialisation 
program will serve as a reference model 
for future aerospace localisation in India - 
integrating global OEM design authority with 
Indian manufacturing ingenuity. It reinforces our 
ongoing commitment to Atmanirbhar Bharat, 
ensuring that each shipset we deliver embodies 
precision, reliability, and engineering excellence.
Dynamatic Technologies has secured a 
prestigious contract from Stelia Aeronautique 
Canada Inc., a subsidiary of Airbus Atlantic 
SAS, to produce the Escape Hatch Door for 
the Airbus A220 - strengthening India’s role in 
the program’s global supply chain. We began 
commercial production at our Bangalore facility a 
year ago.
We are proud to mark the delivery of our 
50th shipset of A220 Escape Hatch Door to 
Mr. Cédric Gautier, CEO, Airbus Atlantic, 
and Mr. Frédéric Roumegoux, CPO, Airbus 
Atlantic. This milestone paves the way for 
deeper collaboration and future growth in global 
aerospace manufacturing.
Our partnership with Deutsche Aircraft of 
Germany to industrialize the Rear Fuselage for 
the next generation, fuel efficient D328eco® 
regional turboprop is well underway.
From the design floor to serial production, we 
have built complete capabilities - world class 
tooling, precision jigs, detail part manufacturing, 
and complex assembly - all at Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis.
Delivery of 50th Shipset of A220 Escape Hatch Door
Signing of Letter of Award with Aequs
Signing of Letter of Award with Sansera
Signing of Letter of Award with Ferra Aerospace
Mr. Tobias Gotthardt, State Secretary of the 
Bavarian State Ministry for Economic Affairs, 
Regional Development and Energy, and 
Mr. Nico Neumann, Co-CEO of Deutsche Aircraft 
officially inaugurated the assembly line. 
As part of the Make in India initiative, Dynamatic 
Technologies is partnering with Dassault Aviation 
to manufacture and assemble aerostructures 
which include detail parts, toolings, assembly 
jigs and complex assemblies.
Leveraging our precision engineering and 
world-class facilities, we delivered the first 
Rear Fuel Tank Assembly for the advanced 
Falcon 6X business jet ahead of schedule on 4th 
December 2024, in the presence of 
Mr. Bruno Coiffier, Mr. Dominique Stefani, Mr. 
Harvansh Batra and Dassault senior executives.
This milestone reinforces Dynamatic’s 
position as a preferred global aerostructures 
supplier, strengthens Indo-French aerospace 
collaboration, and showcases India’s growing 
capability to deliver complex aircraft components 
to exacting international standards.
Strengthening India’s Defence Capabilities
During the Covid period, Dynamatic 
Technologies had developed defence capacity 
for Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL). 
Presently, Dynamatic Technologies has 
successfully indigenised the complex Vertical 
Launch Unit (VLU) structure for the Indian 
Navy’s LRSAM program, delivering two units 
that passed critical hang-fire tests. We are 
currently executing an order for eight more 
units, with deliveries starting August 2025. This 
project highlights our advanced engineering 
capabilities and commitment to strengthening 
India’s indigenous defence manufacturing.
Precision Engineering for Space Applications
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® was awarded 
a contract by Thales Alenia Space France to 
manufacture a Vertical Hoisting Device (VHD) 
for the SPACE INSPIRE spacecraft program. 
This precision-engineered system, built from 
Inauguration of the Deutsche Aircraft D3280eco® Assembly Line
Delivery of First Shipset of Dassault Falcon 6x Rear Fuel Tank 
Assembly
Vertical Launching Unit (VLU) structure (marked in red)
Dassault Falcon 6x Rear Fuel Tank Assembly Line
Precision Engineering for Space Applications
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® was awarded 
a contract by Thales Alenia Space France to 
manufacture a Vertical Hoisting Device for 
the SPACE INSPIRE spacecraft program. 
Precision-engineered systems like this, built 
from aerospace-grade materials with advanced 
mechanisms, expand our role in the global 
space industry and strengthen partnerships with 
leading international OEMs.
The delivery of the Vertical Hoisting Device was 
handed over to Mr. Deepak Talwar, VP - Global 
Procurement for Engineering and for India and 
AMEWA, in presence of Thales Alenia Space 
senior executives Mr Roque Carmona, SVP 
Group - Chief Procurement Officer, Mr. Damien 
Romegoux, VP Mechanical Segment Global 
Procurement.
Hydraulics: Realignment for Long-Term 
Efficiency
Our Hydraulics segment enjoyed strong demand 
in India on the back of favourable monsoon 
and sustained investment in infrastructure. 
The government’s significant increase in 
capital expenditure on urban development and 
transportation is expected to drive growth in 
construction activity and, in turn, demand for 
hydraulic systems.
During the year, we initiated a major operational 
realignment to strengthen our long-term 
competitiveness. With the war continuing in 
Ukraine and fracturing of our hydraulic supply 
chain in Europe, there was continuous disruption 
in production at our Swindon UK facility. Some 
of these changes appear to be permanent and 
pose a risk to our customers and shareholders. 
We are therefore strategically transferring 
select production lines to India as a protective 
measure. While this transition involves upfront 
costs and near-term operational impact, it is 
expected to unlock substantial savings and 
operational robustness from H2 FY26 onwards.
Metallurgy: Navigating European Slowdown, 
Pivoting to Defence
Our Metallurgy division continued to navigate a 
difficult European industrial environment marked 
by weak demand, high inflation, and elevated 
energy costs — all of which have weighed on 
revenues and margins. Industrial production 
in Germany remains well below pre-pandemic 
levels, impacting our customer base.
Delivery of Vertical Hoisting Device
Everything is produced by Knowledge. It rests on Knowledge.
The world is led by Knowledge. Knowledge is its cause.
- Aitareya Upanishad, Chapter 3
Against this backdrop, we have accelerated 
diversification into aerospace and defence. We 
successfully developed a range of prototype 
defence products during FY25 and are now 
awaiting serial orders from Western European 
customers. While changes in policy have 
temporarily delayed off-take of Erla’s shell 
production, the increasing defence allocation 
by Germany and the EU is encouraging local 
manufacturers to expand production - a trend 
we believe will create meaningful opportunities 
for us in the years ahead.
INDIA: Private Sector Ecosystem for Public-
Private Partnership
We proudly hosted Shri Jitendra J Jadhav, 
Director General of the Aeronautical 
Development Agency (ADA), alongside leading 
innovators and manufacturers from India’s 
private aerospace and defence sector. This 
engagement reaffirmed our shared mission to 
strengthen the nation’s aerospace and defence 
capabilities through dynamic Public-Private 
Partnerships. 
By driving innovation and fostering indigenous 
technologies, this collaboration is powering 
India’s journey toward strategic self-reliance. 
Together, we are not only building an advanced 
aerospace ecosystem, but also shaping a 
stronger, secure, and self-reliant nation.
Looking Ahead
Across each of our business segments, 
Dynamatic Technologies has demonstrated the 
ability to adapt quickly, invest strategically, and 
deepen customer partnerships. The strategic 
decisions we have taken in industrialising future 
aerospace programs, optimising hydraulics 
manufacturing, and diversifying metallurgy into 
defence - place us in a strong position to capture 
growth opportunities while navigating global 
uncertainties.
Once again, I would like to express my gratitude 
for your continued support as we navigate 
through these challenging times. With our 
diversified business segments and strategic 
initiatives, I am confident that Dynamatic will 
prosper in the future.
I thank you for your continued support.
Sincerely,
Udayant Malhoutra
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
Completed 120mm Shell 
Indian Private Aerospace companies participated in the meeting
Udayant Malhoutra showcasing the aerospace manufacturing to 
Shri Jitendra J Jadhav, Director General of ADA
Dynauton Systems® - Revolutionizing Defence 
Operations
Dynauton Systems® is a next-generation 
Indian technology start-up and is wholly owned 
and housed within Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited. Dynauton focuses on the design and 
manufacture of advanced Unmanned Aerial 
Systems and critical subsystems such as 
gimbals, autopilots, radars, propulsion units, 
avionics, and integrated software solutions. The 
company is also developing cutting-edge anti-
drone technologies including radio-frequency 
directional finders, drone detection radars, 
electro-optic systems, and loitering munitions.
With a highly experienced team drawn from 
premier Indian institutions and multinational 
organizations, Dynauton is dedicated to 
delivering world-class engineering and 
manufacturing excellence for unmanned 
systems in India. Our current focus is on 
expanding our UAV portfolio to enhance military 
operational capabilities and strategic intelligence, 
providing advanced surveillance and loitering 
munition solutions that empower armed forces 
to operate effectively in critical environments.
At Dynauton Systems®, we are driven by a 
singular purpose to design and manufacture 
advanced unmanned systems and defence 
technologies that redefine the national capability.
Over the past year, we have strengthened our 
position as a trusted partner in defense and 
strategic technology by delivering cutting-edge 
solutions across core domains.
Kaatil® - Loitering Munition
The Kaatil® Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) is 
a state-of-the-art loitering munition designed 
for precision strike capabilities. Engineered 
for mission-specific adaptability, the platform 
accommodates a diverse array of modular, 
rapidly interchangeable payloads and can be 
configured as an expendable aerial target for 
training and defensive applications.
Kavaa® - Surveillance
The Kavaa® platform is the product of sustained 
R&D and a strategic response to identified gaps 
between available technology and critical user 
requirements. Its design has been iteratively 
refined through comprehensive field trials to 
deliver unparalleled operational effectiveness 
with the use of advanced sensors including 
optical, IR and Lidar.
Dynauton Systems® Team at Dynamatic Aerotropolis
Cheel® - Long Range, High Endurance 
Surveillance
The Cheel® VTOL Surveillance Drone represents 
a paradigm of aerial reconnaissance, integrating 
Vertical Take-Off and Landing capability with 
state-of-the-art sensor technology. Purpose-
built for demanding Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, it serves 
as a force multiplier for a diverse spectrum 
of strategic military, civil security, and law 
enforcement applications.
Patang® - Surveillance
The Patang® Tethered UAS is a state-of-the-
art platform designed to provide continuous, 
real-time operational oversight. Engineered for 
mission-specific adaptability, Patang® features 
a highly configurable, quick-swap payload 
capability, supporting a broad spectrum of 
surveillance sensors and tactical equipment.
Our vision is to be recognized this decade as 
a leading Indian technology company creating 
world-class products in uncrewed autonomous 
systems and industrial robotics. Our mission 
is to deliver reliable, high-performance 
solutions that bring value to our customers 
and shareholders, while ensuring responsible 
leadership in emerging technologies.
Ground Control Station (GCS):
The GCS is fully engineered by Dynauton, 
including software for terrain mapping, artillery 
correction, Lidar integration, payload field-of-
view mapping, military maps, and real-time 
control and analytics. Both hardware and 
software aspects are developed and integrated 
locally.
Gimbal and Video Processing Unit (GVPU):
Dynauton has built EO/MWIR/LRF gimbal 
payloads and video processing platforms. 
Modal analysis, design, manufacturing, 
payload integration, and optical test setups are 
conducted in-house. The system supports day 
and night cameras with ranges up to 20km, 
and provides real-time video enhancement and 
advanced analytics.
This mission is powered by the extraordinary 
capabilities of our team - seasoned experts 
from premier institutions including IITs and NITs, 
with 15–20 years of experience in aerospace, 
robotics, optronics, electronics, RF and 
satellite systems, and electronic warfare. Their 
dedication and ingenuity fuel our progress and 
keep us at the forefront of innovation.
KEY INDIGENOUS PRODUCTS
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
Fully in-house designed aircraft platform capable 
of long-endurance missions. The company 
undertakes aircraft design, structural analysis, 
part manufacturing (fuselage, tail, boom, wing), 
and system integration for its UAVs.
Autopilot (AP):
Proprietary autopilot system designed, 
manufactured, and tested by Dynauton. This 
includes schematic and Gerber design for 
avionics, PCB manufacturing, assembly, and 
dedicated software development and testing for 
robust flight control.
Remote Video Terminal (RVT):
In-house designed terminal for streaming and 
processing video feeds from UAVs. Supports 
indigenous video processing and transmission 
techniques.
Battery Management System (BMS):
Custom-developed BMS to extend UAV 
endurance and operational safety. Handles 
battery charging, usage, and health monitoring. 
Power Distribution Unit (PDU):
Engineered and manufactured by Dynauton, 
the PDU ensures safe and efficient power 
management across UAV systems. 
Ground Data Terminal (GDT):
Dynauton’s GDT, including the shelter design 
and all subsystems, provides robust ground 
connectivity and uplink/downlink capabilities 
for communication with airborne platforms. 
Subsystem and mast testing, and DG integration 
are undertaken at Dynauton.
Cheel® with the Ground Data Terminal vehicle 
DYNAMATIC LIMITED, 
UK
Chairman
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Director
Mr. Michael John Handley
Director
Mr. Geoff Dore
Director
Mrs. Pramilla Malhoutra
Director
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
Managing Director
Mr. James Tucker 
Technical Director
Mr. Steve Hayes
Auditors
TC Group, UK
YEW TREE INVESTMENTS 
LIMITED, UK
Chairman
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Director
Mr. James Tucker
Auditors
TC Group, UK
EISENWERK ERLA GmbH, 
GERMANY
Chairman
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Executive Director
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
Director
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
Managing Director
Mr. Enrico Fischer
Director
Mr. Geoff Dore
Auditors
Deloitte GmbH, Germany
JKM GLOBAL PTE 
LIMITED, SINGAPORE
Chairman
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Director
Mrs. Pramilla Malhoutra
Director
Mr.Vinod Kumar C
Director
Mr. Chalapathi P
Auditors
IR Practice
Singapore
JKM ERLA AUTOMOTIVE 
LIMITED
Director
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
Director
Mrs. Pramilla Malhoutra
Director
Mr. Chalapathi P
Director
Mr. Ravichander V
Auditors
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Bangalore
DYNAMATIC 
MANUFACTURING 
LIMITED
Director
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas 
Director
Ms. Junia Sebastian
Director
Mr. Chalapathi P
Director
Mr. Ravichander V
Auditors
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP 
Chartered Accountants
Bangalore
JKM RESEARCH FARM 
LIMITED
Director
Mr. Chalapathi P
Director
Mr. Ravichander V
Director
Mrs. Pramilla Malhoutra
Auditors
Prasad & Kumar
Chartered Accountants
Bangalore
DIRECTORSHIPS AND AUDITOR DETAILS
IN SUBSIDIARIES
Your Company’s Organisational Structure is based on a network of highly talented people who have been empowered 
to deliver results. A concerted effort has been made to remove hierarchy in everything we do.
C
O
R P
O
R A
T
E  
S
T R
U
C
T U
R
E
B
O
A
R
D
 
O
F  
D I
R E
C T
O R
S
 S E
N I O
R  
M A
N A
G E
M
E
N T
Gaitri Issar Kumar
Independent Director 
Chairperson - Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Member - Audit Committee
Member - Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
Member - Risk Management Committee
Member - Finance Committee
Member - Technology and Strategy 
Development Committee
Pierre de Bausset
Independent Director & Chairman
Chairman - Audit Committee
Chairman - Risk Management Committee
Member - Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Member - Technology & Strategy Development Committee
Member - Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Member - Finance Committee
Director - Dynamatic Limited, UK
Director - Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany
Udayant Malhoutra
CEO & Managing Director
Chairman - Share Transfer Committee
Member - Technology & Strategy Development Committee
Member - Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Member - Finance Committee
Member - Risk Management Committee
Chairman - JKM Global Pte Ltd, Singapore
Chairman - Dynamatic Ltd, UK
Chairman - Yew Tree Investments Ltd, UK
Geschäftsführer - Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
Independent Director
Chairman - Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Chairman - Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Chairman - Technology & Strategy Development Committee
Chairman - Finance Committee
Member - Audit Committee
Member - Risk Management Committee
Member - Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Director - Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
Director - JKM Erla Automotive Limited
James Tucker 
Non-Executive Director
Global COO - Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®
Member - Technology & Strategy Development
Committee
Managing Director - Dynamatic Limited, UK
Director - Yew Tree Investments Limited, UK
Darren Bancroft
Head - Operations
Aerospace Division, 
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Steve Hayes
Technical Director 
Aerospace Division, 
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Enrico Fischer
Managing Director 
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH
Dietmar Hahn
Non-Executive Director 
Member - Technology & Strategy 
Development Committee
Executive Director - Eisenwerk Erla 
GmbH, Germany
Ajay Gururaj
Chief Commercial Officer
Ravichander V
Chief Technology Officer
Director - Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
Director - JKM Erla Automotive Limited
Director - JKM Research Farm Limited
Chalapathi P 
Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer
Director - Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
Director - JKM Erla Automotive Limited
Director - JKM Global Pte. Limited
Member - Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Director - JKM Research Farm Limited
Jayagopal Gajendra
Head - Corporate Treasury
Srinivas M K 
General Manager - Legal, 
Compliance & Secretarial
Darren Fisher 
Head - Operations 
Hydraulics Division
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Adam Joachim 
Operations Manager
Hydraulics Division
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Geoff Dore
CFO - UK
Director - Dynamatic Limited, UK
Director - Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, 
Germany
Pramilla Malhoutra
Director - JKM Global Pte Limited
Director - Dynamatic Limited, UK
Director - JKM Erla Automotive Limited
Director - JKM Research Farm Limited
Lt Gen Sanjeev Madhok (Retd.)
PVSM, AVSM, VSM
Head - Defence Business, 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
Marissa Boulton
Head - HR & IR
Hydraulics Division, 
Dynamatic Limited,UK
Janice Townsend 
HR Manager 
Aerospace Division, 
Dynamatic Limited,UK
Junia Sebastian
Independent 
Director - Dynamatic 
Manufacturing Limited 
Sujee Teppal
Senior General Manager
Aeronautic Design
Jay Prakash Singh
Senior General Manager
Systems Design
Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary
Krishna Raj Rao
Head - Operations
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   i
Auditor’s Report 	
118
Balance Sheet	
124
Statement of Profit and Loss	
125
Statement of Cash Flows	
126
Statement of Changes in Equity 	
127
Notes to the Financial Statements	
128
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
03
Auditor’s Report 	
176
Balance Sheet 	
184
Statement of Profit and Loss 	
185
Statement of Cash Flows	
186
Statement of Changes in Equity 	
187
Notes to the Financial Statements 	
188
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
04
AGM Notice to Shareholders	
	
1
Board’s Report 	
13
Certification by CEO & CFO	
   36
Management Discussion and Analysis 	
37
Risk Management Report	
	
51
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report	
55
Corporate Governance Report 	
89 
Investor Guide	
110
Certificate of Non-disqualification of Directors	
111
Corporate Governance Compliance Certificate	
112
Corporate Sustainability Report	
113
NOTICE AND BOARD’S REPORT
02
Corporate Information	
ii
Organisation  Structure 	
	
iii
Directors’ and KMP Profile 	
iv
Company Overview	
vii
OVERVIEW 
01
Dynamatic Limited, UK 
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany 
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited, India 
JKM Research Farm Limited, India
BUSINESS REVIEW REPORT
05
TABLE OF CONTENTS
i i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
B O A R D  O F  D I R E C T O R S
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
Chairman of the Board and Independent Director 
 
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas 
Independent Director
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar  
Independent Director   
Mr. Dietmar Hahn 
Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director 
Mr. James Tucker 
Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director 
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra 
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
Mr. Chalapathi P 
Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer
 
K E Y  M A N A G E R I A L  P E R S O N N E L
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra 
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
Mr. Chalapathi P 
Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Shivaram V 
Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary
A U D I T O R S
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 117366W/W-100018) 
Chartered Accountants, Bangalore
B A N K E R S
Axis Bank Limited
BMW Finance
Commerzbank AG
Deutsche Leasing
De Lage Landen 
DMG Mori Finance
Export-Import Bank of India
Federal Bank Limited
Hypovereinsbank/ Unicredit
ICICI Bank Limited
IndusInd Bank Limited
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Linde Leasing GmbH
Merca Leasing GmbH & Co. KG
Royal Bank of Scotland
Siemens Financial Services
Societe Generale
Targo Leasing
Volkswagen Leasing GmbH
R E G I S T E R E D  &  C O R P O R AT E  O F F I C E
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis,
55 KIADB Aerospace Park,
Bangalore - 562149
Tel 	
: +91 80 2111 1223/ + 91 80 2204 0535
Fax	
: +91 80 2839 5823 
Email	
: investor.relations@dynamatics.net
CIN	
: L72200KA1973PLC002308
Website	: www.dynamatics.com 
R E G I S T R A R  &  T R A N S F E R  A G E N T S
Kfin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana. 
Toll free Number: 1-800-309-4001 
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com 
Website: www.kfintech.com
CORPORATE INFORMATION
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   i i i
D Y N A M A T I C  T E C H N O L O G I E S  L I M I T E D
INDIA
HYDRAULICS
(33% of FY2025 Revenues)
Dynamatic Hydraulics®
Bangalore, India
Dynamatic Hydraulics®
Swindon, UK
Dynamatic LLC, US
Milwaukee, USA
ORGANISATION  STRUCTURE
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE
(43% of FY2025 Revenues)
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®
Bangalore, India
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
Bangalore, India
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®
Swindon, UK
METALLURGY
(24% of FY2025 Revenues)
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH
Schwarzenberg, Germany
i v   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
Independent Director
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas is the current President-elect for the World Design Organisation, after having served 
as a Board Member for the last two terms. He is the Senior Advisor of Design Promotion and Innovation at 
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He was the former Director of National Institute of Design (NID), India’s 
premier design institute. He was also a former Member Secretary - India Design Council (IDC). 
Prof. Vyas acquired a Masters in Industrial Design from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and was 
awarded an ‘Honorary Master of Arts’ degree in 2010 from the University for the Creative Arts in Farnham, 
United Kingdom. 
With more than 36 years of professional and teaching experience in different spheres of design, Prof. Vyas had 
been associated with NID for 30 years, first as a faculty member and later on as the Director of the Institute 
(2009 - 2019). 
Prof. Vyas has been at the helm of design affairs and his illustrious career has been marked with several 
national and international milestones and accolades. His contribution in the formation of India Design Council, 
2009, was marked by Prof. Vyas being nominated as its first Member Secretary by the Ministry of Commerce 
& Industry, Government of India, a post he had retained until his retirement from NID in 2019. During his 
tenure as Director, NID received the status of Institute of National Importance by the Act of Parliament. He 
assisted the Government of India during the setting up four new NIDs across the length and breadth of the 
country. Through India Design Council, he launched India Design Mark in association with Japan Institute of 
Design Promotion (JDP) on the line of G-Mark. 
He has been conferred with multiple awards in recognition for his contributions to design education and 
promotion, to name a few, World Education Congress, 2015, awarded him for his ‘Outstanding Contribution to 
Education’; he was awarded a ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ by Times Education Icons 2017 along with being 
a jury member for the special awards screening panel at Good Design Award (G- Mark) by the Japan Institute 
of Design Promotion, Japan consequently in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016. 
In 2019, he has been awarded the honor of ‘Good Design Fellow’, by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion 
(JDP), Tokyo. 
Prof. Vyas was appointed as a ‘Distinguished Professor’ of Shanghai Academy of Fine Arts, China, at the 
Shanghai Global design Summit, 2019.
DIRECTORS’ AND KMP PROFILE
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
Independent Director and Chairman
Mr. Pierre de Bausset has 39 years of broad international experience, in Europe, Asia and North America. His 
career in Corporate Finance covers Forex and Money Market, Asset Financing, Mergers and Acquisition and 
Investor Relations. As a governance expert, he has taken part in major Shareholder Transitions, Management 
Turnover, and Governance Enhancements on boards of Publicly Traded Companies, including in times of 
crisis; his experience spans Appointment & Induction of Key Talents, Stakeholder Advocacy, Mediation and 
Strategic Transactions Management. 
He joined Airbus in 1989 and held various important Management Roles, including President and Managing 
Director of Airbus Group India and General Secretary of the Airbus. Prior to joining Airbus, he worked with 
Banque Indosuez, in Beijing and in Paris. 
Besides, Pierre de Bausset acted as General Secretary of the Haut Comité du Gouvernement d’Entreprise, 
the Standard board for compliance of French Publicly Traded Companies with the country’s Corporate 
Governance Code, through 2019. He is also an investor with an interest in tech companies. 
He holds an MBA from I.N.S.E.A.D. and a Licence & Diplome Supérieur (Chinese language) from the 
lnstitut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (The National Institute of Oriental Languages and 
Civilizations) in Paris. 
Mr Pierre de Bausset is a Knight of the Legion of Honor, a French government award for services to his 
country.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   v
Smt. Gaitri Issar Kumar, IFS
Independent Director
Smt. Gaitri Issar Kumar has had a distinguished career in the Indian Foreign Service - where she served from 
1986 till her superannuation in June 2022. 
Smt. Gaitri Issar Kumar was High Commissioner of India to the United Kingdom and before that Ambassador 
of India to the European Union, Belgium and Luxembourg. As envoy of India she focused on deepening India’s 
political as well as trade and economic ties with these key players on the global stage. 
She has also served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the Indian Embassy in Paris and Counsellor (Disarmament) 
at the Permanent Mission of India in Geneva. Her early diplomatic assignments were in Portugal and Nepal. 
At the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi, she headed the Territorial Division concerned with bilateral 
relations with the US and Canada at a time of widening and deepening of bilateral cooperation across the 
sectors including in advanced technology and civil nuclear energy. 
She has also served in key positions such as Additional Secretary to the President of India and Director 
(Finance) in the Ministry of External Affairs. 
A graduate from Bangalore University where Smt. Gaitri studied History, Economics and Political Science, she 
holds a Master’s Degree in Political Science and is proficient in German and Portuguese languages, with a 
working knowledge of French and Nepali.
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director
Mr. Hahn has over two decades of rich experience in Operations, Sales and Development, having worked in 
leadership positions at Eisenwerk Erla GmbH. He is the Executive Director, Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany. 
He holds a Diploma for Foundry Engineer from the University of Freiberg, Germany and Certificate’s in 
Product Liability law, Advance Product Quality Planning and Technics of failures mode and effects analyses.
Mr. James Tucker
Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director
Mr. James is the Global Chief Operating Officer for the Aerospace Division, is responsible for overseeing 
operations within Dynamatic Technologies Limited in Bangalore and Dynamatic Limited in the UK, located 
in Swindon and Bristol. He became a part of Dynamatic in 2006 when his family business was acquired by 
the company. 
He also actively serves on the Board of both Dynamatic Technologies and Dynamatic Limited in the UK. Mr. 
James has worked in the Aerospace sector for over 35 years, covering various roles such as tool maker, 
CNC machine programmer and operator, quality engineer, shop floor manager, aircraft repair engineer, 
procurement, general manager, project management, sales and marketing, and Director. 
Before joining Dynamatic Technologies Limited, James ran his family business, Oldland Aerospace, which 
grew from a small company to a successful business with long-term contracts supplying Tier 1 companies 
in the UK & USA. As part of Dynamatic Technologies, James has led major investment projects, including 
the deployment of advanced 5-axis machine tools and automated material handling systems at factories 
in the UK and India. His professional certifications include City and Guilds levels 1, 2, and 3, HNC CNC 
Programming & Mechanical Engineering, aircraft repairs training, quality & metrology, lean manufacturing, 
and being an audit signatory. 
v i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Mr. Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary 
Mr. Shivaram is a qualified Company Secretary and a Law Graduate with over twenty years of experience 
in Company Secretarial and Legal matters. He has worked across various industries including Power, 
Pharmaceutical, Plantations, and Manufacturing. He also holds Post Graduate Diploma in Business 
Administration from Symbiosis University, and a PG Diploma in Foreign Trade. His expertise encompasses 
Mergers and Acquisitions, Equity Issues, FEMA & SEBI Compliances, Corporate Governance, Compliance, 
Risk Management, Board Management, Contract Negotiation and Management, Litigation, Regulatory 
Affairs, Policy Development, Intellectual Property and Patent Strategy, Industrial Relations as well as 
settlement and trial strategies. 
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Shivaram held a senior position in the Secretarial and Legal department 
of a Tata Group Company. Before that, he served as the Company Secretary at one of the Manipal Group 
companies.
Mr. Chalapathi P
Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer 
He is a Chartered Accountant and a Postgraduate in Commerce. He has been with Dynamatic since 2009 
in various roles. Prior to joining Dynamatic, he was working with Interplex Electronics India Pvt. Ltd, 
Bangalore (US based manufacturing MNC owned by Blackstone). 
His experience of 17 years spans over financial strategy & investment decisions, treasury management 
and banking relationships, driving change in the organisation, driving digitisation & adaption to technology, 
overseeing direct & indirect tax including transfer pricing enquiries, project costing, SEBI, FEMA, corporate 
governance, investor relations, audit committee matters, mergers & acquisitions and RBI matters. Prior to 
this role, he held significant positions and was responsible for Finance & Accounts, Controlling, Taxation, 
Audits, Project costing. With extensive experience in financial leadership, he brings a wealth of expertise 
in financial reporting, risk management, and strategic growth initiatives. He is a strong team player and is 
known for his approachability. He is a winner of CFONXT100 award for 3 consecutive years in 2015, 2016 
& 2017 and winner of CFO100 for 2020. 
Dr. Udayant Malhoutra
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
Dr. Malhoutra is the CEO and Managing Director of Dynamatic Technologies Limited and has been 
associated with the Company for over three decades. He is credited with building and nurturing a world 
class management team and transforming the Company into a knowledge-based organisation with global 
operations. 
He has served as the Chairman of the National Sector Skills Council for Strategic Manufacturing, and 
Chairman of the National Institute of Design, Amravathi. He is a member of CII National Council and 
has chaired the CII National Committees on Design and Technology. He has also served on the Board of 
Governors, IIT Kanpur, and is a past President, Fluid Power Society of India. He is an active member of 
the Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO), having served as Chairman, India & South Asian Area and as a 
member of the International Board of Directors. 
He has been conferred the degree of Doctor of Engineering & Technology (Honoris-Causa) from University 
of Engineering and Management, Kolkata, in recognition of his outstanding contribution in the field of 
Technology & Innovation and his dedicated service to the nation.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   v i i
Incorporated in 1973, Dynamatic Technologies Limited (‘Dynamatic Technologies’ or 
the ‘Company’) is a manufacturer of highly engineered, mission critical products for the 
Hydraulics, Aerospace and Metallurgy industries. With futuristic design, engineering and 
manufacturing facilities in Europe and India, Dynamatic Technologies serves customers 
across six continents.
The Company is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of hydraulic gear pumps and has held the leadership position in 
hydraulic gear pumps market for over 45 years. Dynamatic Hydraulics has approximately 80% share of the Indian OEM tractor 
market and about 38% of the global tractor market. Dynamatic Technologies is a pioneer and leader, amongst the private 
sector, in both India and the UK, for the manufacture of precision flight critical, and complex airframe structures and aerospace 
components. It is a Tier-1 supplier to the global aerospace OEMs and primes such as Airbus, Boeing, Bell Helicopters, Dassault 
Aviation, Duetsche Aircraft GmbH, Thales, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, and Bharat Electronics Limited. The Company also 
manufactures high precision, complex metallurgical ferrous for performance critical components such as turbochargers and 
exhaust manifolds and has advanced capabilities to support the OEM needs. 
Dynamatic Technologies’ facilities located in India (Bangalore & Coimbatore), United Kingdom (Swindon & Bristol) and Germany 
(Schwarzenberg), are Environmentally sensitive – Green, lean, clean and aligned to our vision of CARE. The Company is 
vertically integrated, with its own alloy-making, casting and forging capabilities as well as its own captive green energy 
sources. 
HYDRAULICS
Dynamatic Hydraulics® is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of Hydraulic gear pumps & valves in the world with three state-
of-art manufacturing facilities located in India (Bangalore), one in UK (Swindon) and one in USA (Milwaukee). The Company has 
technology leadership in the hydraulics segment globally with the finest in-house engineering laboratories and rapid prototyping 
capabilities both in India and in the UK. Both India and the UK manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001: 2015 certified with Indian 
facilities also certified for Environmental Health & Safety based on ISO 14001: 2015 & ISO 45001: 2018. Indian facilities are all 
certified to Information Security Management System on ISO 27001: 2022.
INDIA
Dynamatic Hydraulics® India manufactures hydraulic gear pumps & geared motors and other hydraulic solutions. It is supported by 
experienced application engineering team, advanced research and development team and rapid prototyping capabilities offering 
lowest time to market for the fluid power industry.
Dynamatic has three manufacturing plants in Bangalore and produces nearly one million pumps every year. The heat treatment of 
gears is done in-house in sealed quench furnaces and has established metallurgy and metrology laboratories attached and a well-
equipped validation & endurance testing facility.
Dynamatic supplies customers both Aluminium body pumps and Cast- iron body pumps depending upon the end application. The 
pumps produced are available in four frame sizes giving displacement from 1.23 cc/rev to 151 cc /rev. Pumps are also available in 
tandem configurations and company specialises in supplying units to special order instructions including multiple section pumps.
KEY CUSTOMERS WORLDWIDE
JOHN DEERE
JCB 
TEREX
ALEXANDER DENNIS 
MacDon
COMPANY OVERVIEW
v i i i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
The Company has the capability to build customized solutions 
for any application ranging from:
•	
Farm 
Mechanisation 
– 
Agricultural 
Tractors 
and 
Harvesters,
•	
Off-Highway Vehicles,
•	
Construction Equipment,
•	
Metal Cutting & Metal Forming,
•	
Material Handling and Mining Equipment.
These capabilities complimented by a robust production 
system has enabled us to achieve and sustain over 80% 
market share for pumps on agricultural tractors produced in 
India and 38% share of agricultural tractors produced globally.
Dynamatic Hydraulics® India also designs and builds complete 
hydraulic solutions including axial piston pumps, specialized 
hitch control valves, distributor valves, distributor valves, 
rock shaft assemblies including 3-point linkages and a wide 
range of pressure and flow control valves including steering 
control valve for the agricultural tractors.
The company owns the IP rights of the pumps designed and 
the entire design and development process is managed on 
windchill platform.  The engineering data is well protected in 
digital form.
Dynamatic produces a wide range of custom-tailored 
hydraulic solutions extending from simple hydraulic pumping 
units to complex marine power packs and aircraft ground 
Dynamatic Hydraulics® Leadership Team, India
support systems to turnkey Industrial installations.  The 
company also supplies India’s Defence Forces with the 
hydraulic transmission system including steering control 
system, turret control system and brake actuating system 
for the battle tank.  
Dynamatic also manufactures very high flow scavenging 
lube oil pumps for off-highway vehicles and marine and 
offshore equipment for global OEMs, power steering units 
for agri and construction equipment and variable delivery 
axial piston pumps. The Company also designs and build 
customised hydraulics solutions extending from simple 
hydraulic pumping units to complex marine power packs 
and aircraft ground support systems to turnkey industrial 
installations.
KEY CUSTOMERS
M&M	               
ITL
JOHN DEERE	
HAL	
DLW
ESCORTS	
SAME DEUTZ FAHR	
JCB
CUMMINS	
CNH	
TAFE
WIRTEGEN	
ACE 
ATLAS 
COCPCO	
MTPF
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   i x
UNITED KINGDOM
Dynamatic Hydraulics® facility in Swindon, UK, has over 
six decades of experience in the design and manufacture 
of gear pumps, gear motors and piston pumps. It supplies 
products to agricultural, construction and off-highway vehicle 
manufacturers in UK, Europe and the USA. The facility houses 
state-of-art product testing and validation including burst test, 
calibration test, high temperature tests and noise study.
The product portfolio includes aluminium body, hydraulic 
gear pumps & motors from low to very high-pressure ratings, 
integrated gear & piston pump packages designed for energy 
saving and overall equipment, heavy duty yet compact cast 
iron gear pumps, fan drive motors with integrated control 
valves and a wide range of valves for pressure and flow 
controls for use on integrated hydraulic packages.
The company has an extensive marketing network, with 
marketing sales and servicing branches in all key cities across 
the world.
x   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
METALLURGY
Dynamatic Technologies produces complex components for 
global customers at its plant in Germany. Cast iron alloys 
with high strength of component through to high-alloy 
materials that are resistant to wear, or high temperatures are 
used. In addition to special GJS alloys, Nihard, SiMO, and 
austenitic alloys are cast in the nodular cast iron and steel 
sectors. The foundry works with state-of-the-art technology 
to produce castings and is highly automated in mechanical 
processing. Highly motivated and trained employees work 
at the plant. Specialists in the field of design and foundry 
technology ensure the technological development of the 
company. 
Eisenwerk Erla supplies the agricultural machinery sector, 
the truck industry, engines for shipbuilding and stationary 
applications, high-voltage technology, road construction 
vehicles, engines for sport and leisure and the automotive 
industry worldwide.
The company’s 630-year history bears witness to its stable management and continuous development in the fields 
of engineering, technology and product development. The plant is one of the most modern foundries in Europe and 
is constantly involved in the latest machine and process developments. Only in this way is it possible to remain a 
reliable partner for international customers in the wide field of complex components made of modern materials.
The company is currently in the process of transformation from an automotive/foundry-focus to the aerospace 
business. Considering the various challenges viz.; supply chain crisis at OEMs; current inflation in Europe; steep and 
unpredictable increase in the cost of gas and electricity being faced by corporations across Europe, the company 
could finish successfully corporate restructuring measures through ‘Protective Shield process by self -administration’ 
under the applicable German Laws.
Notwithstanding the above, the economic environment should improve after a transformation process from the 
automotive sector into general industry, defence business and aerospace sector.
KEY CUSTOMERS 
BMW, GERMANY AND AUSTRIA
MAN, GERMANY
ROTAX, AUSTRIA
AGCO- FENDT, GERMANY
ROLLS ROYCE, GERMANY AND USA
INNIO JENBACHER, AUSTRIA 
VÖGELE, GERMANY
BORG WARNER TURBO EMISSION 
SYSTEMS
LIEBHERR GROUP, GERMANY
DAIMLER TRUCK, GERMANY
AUDI, GERMANY
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x i
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® (DOA) continues to be a leading player in the Indian private sector and the UK for the 
manufacture of Flight Critical Airframe Structures and High Precision Class 1 Parts. The company has large infrastructure to 
cater to the needs of OEMs like Airbus, Boeing, BELL Helicopters, Deutsche Aircraft, Dassault Aviation, Thales, Hindustan 
Aeronautics Limited, Bharat Electronics Limited, as a Tier-1 supplier.
The Company has built a strong continuous improvement culture with deployment of Advanced Product Quality Planning 
(APQP) and Production Part Approval Process (PPAP) which has been cross deployed from the Automotive Business. We are 
one of the first companies globally in Aerospace to adopt to this approach and has been appreciated by all the major OEMs 
including Boeing, Airbus, Bell Helicopters, Deutsche Aircraft, Dassault Aviation, and Thales.
Aero India 2025 - The Future of Aerospace 
Innovation
Dynamatic Technologies at Aero India 2025: Showcasing 
India’s Aerospace Future
Dynamatic was delighted to welcome all delegates to 
Aero India 2025 as we collectively explore the future of 
aerospace innovation. 
Inaugural day highlights from our Chalet:
•	
Hosted Hon. Civil Aviation Minister, Ram Mohan Naidu 
Kinjarapu, and MoCA Secretary Shri Vumlunmang 
Vualnam
•	
Showcased A220 Doors progress to Airbus South Asia 
President Rémi Maillard and Head of Procurement 
Thierry Cloutet
•	
Welcomed delegations from Airbus Defence & Space 
and German Consulate General Bangalore
•	
Engaged with Mr. Kondapalli Srinivas, Minister, Govt 
of Andhra Pradesh
•	
Presented indigenous innovations to Air Marshal 
Sanjiv Ghuratia, Lt. Gen. NS Raja Subramani, and Air 
Marshal Yalla Umesh
We remain committed to Make in India and to advancing 
homegrown aerospace and defence technologies.
x i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x i
x i i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Dynamatic Technologies awards Aequs for supply 
of complex Airbus A220 door components
Dynamatic Technologies Limited and Aequs Private Limited 
announced a new contract for the supply of complex 
structural parts for the Airbus A220 Door Program.
Under this five-year contract, awarded by Dynamatic, 
Aequs will manufacture and supply over 200 detailed 
components, leveraging its end-to-end capabilities in tool 
design, forgings, machining, and surface treatment.
This collaboration reinforces the strategic partnership 
between two key players in the global aerospace supply 
chain and highlights their shared commitment to delivering 
high-precision, quality components for next-generation 
aircraft programs.
“This is a significant milestone in our enduring 
partnership with Aequs, aligning with our commitment 
to 
deliver 
world-class 
aerospace 
assemblies. 
By 
leveraging Aequs’ diversified capabilities for complex 
component manufacture, we are further strengthening 
India’s aerospace ecosystem and advancing our ability 
to seamlessly meet global standards in precision, quality, 
and reliability. The synergy between our two organizations 
ensures that we continue to raise the bar in delivering 
cutting-edge aerostructures for Airbus’ A220 program, 
marking a new chapter of collaborative innovation and 
value creation in the global supply chain.”
-Udayant Malhoutra, CEO & Managing Director of 
Dynamatic Technologies
“This is a significant collaboration between Dynamatic 
Technologies and Aequs and we are honored for the 
confidence in our capabilities and commitment to quality 
and on time delivery. We are proud to stand alongside 
a prominent aerostructures assembly manufacturer like 
Dynamatic Technologies as a long-term partner which 
reflects the increasing maturity of the Indian aerospace 
ecosystem and its presence in the global supply chain.”
- Aravind Melligeri, Chairman & CEO, Aequs
Giving a significant push to the Government of India’s 
‘Make in India’ vision, Airbus had contracted Dynamatic 
Technologies in February this year for one of the largest 
Aerospace export orders to Indian companies for the 
manufacturing and assembly of its A220 Family aircraft 
doors. The contract included the manufacturing of detailed 
parts components creating downstream opportunities for 
other Indian suppliers.
Dynamatic Technologies is a demonstrated leader for the 
development of exacting airframe structures and precision 
aerospace components and partners with agencies of 
national importance as well as global aerospace majors. 
Aequs’ proven capabilities deliver across the aerospace 
manufacturing value chain including forging, precision 
machining, surface treatment and aerostructure assembly 
and testing of components for global OEMs. Its operations 
are located at India’s first precision manufacturing SEZ, 
the Belagavi Aerospace Cluster (BAC), which houses a 
vertically integrated aerospace ecosystem of co-located 
manufacturing facilities.
Its facilities in the USA and France complement the 
India operations in delivering to customer requirements 
more effectively. This partnership between Dynamatic 
Technologies and Aequs highlights the shared dedication to 
excellence and innovation in aerospace manufacturing by 
the two companies to build India’s aerospace ecosystem.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x i i i
Dassault Falcon 6X Milestone: Rear Fuel Tank Delivered Ahead of Schedule!
The first Rear Fuel Tank Assembly of the Dassault Falcon 6X was handed over to Bruno Coiffier on December 4, 
2024, ahead of schedule!
It was a privilege to host Bruno Coiffier, Dominique Stefani, Harvansh Batra, Michel Bantegnie, Aravind Kumar 
Thotal, Vaitheeswaran Venkatasubramanian, Abhishek Sharma, Reynald Houillez, Vincent Derlon along with other 
executives from Dassault Aviation at the event.
Honoured to Host Union Minister Shri Rammohan Naidu Kinjarapu at Dynamatic Aerotropolis
Dynamatic Technologies Limited was honored to host our energetic and visionary Union Minister for Civil Aviation, 
Shri Rammohan Naidu Kinjarapu, alongside the Secretary of Civil Aviation, Shri Vumlunmang Vualnam, and 
esteemed dignitaries from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India (MoCA) at Dynamatic Aerotropolis
Key leaders from India’s top private aerospace companies and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research 
– National Aerospace Laboratories (CSIR-NAL) contributed invaluable insights to our discussions on the Regional 
Transport Aircraft (RTA) initiative, paving the way for significant advancements in India’s aviation sector.
x i v   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Dynamatic Triumphs at ICQCC-24 with Double Gold Awards for Kaizen Excellence!
Dynamatic Technologies Limited is delighted to announce a significant achievement at the 49th International 
Convention on Quality Control Circles (ICQCC-24), held on November 12, 2024. Organized by the Sri Lanka 
Association for the Advancement of Quality and Productivity (SLAAQP), this event highlighted our teams’ 
exceptional efforts.
For nearly four decades, the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) has been a key driver of skill development across 
diverse sectors. Through education, training, awareness programs, hands-on demonstrations, and implementation 
support, QCFI promotes the adoption of quality concepts in manufacturing, maintenance, services, education, 
healthcare, rural development, and community initiatives. Teams from Dynamatic Technologies have consistently 
been at the forefront of every competition organized by QCFI at the chapter, national, and international levels. In 
2024, our teams achieved remarkable success, winning several prestigious titles, as outlined below.
ICQCC-24 Highlights:
Theme: BEYOND BOUNDARIES: A Quest for Quality, Productivity & Innovation
Focus: Experience sharing and successful case studies presentation
Our teams, Spirit Mergers (Spirit A320 Re-Design) and Rising Stars (Machine Shop), presented their Kaizen 
improvement case studies and both secured “GOLD” Awards (1st Place)! 
This remarkable accomplishment reflects our teams’ dedication, hard work, and commitment to excellence. We 
extend our heartfelt congratulations to each team member for this outstanding success.
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
Celebrating Excellence: Highlights from the 33rd Chapter Convention on Quality Winners
Dynamatic Technologies Limited proudly celebrates the outstanding achievements of its teams at the 33rd 
Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts, organized by the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) and hosted by the 
Bangalore Chapter on September 1, 2024.
Aligned with the theme “Investing in People, 
Building a Better Future”, all eight teams from 
DOA - representing projects including Airbus A330, 
A220, Bell 407, Boeing, Spirit A321, and A320 RD 
- presented Kaizen and Pokayoke case studies and 
were honoured with Gold Awards.
Competing among 1,900 attendees and 475 case 
studies from 80 organizations, this recognition is a 
true reflection of our teams’ dedication, innovation, 
and collaborative spirit.
DTL extends heartfelt congratulations to all participants and sincere thanks to the team leaders, facilitators, and 
coordinators who made this success possible.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x v
CCQC-2024 – Bangalore Chapter
In September 2024, Dynamatic Manufacuting 
Limited (DML) secured the prestigious Gold Award 
at the Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts 
(CCQC) 2024 organized by the Quality Circle Forum 
of India (QCFI), Bangalore Chapter. Competing 
among 475 teams and over 1900 participants from 
more than 80 organizations, DML’s performance 
stood out under the theme “Investing in People, 
building a Better Future”. This achievement has 
also qualified DML to participate in NCQC 2024.
Continuing our winning streak, DML was awarded 
the First Prize in the English slogan competition 
held during CCQC 2024. The competition was 
based on the same theme, highlighting our team’s 
creativity and passion for quality initiatives.
NCQC-2024 – Gwalior
DML proudly participated its 1st Nationals in 38th National Convention on Quality Concepts (NCQC 2024), held 
from December 27–30, 2024 at IIITM, Gwalior. Our team’s outstanding performance earned the Excellence Award 
by competing from over 2,200 teams representing more than 610 organizations, qualifying us for the prestigious 
International Convention on Quality Control Circles (ICQCC) 2025, to be held in Taipei from November 3–6, 2025.
x v i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Quality Month-2024 
Quality Month is an annual celebration of the world’s commitment to continual improvement systems. This 
celebration provides a platform to acknowledge the accomplishments of people and organizations making 
advancements and valuable contributions to quality in businesses, communities, and institutions worldwide.
Quality Month calls on people who are always seeking to improve quality and are eager to initiate new approaches 
by sharing their knowledge and submitting success stories that highlight the value of quality principles.
During World Quality Month in November 2024, Dynamatic Technologies Limited (DTL) and Dynamatic 
Manufacturing Limited (DML) organized a series of engaging activities to reinforce the importance of continuous 
improvement and employee empowerment. Initiatives included internal and supplier training on “Quality at Source 
– Human Factors & Continual Improvement,” as well as various competitions such as Best RCCA (Root Cause 
Corrective Action), poster design, rapid-fire quizzes, skits, and the Eye-Ball Technique (FOD checks). DML also 
conducted campus drama (street drama) performances to promote quality awareness. These events fostered a 
vibrant quality culture across both organizations. Winners were recognized and awarded, with the prestigious 
Quality Month Champion Trophy presented to the department or project team demonstrating the best overall 
performance throughout the month.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x v i i
MEDICAL
Your Health is Our Concern – A Commitment to Diagnostic 
Excellence 
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
is 
proud 
to 
highlight 
the 
achievements of our in-house Dynamatic Biosecurity 
Laboratory, established during the COVID-19 pandemic 
as a proactive initiative to ensure the health and safety of 
our employees. Since its inception, the lab has consistently 
supported not only our internal stakeholders but also served 
external clients with high-quality diagnostic services.
A State-of-the-Art Diagnostic Facility
Strategically located at No. 55, JKM Plaza, Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bengaluru, the 
Dynamatic Biosecurity Laboratory is NABL-accredited (ISO 
15189:2022), ensuring adherence to the highest international 
standards of quality and accuracy. You can rest assured of 
consistent quality delivery at all times. We actively participate 
in External Quality Assurance Schemes conducted by AIIMS-
Delhi and CMC-Vellore to maintain consistent and reliable 
results, setting us apart from our competitors.
The facility encompasses across four major departments:
•	
Clinical Biochemistry
•	
Clinical Pathology
•	
Haematology
•	
Molecular Testing
Our infrastructure includes advanced, fully automated 
systems and is operated by a team of highly qualified 
microbiologists, research scientists, and certified laboratory 
technicians.
Excellence in COVID-19 Testing and Beyond
Our laboratory offers gold-standard RT-PCR testing for 
COVID-19 diagnosis, with sample collection managed onsite 
by trained professionals. We adhere to rigorous quality 
assurance protocols, ensuring reliable and timely results. Our 
services have since expanded to a comprehensive diagnostic 
portfolio covering routine and specialized tests across key 
medical disciplines.
Health Checks
For prompt intervention and health transformation, we 
provide corporates with complete health check programs that 
are integrated with clinical analytics. Employee health checks 
foster a culture of wellbeing by promoting the company’s 
principles on the health and welfare of its employees. 
Additionally, it guarantees that workers receive the best 
treatment possible and have the knowledge they need to 
make decisions quickly
Health Check Model incorporates:
Hybrid Delivery
Home 
sampling 
clinical 
intervention 
diagnosis 
and 
consultations, off-site care, and on-site clinics.
Clinical Intervention
Prescription drugs, digital dashboards, clinical insights and 
reporting, and health analysis. 
Customer Experience
Care coordination and handholding, a strong NPS feedback 
system, and a personalized communication plan according to 
the age, gender, and health status of the staff.
Non-Pathological services
Onsite Camps (PFT , ECG, Audiometry, Eye Chest, X Ray, 
Vertigo Test).
Vaccination ((Typhoid Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Tetanus (TT) 
etc.
Advanced Equipment and Technology
Dynamatic 
Biosecurity 
Laboratory 
is 
equipped 
with 
instruments from leading global manufacturers:
•	
BIORAD CFX 96 C1000 – Molecular Testing
•	
TOSOH – Immunoassays
•	
TRIVITRON Nanolab 200 – Biochemistry and Haematology
•	
DIASYS – Clinical Pathology
x v i i i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
The lab strictly complies with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) 
and is actively enrolled in national External Quality Assurance 
Schemes (EQAS) for benchmarking and continuous quality 
improvement.
Leadership and Team
The lab is led by Dr. Kumkum Kumari, Ph.D., a seasoned 
expert in Molecular Biotechnology, Microbiology, and Cell 
Biology. She is supported by a skilled team including MD 
Pathologists, MD Microbiologists, M.Tech professionals in 
Biotechnology, and DMLT-certified technicians. Together, 
they ensure seamless operations, from sample collection to 
result reporting.
Innovation and Research Development
Dynamatic Medical is focused on developing next-generation 
in-vitro diagnostic (IVD) products under CDSCO-authorized 
R&D licenses, including:
1.	 HCV Rapid Antibody Test Kit
2.	 Viral RNA Isolation Kit
3.	 DNA Extraction Kit
These innovations reflect our dedication to transforming 
healthcare through precise, accessible, and high-quality 
diagnostic solutions. We are also pursuing licenses for HIV, 
Dengue, and Malaria IVD kits, further expanding our portfolio 
to address pressing global health challenges.
FY 2024–25 Highlights
•	
Clients Served: 15
•	
Diagnostic Camps Conducted: 17
•	
Individuals Diagnosed: 1695
Our team also underwent extensive training to ensure 
continued excellence in patient handling and diagnostics.
We are honoured to have received a letter of appreciation 
from HCL Healthcare Avitas Private Limited, recognizing our 
commitment to professionalism, hygiene, transparency, and 
quality.
Clients
We extend our sincere gratitude to our esteemed clients 
who placed their trust in our services: Brekkie food private 
limited, KDDL limited, Teva pharmaceuticals, Truffles, 
Orchids International School, HealthMeter Services Pvt Ltd, 
Kintetsu World Express (KWE), WeWork, Alstom, HDFC Life, 
AstraZeneca, Nestlé, and others.
Delivering Excellence in Patient Care
At Dynamatic Biosecurity Laboratory, we remain steadfast 
in our mission to deliver accurate, timely, and accessible 
diagnostic services. Through continuous improvement, 
innovation, and patient-centric care, we strive to make a 
meaningful impact on public health and medical diagnostics.
x v i i i   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025 |   x i x
ENGINEERING & DESIGN
Dynamatic Technologies is a knowledge-based organization, 
and Research & Development continues to be at the core of 
the company’s growth strategy. The integrated engineering 
team at Dynamatic Technologies focuses on new product 
development and introduction, using the APQP (Advanced 
Product Quality Planning) process. It works closely with 
OEM customers to anticipate their future product needs.
The company’s R&D personnel conceive, design, develop, 
and manufacture new proprietary hydraulic components 
and systems. They also work to improve existing products 
and production processes to align with the rapidly evolving 
industry landscape. Dynamatic Technologies believes that 
its strong commitment to R&D will enable it to remain 
a leading technology provider and a preferred partner to 
global OEMs.
The Company employs around 90 scientists and 650 
engineers with expertise in Mechanical Engineering, 
Advanced Computer Aided Engineering, Materials & 
Metallurgical Engineering, Fluid Dynamics and Defence & 
Aerospace Research
The Research center in Bangalore, India, houses the 
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
Engineering, 
Research 
& 
Development Center, which is engaged in:
1. Design and Prototyping of new products
2. Improvement of existing designs
3. Continuous improvement of existing processes
4. Ongoing testing of products and materials
The Dynamatic Technologies Research & Development 
Center 
is 
fully 
electronic, 
utilizing 
state-of-the-art 
parametric 3D design software and knowledge-based 
expert systems. The Center has been a Recognized In-
House R&D Unit, certified by the Department of Scientific 
and Industrial Research (DSIR), Government of India, since 
2001.
The world-class design center, capable of complete product 
and system design, possesses advanced capabilities in 
structural, thermal, and dynamic engineering for design 
validation, analysis, and optimization.
The centre aims to provide its clients with a competitive 
advantage by reducing development cycle times and 
accelerating time-to-market. It strategically combines 
mechanical engineering expertise with deep software 
application knowledge to deliver world-class engineering 
services to companies worldwide-offering optimal, high-
quality, and cost-effective design solutions.
The Dynamatic Technologies Engineering Laboratory in 
Swindon, UK, possesses advanced design knowledge 
for the mobile hydraulics sector and has comprehensive 
product testing and validation capabilities.
The Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® (DOA) Research & 
Development is engaged in state-of-the-art 3D designs 
using software such as CATIA V5, Unigraphics NX, and 
Mastercam for their design and development activities 
meeting global OEM standards. The company has been 
successful in bringing value addition in reducing cycle 
time, 
concession 
reduction, 
technology 
absorption, 
indigenisation of technological products, and developing 
special manufacturing processes.
A notable achievement includes the indigenisation of 
the Foldable Strut for HAL ALH DHRUV Helicopter. 
This mechanism facilitates the opening and closing of 
helicopter doors in rugged environmental conditions. DOA 
is the sole supplier of this product to HAL (Hindustan 
Aeronautics Limited). The sub-assembly incorporates 
specialized aerospace alloys and undergoes rigorous 
manufacturing and testing processes compliant with 
aerospace standards, securing CEMILAC approval for 
series production. Furthermore, the DOA team has 
obtained a patent for the development of the foldable 
strut, underscoring their innovation and technical expertise 
in aerospace engineering.
Development of Complex Machined Beams and Frames 
for Bharat Electronics Limited: Designed and developed a 
high-precision solution for complex machined beams, along 
with a test rig for high-pressure leak and pressure testing. 
This engagement marks a key milestone for Dynamatic’s 
DOA in supporting the Make in India initiative and the 
indigenisation efforts undertaken by Indian companies.
Airbus A330 Flap Track Beam NC Drilling: Designed and 
developed a state-of-the-art machining fixture-a support 
frame-for NC drilling of flap track beams, aimed at reducing 
non-conformances. The deployment of this support 
frame has significantly improved accuracy and enhanced 
production deliveries.
Design & Development of A320 Flap Track Beam: Over 
8,000 A320 flap track beams have been supplied to Airbus 
through Spirit AeroSystems over the past several years. 
Airbus has re-designed the A320 flap track beam to reduce 
the number of components in the assembly and shorten 
the production cycle time. This new design is already in 
series production and has been implemented in over 1,000 
aircraft. In collaboration with Airbus, DOA has been actively 
involved in the development of a single, monolithic beam 
by incorporating the latest machining technologies. The 
DOA team has played a key role in developing the tooling 
and assembly processes for this new flap track beam.
x x   |   DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
REVENUE BREAK UP
DEBT & LEVERAGE RATIOS
(INR in Lakhs)
(INR in Lakhs)
Metallurgy
Hydraulics
Aerospace & Defence
Metallurgy
Hydraulics
Aerospace & Defence
FY2024
FY2025
FY2023
1,40,380
FY2021
FY2022
Debt
Net Debt
FY2024
FY2025
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2021
FY2022
FY2023
FY2024
FY2025
Interest
Interest Coverage
1.7x
1.5x
1.6x
1.0x
1.6x
5,901
6,999
6,538
6,255
Debt/Equity
Net Debt/EBITDA
FY2024
FY2025
FY2023
FY2021
FY2022
 
1.4
1.3
0.8
0.6
0.6
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.5
2.6
54,34750,377
61,840
45,816
45,104
45,754
39,675
40,514
57,734
51,674
36%
33%
31%
FY2024
FY2025
24%
33%
43%
1,25,337
1,31,577
1,42,933
1,11,820
5,672
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    1
Notice is hereby given that the 50th (Fiftieth) Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) of the Members of Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited (the ‘Company’) will be held on Tuesday, the 30th 
(Thirtieth) day of September 2025 (Two Thousand and 
Twenty-Five) at 11:00 (Eleven) AM IST, at the registered 
office of the company situated at JKM Plaza, Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, 
India, to transact the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS: 
1.	 Adoption of Financial Statements for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March 2025: 
a)	
to receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March 2025, together with the Reports of 
the Board of Directors and Auditor’s thereon. 
b)	 to receive, consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March 2025, together with the Report of 
the Auditor’s thereon. 
2. 	 Appointment of Mr. Dietmar Hahn (DIN: 06414463) as 
Director liable to retire by rotation:
	
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Dietmar Hahn (DIN: 
06414463), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
3. 	 Confirmation of Interim Dividend as the Final 
Dividend:
	
To confirm the interim dividend of Rs. 2/- (20%) per equity 
share of face value Rs. 10/- each, already paid to the 
shareholders whose names appeared in the Register of 
Members as on 29th November 2024 (Record Date), as 
the final dividend for the financial year ended 31st March 
2025.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: 
4. 	 Appointment of Secretarial Auditor of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an ORDINARY RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligation 
and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 [including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force] M/s. Ratish Tagde and Associates 
(CP No. 22018), Practicing Company Secretary, be and is 
hereby appointed as Secretarial Auditor of the Company 
for conducting Secretarial Audit and issue the Secretarial 
Compliance Report for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years 
from Financial Year 1st April 2025 to 31st March 2030, at 
such remuneration, as may be mutually agreed between 
the Board of Directors of the Company and the Secretarial 
Auditor.”
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Directors 
and Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer and Company 
Secretary of the Company, be and are hereby authorised 
to do all necessary acts and deeds to give effect to this 
resolution, including but not limited to filing e-forms with 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs.”
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any of the Directors 
and Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer and Company 
Secretary of the Company be and are hereby authorised 
to issue certified extract of this resolution.”
5. 	 Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration:
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an ORDINARY RESOLUTION:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148(3) and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013, [including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time 
being in force], read with the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended to date, the Company 
hereby ratifies the remuneration of Rs. 6,00,000/-, plus 
applicable taxes thereon and reimbursement of out-of-
pocket expenses at actuals, payable to M/s. Rao, Murthy 
& Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
000065), who have been appointed as Cost Auditor by 
the Board of Directors of the Company, to conduct audit 
of the cost records of the company for the financial year 
ending 31st March 2026.
NOTICE CALLING THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Registered Office: JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562149, India
Corporate Identity Number: L72200KA1973PLC002308
Phone Number: +91 80 2111 1223 / +91 80 2204 0535
Email ID: investor.relations@dynamatics.net; website: www.dynamatics.com
Date: 27th May 2025 
Place: Bangalore 
Registered Office: 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, India
Email ID: investor.relations@dynamatics.net  
Website: www.dynamatics.com
CIN: L72200KA1973PLC002308
By Order of the Board of Directors

Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary
Membership No. ACS 19173
2     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
NOTES: 
1.	 A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE 
MEETING IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT ONE OR MORE 
PROXIES TO ATTEND AND VOTE INSTEAD OF HIMSELF/ 
HERSELF AND A PROXY SO APPOINTED NEED NOT BE 
A MEMBER OR MEMBERS, AS THE CASE MAY BE, OF 
THE COMPANY. 
	
Proxies in order to be effective must be duly filled, 
stamped, signed and should be deposited at the 
Company’s Registered office not less than 48 hours 
before the commencement of the Meeting. Proxies 
submitted on behalf of companies, societies, partnership 
firms etc. must be supported by appropriate resolution/ 
authority, as applicable, issued on behalf of the 
nominating organization. Members are requested to note 
that a person can act as a proxy on behalf of Members 
not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more 
than ten percent of the total share capital of the Company 
carrying voting rights. In case a proxy is proposed to be 
appointed by a member holding more than ten percent 
of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting 
rights, then such proxy shall not act as a proxy for any 
other person or shareholder. A proxy form is annexed to 
this notice. A proxy form duly filled signed, and stamped 
is valid only for this Annual General Meeting including any 
adjournment thereof. The proxy holder shall prove his 
identity at the time of attending the meeting.
2.	 A member is entitled to inspect the proxies lodged with 
the Company at any time during the business hours on 
all working days, except the date of AGM. The required 
statutory registers will be made available at the AGM 
venue for inspection by the members. 
3.	 Members/Proxies/Representatives are requested to bring 
their attendance slip annexed herewith duly completed 
and signed mentioning therein details of their DP ID and 
Client ID/Folio No for attending the meeting.
4.	 The route map showing directions to reach the venue 
of the Annual General Meeting is annexed to the Annual 
Report.
5.	 In case of joint holders attending the meeting, only such 
joint holder who is higher in the order of names as per the 
Register of Members of the Company as on cut-off date 
will be entitled to vote.
6.	 A Statement pursuant to the provisions of Section 102(1) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”) in respect of 
special businesses setting out material facts in respect 
of item No. 4 & 5 (special business) is annexed hereto. 
Additional information pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard-2 
on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India in respect of the Director 
seeking re-appointment at this AGM is furnished as 
Annexure to this Notice.
7.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
of the Company will be closed from Wednesday, 24th 
September 2025 to Tuesday, 30th September 2025 for 
the purpose of 50th AGM of the Company.
8.	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
January 25, 2022, has mandated the listed companies 
to issue securities in dematerialized form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate 
securities certificate; claim from unclaimed dividend 
account; exchange of securities certificate; sub-division 
of securities certificate; consolidation of securities 
certificates/folios; 
transmission 
and 
transposition. 
Accordingly, Members are requested to make service 
requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form 
ISR – 4, on the website of the Company’s Registrar and 
Transfer Agents, Kfin Technologies Limited (“kfin”). It 
may be noted that any service request can be processed 
only after the folio is KYC Compliant.
	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has mandated the submission of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN) by every participant in the securities 
market. Members holding shares in electronic form 
are, therefore, requested to submit their PAN to the 
Depository Participant with whom they are maintaining 
their demat account.
9.	 Pursuant to Finance Act 2020, dividend income will be 
taxable in the hands of shareholders w.e.f. April 01, 2020, 
and the Company is required to deduct tax at source 
from dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed 
rates. For the prescribed rates for various categories, the 
shareholders are requested to refer to the Finance Act, 
2020 and amendments thereof. The shareholders are 
requested to update their PAN with the Company/RTA (in 
case of shares held in physical mode) and Depositories (in 
case of shares held in demat mode). 
10.	 Members are requested to address all correspondence, 
including 
dividend-related 
matters, 
to 
RTA, 
KFin 
Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 
500 032, Unit: Dynamatic Technologies Limited, JKM 
Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, 
Bangalore, Karnataka 562149. 
11.	 The members are encouraged to furnish / update their 
PAN, KYC details including contact details & bank account 
details, Nomination and specimen signature with the 
RTA / the Company in specified forms. The SEBI has 
mandated members holding shares in physical mode to 
furnish their PAN, KYC details including contact details & 
bank account details, Nomination and specimen signature 
with the RTA/the Company.
	
Please note that unless the above details are updated 
with the RTA/the Company, Members would not be able 
to receive any correspondence(s)/information/intimation 
from the RTA/the Company.
	
Please note that it is also mandatory to link PAN with 
Aadhar number. Investors who are yet to link the PAN 
with Aadhar number are requested to complete the same. 
Securities held in physical folios which have no PAN 
registered/have invalid PAN registered/no PAN linked with 
their Aadhar numbers in the records of the RTA/Company 
shall be considered inoperative/inactive/ incomplete.The 
formats for nomination and updation of KYC details in 
accordance with the SEBI circular are available on the 
Company’s website at  https://www.dynamatics.com/
Investors/Shareholder-Information/.
	
Effective January 01, 2022, Grievance Redressal / Service 
Requests can be availed with the RTA only after the 
required documents / complete data as mandated are 
furnished for physical folios. 
	
The duly filled-in Forms along with supporting documents 
may be sent to the RTA at their address: Kfin Technologies 
Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad – 500 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    3
032. Members may submit the duly filled complete set of 
scanned documents with e-sign* through e-mail. Please 
note that documents received only from the registered 
e-mail address of the shareholders will be considered. 
The documents received from e-mail address of brokers 
and third parties will not be entertained. Alternatively, 
Members may upload the documents on the website of 
the RTA. 
	
*e-Sign is an integrated service which facilitates issuing 
a Digital Signature Certificate and performing signing of 
requested data by e-sign user. You may approach any 
of the empanelled e-sign Service providers available on 
https://cca.gov.in/ for the purpose of obtaining e-sign
12.	 We urge members to support our commitment to 
environmental protection by choosing to receive the 
Company’s communication through email. Members 
holding shares in demat mode, who have not registered 
their email addresses are requested to register their 
email addresses with their respective DP, and members 
holding shares in physical mode are requested to update 
their email addresses with the Company’s RTA, KFin 
Technologies Limited at einward.ris@kfintech.com or by 
registering with the first holder PAN at https://kprism.
kfintech.com/signup,  to receive copies of the Integrated 
Annual Report 2024-25 in electronic mode. Members 
may follow the process detailed below for registration of 
email ID to obtain the report and update of bank account 
details for the receipt of dividend. 
	
Members who are desirous of obtaining hard copy of the 
Annual Report should send a request to the Company’s 
email ID viz., investor.relations@dynamatics.net clearly 
mentioning their Folio number/ DP ID and Client ID.
	
A copy of the Notice of this AGM along with integrated 
Annual Report for the FY 2024-25 is available on the 
website of the Company at www.dynamatics.com, 
website of the stock exchanges where the shares of the 
Company are listed i.e., BSE Limited and NSE Limited at 
www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively 
and on the website of KFin at https://evoting.kfintech.
com/.
13.	 Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/ mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, 
bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc., to 
their Depository Participant in case the shares are held in 
electronic form and to Registrar and Transfer Agent (Kfin)/ 
Company, in case the shares are held in physical form in 
prescribed Form ISR-1 along with the original cancelled 
cheque bearing the name of the Member and other forms 
pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021.
14.	 Corporate/ Institutional Members (i.e. other than 
Individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are also required to send 
scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) of the Board 
Resolution/Authority Letter, etc. pursuant to Section 113 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 together with attested specimen 
signature(s) of the duly authorized representative(s), to 
the Scrutinizer at e-mail id: csratishtagde@gmail.com with 
a copy of email id: - evoting@kfintech.com. 
	
The scanned image of the above-mentioned documents 
should be in naming format “Corporate Name EVENT 
NO.”
15.	 Transfer of Unclaimed/ Unpaid amounts to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF):
	
Members are requested to note that dividends not 
encashed or remaining unclaimed for a period of 7 
(seven) consecutive years from the date of transfer 
to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, shall be 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central Government. 
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the 
Act read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016 (‘IEPF Rules’) as amended to date, all shares on 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven 
consecutive years or more shall be transferred to IEPF 
Authority as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
	
The Members/Claimants whose shares and unclaimed 
dividend have been transferred to IEPF may claim the 
shares or apply for refund by making an application to 
IEPF Authority in Form IEPF 5 (available on www.iepf.
gov.in) along with applicable requisite fee. The Member/
Claimant can file only one consolidated claim in a Financial 
Year as per the IEPF Rules. 
	
It is in Members’ interest to claim any un-encashed 
dividends and in the future, opt for Electronic Clearing 
Service (ECS), so that dividends paid by the Company are 
credited to Members’ account on time. 
	
Members are requested to contact the Company’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent to claim the unclaimed/
unpaid dividends thereon at the following address: 
	
Kfin Technologies Ltd. 
	
Unit: Dynamatic Technologies Limited
	
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, 
	
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, 
	
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana.
16.	 Updation of Members’ Details: 
	
The format of the Register of Members prescribed by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs under the Act requires the 
Company/ Registrar and Share Transfer Agent to record 
additional details of Members, including their PAN details, 
email address, bank details for payment of dividend, etc. 
The forms for updating of PAN, KYC and Bank details 
viz. Forms ISR-1, ISR-2 and ISR-3 are available on our 
website at https://dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-
Information/. Members holding shares in physical form 
are requested to submit the filled in form to the Company 
or to its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. Members 
holding shares in electronic form are requested to submit 
the details to their respective Depository Participant
17.	 Nomination Facility: As per the provisions of Section 
72 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(1) of the 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 
2014, as amended, Members holding shares in physical 
form may file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-
13 with the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent. In respect of shares held in dematerialized form, 
the nomination form may be filed with the respective 
Depository Participant.
4     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
18.	 Members, who have not yet exchanged their shares of 
Dynamatic Hydraulics Limited, with the Share Certificates 
of Dynamatic Technologies Limited, are requested to 
surrender their Share Certificate(s) for exchange. Such 
Members are requested to contact the Company’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent– Kfin, in this regard.
19.	 It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in 
the correct password. In such an event, you will need 
to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password” or 
“Physical User Reset Password” option available on 
https://evoting.kfintech.com/  to reset the password.
20.	 SEBI has established a common Online Dispute 
Resolution Portal (‘ODR Portal’) for resolution of disputes 
arising in the Indian Securities Market. Pursuant to this, 
post exhausting the option to resolve their grievance with 
the Company’s Registrar & Transfer Agent (‘Registrar’ or 
‘RTA’)/Company directly and through existing SCORES 
platform, the investors can initiate dispute resolution 
through the ODR Portal (https://smartodr.in/login) and 
the same can also be accessed through the Company’s 
Website 
at 
https://dynamatics.com/Investors/
Shareholder-Information/.
21.	 In case of any grievances connected with facility for 
e-voting, please contact:
	
Mrs. C Rajitha Cholleti, 
	
Vice-President, 
	
Contact No. 1800 309 4001, at 
	
Kfin Technologies Ltd. 
	
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, 
	
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
	
Serilingampally Mandal, 
	
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana.
22.	 The voting rights of the Members shall be in proportion 
to their shares of the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date being Tuesday, 23rd 
September 2025.
23.	 The Company has appointed Mr. Ratish Tagde (FCS 
Membership No. 6162, Certificate of Practice No. 
22018), Proprietor, Ratish Tagde & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries as the Scrutinizer and Mr. Pramod 
S.M. (FCS Membership No. 7834 and Certificate of 
Practice No.13784), Partner, BMP & Co., LLP, Practicing 
Company Secretaries as an alternate scrutinizer to Mr. 
Ratish Tagde to scrutinize the voting process and remote 
e-voting process (electronically or otherwise) in a fair and 
transparent manner.
24.	 The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during the 
AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote 
e-voting and make, not later than 48 hours of conclusion 
of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of 
the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the 
Chairman or a person authorised by him in writing, who 
shall countersign the same.
25.	 The Chairman or the person authorized by him in writing 
shall forthwith on receipt of the consolidated Scrutinizer’s 
Report, declare the results of the voting. The results 
declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report(s) will 
be available on the website of the Company www.
dynamatics.com and Kfin website https://evoting.
kfintech.com/ and the communication will be sent to 
BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited.
26.	 The Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the 
Directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, and the Register of Directors 
and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding, 
maintained under Section 170 of the Companies Act, 
2013, and all other relevant documents as referred in the 
notice will be available for inspection by the members 
during the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
27.	 Subject to the receipt of requisite number of votes, the 
resolutions forming part of the Notice of AGM shall be 
deemed to be passed on Tuesday, 30th September 2025.
28.	 PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING: 
I.	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI vide 
circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 
dated December 9, 2020 in relation to e-Voting 
Facility Provided by Listed Entities, the Members 
are provided with the facility to cast their vote 
electronically, through the e-Voting services provided 
by Kfin, on all the resolutions set forth in this Notice. 
The instructions for e-Voting are given herein below. 
II.	 However, in pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/
HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th December 
2020, on “e-Voting facility provided by Listed 
Companies”, e-Voting process has been enabled to 
all the individual demat account holders, by way of 
single login credential, through their demat accounts 
/ websites of Depositories / DPs in order to increase 
the efficiency of the voting process. 
III.	 Individual demat account holders would be able to 
cast their vote without having to register again with 
the e-Voting service provider (ESP) thereby not only 
facilitating seamless authentication but also ease 
and convenience of participating in e-Voting process. 
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access 
e-Voting facility. 
IV.	 The remote e-Voting period commences from 09:00 
A.M, (IST) on Saturday, 27th September 2025 and 
ends at 05:00 P.M. (IST) on Monday, 29th September 
2025.
V.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after sending of the Notice and holding shares 
as of the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID and 
password by sending a request at evoting@kfintech.
com. However, if he/ she is already registered with 
Kfin for remote e-Voting then he /she can use his / 
her existing User ID and password for casting the 
vote.
VI.	 In case of Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the Company 
after sending of the Notice and holding shares as 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    5
of the cut-off date may follow steps mentioned 
below under “Login method for remote e-Voting for 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode.” 
VII.	 The details of the process and manner for remote 
e-Voting is explained herein below: 
	
Step 1: Access to Depositories e-Voting system in 
case of individual shareholders holding shares in 
demat mode.
	
Step 2: Access to Kfin e-Voting system in case of 
shareholders holding shares in physical and non-
individual shareholders in demat mode.
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
I)	
Login method for remote e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
Type of Member
Login Method
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL
1.	 For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., Verification 
code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile number and 
click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on the company name or e-Voting service provider 
name and you will be re-directed to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	 Existing Internet-based Demat Account Statement (“IDeAS”) facility Users:
i.	
Visit the e-services website of NSDL https://eservices.nsdl.com  either on a personal 
computer or on a mobile.
ii.	
On the e-services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is 
available under ‘IDeAS’ section. Thereafter enter the existing user id and password.
iii.	 After successful authentication, Members will be able to see 
e-voting services under ‘Value Added Services’. Please click on “Access to e-voting” under 
e-voting services, after which the e-voting page will be displayed.
iv.	 Click on company name i.e. ‘Dynamatic Technologies Limited’ or ESP i.e. KFin.
v.	
Members will be re-directed to KFin’s website for casting their vote during the remote 
e-voting period.
3.	 Those not registered under IDeAS:
i.	
Visit https://eservices.nsdl.com for registering.
ii.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
iii.	 Visit the e-voting website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
iv.	 Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under ‘Shareholder / Member’ section. A new screen will open.
v.	
Members will have to enter their User ID (i.e. the sixteen digit demat account number held 
with NSDL), password / OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
vi.	 After successful authentication, Members will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein they can see e-voting page.
vii.	 Click on company name i.e Dynamatic Technologies Limited or ESP name i.e KFin after 
which the Member will be redirected to ESP website for casting their vote during the 
remote e-voting period.
viii.	 Members can also download the NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
6     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
Individual Members 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
1.	 Existing user who have opted for Electronic Access To Securities Information (“Easi/ 
Easiest”) facility:
i.	
Visit https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Home/Login or www.cdslindia.com.
ii.	
Click on New System Myeasi.
iii.	 Login to Myeasi option under quick login.
iv.	 Login with the registered user ID and password.
v.	
Members will be able to view the e-voting Menu.
vi.	 The Menu will have links of KFin e-voting portal and will be redirected to the e-voting page 
of KFin to cast their vote without any further authentication.
2.	 User not registered for Easi/ Easiest
i.	
Visit https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiRegistration or https://web.
cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiestRegistration for registering.
ii.	
Proceed to complete registration using the DP ID, Client ID (BO ID), etc. 
iii.	 After successful registration, please follow the steps given in point no. 1 above to cast 
your vote.
3.	 Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-voting website of CDSL
i.	
Visit www.cdslindia.com.
ii.	
Provide demat account number and PAN.
iii.	 System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered mobile and email as recorded 
in the demat Account.
iv.	 After successful authentication, please enter the e-voting module of CDSL. Click on the 
e-voting link available against the name of the Company, viz. ‘Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited’ or select KFin.
v.	
Members will be re-directed to the e-voting page of KFin to cast their vote without any 
further authentication.
Individual Members 
login through their 
demat accounts / 
website of DPs
i.	
Members can also login using the login credentials of their demat account through their DPs 
registered with the Depositories for e-voting facility.
ii.	
Once logged-in, Members will be able to view e-voting option.
iii.	 Upon clicking on e-voting option, Members will be redirected to the NSDL / CDSL website 
after successful authentication, wherein they will be able to view the e-voting feature.
iv.	 Click on options available against company name or ‘KFin’.
v.	
Members will be redirected to e-voting website of KFin for casting their vote during the 
remote e-voting period without any further authentication.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forgot user ID and Forgot 
Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Securities held 
with NSDL 
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in 
or call at toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 
and 1800 22 44 30 
Securities held 
with CDSL 
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
022-62343625, 022-62343626, 022-
62343259
Details on Step 2 are mentioned below: 
II)	 Login method for e-Voting for shareholders other 
than Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode and shareholders holding securities in 
physical mode. 
(A)	 Members whose email IDs are registered with the 
Company/ Depository Participants, will receive an email 
from Kfin which will include details of E-Voting Event 
Number (EVEN), USER ID and password. They will have 
to follow the following process: 
I.	
Launch internet browser by typing the URL: https://
evoting.kfintech.com 
II.	 Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and 
password). In case of physical folio, User ID will be 
EVEN (E-Voting Event Number) followed by folio 
number. In case of Demat account, User ID will be 
your DP ID and Client ID. However, if you are already 
registered with Kfin for e-voting, you can use your 
existing User ID and password for casting the vote. 
III.	 After entering these details appropriately, click on 
“LOGIN”. 
IV.	 You will now reach password change Menu wherein 
you are required to mandatorily change your 
password. The new password shall comprise of 
minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case 
(A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) 
and a special character (@,#,$, etc.,). The system will 
prompt you to change your password and update 
your contact details like mobile number, email ID etc. 
on first login. You may also enter a secret question 
and answer of your choice to retrieve your password 
in case you forget it. It is strongly recommended 
that you do not share your password with any other 
person and that you take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    7
V.	
You need to login again with the new credentials. 
VI.	 On successful login, the system will prompt you 
to select the “EVEN” i.e., Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited- AGM” and click on “Submit” 
VII.	 On the voting page, enter the number of shares 
(which represents the number of votes) as on the 
Cut-off Date under “FOR/AGAINST” or alternatively, 
you may partially enter any number in “FOR” and 
partially “AGAINST” but the total number in “FOR/
AGAINST” taken together shall not exceed your total 
shareholding as mentioned herein above. You may 
also choose the option ABSTAIN. If the Member 
does not indicate either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will 
be treated as “ABSTAIN” and the shares held will 
not be counted under either head. 
VIII.	Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts 
shall choose the voting process separately for each 
folio/ demat accounts. 
IX.	 Voting has to be done for each item of the notice 
separately. In case you do not desire to cast your vote 
on any specific item, it will be treated as abstained. 
X.	 You may then cast your vote by selecting an 
appropriate option and click on “Submit”.
XI.	 A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” to 
confirm else “CANCEL” to modify. Once you have 
voted on the resolution(s), you will not be allowed to 
modify your vote. During the voting period, Members 
can login any number of times till they have voted on 
the Resolution(s).
XII.	 Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than 
Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are also required to send 
scanned certified true copy (PDF Format) of the 
Board Resolution/Authority Letter etc., authorizing 
its representative to attend the AGM on its behalf 
and to cast its vote through remote e-voting. 
Together with attested specimen signature(s) of the 
duly authorised representative(s), to the Scrutinizer 
at email id csratishtagde@gmail.com with a copy 
marked to evoting@kfintech.com. The scanned 
image of the above-mentioned documents should be 
in the naming format “Corporate Name Even No.” 
OTHER INSTRUCTIONS: 
I.	
In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect of 
voting by electronic means, Members may refer to 
the Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and 
E-voting user manual available at the download section 
of https://evoting.kfintech.com (Kfin Website) or contact 
at evoting@kfintech.com or call Kfintech’s toll free No. 
1-800-309-4001 for any further clarifications.
II.	 The Members, whose names appear in the Register of 
Members / list of Beneficial Owners as on Tuesday, 23rd 
September 2025, being the cut-off date, are entitled to 
vote on the Resolutions set forth in this Notice. A person 
who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat 
this Notice for information purposes only. Once the vote 
on a resolution(s) is cast by the Member, the Member 
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently. 
29.	 The results of the electronic voting shall be declared to 
the Stock Exchanges after the AGM. The results along 
with the Scrutinizer’s Report, shall also be placed on the 
website of the Company. 
	
Procedure for Registration of email and Mobile: 
securities in physical mode
	
Physical shareholders are hereby notified that based on 
SEBI Circular number: SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2023/37, dated March 16th, 2023, all holders 
of physical securities in listed companies shall register 
the postal address with PIN for their corresponding folio 
numbers. It shall be mandatory for the security holders 
to provide mobile number. Moreover, to avail online 
services, the security holders can register e-mail ID. 
Holder can register/update the contact details through 
submitting the requisite ISR 1 form along with the 
supporting documents.
	
ISR 1 Form can be obtained by following the link: 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.
aspx 
	
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be 
provided by any one of the following modes.
a) 	 Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV): the authorized 
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents 
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with 
IPV stamping with date and initials; or
b) 	 Through hard copies which are self-attested, which 
can be shared on the address below; or
Name
KFIN Technologies Limited
Address
Selenium Building, Tower-B, 
Plot No 31 & 32, Financial District, 
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana 
India - 500 032
c) 	 Through electronic mode with e-sign by following 
the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/
default.aspx# 
	
Detailed FAQ can be found on the link: https://ris.
kfintech.com/faq.html 
	
For more information on updating the email and 
Mobile details for securities held in electronic mode, 
please reach out to the respective DP(s), where the 
DEMAT a/c is being held.
8     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
	
	ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
 	
Director seeking appointment/re-appointment as required under Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulation, 
2015 and applicable Secretarial Standards:
Name of Directors
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
DIN 
06414463
Designation
Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director
Date of Birth /Age 
12th February 1958
Date of first Appointment on the Board
8th November 2012
Qualifications 
Diploma for Foundry Engineers from the University of 
Freiberg, Germany, and Certificates in Product Liability 
Law, Advance Product Quality Planning, and Techniques 
of Failure Mode and Effect Analysis
Relationship between Directors, Manager & KMP
None
Expertise in specific functional area 
Mr. Hahn has more than two decades of rich experience 
in Operations, Sales and Development.
Directorships held in Public Companies 
NIL
Names of the listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
NIL
Memberships / Chairmanships of Committees of 
other Companies 
NIL
No. of shares held in the Company
NIL
Terms and conditions of Re-appointment
Proposed to be re-appointed as Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation.
Last drawn remuneration
NIL
Number of meetings of the board attended during 
the year
Forms part of Corporate Governance Report
Brief resume of the director
Forms part of the Annual Report
	
For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship 
with other directors and key managerial personnel in respect of above directors, please refer to the corporate governance 
report which is a part of this Annual Report.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    9
Explanatory Statement: 
(Pursuant to Section 102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013) 
Item No. 4
In accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
Third 
Amendment Regulations dated December 12, 2024, and 
Regulation 24A (1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, every listed entity shall 
undertake Secretarial Audit by a Secretarial Auditor who shall 
be a peer reviewed company secretary. The Company may 
appoint an individual as Secretarial Auditor for not more than 
one term of five consecutive years or a Secretarial Audit firm 
as Secretarial Auditor for not more than two terms of five 
consecutive years.
It is proposed to appoint M/s. Ratish Tagde and Associates 
(CP No. 22018), Practicing Company Secretary, as Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company for an Audit period of five consecutive 
years commencing from FY2025-26 till FY2029-30, at a 
remuneration not exceeding 6,00,000/- p.a. (Rupees Six Lakhs 
only), excluding applicable GST and out-of-pocket expenses 
incurred during the course of the Secretarial Audit, payable 
for the financial year 2025–26, and subject to revision in 
subsequent years, as may be mutually agreed upon, between 
the Board of Directors of the Company and the Secretarial 
Auditor. 
Ratish Tagde, a Company Secretary in Practice, established 
his practice in 2002 and is based in Mumbai. He is a Fellow 
Member of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(ICSI) and has been in practice for over two decades in the 
areas of corporate laws, SEBI/securities market regulations, 
FEMA, FDI/ODI, RBI matters etc. He holds a valid Peer 
Review Certificate issued by ICSI. The practice unit is also 
Quality Reviewed by ICSI, ensuring the highest standards of 
professional practice and conduct.
M/s. Ratish Tagde and Associates have consented to their 
appointment as Secretarial Auditor and has confirmed that 
their appointment will be in accordance with Section 204 of 
Companies Act, 2015 read with SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015.
Based on the approval of the Audit Committee, the Board 
recommends the Resolution at Item No. 4 of the accompanying 
Notice for approval by the Members of the Company by way 
of an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out 
at Item No. 4 of the Notice.
Item No. 5
In terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 
as amended from time to time, the Company is required to 
maintain Cost Audit records and have the same audited by a 
Cost Accountant in practice.
Based on the recommendations of the Audit Committee, 
the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27th May 2025, 
appointed M/s. Rao, Murthy & Associates, as Cost Auditor 
for conducting the Cost Audit for the Financial Year ending 
31st March 2026, at a remuneration of Rs. 6,00,000/- plus 
applicable service tax and reimbursement of out-of-pocket 
expenses at actual.
Rule 14 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 as 
amended, requires that the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditor be ratified by the Members. Hence, the resolution at 
Item No. 5 of the Notice.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives is concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the Resolution.
The Board of Directors recommends the Ordinary Resolution 
set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice, for approval of Members.
Date: 27th May 2025 
Place: Bangalore 
Registered Office: 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, India
Email ID: investor.relations@dynamatics.net  
Website: www.dynamatics.com
CIN: L72200KA1973PLC002308
By Order of the Board of Directors

Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary
Membership No. ACS 19173
1 0     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
Name:……………………………….……………………………..……………………………ClientID*:……………………………….
Folio No.:………………………… DP ID*:.………....……………………...…......…… No. of shares held: ………....……
*applicable for investors holding share in electronic form.
I hereby record my presence at the 50th Annual General Meeting of the Company, scheduled at JKM Plaza, Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, India, on  Tuesday, the 30th (Thirtieth) day of September 2025 (Two 
Thousand and Twenty-Five) at  11.00 AM  
Signature of the Member / Proxy
i.	
Member/proxy holders wishing to attend the meeting must bring the attendance slip to the meeting and handover at the 
entrance duly signed.
ii.	
Members/proxy holders desiring to attend the meeting are requested to bring their copy of the Annual Report for reference 
at the Meeting.
iii.	 Member/proxy holders are also requested to bring their identity cards along with the attendance /proxy forms.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Registered Office: JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562149, India
Corporate Identity Number: L72200KA1973PLC002308
Phone Number: +91 80 2111 1223 / +91 80 2204 0535
Email ID: investor.relations@dynamatics.net; website: www.dynamatics.com
ATTENDANCE SLIP 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025    1 1
Form No.MGT-11
PROXY FORM
[Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act. 2013 and Rule 19 (3) of the Companies (Management and Administration 
Rules, 2014)]
GENERAL INFORMATION:
Name the member/s: …………………………………….………....…………………….……………………………......................
Registered address: …………………………………….………....…………………….……………………………........................
E-maiI ID: ………………………………...…………………….……...………………………....…………………….....……………….
Folio No/ Client ID:…………………………….……….....……………………..…………………………….....……………………....
DP ID: …………………………………….………....……………………..…………………………….....…………………….....………
I/We, being the member(s) of ……...................................……. shares of the above-named company, hereby appoint
1. Name: ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….......
E-mail ID: …………………………...................……………………Signature: …………….……………................................
or failing him
2. Name:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
Address: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
.
E-mail ID: …………………………...................………………… Signature: ……………..…………….................................
as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the 50th Annual General Meeting of 
the company, to be held at JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, India, 
on Tuesday, the 30th (Thirtieth) day of September 2025 (Two Thousand and Twenty-Five) at  11.00 AM, and at any 
adjournment thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below.
Signed this………………………………………………………………………… day of……………………………………………2025
Signature of shareholder: ………………………………………………………
Signature of Proxy holder(s): ………………………………………………….
Note:
This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered office of the 
Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the meeting.
Affix 
revenue 
Stamp
1 2     DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - NOTICE OF THE 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2024-2025
Scan the QR code 
to open directions in 
Google Maps
Devanahalli
Sulibele
Bettakote
Budigere
Chikkajala
Hunachur
Shettigere
Dynamatic 
Junction 
Bus Stop
NH44
SH104
NH44
NH44
Yelahanka
Sathanur
Bagaluru
Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited
Kempegowda 
international 
Airport
Route Map
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Registered Office: JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, India
Phone Number: +91 80 2111 1223 / +91 80 2204 0535
Corporate Identity Number: L72200KA1973PLC002308
Email ID: investor.relations@dynamatics.net website: www.dynamatics.com
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3
BOARD’S REPORT
TO SHAREHOLDERS
1 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
BOARD’S REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
Your directors are pleased to present herewith the 50th (Fiftieth) Annual Report of Dynamatic Technologies Limited (the ‘Company’) 
along with the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31st March 2025.
FINANCIAL RESULTS:
The Financial Results of the Company for the year ended 31st March 2025, were as follows:
	
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
Consolidated
Standalone
Year Ended 31 
March 2025
Year Ended 31 
March 2024
Year Ended 31 
March 2025
Year Ended 31 
March 2024
Revenue from Operations
1,40,380
1,42,933
63,918
58,186
Less: Cost of material and changes in inventories
65,359
66,815
31,811
27,785
Less: Employee benefit expenses
31,997
30,167
10,346
8,492
Less: Other Expenses
27,192
30,010
11,173
10,805
EBITDA
15,832
15,941
10,588
11,104
EBITDA Margin
11.28%
11.15%
16.56%
19.08%
Add: Other Income
2,280
4,282
1,661
1,830
Less: Finance Charges
5,672
6,255
4,269
5,026
Less: Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
6,929
6,636
2,549
2,410
Profit before tax & Exceptional items
5,511
7,332
5,431
5,498
Profit before tax margin
3.93%
5.13%
8.50%
9.45%
Add: Exceptional items
 - 
6,231
 - 
5,132
Less: Tax expenses
1,207
1,382
365
1,181
Profit after tax 
4,304
12,181
5,066
9,449
Profit after tax margin
3.07%
8.52%
7.93%
16.24%
Add: Other Comprehensive Income/(Losses)
1,147
1211
(271)
427
Total comprehensive income, carried to 
Balance Sheet
5,451
13,392
4,795
9,876
COMPANY PERFORMANCE:
The Consolidated net sales for FY2025 were Rs. 1,40,380 
lakhs, decreased by 1.8% as compared to Rs. 1,42,933 lakhs 
in FY2024. Consolidated EBITDA for FY2025 was reported as 
Rs. 15,832 lakhs as compared to Rs. 15,941 lakhs in FY2024. 
EBITDA margin for the year under review was 11.28% 
compared to 11.15% in FY2024.
The Aerospace segment reported a growth of 19.2% y-o-y in 
FY2025 driven by execution of commercial order book. This 
segment is positioned for continued momentum, supported 
by steady progress on key programs and new projects 
industrialization as per the schedule. Recent budgetary 
support for domestic defence procurement further positions 
us to capitalize on emerging opportunities in aerospace and 
defence modernization across the globe. However, supply 
chain constraints may persist to continue due to global 
geopolitical uncertainties.
The Hydraulics segment witnessed a year-over-year growth 
of 2.2%. However, performance in H2 was impacted by 
reduced construction activity and softer demand across key 
geographies, along with a less favorable sales mix. Margins 
were adversely affected due to negative margins in UK 
operations, primarily driven by partial charge-offs related to 
redundancies as part of the ongoing rationalization of product 
lines between the Swindon and Bangalore facilities. While 
the segment faced challenges due to muted construction 
demand, strong agricultural demand supported by a favorable 
monsoon and the government’s continued infrastructure 
push are expected to drive revenue growth in India. Margin 
improvement is also anticipated in the coming quarters, upon 
completion of the product line rationalization between India 
and the UK.
The Metallurgy segment has shown an y-o-y decline of 28.9% 
in FY2025 as the German economy remained in recession 
mainly due to a negative contribution from net trade and 
a slowdown in household consumption leading to lower 
demand. Factors contributing to the downturn included high 
energy costs, global competition coupled with geopolitical 
uncertainties, and declining industrial output.
SEGMENT PERFORMANCE:
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE: The Aerospace & Defence 
segment recorded a revenue of Rs. 60,785 lakhs compared 
to Rs. 51,009 lakhs in FY2024. Segment EBITDA for the year 
was Rs. 15,783 lakhs, reported alongside Rs. 13,094 lakhs in 
FY2024.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5
In FY2025, our aerospace segment was undeniably the 
engine of our success, driving both top-line growth and strong 
profitability. This division not only held its dominant position 
but also deepened its strategic value to our operations, 
consistently delivering excellent margins. A defining moment 
was the inauguration of the Rear Fuselage Assembly Line for 
the D328eco® turboprop in Bangalore, a crucial step in our 
partnership with Deutsche Aircraft. This milestone signals 
our successful shift from concept to serial manufacturing, 
showcasing our advanced aerospace capabilities and 
reinforcing our strong commitment to the “Make in India” 
initiative. This ongoing collaboration has significantly 
enhanced our supply chain resilience, putting us in an excellent 
position to capture the burgeoning opportunities in regional 
aviation, directly supporting India’s broader connectivity and 
sustainability ambitions. Even in the face of ongoing global 
supply chain disruptions and commodity price pressures, 
our aerospace business sustained its strong performance by 
rigorously industrializing secured programs, thereby ensuring 
the scalability and efficiency needed to fulfill demanding 
customer schedules. 
The A220 doors program is rapidly progressing. We’ve 
positioned all sub-assembly and main-assembly jigs and 
fixtures on the shop floor, and pre-production activities are 
officially underway with our fully trained team. Parts are now 
arriving to support assembly, a key step in our ramp-up. We 
also swiftly added 30,000 sq. ft. of floor space in just three 
months. The program remains on track with clear visibility and 
strong momentum. First-Article Inspection is anticipated to 
begin this September. 
A strong order book and continued revenues from large Global 
OEMs like Airbus A330, Airbus A220, Dassault new work FAI 
and Deutsche Aircraft alongside focus on increasing business 
on detailed parts at Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited (DML) 
is expected to ramp up the revenues in the coming years.
HYDRAULICS: The Hydraulics segment recorded a revenue 
of Rs. 45,804 lakhs compared to Rs. 44,834 lakhs in FY2024. 
Segment EBITDA for the year was Rs. 2,415 lakhs, reported 
alongside Rs. 3,771 lakhs in FY2024.
The Hydraulics segment maintains its position as a world 
leader in gear pump manufacturing, with operations split 
between Bangalore, India, and Swindon, UK. Facing a rapid 
and seemingly irreversible decline in European supply chain 
reliability over recent quarters, we’ve made a strategic 
decision to transfer production from our UK facility to India, 
with only select strategic lines remaining in the UK. This 
changeover, while currently impacting our operations and 
incurring significant transition costs, is projected to deliver 
substantial savings in H2 FY26 and establish a more robust, 
long-term business structure. 
Government policy continues to play a pivotal role in driving 
the sector forward. Supportive measures, including reduced 
import duties, subsidies for agricultural equipment, and 
simplified credit disbursement schemes, have enhanced 
affordability and accessibility for farmers.  The construction 
equipment industry remains integral to India’s broader 
economic development plans and is expected to play a critical 
role in enabling infrastructure-led growth.
METALLURGY: The Metallurgy segment recorded a revenue 
of Rs. 33,483 lakhs compared to same period last year 
Rs. 47,081 lakhs. Segment EBITDA was Rs. 1,004 lakhs 
compared to Rs. 2,467 lakhs in FY2024.
The Metallurgy division encountered ongoing challenges due 
to subdued industrial demand, especially in Europe, coupled 
with inflationary pressures and elevated energy costs. These 
factors contributed to a decline in revenues and margins for 
the year. 
US political shifts are changing the game for Ukraine war 
funding and have temporarily delayed offtake of Erla’s shell 
production. Meanwhile, with potential reductions in American 
aid, Germany and EU are stepping up, accelerating their own 
defence spending to ensure security, encouraging German 
companies to increase defence production.
Going forward, the segment performance will be majorly 
driven by availability of raw material, input commodity prices 
and cost of financing to end customers. Focus on high margin 
product mix, rationalization of low margin products alongside 
development of aerospace castings and forgings in the future 
is expected to drive the business growth in the coming years.
STATE OF THE COMPANY’S AFFAIRS:
Over the years, Dynamatic Technologies has created its own 
brand image and has found its niche presence in the industry. 
Dynamatic Technologies supplies products to the world’s 
renowned Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM’s) 
such as Airbus, Boeing, Bell Helicopters, Deutsche Aircraft, 
Dassault Aviation, Daimler, BMW, Macdon, JCB, John Deere 
and Mahindra & Mahindra.
The Company is focused on expanding the size of business 
with existing customers and expanding its customer base 
with addition of new customers. With a strong business 
foundation, technological excellence and industry recognition 
for products, we are confident of creating utmost value for all 
our stakeholders.
DIVIDEND:
Pursuant to the approval of the Board of Directors on 13th 
November 2024, the Company paid an interim dividend of Rs. 
2 per equity share of face value Rs. 10 each, to shareholders 
whose names appeared in the Register of Members as on 
29th November 2024, the record date fixed for this purpose. 
However, the Board did not recommend any final dividend, 
as the Company aims to conserve cash for future growth. 
Accordingly, the total dividend for the financial year ended 
31st March 2025 stands at Rs. 2 per equity share of face 
value Rs.10 each.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY:
In terms of Regulation 43A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”), the Dividend Distribution Policy duly approved 
by the Board is available on the website of the Company 
under the ‘Investors’ section at https://www.dynamatics.com
1 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
SHARE CAPITAL:
As of 31st March 2025, the Company had an authorized share 
capital of Rs. 2,500 lakhs, divided into 2,00,00,000 equity 
shares of Rs. 10/- each and Rs. 500 lakhs divided into 5,00,000 
redeemable cumulative preference shares of Rs. 100/- each.
The Issued, subscribed and paid-up Equity Share Capital 
of the Company as of 31st March 2025 was 679.14 lakhs, 
comprising 67,91,443 equity shares of Rs. 10/- each.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
The movements in reserves and surplus/retained earnings are 
available in the Statement of Changes in Equity, which forms 
part of the financial statements.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE:
During the year under review, the Company incurred capital 
expenditure of Rs. 5,860 lakhs for physical infrastructure and 
Rs. 850 lakhs for procurement of intangible assets. Significant 
investments have been made in building infrastructure, data 
security, information systems, and design and development 
activities, for the future benefits of the Company.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company 
and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards notified under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (‘Ind AS’). The Audited 
Consolidated Financial Statements together with the Auditor’s 
Report thereon form part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The Company has adopted a Policy for determining Material 
Subsidiaries in terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Policy, as approved by the Board is uploaded 
on the Company’s website at https://www.dynamatics.com. 
SUBSIDIARIES:
The Company has ten subsidiaries. There are no associate or 
joint venture companies within the meaning of Section 2(6) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”). There has been no material 
change in the nature of the business of the subsidiaries. 
The structure of Dynamatic Technologies Limited and its 
subsidiaries as on 31st March 2025, is appended hereunder:
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED, INDIA
JKM Global 
Pte. Limited, 
Singapore
Dynamatic 
Limited, UK
Yew Tree 
Investments 
Limited, UK
Eisenwerk
Erla GmbH, 
Germany
JKM 
Automotive 
Limited, 
India**
Dynamatic 
Manufacturing
Ltd, India
JKM Erla 
Automotive 
Limited, India
JKM Research 
Farm Limited, 
India
Dynamatic 
LLC, US 
2.82%
100%
97.18% 
JKM Erla 
Holdings GmbH, 
Germany*
* JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany, ceased to exist with effect from 30th 
September 2024, pursuant to the court order dated 16th September 2024.
** JKM Automotive Limited filed an application for strike-off, as it was unable 
to achieve its intended objectives and has not generated any income since its 
incorporation.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, 
a statement containing the salient features of financial 
statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Form No. AOC-1 
is attached to the financial statements of the Company.
INDIAN SUBSIDIARIES:
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited, India (DML) is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company. DML serves as a Centre of 
Excellence for detail parts and is engaged in the engineering, 
manufacturing, and delivery of components for various aircraft 
parts. Its capabilities include fabrication, precision machining, 
sheet metal work, forming technology, stretch forming, 
rubber press operations, Amada CNC bending, AWS-certified 
welding (American Welding Society), special processes, heat 
treatment, and aerospace fabrication.
JKM Research Farm Limited, India (JRFL) is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company. It continues to be the 
Research & Development facilitator to the Company. It 
supports the Hydraulics & Dynauton Division of Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited (DTL) in the areas of design concept, 
functional prototype testing, and technical information.
JKM Erla Automotive Limited, India (JEAL) continues to 
be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and is a non-
operating company.
JKM Automotive Limited (JAL) a wholly owned subsidiary 
of JEAL, is a non-operating company. JAL has filed an 
application for strike-off, as it was unable to achieve its 
intended objectives and has not generated any income since 
its incorporation. As of the date of this report, the application 
is pending with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA).
OVERSEAS WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES:
JKM Global Pte. Limited, Singapore, continues to be an 
investment hub for overseas businesses.
Dynamatic Limited, Swindon, UK, (DLUK) is a wholly 
owned subsidiary and held through JKM Global Pte. Limited, 
Singapore.
Dynamatic Hydraulics®, a division of DLUK located in Swindon, 
UK, produces high performance engineered hydraulic 
products. The plant has over 50 years of experience in gear 
pump design and manufactures and caters to agriculture, 
construction, 
and 
off-highway 
vehicle 
manufacturers. 
Products include combined variable and fixed displacement 
pump packages, temperature-controlled fan drive systems 
and fixed displacement pumps in aluminium and cast iron 
with a range of additional integrated valve options.
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®, a division of Dynamatic 
Limited UK, is located in Swindon, and is a leader in Aeronautical 
Precision Engineering and is currently manufacturing and 
supplying high precision and complex machined components 
for most of the Airbus family of aircraft.
Yew Tree Investments Limited, Bristol, UK is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Dynamatic Limited, UK.
Originally Yew Tree Investments Limited and Dynamatic 
Limited were the subsidiaries of JKM Global Pte. Limited. 
Post-merger, DLUK has both its Hydraulics and Aerospace 
units in Swindon.
Dynamatic LLC, US is a subsidiary of Dynamatic Limited, 
UK.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 7
JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany (JKM Erla) was 
engaged in the business of setting up automotive component 
processing manufacturing units. JEAL owned 100% share 
holdings in JKM Erla, which inturn held 100% share holdings 
in Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany upto 31st July 2023. As 
a result of corporate restructuring measures implemented 
by Eisenwerk Erla, the 100% shareholdings of Eisenwerk 
previously held by JKM Erla was assigned to JEAL, effective 
August 1, 2023.
As an outcome of the corporate restructuring measures JKM 
Erla ceased to exist with effect from 30th September 2024, 
pursuant to the court order dated 16th September 2024.
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany (Eisenwerk) it has been 
in business for over 630 years and is a preferred supplier to 
leading global OEMs including Audi, BMW and Volkswagen. 
The manufacturing capabilities of this subsidiary include high 
precision machining of complex metallurgical products for 
automotive engines and turbochargers.
As part of the group’s strategy, the Company’s wholly owned 
step-down subsidiary, Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany (EEG) 
had undertaken corporate restructuring measures which were 
approved in August 2023. As a result, the 100% shareholdings 
of Eisenwerk previously held by JKM Erla were assigned to 
JEAL, effective August 1, 2023. Eisenwerk is currently in the 
process of transformation from automotive/foundry-focus to 
the aerospace business.
PERFORMANCE OF SUBSIDIARIES:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act, 
a statement containing the salient features of financial 
statements of the Company’s subsidiaries in Form No. AOC -1 
is attached to the financial statements of the Company as 
Annexure-1.
There are no associate or joint venture companies within the 
meaning of Section 2(6) of the Act. There has been no material 
change in the nature of the business of the subsidiaries.  
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the financial statements of the Company, consolidated 
financial 
statements 
along 
with 
relevant 
documents 
and separate audited financial statements in respect of 
subsidiaries, are available on the website of the Company 
(https://www.dynamatics.com). 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
Based on the framework of Internal Financial Controls and 
compliance systems established and maintained by the 
Company, the work performed by the internal, statutory, cost 
and secretarial auditors and external agencies, including audit 
of internal controls over financial reporting by the Statutory 
Auditors and the reviews performed by Management and the 
relevant Board Committees, including the Audit Committee, 
the Board is of the opinion that the Company’s internal 
financial controls were adequate and effective during Financial 
Year 2024-25.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 134(5) of the Act, the 
Board of Directors, to the best of their knowledge and ability, 
confirm that:
i.	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March 2025, the applicable accounting 
standards have been followed and there are no material 
departures;
ii.	
they have selected such accounting policies and have 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the 
Company for that period;
iii.	 they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance 
of 
adequate 
accounting 
records 
in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities;
iv.	 they have prepared the annual accounts for the Financial 
Year ended 31st March 2025, on a going concern basis;
v.	
they have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively; and
vi.	 they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems are adequate and operating effectively.
DISCLOSURE ON COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL 
STANDARDS:
Your directors have devised proper systems and processes 
for complying with the requirements of applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL (KMP):
Inductions, 
Re-appointments, 
Retirements 
& 
Resignations:
The shareholders approved the appointment of Mr. Chalapathi 
P (DIN: 08087615) as an Executive Director to hold office 
for a term of three years w.e.f. 13th November 2024, till 12th 
November 2027. 
Mr. P S Ramesh (DIN: 05205364), retired as Executive 
Director & COO – Hydraulics on 13th November 2024, after 
completing his term of appointment. The Board places on 
record its appreciation for the contributions and guidance 
made by Mr. P S Ramesh, during his stint with the Company 
as Executive Director & COO – Hydraulics. 
Dr. Ajay Kumar (DIN: 01975789), resigned as an Independent 
Director on 15th May 2025, owing to his appointment as 
Chairman of the Union Public Service Commission, pursuant to 
the order of the Hon’ble President of India, thereby assuming 
a constitutional responsibility of national importance. Dr. Ajay 
Kumar has confirmed that there are no other material reasons 
for his resignation other than those stated above. The Board 
places on record its appreciation for the contributions and 
guidance made by Dr. Ajay Kumar, during his stint with the 
Company as an Independent Director.
During the year under review, the company did not have 
any pecuniary relationship or transactions with any of its 
directors, other than payment of remuneration/incentive to 
the Executive Directors and sitting fees to Non-Executive 
Directors and reimbursement of expenses incurred by 
them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Board/
Committees of the Company.
1 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
None of the Directors of the Company are disqualified from 
being appointed as Directors as specified under Section 164 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, the Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 31st March 2025, 
are:
•	
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra, CEO & Managing Director
•	
Mr. Chalapathi P, Executive Director & Chief Financial 
Officer
•	
Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary
Declaration by Independent Directors:
All the Independent Directors of the Company have given 
declarations to the Company under Section 149(7) of the 
Act, that they meet the criteria of independence as provided 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing 
Regulations’). In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the Listing 
Regulations, the Independent Directors have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstances or situations which 
exist or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or 
impact their ability to discharge their duties with an objective 
independent judgement and without any external influence.  
In the opinion of the Board, they fulfil the conditions of 
independence as specified in the Act as well as the Rules 
made thereunder and the Listing Regulations and are 
independent of the management.
BOARD MEETINGS:
Four meetings of the Board were held during the year under 
review. For details of meetings of the Board, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this 
report.
COMMITTEES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The Board has eight committees:
1. 	 Audit Committee,
2. 	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
3. 	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
4. 	 Risk Management Committee
5. 	 Technology & Strategy Development Committee, 
6. 	 Finance Committee, 
7. 	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and 
8. 	 Independent Directors’ Committee.
Details of all the Committees of Board of Directors as per 
the Secretarial Standard - 1, as issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India have been disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance Report. The Board has accepted the 
recommendations made by the Committees of Board of 
Directors during the year under review, with no instances 
where recommendations of the Audit Committee were not 
accepted by the Board.
REMUNERATION POLICY:
The remuneration philosophy at Dynamatic Technologies 
centers on fostering a culture of leadership built on trust. 
The company aims to offer opportunities that reinforce its 
performance-driven culture. Adhering to globally accepted 
governance practices, the remuneration policy is designed to 
attract, motivate, and retain talent while enhancing productivity. 
This policy creates a supportive work environment, 
encourages personal growth and teamwork, and provides 
competitive remuneration packages. Additionally, the policy is 
market-responsive, tailored to attract and retain quality talent, 
and leverage performance across different business sectors.
Members can download the complete remuneration policy on 
the Company’s website www.dynamatics.com in Investors 
Desk section.
DIVERSITY IN THE BOARD:
In line with the core strategy, the Company understands 
the importance of maintaining board diversity. Ensuring 
optimal mix of varied perspectives, skills, expertise, 
industry experience, age gender, race, ethnicity, and cultural 
background is critical to foster innovation and helps us to 
retain our competitive advantage. The Board has adopted 
the policy on appointment, continuation and cessation of 
Directors which sets out the approach to diversity in the 
composition of the Board. The Company has an optimum mix 
of executive and non-executive independent directors and 
woman director.
FAMILIARIZATION 
PROGRAMME 
FOR 
THE 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
Dynamatic Technologies ensures high corporate governance 
through appropriate induction and ongoing training for all 
directors. Each new independent director participates in an 
induction program designed to provide a comprehensive 
understanding of the company’s businesses, markets, 
and regulatory environment. This program also familiarizes 
directors with management and operations, helping them 
understand their roles and responsibilities to contribute 
significantly to the company’s growth. Directors have full 
opportunities to interact with senior management and receive 
all necessary documents to enhance their understanding 
and effectiveness. Dynamatic Technologies firmly believes 
that a well-informed and familiarized Board can significantly 
contribute to effectively discharging its role of trusteeship, 
thereby fulfilling stakeholders’ expectations. To achieve this, 
directors are continuously updated on corporate and industry 
developments, including regulatory and economic changes, 
enabling them to make well-informed and timely decisions.
During the year, the Board members visited Industrial Training 
Institute (ITI) campus, Devanahalli, Bangalore, as a part 
of familiarization program organized for the directors, key 
managerial personnel and invitees.  The visit was aimed to 
showcase the company’s initiatives to promote education as 
a part of its corporate social responsibility mission. 
Further, a special visit was arranged for all the Directors 
to the Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited (DML) facility 
located in Peenya, Bangalore, providing them with first 
hand exposure to the Company’s manufacturing and 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 9
product development operations. The Directors toured 
DML’s advanced manufacturing unit, gaining insights into 
the various processes involved in producing detailed parts 
for aerostructure assemblies, the control systems in place, 
and the overall scale of operations. Each Director spent 
approximately four hours at the facility during this visit.
The details of the familiarisation programme are uploaded 
under the Investors Desk section on the Company’s corporate 
website www.dynamatics.com.
CRITERIA 
FOR 
DETERMINING 
QUALIFICATIONS, 
POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES, AND INDEPENDENCE OF A 
DIRECTOR:
In terms of the provisions of Section 178(3) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) has 
formulated the criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of Directors, the key features of 
which are as follows:
a.	 Qualifications – A transparent Board nomination 
process is in place that encourages diversity of thought, 
experience, knowledge, perspective, age, and gender. 
This process ensures that the Board has an appropriate 
blend of functional and industry expertise. When 
recommending the appointment of a Director, the NRC 
considers how the individual’s functional and domain 
expertise will contribute to the overall skill mix of the 
Board.
b.	 Positive Attributes - Apart from the duties of Directors 
as prescribed in the Companies Act, 2013, the Directors 
are expected to demonstrate high standards of ethical 
behavior, 
communication 
skills, 
and 
independent 
judgment. They are also expected to abide by the 
respective Code of Conduct applicable to them.
c.	
Independence - A Director will be considered 
independent if he / she meets the criteria laid down 
in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD, ITS 
COMMITTEES, AND INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS:
The Board of Directors has conducted an annual evaluation 
of its own performance, board committees, and individual 
directors in accordance with the provisions of the Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations. This evaluation was guided by 
criteria and frameworks adopted by the Board. Input from 
all directors was considered, focusing on factors like board 
composition, processes, information and functioning, risk 
management and strategy, corporate social responsibility, 
organizational performance and structure, and effectiveness 
of board processes, among others.
The performance of committees was evaluated by the 
board with inputs from committee members, focusing on 
criteria such as committee composition and effectiveness of 
meetings. In a separate meeting of independent directors, 
the performance of non-independent directors, the Board 
as a whole, and the Chairman was evaluated, incorporating 
views from both executive and non-executive directors. The 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, along with the 
Board, reviewed individual director performance, considering 
factors 
like 
preparedness, 
contribution 
to 
meetings, 
interpersonal skills, and strategic input. The subsequent 
board meeting further discussed the performance of the 
Board, committees, and individual directors. Evaluation of 
Independent Directors was conducted by the entire Board, 
excluding the director under evaluation.
The Annual Performance Evaluation is conducted in a 
paperless manner, with documents securely uploaded and 
accessed electronically. This approach has led to significant 
benefits, including paper conservation, reduced cycle time 
for the evaluation process, and enhanced confidentiality of 
information.
INTERNAL 
CONTROLS 
SYSTEMS 
AND 
THEIR 
ADEQUACY:
The Board has implemented policies and procedures to 
ensure the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
encompassing adherence to the Company’s policies, 
safeguarding its assets, and preventing and detecting frauds 
and errors. Additionally, measures are in place to ensure the 
accuracy and completeness of accounting records and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial disclosures.
The Company has implemented adequate systems for 
internal control, tailored to its size and complexity. These 
systems ensure the safeguarding and protection of all assets, 
as well as the proper authorization, recording, and reporting 
of transactions. Furthermore, the Company has established 
checks and balances to verify the accuracy and reliability 
of accounting data. All related processes are thoroughly 
documented, and steps are taken to ensure compliance 
with internal control systems. Clear delineation of roles and 
responsibilities among stakeholders involved in the process 
further reinforces the effectiveness of these controls.
The Internal Auditors conduct independent evaluations 
of internal controls and concurrently audit a majority of 
transactions in terms of value. To ensure the independence 
of the audit and compliance functions, they report directly to 
the Audit Committee of the Board. Additionally, a CEO & CFO 
Certificate, included in the Corporate Governance Report, 
confirms the existence and effectiveness of internal controls 
and underscores their responsibility to report deficiencies 
to the Audit Committee and rectify them. Throughout the 
year, these controls were thoroughly tested, and no material 
weaknesses in design or operation were reported.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS:
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors, Cost 
Auditors and Secretarial Auditors have not reported any 
instances of frauds committed in the Company by its officers 
or employees, to the Audit Committee under Section 143(12) 
of the Act.
QUALIFICATIONS IN AUDIT REPORTS:
Explanations or comments made by the Board on every 
qualification, reservation or adverse remark or disclaimer 
made:
a.	 by the Statutory Auditor in their report: The report 
issued by M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, (ICAI 
Firm Registration No. 117366W/W-100018) Statutory 
Auditors for financial year 2024-25 does not contain any 
qualifications or adverse remarks.
2 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
b.	 by the Company Secretary in Practice in his 
Secretarial Audit Report: Pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, Mr. Ratish Tagde 
& Associates, Company Secretary in practice, was 
appointed to undertake the Secretarial Audit for financial 
year 2024-25. The Report of the Secretarial Auditor along 
with the certificate of non-disqualification of Directors 
for the year ended March 31, 2025, is annexed to the 
Directors’ Report as Annexure 2. The report issued by 
Secretarial Auditor for financial year 2024-25 does not 
contain any qualifications or adverse remarks.
The auditors above mentioned have used appropriate 
disclaimers to limit the scope of their audit to the 
documents provided by the management and explanations/ 
representations made by the management.
TRANSFER 
TO 
INVESTOR 
EDUCATION 
AND 
PROTECTION FUND:
a)	
Transfer of Unclaimed Dividend to Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (IEPF): 
	
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(‘IEPF Rules’), dividends, if not claimed for a consecutive 
period of seven (7) years from the date of transfer to 
Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, is liable to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(‘IEPF’).  
	
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has 
remained unclaimed for seven (7) consecutive years 
or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend 
account, shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority. The 
said requirement does not apply to shares in respect 
of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or 
Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of shares. 
In the interest of the shareholders, the Company sends 
periodical reminders to the shareholders to claim their 
dividends in order to avoid transfer of dividends / shares 
to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard are also published 
in newspapers and details of unclaimed dividends and 
shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred 
to the IEPF Authority, are uploaded on the Company’s 
website at https://dynamatics.com/ 
	
The details pertaining to the transfers is forming part of 
the Corporate Governance Report which is annexed to 
this report.
b)	 Transfer of Shares to IEPF:
 	
As required under Section 124(6) of the Act, Equity 
Shares in respect of which dividend has not been claimed 
by the members for seven consecutive years or more 
have already been transferred by the Company to the 
IEPF Authority. Details of shares transferred is available 
on the website of IEPF as well as the Company. 
	
Members who have a claim on the dividend and shares 
may claim the same from the IEPF Authority by sending 
the request letter along with the requisite documents to 
Kfin Technologies Limited and thereafter file an online 
application in the prescribed e–Form IEPF–5 upon 
receiving the entitlement letter from the Company. The 
e–Form IEPF–5 is available on the website of the IEPF 
Authority www.iepf.gov.in. No claims shall lie against 
the Company in respect of the dividend / shares so 
transferred. Members / claimants can file only one 
consolidated claim in a financial year as per the IEPF 
Rules.
c)	  DEMAT Suspense Account Unclaimed Shares: 
	
As on 31st March 2025, there are 11 members, holding 
851 Equity Shares of Rs.10/- each, lying in the escrow 
account due to non-availability of their correct particulars. 
A detailed note in this regard is provided in the Corporate 
Governance Section under “Suspense Account for the 
unclaimed shares”. The voting rights on these shares 
shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:
The Company has formulated a Policy on Related Party 
Transactions in accordance with the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations including any amendments thereto for 
identifying, reviewing, approving and monitoring of Related 
Party Transactions (‘RPTs’). The said Policy is available on the 
Company’s website at www.dynamatics.com 
All RPTs are placed before the Audit Committee for review 
and approval. Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee 
is obtained on periodic basis for the transactions which are 
planned/repetitive in nature. A statement giving details of all 
RPTs entered pursuant to omnibus approval so granted is 
placed before the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis for its 
review. All the RPTs under Ind AS-24 have been disclosed in 
Note no. 48 to the Standalone Financial Statements forming 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The RPTs entered into during the year under review were 
on arm’s length basis, in the ordinary course of business 
and were in compliance with the applicable provisions of 
the Act read with the rules framed thereunder and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. Further, the Company did not enter into 
any contracts or arrangements with related parties in terms 
of Section 188(1) of the Act and no material related party 
transactions were entered into during the year under review. 
Accordingly, the disclosure of RPTs as required under Section 
134(3)(h) of the Act in Form No. AOC-2 is not applicable to the 
Company for FY 2024-25 and hence does not form part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
In terms of Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company submits details of RPTs as per the prescribed 
format to the stock exchanges on a half-yearly basis.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND CERTIFICATE:
In terms of Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations & 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Corporate 
Governance Report, Management Discussion & Analysis 
Report, and the Auditors’ Certificate regarding Compliance to 
Corporate Governance requirements form part of this report. 
M/s. Ratish Tagde & Associates, Company Secretary in 
Practice, had conducted the Corporate Governance audit for 
the year under review. A certificate from M/s. Ratish Tagde & 
Associates, regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated under SEBI Listing Regulations is 
presented in a separate section forming part of this Annual 
Report.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    2 1
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS REPORT:
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report is presented in a separate section forming part of this 
Annual Report.
BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
& 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT:
In accordance with Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Business Responsibility & Sustainability 
Report (BRSR) is presented in a separate section and is an 
integral part of this Integrated Annual Report.
AUDITORS:
Statutory Auditors:
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, M/s. 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, (ICAI Firm Registration No. 
117366W/W-100018), were appointed as Statutory Auditors 
of the Company for a term of 5 years, to hold office from the 
conclusion of 49th Annual General Meeting held on September 
5, 2024 until the conclusion of 54th  Annual General Meeting 
to be held in 2029. 
The Auditor’s Report for the financial year 2025 does not 
contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark. The 
Auditor’s Report is enclosed with the Financial Statements in 
this Annual Report.
Cost Auditors:
During the year under review, in accordance with Section 
148(1) of the Act, the Company has maintained the accounts 
and cost records, as specified by the Central Government. 
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, has appointed M/s. Rao, Murthy & Associates, 
Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 000065) as Cost 
Auditors to audit the cost accounts of the Company for the 
FY2025-26 under section 148 of the Act. M/s. Rao, Murthy 
& Associates have confirmed that their appointment is 
within the limits of section 141(3)(g) of the Act and have 
also certified that they are free from any disqualifications 
specified under section 141(3) and proviso to section 148(3) 
read with section 141(4) of the Act. The Audit Committee has 
also received a Certificate from the Cost Auditors certifying 
their independence and arm’s length relationship with the 
Company. As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required 
to be placed before the Members in a General Meeting for 
their ratification. Accordingly, a Resolution seeking Members’ 
ratification for the remuneration payable to M/s. Rao, Murthy & 
Associates, Cost Auditors is included in the Notice convening 
the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Auditors:
The Internal Audit function is responsible for assisting the 
Audit Committee & Risk Management Committee on an 
independent basis with a full status of the risk assessments 
and management. M/s. KPMG Assurance & Consulting 
Services LLP was appointed as Internal Auditors of the 
Company to undertake Internal Audit for the FY2026.
Secretarial Auditor:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Act, and the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company had appointed M/s. 
Ratish Tagde & Associates, Company Secretary in practice to 
undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company for Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025. The Secretarial Audit Report for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, as required under 
Section 204 of the Act and Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations are appended as Annexure 2 to this Report. The 
Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any qualification, 
reservation or adverse remark. 
Further, as per Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and SEBI (LODR) read 
with SEBI (LODR) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
the Board has recommended to appoint M/s. Ratish Tagde & 
Associates, Company Secretary in practice as the Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company for the term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years i.e. from Financial Year April 1, 2025 to March 31, 2030. 
As per regulation 24(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company is required to annex the Secretarial Audit report 
of its material unlisted subsidiary to its Annual Report. 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited (JEAL) has been identified as 
Material Unlisted Subsidiary of the Company for FY2025 and 
accordingly Secretarial Audit Report of JEAL is annexed as 
Annexure - 2A.
Tax Auditors:
M/s. BVS & Associates, Chartered Accountants Firm, are the 
Tax Auditors of the Company.
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY:
The Company has a Risk Management Policy and constituted 
a Risk Management Committee as required under Listing 
Regulations. The Committee oversees the Risk Management 
process including risk identification, impact assessment, 
effective implementation of the mitigation plans, risk reporting 
and carries out other related activities as per the Listing 
Regulations. The purpose of the Committee is to assist the 
Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
with regard to enterprise risk management.
The details and the process of Risk Management as 
implemented in the Company are provided as part of 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis which forms part of 
this Report. 
The said policy has been uploaded on Company’s website 
(https://dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-Information/). 
PARTICULARS 
OF 
LOANS, 
GUARANTEES 
OR 
INVESTMENTS:
Loans, guarantees and investments covered under Section 
186 of the Companies Act, 2013 forms part of the notes to 
the financial statements provided in this Annual Report.
DEPOSITS:
During the year under review, the Company has neither 
accepted nor renewed any deposits from the public and, as 
such, no amount of principal or interest was outstanding as 
on the Balance Sheet date within the meaning of Section 73 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Acceptance 
of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
2 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY (CSR):
In line with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with applicable rules made thereunder, Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Committee has been constituted for 
the purposes of recommending and monitoring the CSR 
initiatives of the Company.
The Board, based on the recommendation of the CSR 
Committee, has formulated and adopted a CSR Policy, in 
line with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
the applicable rules made thereunder, which is available on 
the website of the Company at (https://dynamatics.com/
Investors/Shareholder-Information/). 
The CSR objectives are designed to serve societal, local and 
national goals in the locations we operate, create a significant 
and sustained impact on local communities and provide 
opportunities for our employees to contribute to these efforts 
through volunteering.
The Annual Report on the CSR initiatives undertaken by 
the Company as per the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibilities Policy) Rules, 2014 (as amended) including 
the reasons for not utilising the complete amount for CSR as 
approved by the CSR Committee, is annexed as Annexure 3. 
The details relating to the composition of the CSR Committee 
is provided in the Corporate Governance Report, forming part 
of the Annual Report. 
ANNUAL RETURN:
As per the requirements of Section 92(3) of the Act and 
Rules framed thereunder, the Annual Return for FY 2024-25 
is uploaded on the website of the Company and the same is 
available at www.dynamatics.com 
POLICY 
ON 
PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION 
AND 
REDRESSAL 
OF 
SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT 
AT 
WORKPLACE:
Your Company has zero tolerance towards sexual harassment 
at the workplace and has adopted a policy on prevention, 
prohibition and redressal of sexual harassment at workplace 
in line with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder. As required under law, 
the Company has constituted an Internal Committee for 
conducting inquiry into the sexual harassment complaints at 
the workplace and for taking such actions as stipulated under 
the said act.
Any complaint pertaining to sexual harassment is diligently 
reviewed, investigated and treated with great sensitivity. The 
Internal Committee members have been trained in handling 
and resolving complaints and have also designed an online 
POSH e-learning awareness module, for its employees. 
During the financial year 2025, there were no complaints 
received on sexual Harassment.
As a proactive step towards promoting awareness and 
understanding of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
organizes 
training 
sessions 
conducted by legal experts specifically tailored for women 
employees. These sessions aim to educate employees about 
their rights and the procedures for reporting and addressing 
instances of sexual harassment.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY AND VIGIL MECHANISM:
The Company has adopted a Vigil Mechanism Policy through 
which all stakeholders including Directors and employees may 
report unethical behaviour, malpractices, actual or suspected 
fraud, wrongful conduct, and violation of the Company’s code 
of conduct without fear of reprisal. Details of complaints 
received, and the action taken are reviewed by the Audit 
Committee.
During the year under review, the Company / Committee has 
not received any such complaint. The functioning of the vigil 
mechanism is reviewed by the Audit Committee from time 
to time.
This Policy provides for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of employees who avail of this mechanism. The 
Policy also provides for direct access to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee to best manage such events and to enable 
integrity of information. It is affirmed that no personnel of the 
Company will be denied access to the Audit Committee. The 
policy on vigil mechanism may be accessed on the Company’s 
website 
(https://dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-
Information/).  
PARTICULARS OF REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS, 
KMP AND EMPLOYEES:
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, a statement showing the names and other 
particulars of the employees drawing remuneration in excess 
of the limits set out in the said rules is attached which forms 
part of this report. Disclosures pertaining to remuneration 
and other details as required under Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is 
attached as Annexure - 4, which forms part of this report.
ENERGY CONSERVATION, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO:
The information relating to conservation of energy, technology 
absorption, Research & Development and Foreign Currency is 
appended as Annexure - 5.
OTHER DISCLOSURES:
Events Subsequent to the Date of the Financial 
Statements:
There have been no material changes / commitments affecting 
the financial performance of the Company which occurred 
between the end of the Financial Year of the Company to 
which the Financial Statements relate and the date of this 
Report.
Change in the Nature of Business, if any:
The Company continues to focus on its key business segments 
and looks for selective growth / expansion opportunities. 
There was no change in the nature of business during the 
year under review. State of the affairs of the Company and 
future plan of action and outlook is discussed in this report.
Significant & Material Orders Passed by the Regulators:
During the year under review, no significant / material orders 
were passed by the regulators or the Courts or the Tribunals 
impacting the going concern status and the Company’s 
operations in future.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    2 3
Partnerships and Collaborations:
Dynamatic Technologies has forged significant partnerships 
with esteemed academic and defense research institutions 
to advance indigenous product development for India’s 
defense and paramilitary sectors, aligning with the vision of 
Atmanirbhar Bharat, as advocated by our Prime Minister.
A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was inked with 
the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, focusing on 
the design and development of unmanned solutions tailored 
for surveillance and reconnaissance applications. This 
collaboration harnesses the cutting-edge expertise of IIT 
Kanpur to drive innovation in unmanned systems, addressing 
critical defense and security needs.
In addition, an agreement was established with the Central 
Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) to facilitate 
the design and development of advanced optical sensors 
and payloads. Leveraging CSIO’s specialized capabilities, 
this partnership aims to bolster Dynamatic Technologies’ 
capabilities in delivering state-of-the-art optical solutions for 
defense applications.
Through these strategic partnerships, Dynamatic Technologies 
is at the forefront of fostering indigenous innovation and 
technology development, contributing to the nation’s self-
reliance aspirations in defense and security domains.
Credit Rating:
During the year under review, the Company’s debt facilities 
were rated by India Ratings and Research. The instrument 
wise ratings are as below:
Instrument Type
Rating / Outlook
Term loan
IND A / Stable
Fund / Non-fund based 
working capital limit
IND A / Stable / IND A1
Listing with Stock Exchanges:
The Company confirms that it has paid the Annual Listing 
Fees for the year FY2025 to NSE (DYNAMATECH) and BSE 
(505242) where the Company’s Shares are listed.
Promoters:
The list of the promoters is disclosed for the purpose of 
the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011.
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra is the promoter of the Company within 
the definition of ‘Promoter’ for the purpose of regulations 
2(1) (s) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
Details of the promoter group are appended as under:
No. Name of the entity / person:
1.	 JKM Holdings Private Limited
2.	 Udayant Malhoutra and Company Private Limited
3.	 JKM Offshore India Private Limited
4.	 Christine Hoden (India) Private Limited
5.	 Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
6.	 Mrs. Barota Malhoutra
7.	 Primella Sanitary Products Private Limited
8.	 Vita Private Limited 
9.	 Wavell Investments Private Limited
GREEN INITIATIVES:
In alignment with its commitment to green initiatives and 
sustainable practices, Dynamatic Technologies has taken 
a proactive step by opting for electronic distribution of the 
Notice of the 50th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the 
Company, along with the Annual Report for the fiscal year 
2024-25. This initiative involves sending electronic copies of 
these documents to all members whose email addresses are 
registered with the Company or Depository Participants.
By transitioning to electronic communication for AGM 
notices and annual reports, Dynamatic Technologies aims 
to minimize paper usage and reduce its environmental 
footprint. This eco-friendly approach not only supports the 
company’s sustainability goals but also reflects its dedication 
to responsible corporate citizenship.
APPRECIATION:
The Board of Directors extends its heartfelt gratitude to the 
employees, customers, vendors, investors, and communities 
associated with Dynamatic Technologies for their unwavering 
cooperation and invaluable support throughout the year. Their 
dedication and partnership have been instrumental in the 
company’s achievements and successes.
Furthermore, the Board expresses gratitude to the 
Government of India, Government of Karnataka, and various 
State governments, as well as government departments and 
agencies, for their collaboration and support.
The contributions of every member of the Dynamatic family 
are deeply appreciated and valued, reflecting the collective 
effort and commitment towards the company’s mission and 
goals.
Finally, the Board acknowledges and thanks all the company’s 
customers for their continued trust and patronage. Their 
support has been pivotal in shaping Dynamatic’ s journey and 
success.
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
CEO & Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & CFO
DIN : 08087615
Place: Bengaluru
Date: 27th May 2025
2 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Annexure 1 
FORM AOC 1 (Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
Sr 
No
Name of the Subsidiary
Share 
Capital
Reserves 
& Surplus
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities 
[excl. (2) 
& (3)]
Investments
% of 
Holding
Turnover
Profit 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit 
after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend 
(incl. 
dividend 
tax)
Long-term
Current
Total
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
Foreign Subsidiaries (Reporting currency reference mentioned against each Subsidiary)
1
Dynamatic Limited UK
 9,285 
 13,087 
 58,881 
 36,509 
 805 
 - 
 805 
100%
 40,050 
 1,046 
 194 
852
 - 
2
Yew Tree Investments Ltd,UK
 0.11 
 2,359 
 2,615 
 257 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100%
 - 
 86 
 27 
58
 - 
3
Dynamatic US, LLC
 - 
 (1,246)
 (1,246)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100%
 48 
 (149)
 - 
 (149)
 - 
4
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH
 1,482 
 8,739 
 20,565 
 10,344 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100%
 32,822 
 (251)
 (76)
 (175)
 - 
5
JKM Global Pte Limited, Singapore
 13,181 
 775 
 22,391 
 8,435 
 13,938 
 - 
 13,938 
100%
 - 
 11 
 1 
 10 
 - 
Indian Subsidiaries
6
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
 10,792 
 1,629 
 12,504 
 83 
 12,503 
 - 
 12,503 
100%
 - 
 (73)
 - 
 (73)
 - 
7
JKM Automotive Limited
 1 
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
8
Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited
 3,800 
 (1,073)
 7,732 
 5,005 
 33 
 - 
 33 
100%
 6,634 
 (157)
 - 
 (157)
 - 
9
JKM Research Farm Limited
 500 
 2,156 
 2,673 
 17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
100%
 - 
26
8
 18 
 - 
Details of reporting currency and the rate used for converting.
Reporting 
Currency 
Reference
For Conversion
Currency
Average Rate (in `)
Closing Rate (in `)
a
GBP
   108.34 
110.66 
b
SGD
       63.19 
       63.71 
c
USD
      84.67 
      85.51 
d
EURO
       90.86 
92.61 
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: JKM Erla Automotive Limited and JKM Automotive Limited. However, JKM Automotive Limited filed 
an application for strike-off, as it was unable to achieve its intended objectives and has not generated any income since its incorporation.
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany, ceased to exist with effect from 30th September 
2024, pursuant to the court order dated 16th September 2024.
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & CFO
DIN : 08087615
Place: Bengaluru
Date: 27th May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & Company 
Secretary
Rs in Lakhs
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    2 5
ANNEXURE – 2
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2025.
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014].
To,
The Members of
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CIN: L72200KA1973PLC002308
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis,
55 KIADB, Aerospace Park, 
Bangalore 562149
I have conducted the secretarial audit compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices 
by Dynamatic Technologies Limited (“the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted through online/offline inspections/
verification of documents in manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory 
compliances and expressing my opinion thereon. Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given to me and 
the representations made by the Management and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, I hereby report that in my opinion, the company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended 31st March 2025, complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has 
adopted a proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter. I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March 2025, according to the provisions of:
1.	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder.
2.	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA) and the rules made hereunder.
3.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder.
4.	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings.
5.	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): 
-
a)	
SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
b)	 SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. 
e)	 SEBI (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client; and 
f)	
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements), Regulations, 2015.
g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and employee Stock Purchase Scheme) 
Guidelines, 1999.
h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; and 
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998.
2 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India:
a)	
Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1); and
b)	 General Meetings (SS-2)
c)	
Dividends (SS-3)
d)	 Report of Board of Director (SS-4) 
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc., mentioned above.
I have relied on the representations made by the Company and its Officers for systems and mechanism formed by the Company 
for compliances under other applicable Acts, Laws and Regulations to the Company. The major head/groups of Acts, Laws and 
Regulations as applicable to the Company are:
i.	
Industrial Laws.
ii.	
Labour Laws. 
iii.	 Environmental and prevention of pollution Laws. 
iv.	 Tax Laws. 
v.	
Economic and Commercial Laws. 
vi.	 Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and 
vii.	 Shops and Establishment Act.
I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-
Executive Directors, Woman Director and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent in 
advance, the meetings were held in compliance with the applicable provisions. There is a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
For Ratish Tagde & Associates.
(Company Secretaries)
Mr. RatishTagde
 (Proprietor) 
	
	
	
 CP.NO. 22018
FCS NO. 6162
UDIN: F006162G000454601
Place: Mumbai	
	
Date: 27th May 2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    2 7
For Ratish Tagde & Associates.
(Company Secretaries)
Mr. RatishTagde
 (Proprietor) 
	
	
	
 CP.NO. 22018
FCS NO. 6162
UDIN: F006162G000454601
Place: Mumbai	
	
Date: 27th May 2025
To,
The Members of
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CIN: L72200KA1973PLC002308
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 
55 KIADB, Aerospace Park, 
Bangalore 562149
My Secretarial Audit Report date is to be read along with this letter. I have conducted the Secretarial Audit relying on the information 
and records made available to me.
1.	 Maintenance of secretarial record, devise proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and 
regulations and to ensure that the systems are adequate and operate effectively are the responsibilities of the management 
of the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records, systems, standards and procedures 
based on audit.
2.	 I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on virtual basis and on test basis to ensure the correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for 
my opinion.
3.	 I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	 Wherever required, I have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
5.	 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards are the responsibility 
of management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	 The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
2 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
ANNEXURE - 2A
Form No. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
CIN: U35122KA2011PLC056973
C/o. Dynamatic Hydraulics, Plot No.1A/1, 
1st Main Road, 2nd Phase,1st Stage, 
Peenya Industrial Estate, Bangalore - 560058, Karnataka, India.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by JKM Erla Automotive Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing our opinion 
thereon.  
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: 
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on March 31, 2025, according to the provisions of: 
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules made thereunder; 
ii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byelaws framed thereunder; 
iii.	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
iv.	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder: to the extent of its applicability to 
an unlisted Company;
v.	
The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992(‘SEBI Act’): to the extent 
applicable;
vi.	 The Company has identified the following laws as specifically applicable to the Company:
1.	 Factories Act, 1948 & the Central Rules or concerned State Rules, made thereunder
2.	 Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 
3.	 The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules 
4.	 The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules 
5.	 Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989
6.	 Manufacture, Storage, and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989 
7.	 The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules
8.	 The Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 & EPF, FPF Schemes
9.	 The Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules 
10.	 The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules/ Notification of Minimum Wages applicable 
to various class of industries/ Trade 
11.	 The Payment of Wages Act, 1936 & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules if any 
12.	 The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules if any 
13.	 The Payment of Gratuity Act & its Central Rules/ Concerned State Rules if any
14.	 The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & its Rules
15.	 The Employee’s Compensation Act, 1923
16.	 The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 & its Rules 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    2 9
17.	 The Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
18.	 The Trade Marks Act, 1999
19.	 Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: 
i.	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) 
ii.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015: - to the 
extent applicable to an unlisted Company which is a subsidiary of a listed Company.
iii.	 SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015: - to the extent applicable to an unlisted Company which is a subsidiary 
of a listed Company. 
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above. 
We further report that: - 
•	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took 
place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
•	
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent out 
in compliance with the provisions of Secretarial Standards, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
•	
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as part of the 
minutes. 
•	
We further report that based on review of compliance mechanism established by the Company, we are of the opinion that 
the management has adequate systems and processes commensurate with its size and operations, to monitor and ensure 
compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines; and 
•	
As informed, the Company has responded to notices for demands, claims, penalties etc. levied by various statutory / regulatory 
authorities and initiated actions for corrective measures, wherever necessary. 
We further report that: - 
i.	
The Company in its Board Meeting held on 08th August, 2024 approved the borrowing from holding Company, Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited upto a maximum amount of Rs.75,00,000/- (Rupees Seventy Five Lakhs only).
ii.	
The Company in its Board Meeting held on 06th February, 2025, approved the borrowing from holding Company, Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited upto a maximum amount of Rs.10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs only).
There are no other specific events/actions in pursuance to the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines etc., having a 
major bearing on the Company’s Affairs.
This report to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this 
report.
For BMP & Co. LLP 
(Company Secretaries) 
Subhashri K
Partner 
 Membership No: A62771
CP No: 27534
PR No.: 6387/2025
UDIN:  A062771G000564745
Date: 26th May, 2025
Place: Bengaluru
3 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
‘Annexure A’
To, 
The Members, 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
CIN: U35122KA2011PLC056973
C/o. Dynamatic Hydraulics, Plot No.1A/1, 
1st Main Road, 2nd Phase,1st Stage, 
Peenya Industrial Estate, Bangalore - 560058, Karnataka, India
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter:-
1.	 Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
as opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	 We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
5.	 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, Rules, Regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	 The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7.	 We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax laws has not 
been reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial audit and other designated 
professionals.
For BMP & Co. LLP 
(Company Secretaries) 
Subhashri K
Partner 
 Membership No: A62771
CP No: 27534
PR No.: 6387/2025
UDIN:  A062771G000564745
Date: 26th May, 2025
Place: Bengaluru
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    3 1
ANNEXURE – 3
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
1. 	 A brief outline of the company’s CSR policy, including overview of projects or programs proposed to be undertaken and a 
reference to the web-link to the CSR policy and projects or programs:  
	
Dynamatic CSR Policy has identified programs such as - Promoting Education, Ensuring Environmental Sustainability and 
Promoting Healthcare.  
	
Having identified the CSR Policy and Programs, our mission is to deploy our CSR team and concerned employees to participate 
in our CSR initiatives in a structured manner. Our objectives are to embed CSR in the overall strategy of the Company and 
implement CSR activities which build trust with stakeholders and create long term sustainability value with measurable 
outcome.
	
Through our CSR Programme we have been equipping the underserved communities with the amenities they need, empower 
the rural youth with technical / shop floor skills and knowledge.   
	
Apart from the above, as a part of Promoting Education, Ensuring Environmental Sustainability and Promoting Healthcare, the 
company has identified the following programmes for the forthcoming Financial Year:
•	
Special education and employment enhancing vocation skills especially among children, women, and the differently abled 
and livelihood enhancement projects.
•	
Ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal, welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural resources and 
maintaining quality of soil, air, and water.
•	
Preventive healthcare and sanitation, including contribution to the Swach Bharat Drive of the Central Government for the 
promotion of sanitation and making available safe drinking water
2. 	 Composition of CSR Committee: 
Sl. No.
Name of Director
Designation Nature 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
Chairperson
1 
1
2
Mr. Pradyumna Vyas 
Member
1 
1 
3
Mr. P.S Ramesh *
Member
1 
1
4
Mr. Chalapathi P**
Member
1
-
	
*Mr. P.S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024.
	
** Mr. Chalapathi P was inducted on 13th November 2024. 
3. 	 Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed 
on the website of the company.  
	
The CSR policy of the Company is available on the Company’s website www.dynamatics.com. (https://www.dynamatics.
com/Investors/Shareholder-Information/) 
4. 	 Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).: Not Applicable
5. 	 Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
SI. No
Particulars 
Amount (in Rs. Lakhs)
a
Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135.
                        4,489 
b
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 
135.
                              89.78 
c
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years.
-
d
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any.
2.86
e
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (b+c-d)
86.92
6.   a)   Amount spent on CSR projects (both Ongoing Project and other than ongoing projects)
Sl. No
Name of Project 
Items from the list of activities 
in Sch VII to the Act.
Local 
( Yes / 
No)
Amount spent 
for the project
Mode of 
Implementation
1
Promoting Education
Education 
Yes
8.90
Direct
2
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability
Environment 
Yes
33.90
Direct
3
Preventive Health care and 
Sanitisation
Health care 
Yes
48.10
Direct
	
All the above CSR activities were done in Karnataka - Bengaluru through direct mode.
3 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable
d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: Rs. 90.90 Lakhs 
e)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial 
Year (in Rs) 
Amount Unspent (in Rs. Lakhs)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
sub-section (6) of section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub-section (5) 
of section 135
Amount.
Date of transfer.
Name of the 
Fund 
Amount.
Date of transfer.
42.90
48
28/04/2025
Nil
Nil
Nil
f)	
Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl.No
Particular
Amount (in Rs. Lakhs)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 
135
89.78
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
90.90
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
1.12
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
0
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years*
3.98
	
*The total amount spent during the year towards CSR is Rs. 90.90 Lakhs as against obligation of Rs 86.92 Lakhs (Refer Table 5 above).   
	
 The excess amount to be set off in the succeeding financial years is Rs. 3.98 Lakhs (Rs. 90.90 Lakhs - Rs 86.92 Lakhs). 
7.	 Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Nil
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: Yes
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars 
of the property or 
asset (s) including 
complete address 
and location of the 
property
Pin code 
of the 
property 
or assets
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent (in 
Rs)
Details of entity/ authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered address
1
Construction of Bus 
Station at Dynamatic 
Junction
562149
January 
2025
1,10,120/-
NA
KIADB 
Aerospace 
Park, 
Bangalore
KIADB Aerospace Park 
Bangalore
2
Provided 15 KVA 
Diesel Generator 
along with 
accessories
562149
January 
2025
3,56,000/-
NA
Police 
Station, 
Bagalur
Bagalur Colony, BEML 
Layout, Razack Palya, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka
3
Police Chowki along 
with Patrolling Car, 
KIADB Aerospace 
Park, Bagalur police 
station.
562149
March 
2025
48,00,000/-*
NA
Police 
Station, 
Bagalur
Bagalur Colony, BEML 
Layout, Razack Palya, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka
	
*This project is currently under progress 
 9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of 
section 135. 
	
With reference to 6 (e) of Annual CSR report, Rs. 48 Lakhs is transferred to unspent account towards the multi-year ongoing 
projects as approved by the CSR committee and in accordance with the rules under section 135 of Companies Act by MCA. 
Amount has been set aside is as per the terms of two of the projects taken up in the year. Below are the details of unspent 
amount details –
1.	 Ensuring Environmental Sustainability - Rs. 10 Lakhs
2.	 Promoting Healthcare & Safety - Rs. 38 Lakhs
	
The amount thus set aside will be spent as per MCA guidelines.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    3 3
ANNEXURE 4
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION (CTC) OF KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND OTHER DIRECTORS:
1.	 Details / Disclosures of Ratio of Remuneration to each Director to the median employee’s remuneration of the Employees 
of the Company (Ratio) for the financial year 2023-24 and the percentage increase in remuneration of Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMP) (%) during the Financial Year 2024 -25:
Sl 
No
Name & Designation
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Increase / 
(Decrease)
Ratio
% Increase 
/ (Decrease)
1
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra, CEO & 
Managing Director
Director 
& KMP
1,21,99,080 1,44,00,000 
22,00,920 
1:20 
18.04%
2
Mr. P S Ramesh, Executive Director 
& COO Hydraulics
Director 
& KMP
1,17,25,985 
72,80,610 
NA 
NA 
NA 
3
Mr. Chalapathi, Executive Director & 
CFO
Director 
& KMP
1,02,32,728 1,20,00,000 
17,67,272 
1:16 
17.27%
4
Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary 
KMP
50,11,631 
78,00,000 
27,88,369 
1:11 
55.64%
	
Note 
1.	
Employers contribution to provident fund is included in CTC of FY 2023-24 & FY 2024-25 
2.	
The Director & KMP in Serial No 2  retired on 13th November 2024 and the remuneration stated above is excluding final settlement 
payment towards leave encashment and gratuity. 
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees (Rs.)
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
16,00,000
Mr. Pradyumna Vyas
20,00,000
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
19,00,000
Dr. Ajay Kumar*
12,00,000
*Mr. Ajay Kumar resigned  on 15th May 2025.
2.	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in this financial year: 4.7%
3.	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of company as on 31st March 2025: 869
4.	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last 
financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and 
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:  
	
The average percentage increase in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel is 11.85 %
	
Average percentage increase in the managerial remuneration: 24.62%
5.	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company: It is hereby affirmed that the 
remuneration paid during the year is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
6. 	 Details of the employees drawing remuneration of Rs. 8.50 lakhs per month or Rs. 1.20 crores per annum:
Name
Designation
Grade
Monthly 
CTC
Performance Linked 
Pay - Monthly
Total Monthly CTC
Udayant Malhoutra 
CEO & MD
C1
12,00,000
                  - 
       12,00,000
Chalapathi P 
ED & CFO
C3
   9,50,000
        50,000
         10,00,000
V Ravichander
CTO
C3
   9,50,000
        50,000
       10,00,000
3 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
ANNEXURE - 5
Details on Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption 
and Foreign Exchange Earnings & Outgo
(Pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 8(3) of The Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014)
A.	 Conservation of Energy 
	
All our facilities in India and abroad are built with the 
environment in mind and the processes are designed 
for efficiency in usage of resources, energy conservation 
and to ensure that no waste is transmitted into the 
environment. The industrial complexes are highly 
energy efficient and completely non-polluting. This has 
been made systematic and quantifiable through the 
implementation of ISO 14001.
1) 	 The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy
	
The Company has implemented a water balance 
system to optimize usage, resulting in a savings 
of 12,480 KL of water and reducing costs by Rs. 
12,48,000.
2) 	 The steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate 
sources of energy 
	
The Company has partnered with a private firm for 
rooftop solar, utilizing 7,25,000 kWh of solar power 
for its operations and saving Rs. 21,75,000 in energy 
costs. This initiative supports its efforts to reduce 
carbon footprint and promote sustainability.
3) The capital investment on energy conservation 
equipment: Nil
4) 	 The Company has installed EV charges for vehicles in 
the campus. Thus, it is in the process of reducing the 
carbon footprint by going green.
B. 	 Technology Absorption
1)	 The efforts made towards technology absorption. 
	
Research & Development plays a vital role in developing 
and implementing new technologies to enhance our 
operational efficiency. Dynamatic Hydraulics designs and 
builds bespoke geared products for farm mechanization, 
construction, forestry, mining, material handling, and 
industrial machines. Most products are developed using 
simulations of actual operating conditions, followed 
by extensive user trials. The company uses advanced 
software like Creo-III, SolidWorks, Ansys, and AMESim, 
with rapid prototyping and validation labs in India and 
the UK. The company is engaged in state-of-the-art 3D 
designs using software such as CATIA V5, Unigraphics 
NX, and Mastercam for their design and development 
activities meeting global OEM standards. Holding several 
patents, the R&D team in both countries comprises 
experts in application engineering, product design 
and validation, process design, material science, and 
integrated system design. Engineering teams collaborate 
closely with leading government and private research 
institutes in India, the UK, and the US, including DSIO, 
IIT Kanpur, IISc, Bath University, and MSOE. Aerospace 
and Hydraulics units in India and the UK, along with 
Automotive units in India and Germany, work together to 
develop solutions and enhance synergy across the group.
	
The Company’s Research & Development is overseen 
by the Board-level Technology & Strategy Development 
Committee, which guides R&D strategy and addresses 
key technology issues. The Committee regularly reviews 
and updates required skills, competencies, structure, 
and processes to ensure R&D initiatives support the 
Company’s sustained long-term growth.
2)	 Some of the benefits derived are product improvement, 
cost reduction, new product development or import 
substitution.
	
R&D and innovation remain integral to the Company’s 
growth, profitability, sustainability, and contribution to 
nation-building. The Dynamatic Science Lab, formed 
by consolidating research and technology functions, 
enhances value by leveraging skills and expertise to 
create new business opportunities.
3)	 Imported technology (imported during the last three 
years reckoned from the beginning of the financial 
year) Dynamatic Technologies has in-house design 
and engineering teams in India, the UK, and Germany, 
leveraging their expertise to develop world-class products 
and solutions globally. We focus on import substitution 
and Make in India initiatives rather than importing 
technologies. Our efforts have been recognized by the 
Prime Minister and honored with several indigenization 
awards.
4)	 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development 
	
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
31st March 2025
31st March 2024
a. Capital
725
103
b. Revenue
670
711
Total
1,395
814
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    3 5
C.	 FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
	
Particulars of foreign exchange earnings and outgo are as follows:
	
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
a. Total Foreign Exchange Earned
     Sales of goods and service
33,137
31,697
    Interest Income earned
765
554
     Foreign Exchange Earned
33,902
32,251
b. Total Foreign Exchange Used
13,783
25,368
    Import of materials, components, stores & spares, etc
11,051
8,628
    Foreign Travels
255
297
    Capital Expenditure
-
427
    Lease Rent
395
436
    Finance Cost
89
531
    Term Loan repayment
-
8,198
    Inter-company loan provided
-
6,766
    Investment 
1,993
-
    Others, if any
-
85
Place: Bengaluru
Date: 27th May 2025
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & CFO
DIN : 08087615
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
CEO & Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
3 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
To,
The Board of Directors
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
We, Udayant Malhoutra, Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director and Chalapathi P, Executive Director & Chief Financial 
Officer of Dynamatic Technologies Limited have reviewed the Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31st March 2025, 
and we hereby certify and confirm to the best of our knowledge and belief the following:
a.	
The Financial Statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
b.	 The Financial Statements together present a true and fair view of the affairs of the Company and are in compliance with 
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations;
c.	
There are no transactions entered in to by the Company during the year ended 31st March 2025, which are fraudulent, illegal 
or violative of Company’s Code of Conduct;
d.	 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for Financial Reporting and we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of these internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting. Deficiencies noted, if any, 
are discussed with the Auditors and Audit Committee, as appropriate, and suitable actions are taken to rectify the same;
e.	 There have been no significant changes in the above mentioned internal controls over financial reporting during the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
CEO / CFO CERTIFICATION IN RESPECT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AND CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(Pursuant to Regulation 17(8) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for the 
Financial Year ended 31st March 2025)
Place: Bengaluru
Date: 27th May 2025
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & CFO
DIN : 08087615
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
CEO & Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
Place: Bengaluru
Date: 27th May 2025
Udayant Malhoutra
CEO & Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
Declaration by the CEO under Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligation and 
disclosure requirements) Regulation, 2015 regarding adherence to the Code of Conduct
Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board 
members and the senior management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance to their respective Codes of 
Conduct, as applicable to them for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    3 7
BUSINESS OVERVIEW:
Incorporated in 1973, Dynamatic Technologies Limited 
(‘Dynamatic 
Technologies’ 
or 
the 
‘Company’) 
is 
a 
manufacturer of highly engineered, mission critical products 
for the Aerospace, Hydraulics and Metallurgy industries. With 
futuristic design, engineering and manufacturing facilities in 
Europe and India, Dynamatic Technologies serves customers 
across six continents.
The Company is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of 
hydraulic gear pumps and automotive turbochargers, having 
held the leadership position in the hydraulic gear pumps market 
for 50 years. Dynamatic Hydraulics commands approximately 
80% of the Indian OEM tractor market and about 38% of the 
global tractor market. Dynamatic Technologies is a pioneer 
and leader in the private sector, both in India and the UK, 
in the manufacture of precision flight-critical and complex 
airframe structures and aerospace components. It serves as a 
Tier-1 supplier to global aerospace OEMs and primes such as 
Airbus, Boeing, Bell Helicopters, Dassault Aviation, Deutsche 
Aircraft, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Bharat Electronics 
Limited and Spirit Aerosystems. The Company also produces 
high-precision, complex metallurgical ferrous components 
for performance-critical applications like turbochargers and 
exhaust manifolds, with advanced design and development 
capabilities to meet OEM needs.
Dynamatic Technologies’ facilities located in India (Bengaluru 
& Coimbatore), United Kingdom (Bristol & Swindon) and 
Germany (Schwarzenberg), are environmentally sensitive 
- green, lean, clean and aligned to our vision of CARE. The 
Company is vertically integrated, with its own alloy-making 
and casting capabilities as well as its own captive green 
energy sources.
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
operates 
in 
three 
business 
segments: Hydraulics, Aerospace & Defence and Metallurgy.
Hydraulics: Dynamatic Technologies is one of the largest 
manufacturers of hydraulic gear products in the world, with 
state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities in India, the United 
Kingdom, and Milwaukee, USA. This business unit designs 
and manufactures hydraulic gear pumps in both aluminum 
and cast iron, available in multiple frame sizes. The product 
range includes high-efficiency gear pumps, low noise pumps, 
high-pressure pumps, axial piston pumps, low torque high-
speed hydraulic motors, plunger hand pumps, hitch control 
valves, rock shaft assemblies, power steering valves, and 
mobile control valves for global OEMs.
The business unit also manufactures bespoke, high-flow 
scavenging pumps, lube oil pumps, and water pumps for 
high-horsepower engines, which are used in off-highway 
vehicles, marine, and offshore equipment. Additionally, the 
Company designs and builds customized hydraulic solutions, 
from simple hydraulic pumping units to complex marine 
power packs, aircraft ground support systems, and turnkey 
industrial installations.
Equipped with advanced innovation and development 
centers in Bengaluru (India) and Swindon (UK), Dynamatic 
Technologies holds several patents and has a wealth of 
experience in application engineering and rapid prototyping 
capabilities. This allows Dynamatic Hydraulics to develop 
bespoke solutions for OEMs efficiently and effectively.
Aerospace & Defence: Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® 
(DOA) is a pioneer and leader in the Indian private sector for 
the manufacture of high-precision airframe and aerospace 
components. The Company boasts best-in-class infrastructure 
to meet the needs of global OEMs such as Airbus, Boeing, 
Bell Helicopters, Dassault Aviation, and Deutsche Aircraft. 
Domestically, it collaborates with defense sector PSUs like 
HAL and BEL.
The major products of the Aerospace & Defence segment 
include control surfaces such as wings, ailerons, and wing 
flaps, fuselages, doors, and other key flight-critical airframe 
structures like flap track beams. Over time, the Aerospace 
division has developed excellent capabilities in automated 
robotic machining and the production of five-axis components 
in aluminium, steel, and titanium. Additionally, the Company 
has expertise in advanced tooling capabilities.
Metallurgy: The Metallurgy division supplies highly complex 
parts to customers worldwide, producing intricate iron castings 
in sophisticated alloys for various industries. Operating one of 
the most modern foundries in Europe, the company develops 
and manufactures components used globally. By leveraging a 
high level of specialist education and the strategic advantages 
of its location, the company creates significant added value 
for its international customers.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
With three design laboratories spanning India and Europe, 
Dynamatic Technologies stands as a leading private R&D 
organization, boasting numerous inventions and patents. The 
Company has established a robust Intellectual Property (IP) 
strategy aimed at constructing an effective portfolio for future 
monetization, collaboration, and risk mitigation, with a keen 
focus on emerging technologies.
The Company holds various patents across countries such 
as India, the USA, the UK, Germany, and other European 
nations. In addition to these patents, the Company has 
registered 39 trademarks and has applied for multiple others 
in various jurisdictions including India, the USA, the UK, and 
other European countries. Dynamatic Technologies boasts 
a talented workforce comprising over 90 scientists and 650 
engineers and technicians.
These experts bring their skills in Product Design and Validation, 
Simulation, Application Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, 
Advanced Computer-Aided Engineering, Computer-Aided 
Manufacture, Materials & Metallurgical Engineering, Fluid 
Dynamics, and Defence & Aerospace Research. The state-of-
the-art JKM Science Center serves as a hub, integrating Design 
Engineering, Development, Prototyping, Metallurgical, and 
Manufacturing Infrastructure. This cohesive setup empowers 
the Company to comprehensively address the diverse needs 
of its global clientele.
The Dynamatic Hydraulics Research Laboratory in Swindon, 
UK, has advanced design knowledge, focused on the 
Mobile Hydraulics, best-in-class engineering capabilities 
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FOR FY2025
3 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
and intellectual property with several patented products 
and designs. This facility provides testing and validation 
of new products for various OEM customers. Dynamatic 
Technologies integrated engineering organisation focuses on 
new product development, new product introduction with the 
overlaid APQP process works closely with its OEM customers 
anticipating their future product needs.
GLOBAL MACROECONOMIC SCENARIO
In 2024, the global economy navigated a complex environment 
shaped by economic conditions, geopolitical dynamics, and 
policy changes. According to the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), global GDP grew by 3.3%, with emerging 
markets, particularly in Asia, outpacing advanced economies 
in growth. Despite challenges such as the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine conflict, trade tensions among major economies, 
and persistent supply chain disruptions, the global economy 
demonstrated resilience. Furthermore, investment decisions 
across sectors were increasingly influenced by shifting 
climate policies and regulatory frameworks.
The U.S. economy showed positive momentum, with a real 
GDP growth rate of 2.8%, supported by a stable labour market 
and moderating inflation. However, the Eurozone grew at a 
modest 0.9%, with Germany experiencing slight contraction. 
In contrast, emerging markets saw more robust growth, with 
China’s economy expanding by 5.0%, driven by government 
measures and a stabilizing real estate market.
Global inflation, although still a concern, is gradually improving. 
It is forecasted to reach 5.7% in 2024, down from 6.7% in 
2023. While inflation in advanced economies is expected to 
ease towards target levels by late 2025, emerging markets 
are anticipated to experience a slower, but steady, decline. 
Central banks globally are expected to maintain stable interest 
rates until mid-2025, after which they may begin easing 
policies in response to economic conditions.
OUTLOOK
The global economy is projected to maintain steady growth in 
the coming years, with GDP expected to rise by 2.8% in both 
2025 and 3% in 2026, supported by strong performances from 
the U.S. and major emerging markets. Advanced economies 
will likely experience stable growth, with projections of 
1.4% in 2025 and 1.5% in 2026. The U.S. is expected to see 
growth peak at 1.8% in 2025 before tapering off to 1.7% by 
2026, largely due to changes in the labor market and slowing 
consumer spending.
Global inflation is anticipated to continue its downward 
trajectory, reaching 4.2% in 2025 and 3.5% by 2026. However, 
some regions may continue to face inflationary challenges, 
resulting in monetary policy divergence. While many central 
banks will reach their inflation targets by mid-2025, some 
will maintain tighter measures to manage persistent price 
pressures. The transition to cleaner energy presents both 
opportunities and challenges, particularly for resource-
dependent economies, while the increasing frequency 
of extreme weather events poses a threat to agricultural 
productivity and broader economic stability.
(Source: IMF - World Economic Outlook)
INDIAN ECONOMY
India’s economic trajectory remains robust and promising, 
supported by strong domestic demand, strategic reforms, 
and a growing influx of foreign investments. As the world’s 
fifth-largest economy, India achieved a growth rate of 6.5% 
in FY2024-25, following an impressive 9.2% growth in the 
previous financial year. This sustained growth reflects the 
resilience of the country’s economic fundamentals, driven 
by favourable policy support, a dynamic services sector, and 
increasing domestic consumption.
The government’s focus on infrastructure, both physical 
and digital, along with reforms such as ‘Make in India’ and 
the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, continues to 
drive the country’s economic growth. The services sector is 
poised to maintain strong momentum, with an anticipated 
growth rate of 7.2%, supported by growth in key segments 
like financial services, real estate, professional services, 
and public administration. Additionally, India’s ranking as 
the fifth-largest economy globally by nominal GDP and the 
third largest by purchasing power parity (PPP) highlights its 
growing economic significance.
Inflation in India remains under control, with the Consumer 
Price Index (CPI) expected to stabilize at around 5.6% by the 
end of FY2024-25. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) continues 
to maintain a balanced approach, supporting economic growth 
while managing inflation through a stable policy repo rate of 
6.5%. India’s per capita Net National Income (NNI) saw a 
healthy increase of 6.08%, rising from Rs 98,374 in FY2022-
23 to Rs. 1,04,550 in FY2023-24, contributing to enhanced 
household consumption across both urban and rural sectors.
OUTLOOK
India’s growth outlook remains positive, with GDP expansion 
projected to range between 6.2% and 6.3% in FY2025-26. 
The country’s ambitious goals of becoming the world’s third-
largest economy by 2030, driven by infrastructure investment, 
private capital expenditure, and financial services expansion, 
are well within reach. India’s demographic advantage, coupled 
with aggressive policy measures and a strong consumer 
base, further strengthens its long-term growth prospects.
The government’s continued focus on capital spending, fiscal 
discipline, and enhancing business and consumer confidence 
will foster an environment conducive to investment and 
consumption growth. Programs such as Make in India 2.0, 
Ease of Doing Business reforms, and the PLI scheme are 
expected to boost manufacturing, exports, and infrastructure, 
positioning India as a global manufacturing hub.
Moreover, India’s commitment to infrastructure development, 
coupled with adaptive monetary policies and rural consumption 
support, is expected to drive sustainable economic growth 
in the coming years. By 2027-28, India aims to achieve a $5 
trillion economy, with a vision to reach $30 trillion by 2047.
(Source: PIB, MoSPI, Economic Survey)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    3 9
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND SEGMENT DISCUSSION:
HYDRAULICS:
Dynamatic Hydraulics® stands as one of the global leaders 
in hydraulic geared products manufacturing, boasting cutting-
edge facilities in India, the UK, and the USA. The extensive 
product line encompasses a diverse array of solutions, 
including hydraulic gear pumps in aluminium and cast iron, 
axial piston pumps, motors, valves, and complete hydraulic 
systems. With a commitment to bespoke design tailored to 
each application, they cater to both domestic and international 
markets, offering unparalleled versatility and reliability. This 
comprehensive approach, coupled with a dedication to 
innovation and quality, solidifies Dynamatic Hydraulics® as a 
premier provider in the hydraulic industry, serving a multitude 
of sectors worldwide.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK:
FARM MECHANISATION:
The Indian agricultural machinery market continues to 
demonstrate consistent expansion, with its size estimated at 
USD 18.15 billion in 2025 and projected to reach USD 27.29 
billion by 2030, representing a CAGR of 8.5%. This upward 
trajectory is primarily driven by the increasing need to improve 
farm productivity and operational efficiency in response to 
rising agricultural output and evolving cultivation practices.
A key enabler of this trend is the persistent shortage of 
agricultural labour, prompted by the migration of rural workers 
to urban centres and the growth of alternative employment 
opportunities in allied sectors. Government schemes such as 
the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) have 
also contributed to reducing the seasonal workforce availability 
in key agrarian states, especially during critical phases such 
as sowing and transplantation. Consequently, demand for 
mechanised solutions has accelerated, particularly in regions 
like Punjab and Haryana.
India maintains its global leadership in tractor manufacturing, 
with this segment accounting for a significant share of the 
country’s agricultural machinery market. Tractor sales recorded 
a 28.6% increase between 2020 and 2023, supported by 
improved financing accessibility, greater affordability, and 
rising awareness of mechanisation benefits. The expansion 
of rural banking networks and microfinance institutions has 
further facilitated access to credit for machinery procurement.
Government policy continues to play a pivotal role in driving 
the sector forward. Supportive measures, including reduced 
import duties, subsidies for agricultural equipment, and 
simplified credit disbursement schemes, have enhanced 
affordability and accessibility for farmers. At the same time, 
increased rural income-stemming from improved crop yields-
has enabled higher spending on mechanised tools and 
equipment.
Despite these advancements, the overall penetration of 
tractors and related machinery remains moderate, suggesting 
strong potential for future growth. Additionally, the rise of 
contract farming is expected to accelerate the adoption of 
advanced farming technologies by enabling access to shared 
resources, technical training, and financial support through 
agri-enterprise partnerships.
As farming becomes increasingly time-sensitive and yield-
focused, mechanisation will continue to serve as a catalyst for 
transformation in Indian agriculture. Supported by structural 
shifts and policy enablers, the agricultural machinery industry 
is expected to maintain its growth momentum over the 
coming years.
https://www.imarcgroup.com/farm-agricultural-equipments-industry-india
http://mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/india-agricultural-machinery-
market
CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL HANDLING:
The Indian construction equipment market is positioned for 
long-term growth, with its size estimated at USD 7.91 billion 
in 2025 and projected to reach USD 11.78 billion by 2030, 
translating to a CAGR of 8.3%. This expansion is being driven 
by sustained government investments in infrastructure, 
rapid urbanisation, and the increasing requirement for 
mechanisation in large-scale development projects.
Government infrastructure initiatives such as Bharatmala 
and Sagarmala, along with ongoing developments in airport 
construction, railway corridors, and affordable housing 
under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana, are expected to 
stimulate demand for a broad range of equipment-including 
backhoe loaders, excavators, and wheeled loaders. These 
developments continue to support the sector’s medium-to-
long-term growth trajectory.
However, the Indian Mining and Construction Equipment 
(MCE) industry recorded a subdued performance during 
the first eleven months of FY2025, with growth moderating 
to approximately 3%, down from 26% in FY2024. This 
deceleration was primarily due to the general elections, which 
delayed project awards and execution, as well as prolonged 
monsoon conditions that impacted on-ground construction 
progress. Export performance also moderated, with growth 
of 7% in FY2025 compared to a 49% increase in the previous 
fiscal.
Within the domestic segment, earthmoving equipment 
retained its position as the dominant category, registering 5% 
year-on-year growth. In contrast, most other sub-segments 
reported volume declines. Overall industry volumes for 
FY2025 are expected to show limited expansion, with 
projected growth in the range of 2–3%. Notably, concrete 
and road construction equipment exports recorded a strong 
uptick, increasing by 133% and 122%, respectively.
Looking forward to FY2026, the industry is expected to 
register moderate growth of 2–5%. However, certain 
headwinds persist. Challenges related to liquidity constraints, 
rising financing costs, and upward revisions in equipment 
pricing-driven by compliance with new emission norms and 
enhanced safety standards-may limit short-term demand. 
Price hikes in the range of 12–15% are anticipated, which 
could temporarily impact purchase decisions.
Despite near-term pressures, the medium-term outlook 
remains constructive, supported by the government’s 
continued focus on infrastructure expansion and favourable 
trends in commodity markets. The construction equipment 
industry remains integral to India’s broader economic 
development plans and is expected to play a critical role in 
enabling infrastructure-led growth.
4 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Dynamatic Technologies designs and manufactures pumps 
and motors for construction equipment applications. While 
the company currently holds a limited share in this segment, it 
views the space as a strategic growth opportunity. Continued 
investments in product development and market expansion 
are aimed at strengthening the Company’s presence in this 
evolving sector.
https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/india-construction-
equipment-market
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/118385432.cms?utm_
source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst
https://infra.tractorjunction.com/en/news/construction-equipment-industry-
growth-in-fy2025
SEGMENT OVERVIEW:
Dynamatic Hydraulics manufactures high precision hydraulic 
products and solutions for tractors, construction equipment, 
material handling and machine tool industries. The Company 
has three state-of-art manufacturing facilities at Bengaluru for 
geared products- pumps and motors, Integrated Hydraulic 
solutions like hitch control valves, rockshaft assemblies and 
power units for defence applications. This manufacturing 
facility is supported by a very advanced design, R&D center 
and a rapid prototyping laboratory.
Dynamatic Hydraulics commands approximately 80% of 
the Indian OEM tractor market and about 38% of the global 
tractor market. It also designs and builds complete hydraulic 
solutions including hydraulic hitch control valve with draft 
control and complete rockshaft assembly for the agricultural 
tractors. 
The Indian agricultural machinery market continues to 
demonstrate consistent expansion, with its size estimated at 
USD 18.15 billion in 2025 and projected to reach USD 27.29 
billion by 2030, representing a CAGR of 8.5%. This upward 
trajectory is primarily driven by the increasing need to improve 
farm productivity and operational efficiency in response to 
rising agricultural output and evolving cultivation practices.
The Indian construction equipment market is positioned for 
long-term growth, with its size estimated at USD 7.91 billion 
in 2025 and projected to reach USD 11.78 billion by 2030, 
translating to a CAGR of 8.3%. This expansion is being driven 
by sustained government investments in infrastructure, 
rapid urbanisation, and the increasing requirement for 
mechanisation in large-scale development projects.
Furthermore, with given growth potential in the construction 
equipment sector, Dynamatic is investing in the development 
of high pressure, heavy-duty cast iron pumps to cater to 
the construction equipment sector. These products are in 
various stages of development and testing, which will cater 
to the global OEMs. Some of these products will undergo 
production phase in coming years, with supplies to global 
OEMs and aftermarket.
Operational Performance 	
(Rs in lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change (%)
Revenue
45,804
44,834
2.16%
EBITDA
 2,415 
3,771
(35.96)%
Margin %
5.3%
8.4%
The revenues for this segment increased to Rs. 45,804 lakhs 
compared to Rs. 44,834 lakhs in the same period last year. 
EBITDA for FY2025 was Rs. 2,415 lakhs and Rs. 3,771 lakhs 
during last year. This segment reported an increase in topline 
FY2025 due to upward trajectory primarily driven by the 
increasing need to improve farm productivity and operational 
efficiency in response to rising agricultural output and evolving 
cultivation practices.
AWARDS & ACCOLADES:
Dynamatic Hydraulics® has successfully completed the 
2nd surveillance audits by ULDQS India, to ISO: 9001-2015 
for Quality Management System, ISO:14001-2015 for 
Environmental Management System and IS0 45001-2018 for 
occupational health and safety management systems.
The store facility was shifted from existing stores to Unit 2 
facility as a central store and same has been reflected and 
considered in ISO audit and certified.
Dynamatic Hydraulics® received a number of awards, listed 
below, at the National and State level in the FY2024-25. This 
is due to our relentless pursuit of excellence in everything 
we do.
Jan’2025: 17th National Poka Yoke Competition, won silver 
award for “Elimination of wrong mounting in welding 
operation” on Hand pump reservoir.
Successfully implemented 9 stages cutting in cycle to reduce 
chips generation in the gear pumps.
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE:
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK:
DEFENCE AEROSPACE: 
India’s Aerospace and Defence (A&D) sector is undergoing 
a strategic shift, propelled by modernisation initiatives, 
enhanced capital outlays, and increased private sector 
participation. The domestic market is expected to expand 
from USD 19.81 billion in 2025 to USD 26.32 billion by 2030, 
reflecting a CAGR of 5.84%. This growth is underpinned by 
the government’s strong policy push, rising defence exports, 
and an expanding industrial base.
The Ministry of Defence has set an ambitious target to 
achieve an annual turnover of USD 36.1 billion (INR 3 lakh 
crore) in defence manufacturing and services, along with 
annual defence exports of USD 6.02 billion (INR 50,000 crore) 
by FY2028-29. In FY2025-26, the defence budget allocation 
rose by 9.5% YoY to INR 6.81 lakh crore (USD 78.7 billion), 
with INR 1.80 lakh crore (USD 20.8 billion) earmarked for 
capital expenditure – encompassing procurement of advanced 
military platforms such as aircraft, warships, and armoured 
vehicles.
The sector continues to benefit from increasing focus on 
indigenisation. Programmes such as the Arjun Main Battle 
Tank (MBT), T-90 Bhishma upgrades, Future Infantry Combat 
Vehicle (FICV), HAL’s Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), and 
advanced UAV procurements are contributing to the growth 
momentum. The Indian Air Force is also seeing renewed 
investment in indigenous platforms, with the LCA Tejas 
programme and expanded UAV development forming critical 
components of its future force structure.
The Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MRO) segment is 
gaining traction in response to the growing need for reliable 
and cost-effective maintenance of the defence fleet. India is 
developing specialised MRO infrastructure supported by the 
adoption of digital technologies to enhance fleet readiness and 
reduce reliance on overseas service providers. Companies 
are increasingly adopting digital solutions to optimise MRO 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    4 1
operations and extend aircraft lifecycles, thereby improving 
availability and cost efficiency.
Defence spending worldwide reached USD 2.4 trillion in 
2023, reflecting heightened geopolitical risks and growing 
demand for unmanned aerial systems, cyber-defence, and 
ISTAR (Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition, and 
Reconnaissance) capabilities. The global appetite for drone 
technologies, particularly in military and strategic roles, is 
rising sharply.
India is positioning itself to integrate into global value chains 
through its expanding manufacturing base, favourable policy 
environment, and emphasis on self-reliance under initiatives 
such as ‘Make in India’ and the Strategic Partnership model.
India’s 
growing 
engineering 
capabilities, 
competitive 
manufacturing costs, and commitment to building indigenous 
capacity are shaping its emergence as a critical player in 
global aerospace and defence supply chains.
https://www.statista.com/markets/407/topic/939/aerospace-defense-
manufacturing/#overview
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/aerospace-defense/
aerospace-and-defense-industry-outlook.html
https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/india-aviation-defense-
and-space-market
COMMERCIAL AEROSPACE:  
The commercial aerospace sector continued its recovery 
trajectory in FY2025, supported by sustained growth 
in passenger traffic, policy tailwinds, and infrastructure 
development. According to ICRA, India’s aviation industry is 
expected to register a revenue growth of 10–15% in FY2025, 
following a 15–20% increase in FY2024. While passenger 
volumes have rebounded strongly, earnings recovery remains 
gradual due to the sector’s high fixed-cost structure.
India’s civil aviation market remains one of the fastest-
growing globally. Key demand drivers include a growing 
middle-class population, a rising share of working-age 
individuals, and improved regional connectivity. During the 
April–December 2024 period, total passenger traffic stood 
at 196.91 million, comprising 140.11 million domestic and 
56.8 million international passengers-reflecting year-on-year 
growth of 8.1% and 13.5%, respectively. For the full fiscal 
year FY2024, Indian airports handled 306.79 million domestic 
and 69.64 million international passengers, underscoring the 
sector’s growth momentum.
This surge in air traffic is mirrored in aircraft movement, 
which has risen at a CAGR of 3.85% from FY2017 to FY2024, 
reaching 2.67 million movements in FY2024. The long-term 
aircraft demand is estimated to exceed 2,200 by 2042. In line 
with rising passenger volumes, domestic capacity, measured 
in Available Seat Kilometers (ASK), reached 162,289 million 
kms, while demand, measured in Revenue Passenger 
Kilometers (RPK), touched 148,251 million kms in FY2024.
The Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MRO) segment 
presents a significant growth opportunity. The Indian MRO 
market, which stood at approximately USD 800 million in 
2018, is projected to surpass USD 2.4 billion by 2028. Policy 
initiatives announced under the Union Budget 2024–25-such 
as the standardization of IGST on aircraft parts to 5% and 
extended re-import timelines for repaired components-are 
expected to accelerate domestic MRO expansion. Industry 
forecasts indicate that domestic MRO revenues could triple 
by FY2028.
Air freight remains a priority growth area, with cargo volumes 
during April–December 2024 reaching 2.79 million metric 
tonnes. Of this, 1.05 million tonnes were domestic freight and 
1.74 million tonnes were international. Between FY2016 and 
FY2024, domestic and international cargo volumes expanded 
at a CAGR of 3.0% and 2.7%, respectively. The government 
aims to enhance perishable cargo connectivity by introducing 
133 new dedicated cargo routes, targeting a 30% increase in 
cargo flight operations.
Infrastructure investment continues to anchor the sector’s 
long-term growth. As of 2023, India had 148 operational 
airports, with plans to scale this to 220 by 2025. The Airports 
Authority of India (AAI), along with private developers, has 
earmarked a capital investment of Rs. 98,000 crore (USD 12 
billion) over the next five years. Additionally, the government 
has allocated USD 1.83 billion for airport infrastructure and 
aviation navigation system development through 2026.
Policy reforms have further supported the sector’s growth. The 
government has permitted 100% Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI) in scheduled air transport services-up to 49% under the 
automatic route and beyond that via government approval. 
For Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), 100% FDI is allowed 
under the automatic route, enabling enhanced private sector 
participation and capital inflows.
Collectively, these trends and policy measures position India 
as a key market in the global aviation landscape, underpinned 
by strong domestic demand, infrastructure augmentation, 
and a conducive regulatory environment.
https://www.investindia.gov.in/sector/civil-aviation
https://www.ibef.org/industry/indian-aviation
SEGMENT OVERVIEW:
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®, India, is a pioneer and 
a recognized leader in the Indian private sector for the 
development of complex aero-structures and manufacturer 
of aircraft parts and accessories. The Company is also 
vertically integrated to manufacture machined and sheet 
metal components, with soft and hard tooling, assembly 
jig manufacturing along with comprehensive engineering 
capabilities. The Aerospace & Defence Division has the 
largest infrastructure in the Indian private sector for the 
manufacture of complex aero structures. QMS is AS9100 
approved, NADCAP approved for heat treatment, spot 
welding, non-destructive testing and metrology, the Company 
is also approved by major OEMs like Airbus, Boeing, Bell 
Helicopters, Deutsche Aircraft and Dassault Aviation. Further, 
it also caters to domestic requirements from major OEMs like 
Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) & Hindustan Aeronautics 
Limited (HAL).
The Company’s modern and state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facilities in India and the UK deliver high value to its customers, 
by seamless integration of highly skilled workforce for 
assemblies and sheet metal detail parts requiring artisanal 
capabilities and low cost of capital for manufacturing at the 
UK. The Company launched ‘DOET – Dynamatic Operational 
Excellence and Transformation’ prevailing way to DTL 2.0 as 
the language of change for sustainable growth and increased 
value to the customers and shareholders.
The Company has delivered over 8,200 aircraft sets of 
Single Aisle Flap Track Beams till date and has successfully 
completed the A320 re-design of the Flap Track Beam with 
a Monolithic structure working closely with Spirit Aero 
4 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Systems. Dynamatic Technologies is a Tier-1 Global Single 
Source manufacturer of Airbus A330 Flap Track Beams, the 
long-range aircraft variant. The Company is the largest single 
source manufacturer of the flap track beams in the world for 
Airbus. The Company is focused on developing capabilities in 
doors and large aero-structural assemblies and systems.
Operational Performance 	
(Rs in lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change (%)
Revenue
 60,785 
51,009
19.17%
EBITDA
 15,783 
13,094
20.54%
Margin %
26.0%
25.7%
During the FY2025, the Aerospace & Defence segment 
recorded a revenue of Rs. 60,785 lakhs compared to Rs. 
51,009 lakhs in FY2024.  Segment EBITDA for the year 
was Rs.15,783 lakhs, reported alongside Rs. 13,094 lakhs 
in FY2024. The Aerospace segment reported a growth of 
19.2 % y-o-y driven by resilient performance of air transport 
industry.  Commercial deliveries and ramp-up of parts for 
F-15EX Eagle and Escape Hatch Doors for Airbus A220 aircraft 
has contributed to top line and new business opportunities.  A 
strong order book by major aircraft producers will drive both 
defence and commercial demand once global supply chain 
issues are resolved.
India’s 
growing 
engineering 
capabilities, 
competitive 
manufacturing costs, and commitment to building indigenous 
capacity are shaping its emergence as a critical player in global 
aerospace and defence supply chains.  India’s Aerospace and 
Defence (A&D) sector is undergoing a strategic shift, propelled 
by modernisation initiatives, enhanced capital outlays, and 
increased private sector participation. The domestic market 
is expected to expand from USD 19.81 billion in 2025 to USD 
26.32 billion by 2030, reflecting a CAGR of 5.84%. This growth 
is underpinned by the government’s strong policy push, rising 
defence exports, and an expanding industrial base.
AWARDS & ACCOLADES:
In FY2024-25, Dynamatic Technologies Limited received 
industry wide recognition and won a few major awards: 
•	
SEP 2024: One team from DML presented Improvement 
case study secured the prestigious Gold Award at the 
Chapter Convention on Quality Concepts (CCQC) 2024 
organized by the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI). The 
same team was awarded the First Prize in the English 
Slogan Competition held during CCQC 2024.
•	
DEC 2024: DML participated its 1st Nationals in 38th 
National Convention on Quality Concepts (NCQC 2024) & 
earned the Excellence Award.
Dynauton Systems® - Revolutionizing Defence Operations
Dynauton Systems® is a next-generation Indian technology 
start-up and is wholly owned and housed within Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited. Dynauton focuses on the design 
and manufacture of advanced Unmanned Aerial Systems 
and critical subsystems such as gimbals, autopilots, radars, 
propulsion units, avionics, and integrated software solutions. 
The company is also developing cutting-edge anti-drone 
technologies including radio-frequency directional finders, 
drone detection radars, electro-optic systems, and loitering 
munitions.
With a highly experienced team drawn from premier Indian 
institutions 
and 
multinational 
organizations, 
Dynauton 
is dedicated to delivering world-class engineering and 
manufacturing excellence for unmanned systems in India. Our 
current focus is on expanding our UAV portfolio to enhance 
military operational capabilities and strategic intelligence, 
providing advanced surveillance and loitering munition 
solutions that empower armed forces to operate effectively 
in critical environments
Over the past year, we have strengthened our position as 
a trusted partner in defense and strategic technology by 
delivering cutting-edge solutions across core domains.
METALLURGY:
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK
Germany’s economy continued to face a period of stagnation 
in FY2024, shaped by elevated energy costs, evolving global 
trade dynamics, and broad macroeconomic uncertainty. 
Despite these challenges, the conclusion of national elections 
and the outlook for fiscal reforms under the new government 
have created a cautiously optimistic environment, with 
expectations of targeted measures to revitalise domestic 
industry.
The German automotive sector remains a key contributor 
to the national economy, accounting for nearly 6% of 
the country’s GDP. However, structural headwinds have 
intensified, including high input costs, a deceleration in 
electric vehicle (EV) adoption, and weakening global demand. 
According to the German Automobile Association (VDA), 
Germany produced approximately 4.1 million passenger 
vehicles in 2024, a level consistent with the previous year but 
still 12% below pre-pandemic output in 2019. The combination 
of supply chain pressures, subdued consumer sentiment, and 
rising global competition-particularly from China and potential 
U.S. trade measures-has impacted production volumes and 
overall sector performance.
The industry is undergoing a period of transformation, marked 
by declining new vehicle sales, rising labour and energy 
costs, and a slow transition to EV platforms. These trends 
have triggered wider sectoral challenges, with implications 
for OEMs and Tier-1 suppliers across the value chain. Mass 
layoffs announced by some manufacturers reflect the extent 
of the pressures facing the industry. Nonetheless, Germany 
continues to maintain a deep manufacturing ecosystem, 
supported by engineering expertise, an innovation-led 
Mittelstand base, and a highly skilled workforce.
Despite the broader slowdown in the German automotive 
sector, long-term prospects are expected to be shaped by 
re-industrialisation efforts, enhanced capital deployment 
frameworks, and a push for innovation-led growth. The 
evolving policy direction in Germany, including a shift from 
fiscal conservatism towards strategic investments in core 
industries, is likely to play a key role in supporting industrial 
resilience. Dynamatic Technologies remains focused on 
aligning its operations with these long-term shifts while 
navigating short-term volatility in the external environment.
Dynamatic Technologies’ German subsidiary, Eisenwerk 
Erla GmbH (EEL), remains aligned with the broader industry 
shift towards high-margin, technology-intensive segments. 
The company has taken strategic steps to transition from its 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    4 3
traditional automotive and foundry operations to focus more 
deeply on the aerospace domain. This realignment supports 
the Group’s objective of building a diversified portfolio 
anchored on performance-critical components and scalable 
platforms.
https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cz6pzwj6qq7o
https://www.weforum.org/stories/2025/03/germany-s-economic-crossroads-
could-lead-it-to-thrive-in-the-re-industrial-era/
https://www.dw.com/en/in-2025-german-auto-industry-faces-make-or-break-
year/a-71148148
SEGMENT OVERVIEW:
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany (EEL), a subsidiary of 
Dynamatic Technologies, is a preferred supplier of complicated 
and sophisticated castings to leading global OEMs. The 
company’s most important customers in this segment are 
AGCO-FENDT, BMW, Rolls Royce, MAN, LIEBHERR, Vögele, 
Borg Warner Turbo Emission Systems, Daimler Truck, 
Continental Aerospace Technologies and Rotax.
Eisenwerk Erla is expanding its production of castings for 
agricultural and road construction vehicles as well as for 
stationary and sports engines, which are part of the newly 
developing business model. With its long history and major 
investments, the company has become one of the best 
developed iron foundries in Europe. The Erla ironworks 
produces extremely complicated iron and steel castings 
in the most difficult materials. The high level of research 
and development expertise ensures the plant’s continued 
development as a modern foundry. EEL continues to offer 
access to the latest technologies and global markets, which 
sets us apart from our competitors in this industry. The 
company’s processing facilities are fully automated and 
utilise the latest technological innovations. This is the basis 
for high competitiveness and the opportunity to build on this 
expertise.
Operational Performance 	
(Rs in lakhs)
Particulars 
FY2025
FY2024
Change (%)
Revenue
 33,483 
47,081
-28.89%
EBITDA
1,004
2,467
-59.55%
Margin %
3.0%
5.2%
The revenue for this segment was Rs. 33,483 lakhs compared 
to same period last year Rs. 47,081 lakhs. Segment EBITDA 
was Rs. 1,004 lakhs compared to Rs. 2,467 lakhs in FY2024. 
The decrease in top line was owing to the combination of 
supply chain pressures, subdued consumer sentiment, and 
rising global competition-particularly from China and potential 
U.S. trade measures-that impacted production volumes 
and overall sector performance. The segment profitability 
decreased because of inflation scenario in energy, material 
cost, and rising labour cost alongside a slow transition to EV 
platforms. 
In FY2025, the entire industry in Germany was severely 
affected by continuing inflation and instability in Europe, the 
ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and developments in energy 
and material costs. German SMEs are particularly hard hit in 
this regard and are generally unable to pass on the sharp rise 
in costs in full to the end customer.
EEL is expanding the machining shop, the automation of cutting 
and grinding process in the foundry and also implementing its 
transition plan to build up a further line of business for the 
manufacture of components for aircraft applications at the 
EEL site in addition to the existing production.
TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY:
Dynamatic Technologies being a Tier-1 supplier for OEMs has 
continuously invested in technology to make the business 
more cost effective and world class. The Company’s best 
practices include implementing lean manufacturing and 
continuous improvement programs. Dynamatic Technologies 
has also launched QSP – Quality, Safety & Productivity 
and DOET – Dynamatic Operational Excellence and 
Transformation, as its new business initiative to emphasise 
these aspects to the customer.
The Company has state-of-the-art inspection equipments like 
CMM and laser tracker, and high accuracy 5-axis machines 
which are one of the largest giga milling machines in the 
country. This giga milling machine is equipped with a special 
probing software system complying to Industry 4.0.
Dynamatic Technologies continues to maintain skill and 
competency of its direct and indirect work force using a 
software called CATI (Competency Assessment & Training 
Identification). The software is designed to map each of the 
employees’ skill level and training needs and enables the 
management to provide employee development programs 
that are necessary for the business growth and sustainability.
The Company has also established an in-house Skill 
Development Center to train and mentor new recruits. Having 
adopted a Government ITI under PPP, Dynamatic Technologies 
provides training to the students, preparing them to serve in 
any Aerospace and Defence industry in order to make the 
‘Make In India’ drive a great success.
During 
FY2023, 
Airbus 
Group 
awarded 
the 
Global 
Sustainability Award to the company as a recognition of the 
services in delivering the products during Pandemic and post-
pandemic period.
During FY2024, Boeing Defence awarded the Company 
with ‘Global Supplier of the year award as a recognition of 
its services in delivering the products with highest on time 
delivery and quality performance.
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®, UK is a demonstrated leader 
in the development of exacting airframe structures and 
precision aerospace components. It has a unique state-of-the 
art facility at Swindon, possessing complex 5 axis with robotic 
machining capabilities for the manufacture of aerospace 
components and tooling. Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace®, 
UK specializes in reverse engineering, re-engineering, fixture 
design and manufacturing. This division is a certified supplier 
to Airbus UK, GKN Aerospace Europe & USA, Spirit Aero 
Systems, Boeing, Magellan Aerospace, GE Aviation Systems 
and Leonardo. It is compliant with AS 9100 Rev D standards.
In addition, Dynamatic Technologies maintains accreditation 
for Environmental Management System (EMS) certification 
under 
ISO14001, 
Occupational 
Health 
and 
Safety 
Management System (OHSAS) certification under ISO45001, 
4 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Information Security Management System certification under ISO/IEC 27001 and NABL-Competence of Testing & Calibration Lab 
accreditation to ISO/IEC17025.
Dynamatic Technologies offers its customers a comprehensive solution of high complex, highly skilled multi-axis machining from 
the UK and high value added, highly skilled sheet metal detail parts alongside assembly from India. This provides customers with 
offset credits and best value from two cost models.
ANALYSIS OF KEY RATIOS:
In accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company is required to 
give details of significant changes (change of 25% or more as compared to the immediately previous financial year) in key sector-
specific financial ratios.
An analysis of key ratios for the period under review is as follows:	
 (Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change %
Comments
EBITDA
 15,832 
 15,941 
-0.68%
Previous year net profit consists of exceptional income 
INR 6,231 lakhs, hence margins were high as compared to 
current year
EBITDA Margins
11.3%
11.2%
Net Profit
 4,304 
 12,181 
-64.67%
Net Profit Margins
3.1%
8.5%
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change %
Comments
Debt Equity
 0.80 
 0.88 
-9.1%
Changes are not material
Current Ratio
 1.28 
 1.31 
-2.0%
Interest Coverage Ratio
 1.57 
 1.49 
5.5%
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change %
Comments
Return of Net worth
6%
18%
-67.1%
Previous year net profit consists of exceptional income 
INR 6,231 lakhs, hence margins were high as compared to 
current year
Return on Assets
3%
8%
-66.3%
Return on Capital Employed
7%
12%
-44.2%
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change %
Creditors Turnover
 3.1 
 3.2 
-2%
Debtors Turnover
 4.8 
 5.1 
-7%
Inventory Turnover
 2.0 
 2.2 
-9%
FINANCIAL CONDITION:
Share Capital	
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change 
(%)
Share Capital
 679 
 679 
-
Reserves & Surplus
 71,071 
 66,095 
8%
As of 31st March 2025, the Company has an authorized share 
capital of Rs 2,500 lakhs, divided into 2,00,00,000 equity 
shares of Rs10/- each and Rs 500 lakhs divided into 5,00,000 
redeemable cumulative preference shares of Rs 100/- each. 
The Company’s issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share 
capital is Rs 679 lakhs. 
The Reserves and Surplus were Rs. 71,071 as on 31st March 
2025, an increase amounting to Rs. 4,976 lakhs compared to 
31st March 2024.
The change is attributable to:	
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
Profit for the year
 4,304 
Other Comprehensive Income/ (Loss)
 (323)
Credit balance arising on consolidation
 1,470 
Net Comprehensive Income for the year
 5,451 
Dividend Distribution
 (475)
Total
 4,976 
Borrowings:	
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change 
(%)
Long term borrowings
 17,524 
 19,319 
-31.6%
Short term 
Borrowings
 27,580 
 26,497 
30.0%
Total
 45,104 
 45,816 
-1.5%
Lease Liability
 12,021 
 12,693 
-5.3%
Total
 57,125 
 58,509 
-2.4%
Fixed Assets:	
 (Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
FY2025
FY2024
Change 
(%)
Property plant and 
equipment
 58,541 
 57,292 
2.2%
Right-of-use assets
 9,172 
 10,034 
-8.6%
Capital work in 
progress
 1,816 
 515 
252.6%
Goodwill 
 9,802 
 9,397 
4.3%
Other Intangible 
assets
 2,568 
 2,434 
5.5%
Intangible Assets 
Under Development
 1,071 
 483 
121.7%
Total
 82,970 
 80,155 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
During the year under review, the Company incurred capital 
expenditure of Rs. 5,860 lakhs for physical infrastructure and 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    4 5
Rs. 850 lakhs for procurement of intangible assets. Significant 
investments have been made in building infrastructure, data 
security, information systems, and design and development 
activities, for the future benefits of the Company.
INVENTORIES:
The inventories of the Company mainly comprise of raw 
materials of Rs. 15,942 lakhs. Work in progress of Rs. 14,127 
lakhs finished goods of Rs. 3,113 lakhs and stores and spares 
of Rs. 1,480 lakhs.
OPPORTUNITIES & THREATS:
Aerospace and Defence Sector Growth:
The Indian Aerospace and Defence sector is undergoing 
a transformative phase, with significant modernization 
and indigenization efforts spearheaded by the Ministry of 
Defence. The focus is on reducing dependence on foreign 
imports, with the three services collectively driving the ‘Make 
in India’ initiative. The Government’s strategic push towards 
indigenous manufacturing and research and development is 
evident in the defence policy framework, which emphasizes 
local value addition in future procurements. The Indian 
Government has actively identified the Aerospace and Defence 
sector as a strategic focus area within the ‘Aatmanirbhar 
Bharat’ programme, driving the establishment of indigenous 
manufacturing capabilities. This initiative is bolstered by 
significant investments in research and development, with 
the defence policy framework undergoing transformative 
shifts since 2020. 
The Union Budget for FY2025-26 allocates INR 681,210 crore 
(~USD 78.8 billion) for defence, reflecting a 10% increase 
compared to the previous year. Capital budget allocation 
for R&D has seen a 13% rise, further strengthening India’s 
defence capabilities. While the sector’s growth prospects 
remain strong, challenges such as global geopolitical tensions 
and supply chain disruptions continue to pose risks, requiring 
ongoing innovation and adaptation.
Focus on Civil Aviation:
India’s civil aviation sector continues to experience rapid 
growth, driven by a rising middle class and increasing 
disposable income, with the country set to become the third-
largest aviation market. The demand for air travel is expected 
to push the number of aircraft in operation to over 2,200 by 
2042. The MRO industry, growing from US$ 800 million in 
2018 to an expected US$ 2.4 billion by 2028, will benefit from 
incentives introduced in the Union Budget 2024-25, including 
a 5% uniform IGST on aircraft parts. The government’s focus 
on infrastructure, including the privatization of 25 airports 
under the National Monetization Pipeline and investments 
of US$ 25 billion by 2027, will further enhance capacity. In 
FY2024, domestic passenger traffic grew by 13.5%, and 
international traffic by 22.3%, while freight traffic also saw 
steady growth. However, challenges such as geopolitical 
risks, fluctuating fuel prices, and regulatory complexities 
remain. Increased competition in the MRO sector and the 
need for infrastructure upgrades to meet growing demand 
also pose potential threats. Despite these challenges, the 
aviation sector remains well-positioned to capitalize on its 
growth potential through strategic investments and favourable 
government policies.
Support from Government and Industry:
Infrastructure investments in India are projected to increase 
to Rs. 111 lakh crores (approximately USD 1.4 trillion) during 
FY2020-25, providing a significant boost to demand for 
capital goods. In Budget 2024-25, the capital investment 
outlay for infrastructure was enhanced to Rs 11.1 lakh 
crores (USD 122 billion), constituting 3.4% of the GDP. The 
National Capital Goods Policy continues to play a crucial role 
in fostering industrial growth, aiming to elevate industrial 
production to USD 100 billion. The policy also focuses on 
promoting technology, skill development, exports, and the 
establishment of common facility centers to strengthen the 
industrial ecosystem.
India remains a key market for global aerospace manufacturers 
such as Boeing and Airbus, which view the country as a 
strategic hub for manufacturing and exports. With the high 
demand for aircraft, India’s strategic location, engineering 
capabilities, and competitive labor costs, both Boeing and 
Airbus are increasingly collaborating with Indian suppliers and 
SMEs to build a robust aerospace ecosystem. Boeing’s India 
supply chain now exports about Rs10,000 crore ($1.25 billion) 
in aircraft components annually and Airbus currently sources 
over Rs1 billion worth of parts from India – a figure it plans 
to double before 2030. Major international collaborations are 
also underway in aviation infrastructure and skill development. 
These concerted efforts by the government and industry 
are enhancing capacity, self-reliance and export potential 
in India’s capital goods and aviation ecosystem, bolstering 
future growth.
Growing demand for agricultural machinery and 
equipment:
The demand for agricultural machinery in India has been 
steadily rising, driven by the government’s focus on farm 
mechanization and technological advancements in the sector. 
As part of the Union Budget 2024-25, the government 
allocated significant funds to support the mechanization 
of agriculture, including increased subsidies for farm 
equipment and the expansion of custom hiring centers 
and farm machinery banks. These initiatives have made 
modern machinery more accessible to small-scale farmers, 
significantly enhancing productivity and reducing labor costs. 
India’s position as a major manufacturer of farm equipment, 
including tractors, harvesters, and tillers, further supports the 
growth of this sector. Additionally, the Make in India initiative 
continues to encourage domestic production and innovation, 
fostering a robust market for agricultural machinery. The 
rising adoption of precision farming techniques, including 
drones and automated systems, is also contributing to the 
growing demand for specialized equipment, aligning with 
India’s broader goals of improving agricultural efficiency and 
sustainability. With the ongoing push for farm mechanization, 
the agricultural machinery sector is poised for sustained 
growth, supported by both government policies and increasing 
private sector investments.
Investment in R&D:
The Indian government has significantly ramped up its 
investment in research and development (R&D) to drive 
innovation, develop new technologies, and position the 
country as a global hub for manufacturing and technological 
excellence. Under the Union Budget 2024–25, the government 
allocated substantial funds to support R&D initiatives 
4 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
across various sectors, with a particular focus on emerging 
technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), quantum 
computing, and renewable energy. One key initiative, the 
National Research Foundation, aims to support research 
across universities and research institutions, facilitating the 
development of cutting-edge technologies and promoting 
private sector involvement in innovation. Additionally, the 
government has introduced a Rs1 lakh crore financing pool to 
facilitate private sector participation in R&D, addressing the 
current imbalance where the public sector contributes 64% 
of national R&D expenditure.
These initiatives are designed to foster the development 
of indigenous technologies and reduce dependency on 
imports, thereby creating a competitive manufacturing 
ecosystem. India is not only fostering innovation but also 
accelerating the country’s journey towards becoming a 
global leader in manufacturing and technological innovation. 
These investments are expected to generate high-value jobs, 
promote sustainable industrial growth, and bolster India’s 
standing in the global market.
Diverse Product Portfolio and End Market Segments:
Dynamatic Technologies has a diverse product portfolio that 
spans across three key business segments: Hydraulics, 
Aerospace, and Metallurgy. This diversified approach ensures 
that the Company’s performance remains relatively stable 
and not reliant on any single industry segment. Dynamatic 
Technologies continues to remain dedicated to advancing its 
technological and manufacturing capacities, particularly in its 
aerospace division. The company is poised to benefit from 
an expanded aerospace order book and anticipates that the 
growing demand in the Aerospace and Hydraulics sector will 
significantly enhance its overall performance.
Dynamatic Technologies faces several challenges that 
could impact its diversified operations across Hydraulics, 
Aerospace, and Metallurgy. In the Hydraulics segment, while 
the company maintains a strong market position, global supply 
chain disruptions and fluctuating raw material costs may affect 
production timelines and margins. Additionally, the Metallurgy 
division is undergoing a strategic transformation, focusing on 
higher-margin aerospace and defence sectors. This shift may 
result in short-term revenue pressures as the division exits 
less profitable automotive markets. In the Aerospace sector, 
despite a robust order book, potential delays in the delivery of 
critical components, due to supply chain issues, could affect 
project timelines and revenue recognition. Furthermore, 
geopolitical tensions and regional security concerns may 
impact defence contracts and international collaborations. 
These factors necessitate agile risk management strategies 
to mitigate potential adverse effects on the company’s 
performance.
Regulatory changes:
With 
regulatory 
environments 
tightening, 
particularly 
around environmental and safety standards, manufacturing 
complexities and costs are on the rise. Dynamatic 
Technologies leverages its extensive R&D capabilities and 
diverse product offerings to adapt and thrive under these 
new regulations. Government investments in infrastructure 
and the agricultural sector further amplify Dynamatic’s ability 
to capitalize on emerging opportunities, thereby reinforcing 
its market position.
RISKS & CONCERNS:
Global Economic Uncertainty:
Growth is expected to slow in 2025 as the effects of trade 
tensions and tighter monetary conditions start to weigh on 
business investment and household spending. Rising tariffs 
on key imports are adding to price pressures, with inflation 
proving more persistent than anticipated, particularly in 
services. Although wage growth has remained strong, signs 
of easing in the labor market are emerging. The Federal 
Reserve is expected to maintain a cautious stance, with 
policy rates likely to hold steady through most of 2025, as 
they balance moderating growth against lingering inflation 
concerns, Dynamatic Technologies faces significant risks 
from these uncertainties, which could adversely affect its 
operational and financial performance.
Intense Competitive Landscape:
The business environment in which the Company operates 
is highly competitive, characterized by rapid technological 
advancements and continuous innovation. The industry 
demands agility and resilience, as competition remains intense 
across all segments. It is common practice among OEMs to 
maintain a diversified supplier base, and exclusive contracts 
are generally not preferred. Consequently, any inability to 
meet customer expectations-whether related to cost, product 
specifications, or timely delivery-can adversely impact the 
Company’s business performance, financial condition, and 
operational results. At Dynamatic Technologies, we place 
strong emphasis on nurturing long-standing relationships 
with our customers. We remain deeply engaged with them, 
offering high-quality products at competitive prices, while 
proactively adapting to their evolving needs to ensure we 
remain a trusted and valuable partner.
Technological Evolution:
Despite the positive developments, the global aerospace 
and defence industry is not immune to challenges. The 
increasing use of digital technologies has heightened 
cyberattack vulnerabilities. The industry strongly emphasises 
enhancing cybersecurity measures to protect sensitive data 
and maintain operational integrity. To stay competitive in the 
industry, it is crucial for the Company to continuously update 
its technological expertise. Additionally, protecting sensitive 
data is essential for maintaining its operational integrity.
Foreign Currency Fluctuations:
Dynamatic Technologies operates across several geographies 
and is therefore subject to foreign exchange fluctuations 
that may influence its financial performance. To address 
this, the company employs a structured hedging policy 
complemented by natural hedges arising from its global 
operations. Continuous monitoring of currency movements 
enables timely tactical adjustments. Additionally, efforts to 
align revenues and costs in matching currencies help reduce 
the impact of translation differences, thereby ensuring greater 
stability in financial outcomes.
RISK MANAGEMENT:
Effective risk management is fundamental to the business 
activities of the group. While we remain committed to 
increasing shareholder value by developing and growing our 
business within our board-determined risk appetite, we are 
mindful of achieving this objective in line with the interests of 
all stakeholders.  
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    4 7
The Company emphasizes on achieving the corporate 
strategic objectives by following best practices in Risk 
Management. It has formulated a risk management policy 
and has in place a mechanism to inform the Board Members 
through risk management committee about risk assessment 
and minimization procedures and periodical review to ensure 
that executive management controls risk by means of a 
properly designed framework. 
Our policy is based on the following principles:
•	
The Board of Directors, Risk Management Committee 
and Management are responsible for monitoring internal 
risk management 
•	
Effective risk management and internal monitoring will 
reduce the likelihood of errors, wrong decisions and 
surprises due to unforeseen circumstances.
•	
In order to thrive, an enterprise must take risks. The 
Management Board is responsible for determining the 
limits of what is acceptable (referred to as ‘risk appetite’). 
•	
Line managers are responsible for the implementation of 
risk management for the processes for which they are 
responsible. 
This mechanism is implemented as an integral part of our 
business processes across the Dynamatic Group Companies 
and includes recording, monitoring, and controlling internal 
enterprise business risks and appropriate actions are 
immediately taken to mitigate such risks.
QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (QMS)
Dynamatic Technologies is always focused on achieving 
international quality standards for its products and services. In 
pursuit of this goal, Dynamatic Technologies has established 
a comprehensive QMS which encompasses all aspects of 
the business with a focus on establishing a quality assurance 
ecosystem that is designed to consistently deliver quality 
products and superior service.
To achieve product quality assurance, the Company focuses 
on excellence in-house production processes while ensuring 
that sub-tiers consistently produce components as per 
specifications.
Aerospace: 
During FY2025, your Company has successfully completed 
the surveillance and re-certification audits to ISO: 14001:2015 
standard for its Environmental Management System, 
Information 
Security 
Management 
System 
(ISO/IEC 
27001:2022) and Occupational Health and Safety Management 
System (OHSAS) certification to ISO45001:2018. Your 
Company’s QMS which is compliant to ISO: 9001 and AS9100 
standards since 2006, has evolved and matured and is highly 
system driven and was audited by DQS and Novostar, India 
with ZERO major non-conformances.
Dynamatic Technologies is NADCAP accredited (accreditation 
for special processes in the aerospace and defence industry) 
for special processes like heat treatment, spot welding, non-
destructive testing, measurement & inspection, and chemical 
conversion. 
Hydraulics: 
Dynamatic 
Hydraulics® 
has 
successfully 
completed the re-certification audits by UL DQS India, to 
ISO: 9001 specifications for Quality Management System 
and also to ISO:14001 specifications for its Environmental 
Management System. The Company has also successfully 
completed IS0 45001 AUDIT for occupational health and 
safety management systems OHSAS. Certification to ISO 
27001:2022 is also completed satisfactorily.
Metallurgy: In the FY2025, Dynamatic Technologies 
successfully confirmed again the level of AS9100 standards 
at the Eisenwerk Erla GmbH plant. The company successfully 
completed the recertification process in November 2024
The Dynamatic Quality Management System (DQMS) 
addresses the quality requirements set out by the global 
OEM’s. DQMS utilizes some of the best tools such as 
5S, 8D, FMEA, APQP, Ishikawa, Business Process Re-
engineering, Overall Equipment Effectiveness, Root Cause 
Analysis, Six Sigma, Statistical Process Control, Total 
Productive Maintenance, Visual Control, Learning-by-Doing 
and Employee Participation Program (EPP).
Lean Management concepts together with quality tools are 
being used on the shop floor by management to increase the 
overall equipment effectiveness (OEE) of the operations. This 
is achieved by reducing rejections, set-ups, cycle time and 
through effective material management. The EPP has resulted 
in the participation of employees in innovative activities and 
their contributions have resulted in continual improvements 
to work and work processes.
INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
(ISMS):
Dynamatic Technologies Limited has a robust ISO/IEC 
27001-certified Information Security Management System 
(ISMS), initially certified in 2018 and recertified in 2022 for 
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace and Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited. The ISMS secures critical business information, 
meets global cybersecurity standards, and aligns with 
customer requirements from Airbus, Boeing, Bell, and HAL.
In FY2025, the company completed all internal and customer 
ISMS audits, conducted a Cyber Security Gap Assessment, 
and implemented yearly VAPT to identify and resolve 
vulnerabilities. The upgraded data center with virtual servers 
has enhanced performance and reliability. Immutable backups 
and advanced email security protect against ransomware and 
sophisticated attacks. AI/ML-based Next-Gen Antivirus and 
Firewalls with IPS/IDS ensure comprehensive endpoint and 
network protection.
The SAP infrastructure is now cloud-based for secure remote 
access. Encryption, secure file transfers, and continuous 
employee training reinforce data protection. Separate virtual 
servers are maintained for each customer, and IP rights are 
strictly protected. Dynamatic Technologies continuously 
strengthens its cybersecurity posture to meet evolving 
threats and customer expectations.
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: Dynamatic Technologies 
extended its SAP implementation to Human Resources & 
Payroll, enabling digital transformation and standardizing 
HR processes across India. SuccessFactors was integrated 
with Microsoft 365 Active Directory for single sign-on (SSO). 
Power BI dashboards for Revenue, Procurement, Inventory, 
and HR Costing were developed and seamlessly integrated 
with SAP for enhanced MIS reporting.
In FY2025, Salesforce CRM was implemented, improving 
customer relationships, data management, sales productivity, 
and collaboration. AI tools were also introduced to automate 
4 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
repetitive tasks and accelerate data processing, freeing up 
resources for higher-value work. Ongoing automation and 
continuous improvement projects aim to boost operational 
and cost efficiencies across the group.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
Internal controls and systems serve multiple needs in any 
organisation. Well-designed internal control systems lay 
down the framework for day-to-day operations and provide 
guidelines for employees and most importantly, provide 
a certain level of security against the risks. The primary 
responsibility for the development and maintenance of 
internal control rests with an organization’s management. 
Internal control evaluation involves everything management 
does to control the organization in the effort to achieve its 
objectives. Your Company’s control system and procedures 
are regularly reviewed for relevance and effectiveness.
SUPPLY 
CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT 
(SCM) 
AND 
PRODUCTIVITY:
Dynamatic Technologies supply chain has a vision to provide 
flexible, sustainable and an efficient services and products 
lines delivered at right quality, right quantity, right place and 
on time to the Customers. Supply Chain evolves in each of the 
processes through continuous improvement and innovations 
thereby providing competitive advantage in the entire cycle 
of Operations. 
At Dynamatic Technologies there is a continuous emphasis on 
digitisation of key processes thereby reducing dependencies 
and efforts in performing repetitive activities. Flexibility, 
reliability, compliance, and cost efficiency are the key drivers 
for our Supply Chain Management practices. In the process of 
achieving a matured supply chain the skillsets at each individual 
levels are being enhanced by providing opportunities to an 
individual to lead and meet or exceed business objectives. 
During the year, focus was laid on stabilisation of operations 
within the S/4 HANA ERP Systems developed.
•	
Supply Chain has supported multiple work transfers from 
Customer into your Company.
•	
Identified and enabled suppliers enhancing their scope of 
activities in the pursuit of achieving end to end supply 
chain for new projects, helping to reduce internal logistics 
and enhancing efficiency.
•	
Indigenisation of some outsourced activities for new 
projects done to reduce lead time and cost.
•	
Alternate sourcing strategy adopted to mitigate risks of 
higher cost, uncertainty and delays in the delivery for 
some of the critical time bound projects.
•	
Enhancements deployed in ERP system in pursuit of 
digitisation of the processes.
•	
New opportunities being explored by adopting AI based 
software to increase efficiency.
•	
Standardisation of some processes being implemented 
across divisions, benchmarking best practices internally 
to improve efficiency and productivity.
•	
Inventory optimisation by effective scheduling of delivery 
and collaboration with suppliers.
•	
Supply chains are designing processes to adopt a 
proactive approach to foreseeable challenges.
•	
Speed to market management tools like Just in Time 
(JIT) manufacturing and distribution, vendor managed 
inventory (VMI) of detail parts and efficient customer 
response.
•	
Improving quality and productivity within operational areas 
such as warehousing, logistics, inventory management 
and packaging
•	
Value Addition & Value Engineering (VAVE) involvement 
with suppliers to drive the cost down
•	
Supplier rating linked scheduling
•	
Supplier audits and onsite training 
•	
Integrated customer services cell
The Company’s initiatives to leverage information technology 
in supply chain activities have resulted in improved efficiency 
through real-time information exchanges and processing. 
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® has a 3-Tier approach – 
Strategic, Tactical and Operational to ensure that the Supply 
Chain Management is operating efficiently and generating 
highest level of customer satisfaction at optimum cost. These 
measures have helped your Company improve cost and 
efficiency in a year, which was otherwise faced with global 
macroeconomic challenges.
ENVIRONMENT: 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited is committed to sustainable 
industrial 
practices 
through 
a 
robust 
Environmental 
Management System (EMS), reflecting our responsibility 
towards the environment and the communities we serve. Key 
initiatives include:
•	
100% Compliance & Periodic Review: We ensure full 
compliance with all applicable environmental laws and 
regulations through regular monitoring and systematic 
reviews of legal requirements, keeping our operations 
aligned with evolving statutory obligations.
•	
Rainwater Harvesting: Our rainwater harvesting system 
is designed to collect rainwater from surrounding areas, 
helping recharge local groundwater resources and reduce 
dependence on external water supplies. 
•	
Adoption of environmentally friendly processes to 
minimize pollution and reduce ecological impact.
•	
Solar Energy Utilization through rooftop solar panel 
installations, contributing to renewable energy use and 
carbon footprint reduction.
•	
Continuous efforts in reducing water consumption 
through 
process 
optimization 
and 
conservation 
techniques.
•	
Zero 
Non-Conformances: 
Achievement 
of 
Zero 
Non-Conformance in all external audits related to 
EMS(ISO14001), 
reflecting 
our 
commitment 
to 
excellence and continuous improvement.
•	
Tree Plantation Across the Campus: Extensive tree 
plantation drives across our campuses have enhanced 
local biodiversity, improved air quality, and contributed to 
carbon sequestration efforts.
•	
Paper Recycling Initiatives: Implementation of paper 
recycling practices has helped reduce waste sent 
to landfills, conserve natural resources, and lower 
the 
company’s 
overall 
environmental 
footprint. 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    4 9
Dynamatic Technologies jointly worked with “Karnataka 
gramodyoga” to recycle the paper waste stored at 
premises for long time and benefited to the organization 
in terms of paper envelops , paper carry bags. 
•	
Retrofit Installation to DG Sets: Retrofitting diesel 
generators with emission control devices has significantly 
reduced air pollution, supporting cleaner operations and 
improved environmental performance.
•	
Elimination of Single-Use Plastics: Single-use plastic 
bottles are one of the largest contributors to global plastic 
pollution. By eliminating them, Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited significantly reduced its waste generation. A 
strict policy to eliminate single-use plastics has been 
implemented across all facilities, reducing plastic waste 
and promoting eco-friendly alternatives.
•	
Reducing dependence on Fossil fuel: By promoting EV 
usage, Dynamatic Technologies Limited is helping to 
decrease reliance on fossil fuels like petroleum. The 
shift to electric transportation contributes to energy 
diversification and helps reduce the global demand 
for oil, which is a major contributor to environmental 
degradation, including air and water pollution.
SAFETY AND HEALTH:
Dynamatic Technologies places the highest priority on 
employee safety and regulatory compliance. A detailed 
corporate safety manual, integral to new employee induction, 
clearly outlines the responsibilities of both management 
and staff. Regular safety training sessions are conducted by 
trained safety officers and divisional HR teams to reinforce 
safe practices. An external audit on industrial safety, health, 
and welfare, conducted last year, confirmed the effectiveness 
and resilience of the company’s systems.
To achieve a zero-incident environment, the company has 
implemented stringent safety protocols, preventive training, 
and on-site fool-proofing systems. These efforts are further 
strengthened by adopting advanced engineering standards in 
design and execution, significantly reducing workplace risks. 
The company also offers health benefits such as periodic 
check-ups and structured awareness programs, consistently 
applied across all locations to ensure a safe and motivated 
workforce.
On the shop floor, targeted safety campaigns promote the 
use of personal protective equipment (PPE). Dynamatic has 
successfully integrated EMS and OHSAS standards into a 
unified EHS Management System, eliminating duplication and 
streamlining compliance efforts. All facilities are ISO 14001 
and ISO 45001 certified for environmental and occupational 
health and safety standards.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the company 
introduced ongoing preventive measures including in-house 
testing and tracking. A NABL-certified (ISO 15189:2012) and 
ICMR-approved molecular testing lab has been established, 
equipped with modern infrastructure and staffed by 
experienced microbiologists, research scientists, and lab 
technicians. This lab supports employees, stakeholders, and 
industry partners.
National safety week was celebrated with various initiatives 
to promote safety awareness both at work and beyond. The 
safety committee continues to organize regular sessions and 
implement proactive safety measures across the organization.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS:
Dynamatic Technologies remains committed to fostering 
a harmonious and inclusive work environment where 
employees are inspired to contribute towards shared goals. 
This commitment extends beyond offering competitive 
perks and benefits, encompassing equal opportunities for 
professional growth and skill development for all employees.
The company is committed to improving day-to-day work 
life for the employees through safe work practices, the 
use of personal protective equipment on the shop floor 
and continuously educating the workforce through training 
programmes and demonstrations. The management team 
also works towards implementing industry best practices for 
safety and productivity across locations. On-site health care 
facilities, health and accident insurance coverage, medical 
feedback from experts, and support in maintaining special 
health requirements form part of the initiatives undertaken 
by the company.
The company wishes to put on record its appreciation of the 
cooperation extended and efforts made by all employees.
In line with our commitment to employee health and well-
being, we have established partnerships with two nearby 
hospitals in the Peenya area to provide prompt medical 
assistance and support during emergencies. Additionally, 
employees can now avail themselves of a minimal discount 
on personal visits to these partnered hospitals.  We have 
introduced Group Medical Claim Insurance for all employees 
and families.  As part of our ongoing health initiatives, annual 
health check-ups are conducted regularly to ensure early 
detection and prevention of health issues.
Dynamatic Technologies has further strengthened its digital 
HR infrastructure by enhancing the implementation of SAP 
HR modules to digitise and safely protect employee data and 
to manage employee’s attendance & leave availed data on 
real time basis in the system. The HR SAP system covers 
all the modules from hiring to retiring. The employee data is 
safely protected in servers and in cloud.
Reward and recognition of Employees: long term service 
award process to the workmen is continued. Those who 
have completed 15 years of continuous service have been 
rewarded with a Titan watch and those who have completed 
25 years of continuous service have been rewarded with a 
gold coin with D Logo. 
Employee Engagement: DTL celebrated Family Day, 
conducted indoor and outdoor sports activities, cultural 
functions, and felicitation of retiring employees. DTL 
celebrated Women’s Day on International Women’s Day. 
Ayudha Pooja during Dasara festival and Laxmi Pooja on 
Diwali. Celebrated Kannada Rajyotsava on 1st Nov 2024 and 
National Safety week in March 2024.
Dynamatic Technologies has provided recreational centre to 
the employee refreshment at Hydraulics Unit 1 and 2 with 
facility for playing carrom, chess and table tennis to engage 
employees during breaks. 
A two-day outbound program was successfully conducted 
for managerial personnel and senior leadership outside of 
Bangalore. The primary objective of the program was to 
share key updates on the company’s developments, strategic 
progress, and future direction. This initiative was designed to 
foster transparency in organizational activities and to cultivate 
a sense of ownership and alignment among employees. 
5 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
By engaging leadership in open dialogue and collaborative 
sessions, the program aimed to strengthen commitment, 
enhance understanding of business goals, and reinforce a 
shared vision for the company’s growth.
Provided on site safety training to all the employees across 
the Units. 
The number of people employed as on 31st March 2025 was 
869. Industrial Relations were satisfactory during the year.
The Company wishes to put on record its appreciation of the 
co-operation extended and efforts made by all employees.
WORK CULTURE:
Human Resources (HR) at Dynamatic Technologies continued 
to play a pivotal role in managing, guiding, and motivating 
the company’s workforce, and as a strategic partner, the 
function is aligned with the business needs. The company 
is always proud of its workforce, which is mature, involved, 
and identifies itself with the company’s mission. The 
company is constantly focused on creating a conducive 
work environment through constant bilateral communication 
with the aim of achieving mutual growth. The company 
has put in place an HR development framework to ensure 
employees’ career progression and greater connection with 
the vision and mission of the company. This framework rides 
on multiple programmes and opportunities for individual 
training and development, skill upgrade schemes, a congenial 
atmosphere for labour-management relationships, and 
equal opportunities. HR policies, practices, and the work 
environment are constantly reviewed to make them current, 
inclusive, and enjoyable. The company also strives towards 
acquiring, developing, managing, and retaining the best 
talent in the market as we focus on optimising workforce 
productivity and achieving growth for all.
The focus of the HR team is to promote the recognition 
of merit and hard work across the work force. They also 
work towards improving transparency and trust across the 
organisation. HR teams work towards inculcating dynamic 
vision and values through training, sharing, inspiring, and 
celebrating to promote a sense of belonging amongst all the 
employees of the company.
Highlights for the Year:
The celebration of Women’s Day was truly special, with all 
women employees being warmly greeted by the CEO & MD 
and CTO. The event highlighted and honoured the strength 
and resilience of women in balancing both their professional 
and personal lives with ease. It was a heartfelt tribute to their 
ability to manage work and home effortlessly.  A small token 
of appreciation was given away to all the women employees.
International Yoga Day was celebrated with a special session 
organized for employees, promoting wellness, mindfulness, 
and a healthy work-life balance. The event featured 
guided yoga and breathing exercises suitable for all levels, 
encouraging relaxation and rejuvenation. It was a refreshing 
break that fostered a sense of calm, unity, and overall 
well-being among the teams.  Thereafter, in view of the 
overwhelming response, yoga sessions are being arranged 
on a weekly basis for all employees, for one hour virtually.
The 77th India’s Independence Day was celebrated by 
hoisting the country’s flag and thereafter, we visited the local 
government school. School bags and other school essentials 
were distributed to the children.
JKM Football Tournament, a two-day event conducted in 
August consisted of 48 teams bringing together players from 
different departments to compete in a spirited and energetic 
atmosphere. The tournament showcased exceptional talent, 
teamwork, and sportsmanship across multiple matches. With 
intense competition and enthusiastic support, it turned into a 
memorable event celebrating the passion for the game.
Ayudha Pooja was traditionally celebrated during Navaratri 
in the month of October, recognizing the importance of 
maintaining tools and instruments that are used in operations.
Kannada Rajyotsava was celebrated by hoisting the Karnataka 
Flag and honouring the state.  
Lakshmi Pooja was celebrated in the month of November 
during Deepavali, and Sankranti was celebrated in the month 
of January.
Dynafest was organised on Nov 22, 2024, where more than 
7000 guests, which included employees, and their families 
were present, making the event a grand success.  Stalls 
showcasing the prototypes of the products manufactured 
in the Company were proudly displayed by the employees. 
Children enjoyed various activities and games.  They were 
also recognized for their academic excellence by the MD. 
GEM awards were presented to employees in recognition of 
their outstanding performance and valuable contributions to 
the organization. Also, employees completing 15 and 25 years 
of service, were given Service Awards. The event closed with 
a grand cultural program by the employees.  Employees and 
their families enjoyed grand lunch at the company’s premises.
Christmas was celebrated by emphasizing the “Joy of 
Giving”.  Grocery, home needs, essentials, blankets, clothes 
etc were collected by all employees of DOA and presented to 
a local Old Age Home. 
54th National Safety Day on 4th March was an occasion for 
emphasizing the paramount importance of prioritizing safety 
across workplaces, communities, and organizations. It serves 
as a potent reminder of the need to prevent accidents, 
injuries, and fatalities, reinforcing the value of human life and 
well-being.  The same was highlighted to all the employees.
The Competency Assessment and Training Identification 
(CATI) software being used by the HR department captures 
the training provided to each employee. The total number 
of hours of training imparted is duly captured, and the 
effectiveness of such training is evaluated.
SAFE HARBOUR STATEMENT
Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis 
contains “forward looking statements” including, but 
without limitation, statements relating to the implementation 
of strategic initiatives, and other statements relating to 
Dynamatic Technologies’ future business developments 
and economic performance. While these forward-looking 
statements indicate the Company’s assessment and future 
expectations concerning the development of business, a 
number of risks, uncertainties and other unknown factors 
could cause actual developments and results to differ 
materially from expectations. These factors include, but are not 
limited to, general market, macro-economic, governmental, 
and regulatory trends, movements in currency exchange 
and interest rates, competitive pressures, technological 
developments, changes in the financial conditions of third 
parties dealing with the Company, legislative developments, 
and other key factors that could affect the business and 
financial performance. Dynamatic Technologies undertakes 
no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements 
to reflect future/likely events or circumstances, competitive 
pressures, technological developments, changes in the 
financial conditions of third parties dealing with the Company, 
legislative developments, and other key factors that could 
affect the business and financial performance. Dynamatic 
Technologies undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any 
forward-looking statements to reflect future/likely events or 
circumstances.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    5 1
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT
The following section discusses various dimensions of our risk management. The risk-related information outlined in this section 
is not exhaustive and is for information purposes only. The discussion may contain statements, which may be forward looking in 
nature. Our business model is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reﬂected in 
the forward looking statements. Readers are advised to refer to the detailed discussion of risk factors and related disclosures in 
our regulatory filings and exercise their own judgment in assessing risks associated with the Company.
Overview
Risk management is a continuous process that is accomplished throughout the life cycle of a Company. It is an organized 
methodology for continuously identifying and measuring the unknowns; developing mitigation options; selecting, planning, and 
implementing appropriate risk mitigations; and tracking the implementation to ensure successful risk reduction. Effective risk 
management depends on risk management planning; early identification and analysis of risks; early implementation of corrective 
actions; continuous monitoring and reassessment; and communication, documentation, and coordination
The Company has a well-defined Risk Management Policy which has been developed after taking cognizance of the relevant 
statutory guidelines, Company internal guidelines, empirical evidences and stakeholder feedback. Dynamatic Technologies 
believes that Risk Management is the culture, processes and structures that are directed towards the effective management 
of potential opportunities and adverse effects within the Company environment. Our business plans articulate the key business 
objectives of the Company through a set of specific goals that have to be achieved in the short-term and strategic goals aimed at 
achieving our aspirations in the medium term. Several risks can impact the achievement of a business objective. Similarly, a single 
risk can impact the achievement of several business objectives. Our risk management practices seek to sustain and enhance 
the long-term competitive advantage of the Company. Our core values and ethics provide the platform for our risk management 
practices.
The risk scenarios for businesses are changing. As per the World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report 2025, the following are 
the major risks identified:
Global risks landscape: an interconnections map
Adverse outcomes 
of AI technologies
Adverse outcomes
of frontier technologies
Asset bubble burst
Biodiversity loss
and ecosystem collapse
Biological, chemical or nuclear
weapons or hazards
Censorship and surveillance
Concentration of
strategic resources 
and technologies
Crime and illicit
economic activity
Critical change
to Earth systems
Cyber espionage
and warfare
Debt
Decline in health
and well-being
Disruptions to a systemically
important supply chain
Disruptions to
critical infrastructure
Economic downturn
Erosion of human rights
and/or civic freedoms
Extreme weather
events
Geoeconomic
confrontation
Inequality
Infectious diseases
Inﬂation
Insufﬁcient public infrastructure 
and social protections
Intrastate violence
Involuntary migration
or displacement
Lack of economic opportunity 
or unemployment
Misinformation and disinformation
Natural resource
shortages
Non-weather-related
natural disasters
Online harms
Pollution
Societal polarization
State-based armed conﬂict
Talent and/or
labour shortages
Concentration of
strategic resources 
and technologies
Adverse outcomes 
of AI technologies
Adverse outcomes
of frontier technologies
Asset bubble burst
Biodiversity loss
and ecosystem collapse
Biological, chemical or nuclear
weapons or hazards
Censorship and surveillance
Crime and illicit
economic activity
Critical change
to Earth systems
Cyber espionage
and warfare
Debt
Decline in health
and well-being
Disruptions to a systemically
important supply chain
Disruptions to
critical infrastructure
Economic downturn
Erosion of human rights
and/or civic freedoms
Extreme weather
events
Geoeconomic
confrontation
Inequality
Infectious diseases
Inﬂation
Insufﬁcient public infrastructure 
and social protections
Intrastate violence
Involuntary migration
or displacement
Lack of economic opportunity 
or unemployment
Misinformation and disinformation
Natural resource
shortages
Non-weather-related
natural disasters
Online harms
Pollution
Societal polarization
State-based armed conﬂict
Talent and/or
labour shortages
Edges
Relative inﬂuence
High
Low
Medium
Risk inﬂuence
Nodes
High
Low
Medium
Risk categories
Economic
Environmental
Geopolitical
Societal
Technological
Source
World Economic Forum Global Risks
Perception Survey 2024-2025
5 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
The ranking of top 10 major risks considering the short term (2 years) and long term (10 Years) prospective is as under.
1st
Misinformation and disinformation
2nd
Extreme weather events
3rd
Societal polarization
4th
Cyber espionage and warfare
5th
State-based armed conﬂict
6th
7th
8th
Involuntary migration or displacement
Inequality
9th
10th
Pollution
Geoeconomic confrontation
Erosion of human rights and/or of civic freedoms
Short term (2 years)
Inequality
1st
Extreme weather events
2nd
Critical change to Earth systems
3rd
Biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse
4th
Natural resource shortages
5th
Misinformation and disinformation
6th
Adverse outcomes of AI technologies
7th
8th
Cyber espionage and warfare
9th
Societal polarization
10th
Pollution
Long term (10 years)
Source
World Economic Forum Global Risks
Perception Survey 2024-2025
Risk categories
Economic
Environmental
Geopolitical
Societal
Technological
9
Allianz Risk Barometer 2025: 
Top concerns around the world
The graphics show the top three risks in selected countries and whether each risk is considered to be more or less 
important than 12 months ago or is in the same position.
↗ View all country, regional and industry risk data here
Australia
1 Cyber →
2 Changes in legislation ↑
3 Natural catastrophes ↓
Cyber is the top business 
concern, while changes in 
legislation, climate change 
(#6) and the impact of new 
technologies (#8) are all risers in 
the top 10 risks.
Italy
1 Cyber →
2 Natural catastrophes ↑
3 Business interruption ↓
Changes in legislation (#6), 
power blackouts (#8), new 
technologies (#9), and fire (#10) 
are all new entries in the top 10 
risk rankings.
Colombia
1 Cyber ↑
2 Business interruption ↑
3 Natural catastrophes ↓
Cyber is the new top risk 
concern. In the top 10 risks, 
changes in legislation (#4) and 
new technologies (#10) are 
new entries.
Singapore
1 Business interruption →
2 Cyber →
3 Changes in legislation ↑
Changes in legislation climbs 
three places in the ranking year-
on-year, while political risks and 
violence is up to #9.
Brazil
1 Cyber ↑ 
2 Climate change ↓
3 Natural catastrophes ↑
Cyber is the new top concern. 
Natural catastrophes, and fire 
(#5) rank higher year-on-year, 
while market developments 
(#6), and power blackouts (#9) 
are both new entries in the top 
10 risks.
France
1 Cyber →
2 Business interruption →
2 Natural catastrophes ↑
In the top 10 risks, political risks 
and violence climbs to a high of 
#4, while market developments 
(#8), insolvency (#9), and 
environmental risks (#10) are all 
new entries.
South Africa
1 Cyber ↑
2 Business interruption ↑
3 Natural catastrophes ↑
Cyber is the new top risk. 
Shortage of skilled workforce 
(#9) and macroeconomic 
developments (#10) are new 
entries in the top 10.
Spain
1 Fire ↑
1 Natural catastrophes ↑
3 Business interruption ↓
Fire, and natural catastrophes 
are the new joint top risks. 
Changes in legislation (#5) and 
political risks and violence (#8) 
rank higher year-on-year.
Canada
1 Business interruption →
2 Natural catastrophes ↑
3 Cyber ↓
In the top 10 risks, climate 
change (#4) ranks higher, while 
changes in legislation (#5), 
macroeconomic developments 
(#8), and new technologies (#9) 
are all new entries.
Japan
1 Natural catastrophes ↑
2 Cyber ↓
3 Business interruption →
Natural catastrophes is the 
new top risk concern. Fire (#4), 
changes in legislation (#6), and 
environmental risks (#9) are all 
risers, while new technologies 
(#6) is a new entry in the top 10.
Germany
1 Cyber →
2 Business interruption →
3 Natural catastrophes ↑
In the top 10 risks, fire climbs 
to #5, while political risks and 
violence is up to #6. Market 
developments (#9), and power 
blackouts (#10) are new entries.
UK
1 Cyber →
2 Business interruption →
3 Changes in legislation ↑
Changes in legislation is up to 
#3. Political risks and violence 
rises to #4. Risk impact of new 
technologies is up to #5.
China
1 Business interruption ↑
2 Changes in legislation ↓
3 Market developments →
Business interruption is the new 
top risk. Product recalls (#8), and 
power blackouts (#9) are new 
entries in the top 10.
Nigeria
1 Cyber →
2 Macroeconomic 
developments ↓
3 Changes in legislation ↓
Power blackouts is a new entry 
in the top 10 risks at #4, while 
business interruption (#5) is also 
up year-on-year.
India 
1 Cyber →
2 Business interruption →
3 Climate change ↑
Cyber is the top peril for the 
eighth year in a row. In the top 
10 risks, climate change, and 
changes in legislation (#5) rank 
higher. Environmental risks 
(#7), and energy crisis (#10) are 
new entries.
USA
1 Cyber →
2 Natural catastrophes ↑
3 Business interruption ↓ 
Changes in legislation (#4), 
market developments (#5), 
and the risk impact of new 
technologies (#6) are the 
other risk risers in the top 10 
corporate concerns.
(Source: Allianz Risk report)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    5 3
Key Business Objectives
We have a business planning process, and we quarterly review the business objectives of the Company. The corporate 
performance is measured, monitored and managed on an ongoing basis. The focus of risk management is to assess risks to the 
achievement of these business objectives and   to deploy mitigation measures. This is done through periodic review meetings 
of the Risk Management Committe.
Risk categories
The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, 
Information Security & Business Continuity and Data Privacy figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To 
effectively mitigate these risks, we have deployed a risk management framework which helps proactively identify, prioritize and 
mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards.
Oversight Tone 
@ The Top
Standard ERM
Framework
People, Process,
Technology
Risk Management
Risk Categories
Identification
Governance
Analysis
Strategic
Evaluate
Operational
Treatment
Compliance
Monitoring
Reporting
Develop & deploy Policy/Framework
Continuous Improvement
Governance
Risk Management 
Committee of the Board
Framework 
Management
Risk Management Team
Risk
Ownership 
Business Units & 
Functions
Dynamatic Technologies Limited Risk Management Framework
The Following framework shall be used for the implementation of the Risk Strategy
Risk Assessment
Risk Strategy
Avoid
Reduce
Retain
Transfer
Not to take Risky Initiatives
Risk Reduction Measures
Manage the
Residual
Risks
Timely
Reporting with
early warning
signals
Share Risks with Third Party
5 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
The following broad categories of risks to the business 
objectives have been considered in our risk management 
framework:
Strategic: An organization implements strategies in order to 
reach their goals. Each strategy has related risks that must be 
managed in order to meet these goals. Risks to the successful 
execution of the Company’s articulated strategies. These 
originate from the choices we make  on markets, business 
mix, resources and delivery models that can potentially impact 
our competitive advantage in the medium and long-term.
Operational: Risks inherent to business operations including 
those relating to quality, delivery, cost competition.
Compliance: Risks emanating out of the policies and 
procedures. This also includes regulatory compliances 
covering various federal, state, local and foreign laws relating 
to various aspects of the business operations are complex 
and non-compliances can result in substantial fines, sanctions 
etc.
Governance: The current corporate governance models 
usually cater to the financial sector. Thus, current corporate 
governance principles haven’t proved to be reliable during 
serious financial crises, We feel that  there is a need to place 
a heavier focus on identifying, monitoring and managing 
catastrophic risks, irrespective of the chance of such risks 
actually occurring. This also includes the reputational risk.
Reporting: We encourage employees to report risk concerns 
to  managers,  who  would   communicate   and coordinate 
information to be addressed by the appropriate parties.
Key  Risk  Management Practices
The key risk management practices include those relating 
to identifying key risks to our business objectives, impact 
assessment, risk analysis, risk evaluation, risk reporting and 
disclosures, risk mitigation and monitoring, and integration 
with strategy and business planning.
Risk identification and impact assessment: Risk register and 
internal audit findings also provide inputs for risk identification 
and assessment. Risk survey of executives across units, 
functions and subsidiaries is conducted on an annual basis 
to seek inputs on key risks. Operational risks are assessed 
primarily on three dimensions, namely, strength of underlying 
controls, compliance to policies and procedures and business 
process effectiveness.
Risk Evaluation: Risk evaluation is carried out to decide the 
significance of risks to the Company.
Risk Reporting and Disclosure: Risks to the achievement 
of key business objectives through the maintenance of Risk 
register are reported and discussed with the Risk Council and 
Committee.
Risk mitigation  and monitoring: Risk mitigation is done 
based on risk score which is based on risk impact and risk 
probability. Risk are transferred, treated or tolerated based on 
Risk scores.
Integration with strategy and business planning: 
Identified risks to the business objectives in the near term, 
medium-term and long-term are used as one of the key inputs 
for the development of strategy and annual business plan. 
Key strategic initiatives are identified to mitigate specific risks.
Risk Management Highlights for the Year
This year has brought a completely different perspective 
to the risk management and we as an organization have 
endeavored to remain abreast with these highly volatile risk 
scenarios.
Our robust and dynamic Risk Management processes have 
continued to improve during this fiscal year with the key focus 
being on consolidations and harmonization within the group 
thereby increasing the synergies at the group level.
Management remained closely involved in important risk 
management initiatives, which have focused particularly 
on preserving appropriate levels of liquidity and capital, and 
effectively managing the risk portfolios.
With the advent of the current scenarios, we are working 
towards strengthening our risk transfer and looking at a 
more robust framework in view of the emerging risks in the 
industry.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    5 5
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY 
& SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
5 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of  the 
Company
L72200KA1973PLC002308
2
Name of the Company
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
3
Year of Incorporation
1973
4
Registered office address
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis, 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, 
Bangalore 562149
5
Corporate office address
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis, 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, 
Bangalore 562149
6
E-mail id
Investors.relations@dynamatics.net
7
Telephone
+91 80 2111 1223/ +91 80 2204 0535
8
Website
www.dynamatics.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is  being done
1st April 2024 to 31st March 2025
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares 
are listed
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up capital
INR 6,79,14,430
12
Name and contact details of the person who 
may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
1. DIN Number (if applicable): NA
2. Name: Mr. Shivaram V
3. Designation: Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary
4. Telephone number: + 91 80 2111 1223/      +91 80 2204 0535
5. E-mail Id: investor.relations@dynamatics.net
13
Reporting Boundary
The disclosures under this report are made on standalone basis.
14
Name of assurance provider
NA
15
Type of assurance obtained
NA
II.	 Products/services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of 
Turnover of 
the entity
     
1.
Manufacturing and Engineering 
Services
Aerospace, Hydraulics and Security applications.
100%
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC 
Code
% of total Turnover  
contributed
1.
Boeing P8 Power & Mission Cabinets, Bell 407 Helicopter 
cabins, Airbus Flap Track Beams for A318, A319, A320, A321 & 
A330 family of aircrafts and Aircraft doors for A220.
3030
48.14%
2.
Hydraulic Gear Pumps, Motors
Rock Shaft Assembly, Hitch Control Valves, Lube Oil & Water 
Pumps
2813
51.38%
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
5
6
11
International
3
5
8
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    5 7
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	 Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
PAN - India
International (No. of Countries)
DTL exports to countries across Asia, Europe, and US
b.	 What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity : 51.84%
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
As part of its diverse operations, Dynamatic Technologies Limited (DTL) caters to a wide spectrum of domestic and 
international customers across its Aerospace and Hydraulics segments.
	
Aerospace:
	
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® (DOA) is a pioneer and leader in the Indian private sector for the manufacture of 
high precision airframe and aerospace components. The Company has best in class infrastructure for catering to the 
needs of global OEMs such as Airbus, Boeing, Bell Helicopters, Dassault Aviation, Deutsche Aircraft, and Thales. 
Domestically, the Company is working with the defence sector PSU’s such as HAL and BEL. The major products 
of the Aerospace & Defence segment are control surfaces such as wing, ailerons and wing flaps, fuselages, doors 
and other key flight critical airframe structures such as flap track beams. Over the period, the Aerospace division 
has developed excellent capabilities in automated robotic machining, five axis components in aluminium, steel, and 
titanium. The Company has also expertise in tooling capabilities.
	
Hydraulics:
	
The Dynamatic Hydraulics® facility has over 50 years of experience in the design and manufacture of gear pumps and 
supplies products to Agricultural, Construction and Off-Highway vehicle manufacturers. It designs and manufactures 
hydraulic gear pumps in both aluminium and cast iron, available in multiple frame sizes. The product range includes 
high-efficiency gear pumps, low noise pumps, high-pressure pumps, axial piston pumps, low torque high-speed 
hydraulic motors, plunger hand pumps, hitch control valves, rock shaft assemblies, power steering valves, and mobile 
control valves for global OEMs. The business unit also manufactures bespoke, high-flow scavenging pumps, lube oil 
pumps, and water pumps for high-horsepower engines, which are used in off-highway vehicles, marine, and offshore 
equipment. Additionally, the Company designs and builds customized hydraulic solutions, from simple hydraulic 
pumping units to complex marine power packs, aircraft ground support systems, and turnkey industrial installations. 
The key customers include global OEMs such as Mahindra & Mahindra, John Deere, JCB, Tafe, Cummins, Alexander 
Dennis, Macdon, ACE.
IV.	 Employees
20. Details as on March 31, 2025
a.	 Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
 Permanent (D)	
560
505
90.18%
55
9.82%
2.
 Other than Permanent (E) 
17
14
82.35%
3
17.65%
3.
 Total employees (D + E) 
577
519
89.95%
58
10.05%
WORKERS
4.
 Permanent (F)	
309
306
99.03%
3
0.97%
5.
 Other than Permanent (G) 
804
781
97.14%
23
2.86%
6.
 Total workers (F + G) 
1113
1087
97.66%
26
2.34%
5 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
b. 	 Differently abled Employees and workers: 
Sl. 
No
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)	
4
2
50%
2
50%
2.
Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
3.
Total differently abled 
employees (D + E) 
4
2
50%
2
50%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)	
0
0
0%
0
0%
5.
Other	
than permanent (G) 
1
0
0%
1
100%
6.
Total differently abled workers 
(F + G) 
1
0
0%
1
100%
21.  Participation/inclusion/representation of women
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
8
1
12.50%
Key Management Personnel
3
0
0%
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees 
15%
38%
11%
25%
39%
26%
44%
50%
45%
Permanent Workers 
3%
29%
3%
31%
0%
31%
24%
22%
24%
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23.(a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sl. 
No.
Name of Holding/Subsidiary/
Associate Companies/Joint Venture 
(A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% Of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
in column A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives 
of listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
Subsidiary
99.99%
No
2
JKM Research Farm Limited
Subsidiary
99.99%
No
3
JKM Global Pte Limited, Singapore
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
4
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
Subsidiary
99.99%
No
5
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
6
Yew Tree Investments Limited, UK
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
7
Dynamatic US, LLC
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
8
JKM Erla Holding GmbH, Germany*
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
9
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
10
JKM Automotive Limited**
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
	
Note: 
	
*JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany, ceased to exist with effect from 30th September 2024, pursuant to the court order dated 16th September 2024.	
	
** JKM Automotive Limited filed an application for strike-off, as it was unable to achieve its intended objectives and has not generated any income since its 
incorporation.
VI. 	CSR Details
24.
i.	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
ii.	 Turnover (in Rs.) – 63,918 Lakhs
iii.	 Net worth (in Rs.) – 64,364 Lakhs
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    5 9
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC):
Stakeholder group 
from whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Shareholders
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Employees and workers
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Customers
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Value Chain Partners
Yes
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other (please specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1) 	 The policies governing the Company, including the grievance redressal mechanism, are available on the Company’s website at: 
https://www.dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-Information/
2) 	 The company has appointed Kfintech, SEBI registered Registrar & Transfer Agents to provide share registration and related 
services to shareholders and investors. During FY 2024-25, there were no investor complaints pending for resolution at the end of 
the year.
3) 	 The grievance redressal mechanism consists of immediate reporting manager, representatives of recognized Union, Dedicated 
Industrial Relations Managers and HR Business Partners at each factory locations.
4) 	 Escalation mechanisms are defined in individual client contracts and addressed as per DTL quality policy.
 26.	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk, as per the following format
Sl. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt or 
mitigate.
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1
Stakeholder 
engagement
Opportunity
Stakeholder engagement 
is 
a 
key 
opportunity 
for 
the 
company, 
enabling 
the 
company 
to align with stakeholder 
expectations, 
drive 
innovation, and improve 
environmental and social 
outcomes. By engaging 
transparently with clients, 
employees, 
suppliers, 
and regulators, DTL can 
enhance 
trust, 
ensure 
regulatory compliance, and 
strengthen its position as 
a responsible and reliable 
global partner.
-
Positive
6 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
2
Carbon 
reduction
Opportunity
Carbon 
reduction 
presents an opportunity 
for companies to improve 
resource efficiency, lower 
emissions, and align with 
global climate goals. At 
DTL, renewable energy 
already forms a significant 
part of its energy mix, 
supporting the adoption of 
low-carbon technologies. 
This 
reduces 
long-
term 
operational 
costs, 
enhances 
supply 
chain 
credibility, and prepares 
the business for future 
regulatory 
and 
market 
shifts related to climate 
action. 
-
Positive
3
Operations 
environment
Opportunity
Improving 
operational 
environmental performance 
offers DTL the opportunity 
to 
conserve 
resources, 
reduce waste, and lower 
costs. The use of solar 
power 
across 
facilities 
further supports energy 
efficiency and emissions 
reduction. These efforts 
also mitigate regulatory 
risks, 
enhance 
process 
efficiency, and reinforce 
DTL’s 
commitment 
to 
sustainable and responsible 
manufacturing.  
-
Positive
4.
Products 
Solutions and 
Services
Opportunity
Developing 
sustainable 
products 
and 
solutions 
drives innovation, boosts 
customer satisfaction, and 
strengthens differentiation 
in 
global 
markets. 
By 
incorporating 
energy 
efficiency, 
resource 
conservation, and climate-
conscious design, DTL can 
deliver long-term value, 
minimize lifecycle impacts, 
and effectively meet the 
evolving expectations of 
investors, customers, and 
the market.
-
Positive
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    6 1
5. 
Human Rights 
& labour
Risk
Human and labour rights 
risks can emerge when 
safe working conditions are 
not adequately maintained 
across its operations and 
global supply chain. Such 
lapses may lead to legal 
penalties, 
reputational 
damage, 
lower 
ESG 
ratings 
and 
operational 
disruptions. 
Given 
the 
company’s presence in 
sectors like aerospace and 
automotive manufacturing, 
where labour standards 
and safety are critical, 
proactive 
management 
of these risks is essential 
to safeguard stakeholder 
trust 
and 
ensure 
sustainable growth.
DTL enforces a strong 
Whistleblower 
Policy 
and 
Vigil 
Mechanism 
to 
safeguard 
ethical 
conduct 
and 
labour 
rights. 
Complaints 
related to misconduct 
or policy breaches are 
handled 
confidentially, 
with outcomes reviewed 
quarterly 
by 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
and 
Board. 
This 
ensures 
accountability, 
swift 
action, and reinforces the 
company’s commitment 
to safe and fair working 
conditions.
Negative
6
Health and 
Safety
Risk
Managing 
health 
and 
safety is a core business 
responsibility 
for 
DTL. 
Failure to identify and 
control workplace hazards 
through 
proper 
risk 
assessments 
can 
lead 
to accidents, regulatory 
non-compliance, 
and 
reputational 
damage. 
These 
risks 
not 
only 
disrupt operations but also 
compromise 
employee 
well-being 
and 
erode 
stakeholder trust.
DTL addresses health 
and safety risks through 
a structured approach 
outlined 
in 
its 
Risk 
Management 
Policy. 
This includes systematic 
risk 
identification, 
categorisation, description, 
estimation and the use 
of a risk matrix to assess 
impact 
and 
likelihood. 
A 
dedicated 
Risk 
Management Committee 
oversees this process, 
ensuring that appropriate 
controls are in place 
to protect employees, 
maintain 
regulatory 
compliance, and uphold 
stakeholder confidence.
Negative
7
Diversity and 
Inclusion
Opportunity
The 
company 
is 
powered by the diverse 
perspectives, skill sets and 
life experiences of their 
employees. To tap into 
the full potential of human 
diversity, 
the 
company 
looks 
at 
diversity 
and 
create an inclusive working 
culture 
underpinned 
by 
a fundamental sense of 
belonging, fairness and 
equity, enabling people to 
bring their ‘full self’ to work 
and achieve operational 
efficiency
-
Positive
6 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
8. 
Data privacy 
and Cyber 
security
Risk
Data 
privacy 
and 
cybersecurity 
pose 
potential challenges for 
DTL as digital reliance 
grows across operations 
and 
supply 
chains. 
Inadequate 
safeguards 
may lead to data breaches, 
loss 
of 
stakeholder 
trust, 
and 
compliance 
issues. 
Strengthening 
cybersecurity frameworks 
helps 
protect 
sensitive 
information, 
ensure 
operational continuity, and 
maintain 
customer 
and 
partner confidence.
To mitigate cybersecurity 
risks, 
DTL 
has 
implemented a robust 
information 
security 
management 
system 
aligned with ISO 27001 
standards. This includes 
regular risk assessments, 
firewalls, 
intrusion 
detection systems, and 
endpoint protection
Negative
9
Environmental 
Footprint 
– Water 
management
Risk
Water scarcity poses a 
risk to DTL by potentially 
disrupting 
manufacturing 
operations, 
inadequate 
water 
management 
can 
lead 
to 
increased 
operational 
costs, 
regulatory 
challenges, 
and 
reputational 
concerns. Proactive water 
conservation and reuse 
measures are essential 
to 
ensure 
long-term 
business continuity and 
environmental compliance.
To mitigate water-related 
risks, 
DTL 
promotes 
employee 
awareness 
on water conservation, 
implements 
rainwater 
harvesting 
systems, 
and 
encourages 
the 
recycling and reuse of 
wastewater across its 
facilities. Additionally, the 
Company adopts efficient 
water usage practices 
on 
campuses 
and 
monitors 
consumption 
to 
ensure 
sustainable 
and responsible water 
management.
Negative
10
 Social 
Responsibility 
– Alignment 
with local 
communities
Risk
Misalignment 
with 
local 
community 
interests 
can 
lead 
to 
reputational 
damage, 
operational 
disruptions, 
and social unrest. For 
DTL, maintaining strong 
community 
relationships 
is 
essential 
to 
ensure 
business 
continuity, 
build trust, and support 
long-term value creation 
through local employment, 
skill 
development, 
and 
active 
engagement 
in 
community well-being.
To 
mitigate 
risks 
related 
to 
community 
engagement, 
DTL 
focuses on implementing 
strong local relationships 
through job creation, skill 
development initiatives, 
and active involvement 
in community welfare. 
The 
Company 
also 
supports 
local 
relief 
efforts 
during 
crises, 
maintains 
transparent 
communication, 
and 
ensures 
timely 
tax 
contributions, reinforcing 
its role as a responsible 
corporate citizen.
Negative
11
Corporate & 
sustainability 
governance
Opportunity
Addressing 
sustainability 
& 
governance 
is 
an 
opportunity 
to 
move 
ahead in the sustainability 
maturity model with cost 
saving and benefits as 
it demands responsible 
corporate behavior
-
Positive
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    6 3
12
Responsible 
sourcing
Risk
As inadequate oversight 
across the supply chain 
can lead to environmental 
violations, human rights 
concerns, 
and 
safety 
issues. Such lapses may 
result in regulatory non-
compliance, 
reputational 
damage, 
and 
supply 
disruptions, 
impacting 
operational continuity and 
stakeholder 
confidence 
in the Company’s ethical 
standards.
Established 
detailed 
frameworks 
(including 
supplier’s 
Code 
of 
Conducts) 
along 
with 
processes to evaluate 
the supplier’s adherence 
to DTL’s supplier Code 
of Conduct and ESG 
requirements 
and 
supporting the suppliers 
to further enhance their 
ESG 
performance 
to 
move towards creating a 
sustainable supply chain 
base.
Negative
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent and 
accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible 
and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
POLICY AND MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
1. a.  Whether your entity’s policy/ policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
    b.  Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
    c.  Web link of the policies, if available
https://dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-Information/
2.    Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.   Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
6 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
4. Name the national and international
    codes/ certifications/ labels/ standards
- ISO 9001
- GRI 
standards
- UNGC 
principles
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
-GRI 
standards
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- ISO
45001
- GRI 
standards
- UNGC 
principles
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- GRI 
standards
- UNGC 
principles
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- GRI 
standards
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- ISO
14000
-Science 
Based
Targets 
initiative 
(SBTi)
GRI 
standards
- UNGC 
principles
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- GRI 
standards
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- GRI 
standards
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
- ISO 
27001
- GRI 
standards
- United 
Nations 
SDGs
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets
    set by the entity with defined timelines,
    if any
The Company is committed to reducing emissions and waste, increasing the use of 
renewable energy, enhancing product responsibility, ensuring occupational health 
and safety, advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion, fostering a sustainable supply 
chain, attaining ISO 27001 certification across all plants, providing comprehensive 
ethics and compliance training, and deploying a robust ESG data management 
system.
6. Performance of the entity against specific
    commitments, goals and targets along
    with reasons in case the same are not
    met.
Long term Sustainability Goals/ Targets have been identified and the action plan 
for achieving the same is tracked on a year-on-year basis. Performance of such 
principles is also reviewed periodically by the Senior Management. Action plans 
include ongoing implementation of an ESG data management system to enhance 
reporting and transparency across operations. DTL has initiated sourcing of 
renewable energy and working towards reducing energy consumption through 
effective energy management practices, contributing to its commitment to reduce 
environmental impact.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for 
the 
business 
responsibility 
report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity 
has flexibility regarding the placement of 
this disclosure).
Dynamatic Technologies Limited is committed to building a sustainable and socially 
responsible business that aligns with evolving global expectations. Our ESG 
roadmap focuses on strengthening governance, cultivating a diverse and inclusive 
workforce, and minimizing the environmental footprint of our operations.
To support this commitment, DTL has implemented a comprehensive ESG policy 
that ensures alignment with applicable local, national, and international regulations. 
The company has constituted dedicated CSR and Risk Management Committees 
at the Board level to guide strategic decision-making and oversee the achievement 
of defined sustainability targets.
Key focus areas include reducing emissions, adopting eco-efficient practices, 
minimizing waste, and expanding community development programs. While 
challenges such as regulatory changes, resource efficiency, and stakeholder 
expectations require continuous attention, the Company remains focused on 
meeting its targets through structured action plans and continuous improvement.
Through these initiatives, DTL aims to strengthen its long-term resilience, uphold the 
highest standards of governance, and contribute meaningfully to the communities 
in which it operates.
8. Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
&   Sustainability (BRSR) Policy.
Name: Mr. Udayant Malhoutra, 
Designation: CEO & Managing Director 
DIN: 00053714
9.   Does the entity have a specified 
committee 
of 
the 
board/ 
director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes/ No). If 
yes, provide details.
Yes, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee). For composition 
of CSR Committee, please refer Corporate Governance Report which forms part of 
this Annual Report.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    6 5
10.  Details of Review of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half 
yearly (H) / Quarterly (Q) / Any 
other – please specify
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against above policies & follow 
up action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Annually by the board
Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and rectification 
of any non-compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Quarterly by the board
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency: No
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: 
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/ No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the principles and core elements with 
key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential 
indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be 
voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and 
ethically responsible
PRINCIPLE 1- BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A MANNER 
THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the 
training audits impact
% of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes*
Board of Directors
4
Code 
of 
Conduct, 
ESG, 
ethics 
and 
governance, legal and regulatory updates
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
4
Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at 
Workplace, 
Integrity 
Straight 
Talks, 
Integrity e-learning, Anti-trust
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
41
Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at Workplace, Integrity Straight Talks, Integrity 
E-learning, Antitrust, conflict of interest
100%
Workers
24
Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption, Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
at 
Workplace, 
Integrity 
Straight 
Talks, 
Integrity e-learning, Anti-trust
100%
6 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
2. 	 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by 
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial 
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the 
entity’s website):
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Monetary
Penalty/ Fine
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
No
Settlement
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
No
Compounding fee
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
No
Non-monetary
Imprisonment 
NA
Nil
NA
No
Punishment
NA
Nil
NA
No
3.	 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal/revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NONE
NA
NONE
NA
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The company promotes a strong culture of ethics, integrity, and transparency through its Code of Conduct for Board of 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel. This Code reflects the company’s commitment to conducting its operations 
in compliance with applicable laws and the highest standards of ethical behaviour.
	
The code, formulated in accordance with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) regulations, 2015, 
outlines expectations around responsible conduct and explicitly addresses situations that could lead to conflicts of interest 
or unethical practices. Key provisions include:
•	
Prohibition of accepting bribes, kickbacks, or any form of improper payment in the course of business
•	
Guidelines on avoiding situations where personal interests could interfere with professional duties
•	
Restrictions on accepting gifts intended to influence business decisions or create a perception of bias
•	
Standards to ensure fair dealings with suppliers, customers, and other stakeholders.
	
Through these provisions, the company upholds a robust framework for preventing bribery and corruption across all levels 
of leadership and governance.
	
Weblink: https://www.dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-Information
5.	 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
NA
NA
KMPs
NA
NA
Employees
NA
NA
Workers
NA
NA
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    6 7
6.	 Details of complaints about conflict of interest.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
NA
NA
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
NA
NA
NA
7.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
NA
8.	 Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
No. of days of accounts payables
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
164
138
9.	 Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-
with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases 
-
-
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
-
-
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
-
-
Concentration of 
sales
a. Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
7.57%
8.23%
b. Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
48
48
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
54.4%
49.8%
Share of RPTs in
a. Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
10.28%
12.39%
b. Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
1.06%
3.61%
c. Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & advances)
78%
90%
d. Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
100%
100%
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year.
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under 
the training
%age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflicts of interest involving members of the Board? 
(Yes / No) If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes. The company has established a well-defined process to identify, avoid, and manage conflicts of interest involving 
members of the Board. The Code of Conduct, which applies to all Directors, includes specific provisions on the principles 
of Conflict of Interest.
	
To uphold the highest standards of transparency and integrity, the Code requires all Directors to disclose any potential 
conflicts arising from personal, social, professional, financial, political, or other interests, relationships, or activities that 
could reasonably be perceived to conflict with the company’s interests, affect their judgment, or create an appearance of 
impropriety.
	
Additionally, the annual affirmation of compliance with the Code of Conduct reinforces the company’s ongoing commitment 
to ethical governance and responsible leadership.
6 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
PRINCIPLE 2 - BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND 
SAFE
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
	
DTL has been investing in building green campuses. All of this, along with greater use of renewable energy has helped DTL bring down its 
carbon footprint
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impact
R&D
0
0
Capex
0
0
2.	 a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Responsible sourcing has been a key area of focus for the company, supported by well-defined policies and structured 
programs aimed at strengthening performance and fostering long-term partnerships within the supply chain.
	
The company collaborates closely with its Business Associates to build strong supplier relationships, ensure consistent 
adherence to quality standards, and promote a responsible and efficient supply chain. All engagements with Business 
Associates are governed by the company’s Supply Chain Policy, which outlines expectations around ethical conduct, safety, 
environmental compliance, and adherence to applicable laws and regulations.
	
As part of the supplier selection and contract award process, the company evaluates Business Associates’ alignment with 
its supply chain management principles. This includes their commitment to environmental responsibility, human rights, 
occupational safety, and ethical business practices.
	
Compliance with labour laws and related principles is a mandatory requirement for qualification. Additionally, supplier 
evaluation covers work methods, service performance, and technical capabilities, while safety assessments are integrated 
into both the qualification and online vendor registration processes.
	
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
100%
3.	 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of 
life, for
	
(a) Plastics (including packaging):
	
Damaged product packaging is reclaimed at the depots and returned to the respective factories for repacking. Further, the 
expired products are sent for incineration to an authorized agency in accordance with the Hazardous Waste Management 
Rules, 2016 (‘herein referred to as the Rules’)
	
(b) E-waste:
	
A pan India based agency authorised by the Pollution Control Board is selected to ensure safe disposal of e-waste with 
minimal environmental impact
	
(c) Hazardous waste:
	
Hazardous waste is categorised as per the Rules and is sent to the authorised end users for utilising the same and converting 
it into useful products. The remaining hazardous waste is sent for proper disposal at the Pollution Control Board’s authorised 
facilities.
	
(d) Other waste:
	
Non-hazardous waste
4.	 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes. Plastic waste generated from end products is disposed off under EPR with the help of an agency authorised by the 
Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    6 9
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes/
No) If yes, provide 
the web-link.
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of 
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
No
No
No
3. 	 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NIL
NIL
NIL
4. 	 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Type of Waste
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed 
(Metric 
Tonnes)
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed 
(Metric 
Tonnes)
Plastics 
(including 
packaging)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
E-waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Hazardous 
waste (used oil 
& battery)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other waste 
(wood)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5. 	 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % 
of total products sold in respective category
NA
NA
7 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING 
THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
Essential Indicators
1.	 a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E /A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Permanent Employees
Male
505
505
100%
505
100%
0
0%
505
0
0
0%
Female
55
55
100%
55
100%
55
100%
0
100%
55
100%
Total
560
560
100%
560
100%
55
9.82%
505
90.18%
55
9.82%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
14
14
100%
14
100%
0
0%
14
100%
0
0%
Female
3
3
100%
3
100%
3
100%
0
0%
3
100%
Total
17
17
100%
17
100%
3
17.65%
14
82.35%
3
17.65%
	
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of Workers covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E /A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Permanent Workers
Male
306
306
100%
306
100%
0
0%
306
100%
0
0%
Female
3
3
100%
3
100%
3
100%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
309
309
100%
309
100%
3
0.97%
306
99.03%
0
0%
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
781
781
100%
781
100%
0
0%
781
100%
0
0%
Female
23
23
100%
23
100%
23
100%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
804
804
100%
804
100%
23
2.86%
781
97.14%
0
0%
	
c. Spend on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format –
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures 
as a % of total revenue of the Company
1.38%
1.40%
2.	 Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employee)
No. of workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)
Deducted & 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/No/N.A)
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employees)
No. of workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Yes/No/N.A.)
PF
100%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
Gratuity
100%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
ESI*
8.21%
0%
Yes
6%
0%
Yes
	
*As per the ESI regulation, 100% of the eligible employees have been covered under the benefits.
3.	 Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices accessible to differently abled employees as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
DTL’s facilities are accessible to differently abled employees with lifts, ramps, and wheelchair provision.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    7 1
5.	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
100%
100%
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
100%
100%
100%
100%
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Particulars
Yes/No (if yes, then give details of mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
	
Yes, the Company has implemented an open-door approach for every employee, regardless of their position. The Company 
offers various platforms to its employees for sharing their grievances and concerns, including Ethics Speak Up, HR Helpdesk 
and e-mails to their supervisors. Further, the Company follows the ‘DTL Code of Conduct’, encouraging employees to raise 
concerns about bribery and corruption, harassment and human rights issues, and insider trading, among others.
7.	 Membership of employees in association(s) or unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% 
(B / A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% 
(D / C)
Total 
Permanent 
Employees
560
0
0%
429
0
0%
Male
505
0
0%
385
0
0%
Female
55
0
0%
44
0
0%
Total 
Permanent 
Workers
309
309
100%
318
318
100%
Male
306
306
100%
314
314
100%
Female
3
3
100%
4
4
100%
8.	 Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On health & 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On health and 
safety measures/ 
wellness
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. F
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
505
468
92.67%
468
92.67%
385
385
100%
385
100%
Female
55
48
87.27%
48
87.27%
44
44
100%
44
100%
Total
560
516
92.14%
516
92.14%
429
429
100%
429
100%
Workers
Male
306
199
65.03%
67
21.90%
314
274
87.26%
274
87.26%
Female
3
3
100%
0
0%
4
4
100%
4
100%
Total
309
202
65.37%
67
21.68%
318
278
87.42%
278
87.42%
	
Note: Only permanent employees/workers included
7 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
9.	 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
%(D/C)
Employees
Male
505
235
46.53%
385
224
58.18%
Female
55
13
23.64%
44
17
38.64%
Total
560
248
44.29%
429
241
56.18%
Workers
Male
As per Wage Settlement
Female
Total
10.	 a.  Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system? 
	
Yes. Safety is a core value over which no business objective can have a higher priority. The Safety & Health Management 
system covers activities across all manufacturing locations, offices, research laboratories and supply chain partners and 
ensures the protection of environment, health & safety of its employees, contractors, visitors and all other relevant 
stakeholders including ISO 45001:2018 requirement.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
The Company has a process for Risk Management which is essential for preventing incidents, injuries, occupational disease, 
emergency preparedness and business continuity. There is a structured Risk Assessment & Management process which is 
regularly reviewed, and mitigation plans are put in place to reduce the risk.
	
For all activities including routine or non-routine, hazards are identified by a trained cross functional team and risk assessment 
is done through Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) which is referred to before starting any activity. Identified hazards 
and associated risks are addressed through operational control measures using a hierarchy of control approach.
	
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Yes/No)
	
Yes. A process for incident management exists including incident reporting, investigation, and implementation of appropriate 
corrective measures. Employees, contractual staff, and visitors are all expected to report incidents including near-miss and 
potential hazards in addition to accidents.
	
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/
No)
	
Yes. All the sites have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services either on-site or through tie-ups with 
reputed medical entities in proximity.
11.	  Details of safety related incidents
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-
health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
At DTL, a culture of safety is encouraged across hierarchies by promoting behavior-based safety, process safety and road 
safety as key focus areas among its workforce. DTL is taking various measures to further strengthen its process safety 
through enhancing automation in processes and unit operations. Safety Audit conducted at all manufacturing sites by 
corporate safety to identify and rectify the gaps in workplace safety.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    7 3
	
The company reviews and monitors the safety, health, environmental and sustainability practices, processes, standards, 
and activities to ensure compliance with appropriate laws and legislation. This also provides valuable direction and guidance 
to the Management to ensure that Safety and Sustainability implications are duly and timely addressed. All the incidents are 
reported to the Risk Management Committee and are investigated and analyzed to avoid any recurrence.
13.	 Number of complaints on working conditions and health and safety made by employees and workers.
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Health & 
Safety
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
14.	 Assessments for the year
Particulars
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and   on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions. 
	
We have a robust system of handling safety-related incidents, by conducting regularly audits, awareness and inspections. 
There were no significant risks/concerns arising from the health & safety practices and working conditions.
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)?
Employees
Yes
Workers
Yes
2.	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners.
	
The Company monitors and tracks the compliance related to statutory dues by contractors supplying third party 
resources as a part of regular checks while processing the invoices. Periodic audits are also conducted to ensure 
compliance.
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment.
Total no. of affected 
employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment*
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
0
0
0
0
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No
7 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
5.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
Health & Safety practices
Please refer to point number 6
Working Conditions
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
The Company conducts EHS system & regulatory audits of third parties, their warehouses and of suppliers at regular 
intervals to ensure compliance of various processes. Regular follow ups are being done to ensure implementation of 
suggested corrective / preventive actions.
PRINCIPLE 4- BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company identifies and engages with various stakeholders with the intention of understanding and addressing their 
expectations and developing short, medium, and long-term strategies of the Company. The internal and external groups 
of key stakeholders identified based on their immediate impact on the operations and working of the Company include 
Customers, Suppliers, Investors, Employees, Competitors, Regulators, Trade bodies, Local Communities & Trade Unions.
	
The Company also engages with the analysts and news media from time to time.
2.	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Key 
Stakeholders
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, `Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key 
topics and concerns        
raised during such 
engagement
Shareholders
No
Annual reports, earnings calls, 
newspaper advertisement/notices, the 
Company’s website, annual general 
meetings, and press releases.
Quarterly/yearly
Providing information 
and update on the 
Company’s performance
Employees
No
Code of Conduct, trainings, workshops, 
employee touch base and grievance 
mechanisms
Need-based, 
quarterly
Rewards, training and 
development, wellness 
and safety measures
Customers
No
Meetings at the customer premises, 
events, conferences, trade shows, 
leadership meetings, programme 
reviews and satisfaction surveys
Need-based
Product/service 
information, customer 
feedback
Academic 
institutions
No
MoUs, technology meetings, 
conferences, and seminars
Ongoing basis
Capability development 
and research
Suppliers, 
Vendors and 
Partners
No
Supplier code of conduct, contracts, 
training & awareness, and appraisals
Ongoing and need 
based
Supplier sustainability
Communities
Yes
CSR policy, volunteering programmes.
Quarterly and 
annually
Community 
development
Trade Union
No
Right of all personnel to form and join 
trade unions of their choice and bargain 
collectively
Need-based
Long-term settlement 
discussions and training 
& development
Competitors
No
Through industry bodies, associations, 
seminars, exhibitions, and events
Ongoing and need 
based
representing before 
statutory authorities 
Industry
Regulatory 
Bodies
No
Statutes and regulations
Need-based
Statutory and regulatory 
compliances
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    7 5
Leadership Indicators
 1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Company’s management regularly interacts with key stakeholders i.e. investors, customers, suppliers, employees etc. 
The Company has Risk Management and CSR Committees that update the progress of actions in respect to economic, 
environmental and social topics to the Board and takes inputs on a regular basis.
2.	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Consultation with stakeholders on Environment, Social & Governance (ESG) topics are delegated to the departments within 
the organization who are also responsible for engaging with stakeholders continually. Within the domains of E, S and G, we 
are constantly thinking about the most important issues and preparing for them through these consultations.
3.	 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
Local Community members including but not limited to women, the elderly, adolescents, youth, children, and persons 
with disabilities, are some of key vulnerable group identified as they experience the highest degree of socio-economic 
marginalization. These groups have limited capacities and opportunities to cope and adapt and hence the company has 
priority to address these groups, especially rural children and gives them priority assistance under the company’s CSR 
policy.
PRINCIPLE 5 - BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
Essential Indicator
1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers covered (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
560
560
100%
429
429
100%
Other than 
Permanent 
17
17
100%
11
11
100%
Total 
employees 
577
577
100%
440
440
100%
WORKERS
Permanent 
309
309
100%
318
278
87.42%
Other than 
Permanent 
804
804
100%
745
745
100%
Total workers 
1113
1113
100%
1063
1023
96.23%
7 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
 
 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wages
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees 
Permanent
560
0
0
560
100%
429
0
0
429
100%
Male
505
0
0
505
100%
385
0
0
385
100%
Female
55
0
0
55
100%
44
0
0
44
100%
Non-
permanent 
17
0
0
17
100%
11
0
0
11
100%
Male
14
0
0
14
100%
9
0
0
9
100%
Female 
3
0
0
3
100%
2
0
0
2
100%
Workers
Permanent
309
0
0
309
100%
318
0
0
318
100%
Male
306
0
0%
306
100%
314
0
0
314
100%
Female
3
0
0%
3
100%
4
0
0
4
100%
Non-
permanent 
804
0
0
804
100%
745
0
0
745
100%
Male
781
0
0%
781
100%
733
0
0
733
100%
Female
23
0
0%
23
100%
12
0
0
12
100%
3.	 a. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category (in 
INR)
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category (in 
INR)
Board of Directors (BoD) *
4
5,100,000
1
1,600,000
KMP (other than BoD)**
3
34,200,000
0
0
Employees other than BOD & 
KMP***
502
732,348
55
343,428
Workers
306
761,801
3
896,251
Notes: *Sitting fees paid to independent directors. However no sitting fees is paid to Non-Executive & Non- Independent directors
           ** Salaries paid to CEO & MD, ED’s, CFO & CS
           ***The employee numbers is calculated based on total employees during the year.
	
b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
6.71%
6.89%
4.	 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) : Yes
5.	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues?
	
DTL is committed to fairness in all its operations and interactions. The company strongly opposes any violations of human 
rights, including the use of forced or child labor, both within its own activities and those of its business partners. It aligns 
with internationally recognized human rights standards and ensures these principles are respected across its workforce and 
value chain.
	
The company promotes a work environment where individuals are treated with respect and dignity. The company values 
diversity and ensures equal treatment for all employees, with clear policies against discrimination and harassment.
	
To support these commitments, DTL has established a well-defined grievance resolution mechanism. This system operates 
based on the principles of natural justice, confidentiality, sensitivity, non-retaliation, and fairness. All reported concerns are 
handled with care, and timely action is taken. The investigation process ensures that every party has an opportunity to 
present relevant information, helping maintain transparency and accountability throughout.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    7 7
6.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Discrimination at 
workplace
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Child Labour
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Forced / 
Involuntary Labour
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Wages
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Other human rights 
related issues
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
7.	 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0
0
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8.	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
I. 	 An independent Internal Committee (IC) drawn from cross functional/location employees, follows the process/guidelines as 
per the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
II.	 The whistleblower policy ensures that no unfair treatment will be meted out to a whistleblower by virtue of his/her having 
reported a protected disclosure under the policy. The Company, as a policy, condemns any kind of discrimination, harassment, 
victimization, or any other unfair employment practice being adopted against whistleblowers. Complete protection will, 
therefore, be given to whistleblowers against any unfair practices like retaliation, threat, or intimidation of termination/ 
suspension of service, disciplinary action, transfer, demotion, refusal of promotion, or the like including any direct or indirect 
use of authority to obstruct the whistleblower’s right to continue to perform his/her duties/functions including making 
further Protected Disclosure.
9.	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, human rights are part of the integrity clauses both sales and buy side. The company’s code of conduct requires 
suppliers to uphold human rights in their businesses, prioritizing the absence of child and forced labour and upholding the 
laws of the land relating to human rights related aspects.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100% by External Auditor
Forced/ involuntary labour
100% by External Auditor
Sexual harassment
100% by External Auditor
Discrimination at workplace
100% by External Auditor
Wages
100% by External Auditor
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
	
Not Applicable
7 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
To assess actual and potential human rights impacts, DTL regularly conducts systematic human rights risk assessments and 
identify its salient human rights issues at the entity level and plans to implement appropriate measures to cease, prevent 
or mitigate adverse human rights impacts along its full value chain.
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
DTL’s commitment to inclusivity and diversity, particularly in ensuring accessibility for differently abled individuals, is 
commendable. By designing work areas, restrooms, common spaces, and movement areas with accessibility in mind, DTL 
is not only meeting legal requirements but also fostering an environment where all employees feel valued and supported. 
This approach not only benefits individuals with physical disabilities but also enriches the workplace culture by promoting 
equality and understanding.
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, most of the locations are accessible to differently abled persons.
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
0
Discrimination at workplace
0
Child Labour
0
Forces Labour/ Involuntary Labour
0
Wages
0
Others – please specify
0
5.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessment at Question 4 above.
	
NA
PRINCIPLE 6- BUSINESS SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources (GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,139.98
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
1,139.98
0
From non-renewable sources (GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D)
24,989.50
25,685.94
Total fuel consumption (E)
1,014.37
1,135.06
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
26,003.87
26,821.00
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
27,143.85
26,821.00
Energy intensity per rupee of revenue from operations (Total energy 
consumption/ revenue from operations) GJ/INR
0.0000042
0.0000046
Energy intensity per rupee of revenue from operations adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP)  
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) * (GJ/
USD)
0.000087
0.00010
Energy intensity in terms of physical output  (GJ/ Number of units 
produced)
12.65
10.98
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
0
0
	
* The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by World Bank for India 
which is 20.66 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    7 9
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
No
2.	 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
NA
3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
0
0
(ii) Ground Water
0
33,827
(iii) Third Party Water
22,753.41
4,585
(iv) Seawater/Desalinated Water
0
0
(v) Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i+ii+iii+iv+v)
22,753.41
38,412
Total volume of water consumption
22,753.41
38,412
Water intensity per rupee of revenue from operations 
(Water consumed/ revenue from operations) (KL/INR)
0.00000355
0.0000066
Water intensity per rupee of revenue from operations adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP)*
0.000073
0.00015
Water intensity in terms of physical output (KL/ Number of units produced)
10.84
15.73
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
0
0
	
* The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by World Bank for India 
which is 20.66 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No
4.	 Provide the following details related to water discharged.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)  To surface water
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment, please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii) To groundwater
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment, please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii) To seawater
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment, please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv) Sent to third parties
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment, please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v) Others
    - No treatment
0
0
  - With treatment & complying with discharge Quality & Quantity limit based on 
Consent to Operate
0
0
Total water discharged in kilolitres
0
0
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
8 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
5.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
Yes. The company has installed highly efficient wastewater treatment systems (STP & ETPs) across all its manufacturing 
sites. In line with zero liquid discharge principle, our major units are recycling treated wastewater for irrigation, gardening 
as well as flushing purpose.
6.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
mg/Nm3
11.4
11.82
SOx
mg/Nm3
5.6
6.65
Particulate matter (PM)
mg/Nm3
14.3
24.61
Persistent organic pollutants 
(POP)
-
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds 
(VOC)
-
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
NA
NA
Others
-
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
No
7.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
74.83
81.24
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
5,046.49
0**
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of revenue 
from operations (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions/ Revenue 
from operations)
(MT CO2e/INR)
0.000000799
0.000000014
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of revenue from 
operations adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)(Total Scope 
1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / revenue from operations from 
operations adjusted for (PPP)*
(MT CO2e/USD)
0.000016
0.00000031
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
(MTCO2e/ 
Number of units 
produced)
2.75
0.03
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
0
0
	
* The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by World Bank for India 
which is 20.66 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC)
	
** In FY24, Scope 2 data was unavailable due to limitations in data collection systems, which have been addressed in FY25	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Not Applicable
8.	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
As a part of DTL sustainability targets and ESG agenda, the company has set an ambition to enable a low-carbon society 
where, the company has also committed to partner with its customers and suppliers to reduce emissions and achieve carbon 
neutrality in its own operations. The company has taken commitment towards renewable energy and cleaner and more 
efficient technologies to reduce its own emissions. The company has planned to have a clear energy efficiency target with 
the help of its energy management systems.
	
To realize the aforesaid commitment, the company has taken various initiatives such as installation of solar systems, green 
power procurement through third party power purchase agreements (PPAs) and is also strengthening its energy management 
systems to further reduce energy consumption and enhance the energy efficiency of electrical equipment at its premises.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    8 1
9.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
3.63
5.21
E-Waste (B)
0
0
Bio-Medical Waste (C)
0.07
0.33
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery Waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G)
31.82
17.97
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
113.02
164.61
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)  (Metric tonne)
148.53
188.1
Waste intensity per rupee of revenue from operations
(Total waste generated / revenue from operations)
0.000000023
0.000000032
Waste intensity per rupee of revenue from operations adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) *
0.00000048
0.00000073
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
0.07
0.07
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (metric tonnes)
Category of waste
0
0
(i) Recycled
0
0
(ii) Re-used
0
0
(iii) Other recovery operations (safely disposed)
0
0
Total (metric tonnes)
0
0
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)    Incineration
113.02
164.61
(ii)   Landfilling
0
0
(iii)  Other disposal operations
31.80
17.97
Total (metric tonnes)
144.84
182.58
	
* The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published by World Bank for India 
which is 20.66 (Source: https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Not Applicable 
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by 
your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
	
A guideline applicable company-wide ensures that the legal requirements for the transport and disposal of waste are complied 
with locally. All manufacturing sites have a clearly designated organizational unit responsible for sorting, classifying, and 
handing over waste to disposal companies. DTL conducts regular audits at the locations where the wastes are disposed to 
ensure it is treated and disposed in a scientific manner with minimum impact on the environment. Segregation of wastes is 
ensured at its place of generation. Process changes are also aimed at reducing generation of hazardous wastes. The thrust is 
on recycling and reuse of hazardous wastes. Those which cannot be reused are disposed in line with statutory requirements.
	
To offer a green product to the customers and meet various national/international regulations on material management, DTL 
has established a strong internal material compliance management system to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals 
in our products and processes.
8 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
11.	  If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details.
S. No.
Location of 
operations/ 
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
NA
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in FY 
2024-25.
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification 
Number
Date
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web Links
NA
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
S.No.
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not complied 
with
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control 
boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken if any
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilo litres): For each facility / plant located 
in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)   Name of the area
Bengaluru
(ii)  Nature of operations
Manufacturing and Engineering 
Services
        (iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)    Surface water
0
0
(ii)   Groundwater
0
33827
(iii)  Third party water
22753.41
4585
(iv)  Seawater/ desalinated water
0
0
(v)  Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
22753.41
38412
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
22753.41
38412
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)
0.00000355
0.0000066
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
0
0
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
i.   To Surface water
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
ii. To Groundwater
     -  No treatment
0
0
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    8 3
     -  With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
iii.  To Seawater
     - No treatment
0
0
     - With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
iv. Sent to third-parties
     - No treatment
0
0
     -  With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
v. Others
    - No treatment
0
0
    - With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
0
0
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
2.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
	
This activity is work in progress and shall be implemented in due course.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
NA
3.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities.
	
NA
4.	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
1
Solar power panels 
installation
Enhancement of renewable energy utilization
www.dynamatics.com
1,139.98 GJ of 
renewable energy
2
Rainwater harvesting 
system implementation
The purpose is to capture maximum rainwater for recharge 
and reuse purposes
www.dynamatics.com
Water footprint reduction
3
Single use plastic free 
premises establishment
Elimination of single use plastic also helped in reducing 
plastic waste within our premises
www.dynamatics.com
Waste reduction
 
5.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
DTL has a well-established business continuity and disaster management framework that is fully aligned to ISO 22301:2019, 
CMMI-SVC and is integrated with other quality management systems for consistent deployment across the organization. 
The function is governed by a trained pool of subject matter experts at various levels of the organization ensuring upkeep 
of business continuity plans, planning, and executing drills to achieve seamless resumption, in case of any disruption. The 
entire process is integrated with other business processes through in-house developed tools that support planning and 
communication with all stakeholders.
6.	 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
NA
7.	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
NA
8 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
PRINCIPLE 7- BUSINEESS, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN 
A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
Essential Indicator
1 	 a.    Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
       10
b.	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations (State/
National)
1
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
2
Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)
National
3
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
National
4
MCC Chamber of Commerce & Industry
National
5
Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC)
National
6
US-India Business Council
International
7
Indo American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)
International
8
Indo-Canadian Business Chamber
International
9
Aerospace & Aviation Sector Skill Council (AASSC)
National
10
Fluid Power Society of India
National
2. 	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of the Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action Taken
NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such 
advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by 
Board (Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly / Others 
– please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
NA
PRINCIPLE 8-BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and 
brief details of 
project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant 
Web link
NIL
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity.
S.No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
n the FY (In INR)
NIL
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    8 5
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company has a focused group comprising the senior leadership and the CSR head interacts with the community leaders 
to understand and address their concerns. Further, the Company also has a whistleblower policy in place for all its stakeholders 
to file their grievances. Same can be accessed at https://www.dynamatics.com/Investors/Shareholder-Information/
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
19.72%
22.7%
Directly from within India
NA
NA
5.	 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed 
on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost.
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural 
-
-
Semi-urban 
-
-
Urban 
-
-
Metropolitan 
100%
100%
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential indicators above).
	
NA
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies.	
S. No.
State
Aspirational district
Amount spent (in Rs.)
1
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.	 a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
No, A common sourcing policy that is based on attributes, quality, costs, and capability is followed. This policy does not 
differentiate between sourcing groups and categories.
	
(b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
NA
	
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
NA
4.	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. No.
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/
No)
Benefit shared (Yes 
/ No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
NA
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
NA
NA
6.	 Details of beneficiaries of CSR projects
S. No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR 
Projects during FY 2024-25 
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
The CSR amount spent during the year was towards ensuring Environmental Sustainability, Promoting Education and 
promoting Health Care.  This initiative was benefited by large number of people in the vicinity including vulnerable and 
marginalized groups, which is difficult to quantify.
8 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
PRINCIPLE 9- BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE 
MANNER
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company has a set process for the customer care response process, to address any customer issues with the Company’s 
offering and service portfolio. Each customer concern is addressed with utmost care at all levels. DTL teams acknowledge, 
analyze the incidents, and develop an action plan to resolve them. The team engages with the customer, to validate the action 
plan and regularly updates customers about the progress of action taken. Any feedback from the customer is taken positively 
and action plans are refined to ensure utmost customer satisfaction.
2.	 Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/or safe disposal
NA
 
3.	 Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Advertising
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Cybersecurity
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Delivery of essential 
services
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Others-Quality of Products
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on accounts of safety issues.
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
NA
Forced recalls
NA
NA
5.	 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes. Web link: https://dynamatics.com
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
NIL
7.	 Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	 Number of instances of data breaches:
	
NIL
b.	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customer)
	
NIL
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
NIL
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    8 7
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the Company can be accessed
	
Weblink: https://www.dynamatics.com
2.	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers, especially vulnerable and marginalised consumers, about safe and 
responsible usage of products and services.
	
At DTL, sustainable innovation is a core part of the Company’s DNA. The Company continues to work together and with our 
partners and customers to explore new ways to incorporate sustainable materials across our solutions and bring them to new 
markets including increased communications.
3.	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services.
	
Issues are bound to arise in any customer/supplier relationship and therefore DTL maintains continual communication with 
customers to identify problems before they become serious. This allows both parties to work towards mutually beneficial 
solutions. The company’s teams focus on quality and customer service and continue to strengthen the position DTL as a 
trusted partner.
4.	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or 
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
NA
8 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2023-2024    8 9
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT
9 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR 2024-25
Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance:
The Company is committed to good Corporate Governance 
and your Company’s actions are governed by its Values 
and Code of Conduct. The Company considers itself a 
trustee of its shareholders and fully realises the rights of 
its shareholders to information on the performance of the 
Company. The Company provides detailed information 
on various issues concerning the Company’s business 
and financial performance to its shareholders. The basic 
philosophy of Corporate Governance in the Company is to 
achieve business excellence and dedicate itself for increasing 
long-term shareholder value, keeping in view the needs and 
interests of all its stakeholders including, but not limited to, 
shareholders, employees, customers, business partners, 
suppliers, and the wider communities that we serve. The 
Company is committed to transparency in all its dealings and 
places emphasis on business ethics. 
The Company is following the requirements stipulated under 
Regulation 17 to 27 read with Schedule V and clauses (b) 
to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations), as applicable, 
regarding corporate governance.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The Board of Directors along with its committees provides 
leadership and guidance to the Management and directs 
and supervises the performance of the Company, thereby 
enhancing stakeholder value. The Board has a fiduciary 
relationship in ensuring that the rights of all stakeholders are 
protected. Your Company has an engaged and well-informed 
Board with qualifications and experience in diverse areas. The 
composition of the Board of the Company is in compliance 
with Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with 
Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Act).
The Board comprises of members having varied skills, 
experience and knowledge. The Board has an optimum 
combination of both Independent and Non-independent 
Directors. As on 31st March 2025, the Company has eight 
Directors. Out of the eight Directors, six are Non-Executive 
Directors out of which four are Independent Directors. The 
profiles of Directors can be found in the “Directors and the 
KMP Profile” appearing in the “Overview Section” of this 
Annual Report. 
None of the Directors on the Board holds directorships in 
more than ten public companies. None of the Independent 
Directors serves as an independent director on more than 
seven listed entities. Necessary disclosures regarding 
Committee positions in other public companies as on 31st 
March 2025, have been made by the Directors. None of the 
Directors are related to each other.
Independent Directors are non-executive directors as defined 
under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
read with Section 149(6) of the Act along with rules framed 
thereunder. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not aware 
of any circumstance or situation which exists or may be 
reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties. Based on the declarations 
received from the Independent Directors, the Board of 
Directors has confirmed that they meet the criteria of 
independence as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and that they are independent of the 
management.
Four board meetings were held during the year under review 
and the gap between two meetings did not exceed one 
hundred and twenty days. The said meetings were held on:
28th May 2024, 9th August 2024, 13th November 2024, and 7th 
February 2025. The necessary quorum was present for all the 
meetings.
The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, 
their attendance at board meetings held during the year 
under review and at the last Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), name of other listed entities in which the Director is 
a director and the number of Directorships and Committee 
Chairmanships / Memberships held by them in other public 
limited companies as on 31st March 2025, are given herein 
below. Other directorships do not include directorships of 
private limited companies, foreign companies and companies 
registered under Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them 
is a member of more than ten committees or chairman of 
more than five committees across all the public companies in 
which he/ she is a director. For determination of limit of the 
Board Committees, chairpersonship and membership of the 
Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    9 1
A.	 Details of attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings and at the previous year Annual General Meeting
Name of the 
Directors
AGM
Date of Board Meetings
Percentage (%) 
of attendance
5th  
September 
2024
28th 
May 2024
9th 
August 
2024
13th November 
2024
7th 
February 
2025
Pierre de Bausset
DIN:07178878
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
Pradyumna Vyas 
DIN:02359563
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
Gaitri Issar Kumar 
DIN: 10245539
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
Ajay Kumar* 
DIN: 01975789
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
Dietmar Hahn 
DIN:06414463
-
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
James Tucker 
DIN:07093258
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
P S Ramesh** 
DIN:05205364
Y
Y
Y
Y
-
100%
Udayant Malhoutra 
DIN:00053714
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
100%
Chalapathi P# 
DIN: 08087615
-
-
-
-
Y
100%
*Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025 
**Mr. P S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024
#Mr. Chalapathi P was inducted w.e.f. 13th November 2024.
B. 	COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND DIRECTORSHIPS / SHAREHOLDINGS IN THE COMPANY / MEMBERSHIP HELD 
BY DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR 2024-25
Name of the 
Director
Category
Shareholding 
in Dynamatic
Other Public 
Companies 
excluding this 
Company
Committee Memberships 
held in public Company 
(Audit & Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee 
Only)
Directorship 
in other 
listed entity 
(Category of 
Directorship)
As 
Chairman
As Member
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
DIN:07178878
Chairman -  
Independent and 
Non- Executive 
Director
Nil
-
-
-
-
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
DIN:02359563
Independent and 
Non-Executive 
Director
Nil
1. Dynamatic 
Manufacturing 
Limited 
-
-
-
2. JKM Erla 
Automotive 
Limited
-
-
3. Carysil 
Limited
-
Audit
Non-Executive 
- Independent 
Director 
4. Kirloskar 
Brothers Ltd.
(Appointed  
w.e.f. 14th May 
2025)
-
Audit
Non-Executive 
- Independent 
Director 
9 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
DIN:10245539
Independent and 
Non- Executive 
Director
NIL
-
-
-
-
Dr. Ajay Kumar*
DIN:01975789
Independent and 
Non- Executive 
Director
30
1. Sify Infinit 
Spaces Limited 
(Resigned on 
15.05.2025) 
-
-
-
2. Sify 
Technologies 
Limited 
(Resigned on 
15.05.2025)
-
-
-
3. SMPP 
Limited 
(Resigned on 
15.05.2025)
-
-
4. Cyient 
DLM Limited 
(Resigned on 
15.05.2025)
-
-
Non-Executive 
- Independent 
Director 
5. Electrosteel 
Castings 
Limited 
(Resigned on 
15.05.2025)
-
-
Non-Executive 
- Independent 
Director 
Mr. James Tucker
DIN:07093258
Non-Executive 
and Non- 
Independent 
Director
Nil
-
-
-
-
Mr. P S Ramesh*
DIN:05205364
Executive 
Director & COO - 
Hydraulics
Nil
1. JKM 
Automotive 
Limited 
(Resigned on 
13.11.2024)
-
-
-
2. JKM Erla 
Automotive 
Limited
(Resigned on 
13.11.2024)
3. JKM 
Research Farm 
Limited
(Resigned on 
13.11.2024)
4. Dynamatic 
Manufacturing 
Limited 
(Resigned on 
13.11.2024)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    9 3
Mr. Udayant 
Malhoutra
DIN:00053714
Promoter, CEO 
and 
Managing 
Director
5,23,460
1. Centrust 
Financial 
Limited
-
-
-
2. Greenearth 
Biotechnologies 
Limited
-
-
-
3. SAN 
Engineering 
and Locomotive 
Company 
Limited
-
-
-
4. Centum 
Electronics 
Limited 
(Appointed 
w.e.f. 22nd May 
2025)
-
Stakeholder’s 
Relationship
Non-Executive 
- Independent 
Director
Chalapathi P*
DIN: 08087615
Executive 
Director & Chief 
Financial Officer
Nil
1. JKM 
Automotive 
Limited
-
-
-
2. JKM Erla 
Automotive 
Limited
3. JKM 
Research Farm 
Limited
4. Dynamatic 
Manufacturing 
Limited 
	
Note:*
	
1.	
Mr. P S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024
	
2.	
Mr. Chalapathi P was inducted w.e.f. 13th November 2024
	
3.	
Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025
Disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se:
None of the Directors are inter-se related to each other.
Familiarisation programme imparted to Independent 
Directors:
All independent and non-executive directors inducted 
to the Board are introduced to our Company culture 
through orientation sessions. Executive Directors and 
Senior Management provide an overview of operations 
and familiarize the new directors on matters related to 
our values and commitments. They are also introduced to 
the organization structure, services, group structure and 
subsidiaries, constitution, board procedures, matters reserved 
for the board, major risks and risk management strategy. The 
details of the familiarization program are also available on the 
Company’s website at (www.dynamatics.com)
On 27th May 2024, the Board members visited Industrial 
Training Institute (ITI) campus, Devanahalli, Bangalore, as a 
part of familiarization program organized for the directors, key 
managerial personnel and invitees.  The visit was aimed to 
showcase the company’s initiatives to promote education as 
a part of its corporate social responsibility mission.
On 6th February 2025, a special visit was arranged for all the 
Directors to the Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited (DML) 
facility located in Peenya, Bangalore, providing them with 
firsthand exposure to the Company’s manufacturing and 
product development operations. The Directors toured 
DML’s advanced manufacturing unit, gaining insights into 
the various processes involved in producing detailed parts 
for aerostructure assemblies, the control systems in place, 
and the overall scale of operations. Each Director spent 
approximately four hours at the facility during this visit.
Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, details 
of familiarisation programmes imparted to the Independent 
Directors are available on the Company’s website at https://
dynamatics.com/downloads/Familiarization_Programme_
DTL_2025.pdf 
Skills / Expertise / Competencies of the Board of 
Directors:
For effective functioning of the Board, your Company’s 
Board needs to have skills / expertise / competencies in the 
areas of Business, Finance & Accounting and Governance 
/ Legal. Your Company’s Board comprises of people from 
diverse fields and across globe. Your Company’s Directors 
9 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
are qualified and possess the appropriate knowledge, skills, 
experience, expertise, diversity and independence, covering 
Business, Finance & Accounting, Administration, Design & 
Development, Information Technology, Sales & Marketing, 
Quality, Human Resources & Industrial Relations including 
Governance and Legal. In the table given below, various skills 
/ expertise / competencies of Board of Directors are given:
The following are the skills as identified by the Board.
Sl.
No
Core skills /expertise/
competencies identified 
by the Board of Directors 
as required in the context 
of its business(es) and 
sector(s)
Names of Directors 
who have such 
skills / expertise / 
competence
1
Finance, Law, Management, 
Administration, Sales & 
Marketing, Corporate 
Governance related to the 
Company’s business
Mr. Pierre de Bausset, 
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
Dr. Ajay Kumar
Mr. Chalapathi P
2
Technical Operations related 
to the Company, Design & 
Development, Information 
Technology, Knowledge 
on Production, Processing, 
Quality and Marketing of 
Aerospace, Hydraulics and 
Automobile
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, 
Mr. James Tucker, 
Mr. Dietmar Hahn, 
Mr. Udayant 
Malhoutra,
Dr. Ajay Kumar
3
Management, Strategy, 
Marketing, Administration, 
Industrial Relations and 
Human Resources, 
Technical Operations related 
to the Company’s business
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra 
Mr. James Tucker
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
Dr. Ajay Kumar
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
As part of its statutory duties under the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(NRC) conducts due diligence, reference checks, and 
interviews to evaluate a prospective Director’s skills, 
experience, and industry knowledge before recommending 
their appointment. Upon identifying a suitable candidate, the 
NRC proposes the appointment to the Board, which then 
appoints the individual as an Additional Director and seeks 
shareholder approval. All Directors are appointed with the 
approval of both the Board and shareholders and are subject 
to periodic re-appointment; none hold a perpetual term.
Responsibilities of the Chairman and Executive Directors:
The Company has Mr. Pierre de Bausset, Independent 
Director as the Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra is the CEO & Managing Director of 
the Company, who is also a Promoter Director.
Mr. Chalapathi P is the Executive Director & CFO of the 
Company.
The Executive Directors of the Subsidiary Companies 
incorporated abroad are part of the Board as Non-Executive 
and Non-Independent Directors of the Company. There is 
clear demarcation of responsibilities and authority among 
these officials.
The Senior Management makes periodic presentations to the 
Board on the Company performance and business growth of 
the business units.
Senior Management 
Particulars of the Senior Management in compliance with 
Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as on March 
31, 2025, are as under:
Name of the Senior 
Management Personnel
Designation
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
Mr. Chalapathi P
Executive Director & Chief 
Financial Officer
Mr. Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
Mr. Ravichander V
Chief Technology Officer
Mr. Ajay Gururaj
Chief Commercial Officer
Independent Directors
As on March 31, 2025, the Board of Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited comprised of Four (4) Independent Directors, who in 
the opinion of the Board, fulfil the requirements as stipulated 
under Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations, and are independent 
of the Management. The necessary declarations from 
Independent Directors affirming that they meet the criteria 
of independence as required under Section 149(7) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations are obtained. The Independent Directors 
abide by the code of conduct adopted by the Company and as 
laid out under Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013.
Dr. Ajay Kumar (DIN: 01975789), resigned as an Independent 
Director on 15th May 2025, owing to his appointment as 
Chairman of the Union Public Service Commission, pursuant to 
the order of the Hon’ble President of India, thereby assuming 
a constitutional responsibility of national importance. Dr. Ajay 
Kumar has confirmed that there are no other material reasons 
for his resignation other than those stated above. The Board 
places on record its appreciation for the contributions and 
guidance made by Dr. Ajay Kumar, during his stint with the 
Company as an Independent Director.
A separate meeting of Independent Directors for the financial 
year 2024-25 as per Clause VII (1) of Schedule IV under Section 
149(8) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25(3) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations was held on 27th May 2024, 
without the participation of the Non-Independent Directors 
and management members, wherein the Independent 
Directors reviewed:
•	
the performance of the Managing Director, Non-
Independent Directors and the Board as a whole;
•	
the performance of the Chairman of the Company based 
on the views received from Directors of the Company; 
and
•	
the flow of information between Company management 
and the Board in terms of quality, timeliness and quantity, 
in order to ensure that the Board discharges its duty 
effectively.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    9 5
The Independent Directors expressed satisfaction on the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors, the Chairman 
and the Board as a whole. The Independent Directors were 
also satisfied with the quality, quantity, and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company Management and the 
Board.
In addition, an Independent Directors meeting was held on 
4th September 2024 without the participation of the Non-
Independent Directors and management members, wherein 
the Independent Directors reviewed the general strategy 
pertaining to the Company.
Evaluation Mechanism:
The Board’s performance is formally evaluated based on 
guidelines laid down by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee (NRC), covering aspects such as Board 
composition, diversity, qualifications, meeting effectiveness, 
strategic oversight, governance, risk management, and 
stakeholder engagement. Individual Directors are assessed 
on their qualifications, experience, integrity, commitment, 
team contribution, and support to management. The 
Chairman is additionally evaluated on leadership, impartiality, 
and 
effectiveness. 
Committee 
evaluations 
focus 
on 
mandate, composition, independence, meeting quality, and 
contribution to Board decisions. The evaluation process and 
criteria, including those for determining qualifications and 
independence under Section 178(3) of the Companies Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations, are detailed in the Board’s Report. 
The NRC also promotes gender diversity by emphasizing 
increased representation of women on the Board.
Board Continuity and Succession Planning:
The NRC of the Board is vested with the responsibility 
of ensuring continuity in the Board Management by 
recommending suitable candidates to the Board, beforehand, 
in place of those retiring.
As mentioned above, the Company’s Board is well represented 
with experts from various realms. While ensuring continuity 
in the Board Management, the NRC endeavours to fulfil the 
position of the retiring director by choosing candidates, ideally, 
from the same realm as that of the retiring director to always 
ensure balanced representation of directors on the Board.
Compensation to Directors (CTC) for the year ended 31st 
March 2025 is as follows: (in Rs)	 	
(Amount in Rs)
Name of the 
Director
Remuneration
Total
Sitting 
Fees
Salary
Mr. Pierre de 
Bausset
19,00,000
-
19,00,000
Prof. Pradyumna 
Vyas
20,00,000
-
20,00,000
Ms. Gaitri Issar 
Kumar
16,00,000
-
16,00,000
Dr Ajay Kumar*
12,00,000
-
12,00,000
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
-
-
-
Mr. James David 
Tucker
-
-
-
Mr. P S Ramesh*, 
Executive 
Director & COO – 
Hydraulics
-
72,80,610
72,80,610
Mr. Udayant 
Malhoutra, CEO 
& Managing 
Director
-
1,44,00,000
1,44,00,000
Mr. Chalapathi P*, 
Executive Director 
& Chief Financial 
Officer
-
1,20,00,000
1,20,00,000
Note*:
1. Mr. P S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024
2. Mr. Chalapathi P was inducted w.e.f. 13th November 2024
3. Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025
The terms of appointment of the Executive Directors are 
governed by the provisions of the law and such appointment is 
subject to termination by either party by giving three months’ 
notice unless termination at a shorter notice is mutually 
agreed by the concerned Executive Director and the Board 
of Directors of the Company. As per terms of appointment 
none of the Executive Directors are entitled to receive any 
severance fees. Service Contracts are governed as per the 
terms set out in the resolution by the Shareholders at the 
General Meeting while appointing the Director(s).
The Company does not have any scheme for grant of stock 
options either to Directors or to employees.
BOARD COMMITTEES:
Currently, the Board has Eight (8) Committees:
1. Audit Committee
2. Nomination and Remuneration Committee
3. Risk Management Committee
4. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
5. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
6. Technology & Strategy Development Committee
7. Finance Committee and
8. Independent Directors’ Committee
Procedure at Committee Meetings:
The Company’s guidelines relating to Board meetings are 
applicable to Committee meetings as far as may be practicable. 
Minutes of the proceedings of the Committee meetings are 
placed before the Board for perusal and records. The quorum 
for the board meetings shall be one-third of its total strength 
or three directors, whichever is higher, including at least one 
independent director. The participation of the directors by 
video conferencing or by other audio-visual means shall also 
be counted for the purposes of such quorum.
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
The Board has established a qualified and independent Audit 
Committee in accordance with the requirements of Section 
177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 18 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
9 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Composition:
The Audit Committee of the Board comprises the following 4 
(Four) Independent Directors as on 31st March 2025:
•	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset, Chairman
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
•	
Dr Ajay Kumar
The Chairman of the Committee is Mr. Pierre de Bausset, 
who has expertise in banking, finance, corporate laws, and 
governance matters. The Members of the Audit Committee 
have relevant experience in accounting matters and possess 
related financial management expertise and are considered 
financially literate as defined in Regulation 18(1)(c) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
attended the last Annual General Meeting of the Company, 
to answer the queries of the shareholders. Mr. Shivaram V, 
Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings held during 
the year 2024-25:
Audit Committee meetings were held on:
•	
28th May 2024
•	
9th August 2024
•	
13th November 2024
•	
7th February 2025
The gap between two Audit Committee Meetings did not 
exceed 120 days. The requisite quorum was present in above 
meetings and the attendance of members were as follows:
Name of the Member
No. of meetings attended
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
4
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
4
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
4
Dr Ajay Kumar*
4
Mr. P S Ramesh*
3
Note*: 
1.	
Mr. P S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024
2.	
Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025
Terms of reference:
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee covers all the 
matters specified in the areas mentioned in Section 177 of 
the Act and Regulation 18 read with Part C of Schedule II to 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, inter-alia are 
as follows:
i.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process 
and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure 
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible;
ii.	
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors of the Company; 
iii.	 Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by the statutory auditors;
iv.	 Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements 
and 
auditor’s 
report 
thereon 
before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to:
1.	 Matters required to be included in the Director’s 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the 
Board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 
of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	 Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same.
3.	 Major accounting entries involving estimates based 
on the exercise of judgment by management.
4.	 Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings.
5.	 Compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements.
6.	 Disclosure of any related party transactions.
7.	 Qualifications in the draft audit report, if any.
v.	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial 
statements before submission to the Board for approval;
vi.	 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses / application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the 
statement of funds utilised for purposes other than those 
stated in the offer document / prospectus / notice and the 
report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring 
the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and 
making appropriate recommendations to the Board to 
take up steps in this matter;
vii.	 Review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance, and effectiveness of audit process;
viii.	 Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions 
of the Company with related parties;
ix.	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
x.	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
xi.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
xii.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal 
control systems;
xiii.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, 
including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage and frequency 
of internal audit;
xiv.	 Discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up there on;
xv.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the board;
xvi.	Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well 
as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    9 7
xvii.	To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
xviii.To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower 
mechanism;
xix.	Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the whole-time 
Finance Director or any other person heading the finance 
function or discharging that function) after assessing the 
qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the 
candidate;
xx.	 Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/
investment by the holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding ` 100 crores or 10% of the asset size of the 
subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans/ 
advances/ investments existing;
xxi.	Consider and comment on rationale, costbenefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its 
shareholders.
xxii.	Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
Mandatory review of information by Audit Committee
The Audit Committee reviews the following information:
1.	 Management discussion and analysis of financial 
condition and results of operations;
2.	 Statement of significant related party transactions 
(as defined by the Audit Committee) submitted by 
management;
3.	 Management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors;
4.	 Internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses; and
5.	 The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Internal Auditor shall be subject to review by 
the Audit Committee. 
6.	 Statement of deviations:
a)	
quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of 
monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to stock 
exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1) of SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
b)	 annual statement of funds utilised for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice in terms of Regulation 32(7) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
	
The Audit Committee is also responsible for giving 
guidance and directions under the SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and to review the 
report of the Compliance Officer with the provisions 
of these regulations at least once in a financial year 
and verify that the systems for internal control are 
adequate and are operating effectively.
The Company has adequate internal control and Internal 
Audit system commensurate with its size and nature of its 
business. The Internal Audit Plan is approved by the Audit 
Committee and the Internal Auditors directly present their 
report to the Audit Committee for their consideration.
The Internal Auditors, representatives of the Statutory 
Auditors, Chief Financial Officer and CEO & Managing 
Director of the Company attend as invitees and participated 
in the Committee meeting/s to review and discuss financial 
performance, disclosure practices, internal control systems, 
internal audit reports, feedback reports of management and 
financial policies of the Company so that the Committee 
is able to oversee the financial reporting process, make 
appropriate financial disclosures and implement the terms of 
reference as mandated by the Board and the terms of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Statutory Auditors and Internal 
Auditors actively participate and recommend the required 
policies and changes from time to time.
All the recommendations of the Audit Committee have been 
accepted by the Board of Directors.
During the year, the Audit Committee inter alia reviewed key 
audit findings covering Operational, Financial and Compliance 
areas affecting the Company which were presented to the 
Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee briefed 
the Board members on the significant discussions which took 
place at Audit Committee Meetings.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) 
has been constituted by the Board in compliance with the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.  
Composition:
The Committee comprises the following 3 (three) Independent 
Directors as on 31st March 2025:
• 	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, Chairman 
• 	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
• 	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
In terms of Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read 
with the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 
2013, all the members of the NRC are independent directors. 
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, the Chairman of the NRC has attended 
the last Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Attendance at the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee Meetings held during the year 2024-25:
During the FY 2024-25, the meetings of the NRC was 
convened on 27th May 2024, 5th September 2024, and 13th 
November 2024. 
The requisite quorum was present in above meetings and the 
attendance of members were as follows:
Name of the Member
No. of meetings attended
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, 
Chairman
3
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
3
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
3
9 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of the NRC which covers the areas 
mentioned in Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 read 
with Part D (A) of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The terms of reference of the NRC, inter-alia are as follows:
1.	 Formulation of criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director 
and recommend to the Board a policy relating to the 
remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel, 
and other employees.
2.	 Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent 
Directors and the Board including carrying out evaluation 
of every director’s performance.
3.	 Devising a policy on Board diversity.
4.	 Identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend 
to the Board their appointment and removal.
5.	 Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment 
of the independent director, based on the report of 
performance evaluation of independent directors.
6.	 Recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to senior management and
7.	 Such other matters as may be prescribed under the Act, 
SEBI Listing Regulations and or by the Board of Directors 
of the Company from time to time.
Performance Evaluation criteria for Directors:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the applicable provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Annual Performance Evaluation was carried out for 
the Financial Year 2024-25, by the Board in respect of its 
own performance, the directors individually as well as 
the evaluation of the working of its Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration, Risk Management, Stakeholders’ Relationship 
and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees. 
A structured questionnaire covering various aspects of the 
Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the composition of 
the board and its committees, board culture, execution and 
performance of specific duties, obligations and governance 
was prepared after taking into consideration the guidance 
note issued by SEBI. The performance also included inputs 
from all the directors based on criteria such as the board 
composition, board processes, information & functioning, 
Risk Management & Strategy, Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Organisational performance and structure, effectiveness of 
board processes, etc.
A separate exercise was carried out to evaluate the 
performance of individual directors including the chairman 
of the Board who were evaluated on parameters such as 
guidance/ support to management outside Board/ Committee 
meetings, degree of fulfilment of key responsibilities, 
effectiveness of meetings etc. The performance evaluation 
criteria for independent directors are determined by the NRC. 
An indicative list of factors on which evaluation was carried 
out includes participation and contribution by a director, 
commitment, effective deployment of knowledge and 
expertise, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality and 
independence of behaviour and judgment.
Remuneration Policy: 
The Company’s philosophy for remuneration of Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel and all other employees is based 
on the commitment of fostering a culture of leadership with 
trust. The Company has adopted a Policy for Remuneration 
of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees, 
which is aligned to this philosophy. The key factors considered 
in formulating the Policy are as under:
a) 	 The level and composition of remuneration is reasonable 
and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors to 
run the Company successfully.
b) 	 Relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and 
meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and
c) 	 Remuneration to Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management involves short and long-term 
performance objectives appropriate to the working of the 
Company and its goals.
The Company does not have any Employee Stock Option 
Scheme.
Remuneration of Directors:
The key principles governing the Company’s Remuneration 
Policy are as follows:  
(i) Independent Directors and Non-Independent Non-
Executive Directors:
	
Independent Directors (ID) are paid sitting fees for 
attending the meetings of the Board and of Committees 
of which they are members. For Non-Independent and 
Non-Executive Directors, being employees of overseas 
subsidiary, no sitting fee is paid.  
(ii) 	Managing Director (MD)/ Executive Directors (ED) 
/ Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)/ rest of the 
employees: 
	
The extent of overall remuneration should be sufficient to 
attract and retain talented and qualified individuals suitable 
for every role. Hence, remuneration should be market 
competitive, driven by the role played by the individual, 
reflective of the size of the Company, complexity of 
the Sector / Industry / Company’s Operations and the 
Company’s capacity to pay, consistent with recognized 
best practices and aligned to regulatory requirements.  
	
Basic / Fixed Salary is provided to all employees to 
ensure that there is a steady income in line with their 
skills and experience. In addition, the Company provides 
employees with certain perquisites, allowances and 
benefits in accordance with terms of the Company policy. 
	
The Remuneration and Nomination Policy is displayed on 
the Company’s website www.dynamatics.com 
	
The details of Remuneration/Sitting Fee paid to the 
Managing Director and Executive Directors along with 
Independent Directors during the Financial Year 2024-25 
is as follows:
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    9 9
a.	
During the year, there was no pecuniary relationship or transactions between the Company and any of its Independent 
Directors apart from sitting fees.
b.	 Non-Executive Directors’ compensation and disclosures. 
	
The Independent Directors (except Non-Executive and Non-Independent) are paid Sitting fees for attending the meetings of 
the Board and Committees of the Board. The Company also reimburses out of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors for 
attending the meetings as on 31st March 2025.
  (Amount in Rs)
Directors
Sitting Fees 
Mr. Pierre de Bausset 
(Independent Director)
19,00,000
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas 
(Independent Director)
20,00,000
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar 
(Women Independent Director)
16,00,000
Dr. Ajay Kumar** 
(Independent Director)
12,00,000
Mr. Dietmar Hahn*
(Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director)
Nil
Mr. James Tucker* 
(Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director)
Nil 
	
* Mr. Dietmar Hahn and Mr. James Tucker are not paid Sitting fees as they are full time employees of Subsidiaries. No Commission is being paid to the 
Independent Directors.
	
**Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025.
c) (i) & (ii) The Remuneration details of Managing Director / Executive Directors are mentioned below:
Particulars
Mr. P S Ramesh*
(Executive Director & 
COO – Hydraulics)
(Paid up to 13th 
November 2024)
Mr. Chalapathi P
(Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
(CEO and Managing Director)
Salary as per provisions contained in 
Section 17(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
68,54,205
1,02,92,497
1,23,36,000
Allowances and perquisites
53,28,775
10,27,083
13,53,600
Performance linked Incentive (One Time)
Contribution to Retrial Funds
-
-
-
Stock option
-
-
-
No. of Shares held
-
-
5,23,460
Terms of Service Contract
Resigned 
on 
13th 
November 2024.
Appointed as Executive 
Director 
w.e.f. 
13th 
November 2024 to 12th 
November 2027.
Appointed for a term of 3 Years 
with effect from 1st October 
2023 to 30th September 2026 
and the same is approved by the 
shareholders in the AGM held on 
22nd September 2023.
Notice period
3 Months
3 Months
3 Months
*The remuneration stated above is including final settlement payment towards leave encashment and gratuity.
(iii) The terms of appointment of the Managing and Executive Directors provide that the appointment may be terminated by either 
party by giving to the other party three months’ notice of such termination or the Company paying three months’ remunera­
tion in lieu thereof.
	
Note: The resolutions appointing these directors do not provide for payment of severance fees.
(iv)	 Stock options: The Company has not granted Stock Option to any of its Directors.
(v)	 Succession Plan: The Company believes that sound succession planning for the senior leadership is critical for developing 
bench strength to ensure growth, stability and a robust future for the Company. The NRC works along with the CEO & MD of 
the Company for a structured leadership succession plan.
1 0 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(vi) Retirement Policy for Directors: As per the Company’s 
policy. 
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations mandates top 
1000 listed entities, determined based on market capitalisa­
tion as at the end of the immediate previous financial year, to 
constitute a Risk Management Committee (RMC). The prima­
ry role of the RMC is that of assisting the Board of Directors in 
overseeing the Company’s risk management processes and 
controls. The RMC, through Enterprise Risk Management 
in the Company, seeks to minimise adverse impact on the 
business objectives and enhance stakeholder value. The risk 
management policy and terms of reference of RMC are in 
line with the SEBI Listing Regulations for the functioning of 
the RMC.
Composition:
The Committee comprises the following 5 (five) Directors as 
on 31st March 2025:
•	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset, Chairman
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
•	
Dr Ajay Kumar
•	
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Attendance at the Risk Management Committee Meet­
ings (RMC) held during the year 2024-25:
RMC meetings were held on 8th August 2024 and 6th February 
2025. The requisite quorum was present in above meetings 
and the attendance of members were as follows:
Name of the Member
No. of meetings attended
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
2
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
2
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
2
Dr. Ajay Kumar*
2
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
2
Mr. P S Ramesh*
1
Note*:
1. Mr. P S Ramesh retired on 13th November 2024
2. Dr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15th May 2025
•	
The gap between two RMC Meetings did not exceed 210 
days. The necessary quorum was present for both the 
Meetings.
•	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Committee.
•	
The Company has a well-defined risk management frame­
work in place. Further, details on risk management are 
given in the Management Discussion & Analysis which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the RMC, as amended, inter alia, 
include:
1.	 To formulate a risk management policy for the Company
2.	 To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk man­
agement policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk 
management systems.
3.	 To periodically review the risk management policy, at 
least once in two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity.
4.	 To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes, and 
systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associ­
ated with the business of the Company.
5.	 To frame, implement and monitor the risk management 
plan of the Company.
6.	 To monitor and review cyber security in the Company.
7.	 To keep the board of directors informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, recommendations, and ac­
tions to be taken.
8.	 The appointment, removal, and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Risk Officer (if any)
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE: 
The constitution and composition of Stakeholders’ Relation­
ship Committee (SRC) is in conformation with the require­
ments of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regu­
lation 20 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The composition of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
and the details of the meetings attended by its members 
during the financial year ended 31st March 2025 are as under:
Composition:
The SRC comprises the following 3 (three) Directors as on 
31st March 2025.  The Chairman is heading the Committee.
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, Chairman
•	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
•	
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
Attendance at the Committee Meetings held during the 
year 2024-25:
Stakeholders’ Relationship meetings were held on:
•	
28th May 2024
•	
9th August 2024
•	
13th November 2024
•	
7th February 2025
The requisite quorum was present in above meetings and the 
attendance of members were as follows:
Name of the Member
No. of meetings attended
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
4
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
4
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
3
Terms of reference:
The terms of reference of the SRC covers the areas mentioned 
in Section 178 (5) of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part 
D (B) of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
terms of reference of the SRC, inter-alia are as follows:
1.	 Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the 
listed entity including complaints related to transfer/ 
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-
receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate cer­
tificates, general meetings etc.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 0 1
2.	 Review of measures taken for effective exercise of vot­
ing rights by shareholders.
3.	 Review of adherence to the service standards adopted 
by the listed entity in respect of various services being 
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
4.	 Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by 
the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend war­
rants/annual reports/statutory notices by the sharehold­
ers of the Company.
5.	 Any other terms that may be assigned by the Board time 
to time.
Compliance Officer:
Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary is 
the Compliance Officer responsible for complying with the 
requirements of SEBI Regulations.
Investor Grievance report for the year 2024-25:
Details of complaints received and attended to during the fi­
nancial year 2024-25 are given below:
Subject
No. of complaints pending as on 1st April 2024
Nil
No. of complaints received during the year
Nil
No. of complaints resolved during the year
Nil
No. of complaints pending as on 31st March 2025
Nil
TOTAL
Nil
The Company has taken various investor-friendly activities 
viz. encouraging investors to register their email ids, option 
for registration of email address for the limited purpose of 
receiving Annual Report and e-Voting credentials for the AGM. 
A communication has also been sent for updating bank 
account details and other details for payment of dividend and 
tax deducted at source related activity. 
Pursuant to the SEBI Circulars dated November 3, 2021, 
and December 14, 2021 issued for common and simplified 
norms for processing investor’s service request and norms 
for furnishing PAN, KYC details and Nomination details, 
the Company had sent individual letters to its shareholders 
holding shares in physical form for furnishing the KYC details 
to comply with the KYC requirements.
Remuneration of Directors
The Company’s Remuneration Policy is aligned with its 
philosophy for payment of remuneration to Directors, KMPs 
and all other employees based on the commitment of 
fostering a culture of leadership with trust.
The principles governing the Company’s Remuneration 
Policy is provided in the Board’s Report and the Policy is also 
uploaded on the website of the Company. 
Securities Identification Number (ISIN):
ISIN is the identification number for traded shares, which 
needs to be quoted in every transaction relating to the 
dematerialized shares of the Company. The ISIN for 
Company’s equity shares are INE221B01012.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN):
The CIN, allotted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India, is L72200KA1973PLC002308.
Dematerialization of Shares and Liquidity:
The equity shares of the Company are traded in dematerialized 
form. The process of conversion of shares from physical 
form to electronic form is known as dematerialization. For 
dematerializing the shares, the Shareholder must open 
a demat account with a Depository Participant (DP). The 
Shareholder is required to fill in a Demat Request Form and 
submit the same along with the Share Certificate(s) to the 
DP. The DP will allocate a demat request number and shall 
forward the request physically and electronically, through 
NSDL/CDSL to the RTA. On receipt of the demat request both 
physically and electronically and after verification, the shares 
are dematerialized, and an electronic credit of shares is given 
in the account of the Shareholder.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, 12 demat requests for 
dematerialization comprising 3,376 shares and 5 requests 
for share transmissions/deletion of name comprising 2,564 
shares were received and processed.
Shareholders who are still holding shares in physical form are 
requested to dematerialize their shares at the earliest, as this 
will be more advantageous to deal in securities. For queries / 
clarification / assistance, shareholders are advised to approach 
the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents.
Transfer of Unclaimed/Unpaid Amounts to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act and Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), as 
amended from time-to-time, the declared dividends, which 
remained unpaid or unclaimed for a period of 7 (seven) years 
and shares in relation to such unpaid/unclaimed dividend shall 
be transferred by the Company to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the Central 
Government.
As per Rule 6 of Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016 (“IEPF Rules”) read with Section 124 of the Act, 
intimations have been sent to shareholders concerned, 
requesting them to encash their unclaimed dividends failing 
which the unclaimed dividends and the corresponding shares 
held by them shall be transferred to IEPF Authority.
The following table gives information relating to outstanding 
dividend accounts and the dates when due for transfer to 
IEPF:
Financial Year 
Ended
Date of 
declaration of 
dividend 
Last date for 
claiming
unpaid dividend(s) 
2018-19 
(Interim Dividend)
10.08.2018
09.09.2025
2022-23 
(Interim Dividend)
10.08.2022
09.09.2030
2022-23 
(Final Dividend)
22.09.2023
21.10.2030
2023-24 
(Interim Dividend)
13.02.2024
12.03.2031
2023-24 
(Final Dividend)
05.09.2024
04.10.2031
2024-25 
(Interim Dividend)
13.11.2024
12.12.2031
Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the RTA for 
encashing the Unclaimed Dividend amount, if any, standing to 
the credit of their account.
1 0 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
During the Financial Year 2024-25, there was no transfer of 
unclaimed dividend nor shares to Investor Education and 
Protection Fund Authority (IEPF).
Details of shares transferred have been uploaded on the 
Company’s website at www.dynamatics.com.
All requests/communications from Shareholders including 
request for annual reports, revalidation of dividend warrants, 
change of address, transmission of shares, deletion of name, 
Issue of duplicate share certificate, claim of dividend & shares 
from IEPF authorities etc., are received by Kfin Technologies 
Limited, Hyderabad, Registrars and Share Transfer Agents on 
behalf of the Company (RTA /Kfintech) and all these requests 
have been addressed to their satisfaction.
Every quarter, the Company reviews various communications 
received by the RTA. These communications and the replies 
furnished are made available to the Company through RTA’s 
website  http://karisma.kfintech.com.
A quarterly report of the same is submitted to the Committee 
for improving investor relations and services provided to 
them. Kfintech provides high quality of shareholder servicing 
through their services and updated technological support, 
thereby ensuring that the Company provides its investors 
with the best possible services.
Suspense Account for the unclaimed shares:
Pursuant to Regulation 39(4) read with schedule VI of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has sent reminder to 
Shareholders regarding unclaimed shares out of the shares 
issued by the Company. Further in terms of the said provision, 
the Company has opened a DEMAT suspense account with 
IIFL Securities Limited for crediting unclaimed shares and any 
corporate benefits in terms of securities accruing on such 
shares, like, bonus shares, split etc., and thereafter shall be 
transferred by the listed entity in accordance with provisions 
of Section 124 and 125 of the Companies Act 2013 and rules 
made thereunder.
Details of suspense account
As required under clause F of schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the disclosures with respect to demat suspense 
account / unclaimed suspense account are appended here 
below:
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the beginning of the 
year; 11 Shareholders and 851 shares.
Number of Equity Shareholders approached the Company for 
transfer of shares from suspense account during the year: 
NIL
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the end of the year; 
11 Shareholders and number of shares were 851.
The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the 
rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
Furnishing of PAN, KYC details and Nomination by 
holders of physical securities.
SEBI Circular Number: SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/37, dated March 16, 2023 mandated members 
holding shares in physical mode to furnish PAN, email address, 
mobile number, bank account details, nomination, and any 
service request and complaint shall be entertained only upon 
registration of the PAN, Bank details and nomination. SEBI 
also has mandated to ensure that the members PAN be linked 
to Aadhar. In this context, the company had through M/s KFin 
Technologies Limited, sent communication dated 22.05.2024 
and 24.02.2025 to those shareholders holding physical 
shares, and whose PAN, KYC and Nomination details are not 
available with the Company.
Members desiring to send their nomination in the prescribed 
Form No. SH-13 may send duly filled form to KFin at the below 
mentioned address. Members holding shares in electronic 
form may contact their respective DP for availing this facility.
Therefore, those shareholders who have not furnished 
some of the mandatory documents/details against their 
respective physical holdings are herewith requested to 
immediately furnish the aforesaid documents/details to 
M/s KFin Technologies Limited, the Registrar & Transfer 
Agents of the Company in the prescribed format or contact 
KFin Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500 
032, Unit: Dynamatic Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower 
B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Hyderabad – 500 032, Email: einward.ris@ kfintech.com for 
further assistance on this matter.
Share Transfer Committee – A Sub Committee of 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
A Share Transfer Committee has been constituted by the 
Board to ensure timely and efficient servicing of requests for 
share transfers and transmissions.
Composition
The Committee comprises the following members as on 31st 
March 2025:
• 	
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra, Chairman
• 	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
• 	
Mr. Shivaram V
The Committee is vested with the responsibility of approving 
cases which comply with the required provisions of the 
applicable laws of India relating to share transmissions, 
transpositions, 
duplicate 
share 
certificates, 
exchange, 
consolidations, etc. on a fortnightly basis. The status on 
complaints and share transfers is reported to the Stakeholders’ 
Committee and subsequently to the Board.
Share transactions in electronic form can be effected in a 
much simpler and faster manner. After confirmation of sale 
/ purchase transaction from the broker, Shareholders should 
approach the depositary participant with a request to debit 
or credit the account for the transaction. Shareholders are 
periodically requested to utilize the demat facility.
TECHNOLOGY 
& 
STRATEGY 
DEVELOPMENT 
COMMITTEE:
The Technology & Strategy Development Committee provides 
direction on the Company’s Research and Development 
strategy and on key issues pertaining to R&D technology. 
The Committee also reviews and updates the skills and 
competence required, the structure and the process needed 
to ensure that the R&D initiatives of today result in products 
necessary for the sustained and long-term growth of the 
Company. The Committee is instrumental in augmenting the 
Intellectual properties of the Company. Resultant is the host 
of patents and trademarks for the Company’s products and 
process in India and across the globe from time to time.
Objectives:
•	
Develop products and technologies keeping in mind the 
customers and business strategy of the Company.
•	
Provide effective project support and assurance to 
production and its business.
•	
Provide best technical assistance available across the 
globe.
•	
Exploit synergies through cutting edge technologies.
•	
Deploy scientists, engineers to meet current and future 
business needs.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 0 3
•	
Promote and develop Intellectual Property to processes 
and products.
•	
Work as a design & developmental partner with 
customers in future technologies across the units.
•	
Innovation on extreme efficiency, value, maximization to 
serve the new market conditions and safety and reliability 
of assets, across the Company as a part of its DNA.
Composition:
The Board Level Technology & Strategy Development 
Committee comprises 8 (Eight) Directors as on 31st March 
2025.
The Committee comprises the following members:
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, Chairman
•	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
•	
Dr Ajay Kumar
•	
Mr. Dietmar Hahn
•	
Mr. James Tucker
•	
Mr. Chalapathi P
•	
Udayant Malhoutra
The Technical and Operations heads attend the Committee 
meeting to present the improvements made regarding new 
technical products and innovation, which deliver greater value 
to its existing and new customers.
FINANCE COMMITTEE:
The Board, at its meeting held on 5th February 2013, 
constituted the Finance Committee. The said Committee has 
been constituted with the following powers:
•	
To approve availing loans, providing necessary security, 
giving guarantees.
•	
Approve investing funds of the Company.
•	
To consider and approve purchase of securities of wholly 
owned subsidiary.
• 	
To authorize suitable Directors / Personnel of the Company 
to do such acts and things as is necessary or incidental 
to give effect to the aforesaid finance related activities of 
the Company such as registration of documents, affixing 
common seal of the Company and so on.
Composition:
The Board level Finance Committee comprises the following 
4 (four) Directors as on 31st March 2025.
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas, Chairman
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
•	
Dr Ajay Kumar
•	
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE:
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee 
has been constituted by the Board in compliance with the 
requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee inter alia, are 
as follows :
•	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR Policy 
indicating the activity or activities to be undertaken by the 
Company as specified in Schedule VII of the Act.
•	
Recommend the amount to be spent on CSR activities.
•	
Oversee the Company’s conduct with regard to its 
corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a 
responsible corporate citizen.
•	
Oversee activities impacting the quality of life of various 
stakeholders.
•	
Formulate and recommend to the Board (including any 
revisions thereto), an annual action plan in pursuance 
of the CSR policy and have an oversight over its 
implementation.
•	
Monitor implementation and adherence to the CSR Policy 
of the Company from time to time.
•	
Such other activities as the Board of Directors determine 
as they may deem fit in line with CSR Policy.
The Board has adopted the CSR Policy as formulated and 
recommended by the Committee. The CSR Policy is available 
on the website of the Company at www.dynamatics.com. 
The Annual Report on CSR activities for the financial year 
2024-25 forms part of the Board’s Report.
Composition:
The composition of the CSR Committee and the details of the 
meetings attended by its members during the Financial Year 
ended 31st March 2025 are as under:
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar – Chairperson
•	
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas
•	
Mr. Chalapathi P
During the financial year 2024-25, the Committee had one (1) 
meeting on 27th May 2024.
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS COMMITTEE:
To facilitate independent meetings of the Independent 
Directors without the intervention of the management, an 
Independent Directors’ Committee has been constituted in 
accordance with the requirements of Companies Act, 2013.
Composition:
The composition of the Independent Directors Committee 
and the details of the meetings attended by its members 
during the Financial Year ended 31st March 2025 are as under:
•	
Mr. Pierre de Bausset - Lead Independent Director
•	
Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar
•	
Prof.  Pradyumna Vyas
•	
Dr Ajay Kumar
During the financial year 2024-25, the Committee had Two (2) 
meeting on 27th May 2024 and 4th September 2024.
CEO and CFO Certification:
As required by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulation, 2015, the CEO and CFO 
certification is provided in this Annual Report.
Code of Conduct:
In compliance with Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulation, and the Companies Act, 2013, the Company 
has framed and adopted a Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘the 
Code’), all the members of the Board and Senior Management 
personnel affirmed compliance to the said Code as on 31st 
1 0 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS (‘AGM’) / EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING (‘EGM’) / POSTAL BALLOT APPROVALS:
Location, date and time of the Annual General Meetings/Extraordinary General Meetings held during the preceding three years 
and the special resolutions passed thereat are as follows:
Year
Venue
Date and Time
Special Resolution Passed
2021-2022 AGM
through Audio/
Visual means
9th September 
2022
• There were no special resolutions passed during the meeting under 
review.
2021-2022 EGM
through Audio/
Visual means
9th March 2023
• To offer, issue and allot 4,50,000 Equity Shares of the Company to 
investors on Preferential basis
2022-2023 AGM
Physical
22nd September 
2023
•  Re-appointment of Mr. Udayant Malhoutra (DIN 00053714) as CEO 
and Managing Director for a term of 3 (Three) years
• Re-appointment of Mr. P S Ramesh (DIN: 05205364) as Executive 
director & COO – Hydraulics for a term of 1 (One) year
• Appointment of Ms. Gaitri Issar Kumar (DIN 10245539) as Non-
Executive Independent Director
2023-2024 AGM
Physical
5th September 
2024
• There were no special resolutions passed during the meeting under 
review.
Postal Ballot:
Date of postal ballot 
notice 
Resolution passed
Voting results
Approval date
Scrutinizer
10th November 2023
1. Appointment of Dr. Ajay 
Kumar (DIN:01975789) as an 
Independent Director of the 
Company.
2. Re-appointment of Mr. Pierre 
de Bausset (DIN:07178878) as 
an Independent Director of the 
Company.
3. Re-appointment of 
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas 
(DIN:02359563) as an 
Independent Director of the 
Company.
1.	 Voting in favour: 100% 
Voting against: 0%
2.	 Voting in favour: 100%
Voting against: 0%
3.	 Voting in favour: 100%
Voting against: 0%
23rd January 
2024
Pramod S M 
BMP & Co. LLP., 
(Membership No FCS 
7834, CP. No 13784)
13th November 2024
1. Appointment of Mr. Chalapathi P 
(DIN:08087615) as Executive 
Director of the Company
Voting in favour: 99.92%
Voting against: 0.08%
23rd January 
2025
Pramod S M 
BMP & Co. LLP., 
(Membership No FCS 
7834, CP. No 13784)
For matters which are urgent and require shareholders’ approval in the period between the AGMs, the Company seeks the approval 
of shareholders through postal ballot. In compliance with Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with the related Rules, the Company also provides electronic voting (e-voting) facility to all its members. For this 
purpose, the Company has engaged the services of Kfin Technologies Limited. Mr. Pramod S M, designated partner of BMP & Co, 
LLP, Company Secretaries in practice, had acted as the scrutinizer for past postal ballots and e-voting. The details of the previous 
postal ballots are available on the website, at  www.dynamatics.com.
Procedure for postal ballot:
Postal ballot notices and forms are dispatched, along with postage-prepaid business reply envelopes to registered members / 
beneficiaries. The same notice is sent by email to members who have opted to receive communication through the electronic 
mode. The Company also publishes a notice in the newspaper declaring the details and requirements as mandated by the Act and 
applicable rules.
Voting rights are reckoned on the paid-up value of the shares registered in the names of the members as on the cut-off date. 
Members who want to exercise their votes by physical postal ballot are requested to return the forms, duly completed and signed, 
to the scrutinizer on or before the close of the voting period. Those using the e-voting option are requested to vote before the 
close of business hours on the last date of e-voting.
The scrutinizer completes his scrutiny and submits his report to the Chairman, and the consolidated results of the voting are 
announced by the Chairman / authorized officer.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 0 5
The results are also displayed on the Company website, 
www.dynamatics.com, besides being communicated to the 
stock exchanges, depository and registrar and share transfer 
agent. The last date for the receipt of postal ballot forms or 
e-voting is the date on which the resolution would be deemed 
to have been passed, if approved by the requisite majority.
The 50th AGM of the Company is being conducted through 
physical mode at the Registered office of the Company.  
Means of Communication:
The Company uses several modes for communicating with 
its external stakeholders, such as announcements and 
press releases in newspapers, circular letters and other 
reports to the members, posting information on its website 
(www.dynamatics.com), intimation to the Stock Exchanges, 
responding to analyst’s queries etc.
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are displayed 
on the Company’s website www.dynamatics.com and also 
disseminated through all the modes mentioned above. The 
quarterly results are also published in leading dailies such as 
Business Standard (English daily) and Sanjevani  (vernacular 
daily).
The transcripts and audio of the Company’s investors/analysts 
conference calls are available at: www.dynamatics.com
The Company’s Management Discussion & Analysis of the 
Business for the year ended March 31, 2025, forms part 
of the Directors’ Report and is given under the section so 
captioned.
General Shareholder Information:
The Company was incorporated in Bengaluru, in 1973, as 
Dynamatic Hydraulics Limited within the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956,and changed its name to Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited in 1992. The address of registered office 
is JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis, 55, KIADB Aerospace 
Park, Bangalore – 562149, Karnataka, India.
The equity shares of the Company are listed on both National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE - with a scrip code of 
DYNAMATECH) and Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE- 
with a scrip code of 505242).
The Company has paid the listing fee for the year 2024-25 to 
the Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are 
listed in India.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FOR THE YEAR 2024-25:
Date and time:
30th September 2025; 
Venue:
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore, Karnataka 562149
Financial calendar:
Our tentative calendar for declaration of results for the Financial Year 2025-26 is given below:
Calendar for Reporting:
Quarter ended
Release of results
30th June 2025
On 8th August 2025
30th September 2025
On or before 7th November 2025
31st December 2025
On or before 11th February 2026
31st March 2026
On or before 22nd May 2026
Date of book 
closure
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 of the Companies Act 2013 and Regulation 42 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will be closed 
from 24th September 2025 to 30th September 2025 (both days inclusive).
Dividend payment 
date
Pursuant to the approval of the Board on 13th November 2024, your Company paid an Interim Dividend 
of 2/- per equity of face value of 10/- each, to shareholders who were on the register of members as on 
29th November 2024, being the record date fixed for this purpose. The Board did not recommend the 
Final Dividend and therefore total Dividend for the year ended March 2025 will be 2/- per equity shares 
of face value of 10/- each.
Listing on Stock 
Exchanges and 
Stock Code
Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai- 400001
Phones: (022) 22721233/4, 91-22-66545695
Fax: (022) 22721919
Scrip code:505242
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E)
Mumbai- 400 051
Tel No: (022) 26598100- 8114
Fax No: (022) 26598120
Scrip code: Dynamatech
Registrar & 
Transfer Agents
Kfin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B Plot 31 & 32
Financial District, Nanakramguda
Serilingampally Mandal
Hyderabad 500032 Telangana
Toll Free Number: 1-800-309-4001
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Address for 
correspondence
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 55, KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore, Karnataka 562149
1 0 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Share Transfer System
Pursuant to Regulation 40 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended), the 
securities of Dynamatic Technologies Limited held in physical mode are not transferable, effective April 01, 2019. Further, the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India vide circular bearing ref. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 
25, 2022, has mandated that, in respect of investor services including transmission, duplicate share certificate, transposition 
etc., the listed entity shall issue the securities in dematerialised mode only. In compliance with the above circular, no securities in 
physical mode are issued by the listed entity. The securities, however held in dematerialised mode, are freely transferable. The 
transfer through demat mode takes place instantaneously between the transferor, transferee, and the Depository Participant 
through electronic debit/credit of the accounts involved
Disclosure on certain types of agreements binding listed entities:
There are no agreements that require disclosure under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March 2025:
Sl. No.
Category
No. of Holders
% To Holders
Amount (Rs)
% To Amount
1
1-5000
18,576
96.82
62,66,870
9.22
2
5,001- 10,000
286
1.49
20,70,130
3.05
3
10,001- 20,000
132
0.69
19,13,520
2.82
4
20,001- 30,000
59
0.31
14,51,370
2.14
5
30,001- 40,000
26
0.14
9,13,830
1.35
6
40,001- 50,000
15
0.08
6,76,500
0.99
7
50,001- 1,00,000
45
0.23
33,63,350
4.95
8
1,00,001& Above
47
0.24
5,12,58,860
75.48
Total
19,186
100
6,79,14,430
100
SHAREHOLDING PATTERN AS ON 31st MARCH 2025
Category
No. of Shares
% of shareholding
PROMOTERS HOLDING:
Indian Promoters:
Udayant Malhoutra
5,23,460
7.71
JKM Holdings Private Limited
1,112,538
16.38
Udayant Malhoutra and Company Private Limited
6,42,011
9.45
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
4,42,071
6.51
Christine Hoden (India) Private Limited
95,100
1.40
Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
22,927
0.34
Barota Malhoutra
4,938
0.07
Primella Sanitary Products Private Limited
100
0.0
Vita Private Limited
100
0.0
Wavell Investments Private Limited
0
0
TOTAL
28,43,245
41.87
NON-PROMOTERS HOLDING
Mutual Funds / UTI
4,48,958
6.61
Alternate Investment Funds
4,67,177
6.68
Financial Institutions / Banks
2,388
0.04
Central Government / State Government (S)
0
0
Venture Capital Funds
0
0
Insurance Companies
0
0
Foreign Institutional Investors
9,02,519
16.51
SUB TOTAL
18,21,042
26.81
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 0 7
OTHERS
Private Corporate Bodies
4,19,192
6.17
Indian Public
14,65,011
21.57
Clearing Agents
57
0.00
NBFC Registered with RBI
0
0
NRIs/OCBs
87,366
1.29
Trust
3,820
0.06
IEPF
48,187
0.71
HUF
1,03,523
1.52
SUB TOTAL
21,27,156
31.32
GRAND TOTAL
67,91,443
100
Status of Dematerialisation of shares
Particulars
31st March 2024
31st March 2025
No. of shares
% of total shares
No. of shares
% of total shares
National Securities Depository 
Limited
59,79,968
88.05
60,67,891
89.35
Central Depository Services (I) 
Limited
7,59,787
11.19
6,75,240
9.94
Total Dematerialized
67,39,755
99.24
67,43,131
99.29
Physical
51,688
0.76
48,312
0.71
Grand Total
67,91,443
100%
67,91,443
100%
•	
There are no outstanding global depository receipts or American Depository Receipts or warrants or any convertible 
instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity.
•	
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities: 
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018, is 
not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please refer to Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report.
E-voting
Pursuant to provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act 2013, read with the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, the Company is pleased to offer e-voting facility to the members to cast their votes electronically on all resolutions 
set forth in the Notice convening the 50th Annual General Meeting of the Company. Any shareholder having any grievance on the 
e-voting can contact the coordinates mentioned in the ‘Investor Guide’, towards the end of this report.
OTHER DISCLOSURES:
a.   All transactions entered by the Company with related parties as defined under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
during the Financial Year 2024-25 were in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length pricing basis and do not attract 
the provisions of Section 188 of the Act. There were no materially significant transactions with the related parties during 
the financial year which conflicted with the interest of Company. Necessary disclosures as required under the Accounting 
Standards have been made in the Financial Statements. The Board has approved a policy on materiality of related party 
transactions and on dealing with related party transactions and the same is disclosed on the website of the Company at the 
link www.dynamatics.com 
b.  The Company has complied with the requirements of the Stock Exchanges / SEBI and Statutory Authorities on all matters 
related to the capital markets during the last three years. No penalty or strictures were imposed on the Company by any of 
these authorities.
c.   The Company has adopted a whistle blower policy and has established necessary vigil mechanism as required under Regulation 
22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations for Directors and Employees to report concerns about any unethical behaviour. No person 
has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The said policy has also been disclosed on the website of 
the Company at the link www.dynamatics.com
d.   The Company has adopted the Policy on determination of Materiality of Disclosures. The said policy has also been disclosed 
on the website of the Company at the link www.dynamatics.com 
e.  The Company has formulated the policy on archiving documents of the Company. The said policy has also been disclosed on 
the website of the Company at the link www.dynamatics.com 
1 0 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
f.  The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
Company has also fulfilled the following discretionary 
requirements as provided in the Listing Regulations:
i.	
The Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive and 
Independent Director and his position is separate 
from that of the Managing Director & CEO.
ii.	
Internal Auditors of the Company, make quarterly 
presentations to the Audit Committee on their 
reports.
iii.	 The auditors’ report on Financial Statements of the 
Company are unqualified.
g.  The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and the investments made 
by its unlisted subsidiary companies. The minutes of 
the Board meetings along with a report on significant 
developments of the unlisted subsidiary companies are 
periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The Company has only one material unlisted 
subsidiary company which is JKM Erla Automotive 
Limited which is classified as per SEBI LODR Regulations. 
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material 
subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website. www.
dynamatics.com 
h.   	The CEO & Managing Director and the Executive Director 
& Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board in 
accordance with SEBI Listing Regulations 33 (2)(a) of the 
listing Regulation pertaining to CEO/CFO certification for 
the financial year ended 31st March 2025. The CEO & MD 
and the Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer have 
also issued compliance certificate to the Board pursuant 
to the provisions of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing 
Regulations certifying that the financial statements 
do not contain any materially untrue statement and 
these statements represent a true and fair view of the 
Company’s affairs.
i.	
Disclosure of Commodity price risks and Commodity 
hedging activity: Not applicable.
j.	
The Company has managed the Foreign Exchange Risk 
with appropriate hedging activities in accordance with 
the policies of the Company. There were no materially 
uncovered exchange rate risks in the context of the 
Company’s Foreign Exchange exposures.
k. 	 During the Financial Year 2024-25, the Board has accepted 
all the recommendations of its committees.
l.  	 The Company has followed all relevant Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the 
Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standard) 
Rules (as amended from time to time) and other relevant 
provisions of the Act while preparing Financial Statements 
for Financial Year 2024-2025.
m.	 The Company has duly complied with the requirements 
specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) of 
sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
n. 
Particulars 
of 
Directors 
seeking 
appointment 
/ 
reappointment at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
have been provided in the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting.
o.	 Total fees for all services paid by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory 
auditor and all entities in the network firm/network entity 
of which the statutory auditor is a part is given below:
Payment to Statutory 
Auditors
FY 2024-25
(Rs in lakhs)
Statutory audit fees
185
Certification
10
Out of pocket expenses
1
Total
196
p. 	 Disclosures under the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013:  
	
Number of complaints filed during the financial year 
2024-25
Number of complaints filed during the 
financial year 2024-25
-NIL-
Number of complaints disposed off during 
the financial year 2024-25
-NIL-
Number of complaints pending as on end 
of the financial year.
-NIL-
q.  	 Insider Trading Regulations: The Company has adopted 
the Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading 
and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices. This 
Code of Conduct is applicable to all Directors and such 
designated persons who are expected to have access 
to unpublished price sensitive information relating to 
the Company. Mr. Shivaram V, Chief Legal Officer and 
Company Secretary of the Company, is the Compliance 
Officer for the purpose of this regulation.
r.   The Company has obtained Credit Ratings from India 
Rating and Research. During the relevant FY 2024-25, 
India Ratings & Research has affirmed the Company’s 
long term issuer rating at IND A. The Outlook is positive.
s.  	 Certificate on Corporate Governance: All the Directors of 
the Company have submitted a declaration stating that 
they are not debarred or disqualified by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India / Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies.  
	
Mr. Ratish Tagde, Practicing Company Secretary, has 
submitted a certificate to this effect.  
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 0 9
	
A Compliance Certificate from Mr. Ratish Tagde, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretary 
pursuant 
to 
the 
requirements of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations 
regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate 
Governance is attached.
t. 	 Details of utilisation of funds: NA
u.	 Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/ 
companies in which Directors are interested:
	
The Company and its subsidiaries have not given any 
loans or advances to any firm / company in which its 
directors are interested.
PLANT LOCATIONS:
1.	 JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis, 55, KIADB 
Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562 149, Karnataka, India
2.	 No. 1A/1, 1st Main Road, 1st Stage, 2nd Phase, Peenya 
Industrial Area, Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
3.	 No. 28/A, 3rd Main, 1st Stage, 1st Phase, Peenya 
Industrial Area, Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
4.	 No. K-12, 5th Cross, 1st Stage, Peenya Industrial Area, 
Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
5.	 No. K-11, Between 5th & 6th Cross, 1st Stage, Peenya 
Industrial Area, Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
6.	 Cheney Manor, Swindon, Wiltshire, SN2 2PZ, United 
Kingdom
7.	 Jarvis Street, Barton Hill, Bristol, 
BS5 9TR, United Kingdom
8.	 Gießereistraße 1, 08340 
Schwarzenberg/Erzgeb, Germany
9.	 Plot No. 77-78, Industrial Estate, Peenya 2nd Stage, 
Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
1 1 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
Investor Contacts
For queries relating to financial statements / shares / dividends / complaints / Investor correspondence	
Mr. Shivaram V
Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary
Tel +91 80 2111 1223 +91 80 2204 0535
Email id: investor.relations@dynamatics.net
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally Mandal,
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana.
Toll free Number: 1-800-309-4001
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Depository for Equity shares
National Securities Depository Limited	
3rd Floor, Naman Chamber,Plot C-32, G-Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400 051
Tel: +91-22-48867000
Central Depository Services (India) Limited
Marathon Futurex, A-Wing, 25th floor, NM Joshi Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai 400013
Tel.: +91-80-69144800
	
Shareholders holding shares in demat/electronic form are requested to approach their Depository participants for 
effecting the following changes in your holdings in their records:
	•
Change of postal address / email id / contact details
	•
Change of bank details for receiving dividends
	•
Incorporating of ECS for receiving dividends through money transfer
	•
Change in residential status
	•
Incorporation of PAN
	•
Incorporation of Nomination
	•
Transfer of shares or effecting transposition of names of share holders
Further, for any corporate actions like payment of dividends, etc., the Company will take your shareholding details from your 
DP account through the data downloaded from the Depositories.
NOTE:
Tel +91 80 2111 1223 / +91 80 2204 0535 / +91 98806 33051 (Contact: Mr. J. Devaraj, Secretarial Dept.)
Email: investor.relations@dynamatics.net
DECLARATION
I, Udayant Malhoutra, CEO & Managing Director of the Company hereby declare that all the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for the year ended 
31st March, 2025
INVESTOR GUIDE
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
CEO & Managing Director
DIN No.: 00053714
Place : Bangalore
Date : 27th May 2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 1 1
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
The Members
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis 55,
KIADB Aerospace Park,
Bengaluru – 562149
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited having CIN : L72200KA1973PLC002308, and having Regd. Office at JKM Plaza, Dynamatic Aerotropolis, 55 
KIADB Aerospace Park, Bangalore 562149 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. I have conducted online 
verification and examination of records as facilitated by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Report.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company and its officers, 
I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31st 
March 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
For Ratish Tagde & Associates.
(Company Secretaries)
Mr. RatishTagde
     (Proprietor) 
	
	
	
 CP.NO. 22018
FCS NO. 6162
Place: Mumbai                                              
Date: 27th May 2025
UDIN: F006162G000799713
Sr. 
No:
Name of the Director & DIN
Designation
Date of First Appointment 
in the Company
1.
PIERRE ANTOINE JEAN MARIE ANNE DE BAUSSET 
ROQUEFORT DUCHAINE D &07178878
Independent Director
11.02.2019
2.
AJAY KUMAR & 01975789**
Independent Director
10.11.2023
3.
GAITRI ISSAR KUMAR & 10245539
Independent Director
09.08.2023
4.
PRADYUMNA RAMESHCHANDRA VYAS & 02359563
Independent Director
11.02.2019
5.
DIETMAR HAHN & 06414463
Non-Executive Director
08.11.2012
6.
JAMES DAVID TUCKER & 07093258
Non-Executive Director
14.02.2015
7.
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA & 00053714
MD & CEO
01.10.1989
8.
CHALAPATHI PURAMANNAGARI & 08087615*
Executive Director & CFO
13.11.2024
*Mr. Chalapathi P was inducted w.e.f. 13.11.2024
**Mr. Ajay Kumar resigned on 15.05.2025
Note: Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is 
neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company
1 1 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
To,
The Members of
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
I have examined all the relevant records of Dynamatic Technologies Limited (“the Company”) for the purpose of certifying 
compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance under the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 for the financial year 
ended 31st March 2025. I have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of my knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purpose of certification.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to 
procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company. We further state that 
such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to me, I certify that the Company has, 
to the extent applicable, complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the aforesaid Regulations, 2015.
For Ratish Tagde & Associates.
(Company Secretaries)
Mr. RatishTagde
     (Proprietor) 
	
	
	
 CP.NO. 22018
FCS NO. 6162
Place: Mumbai	
	
	
Date: 27th May 2025
UDIN: FOO6162G00045233
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO &
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Dynamatic Technologies has consistently achieved 
high growth rates despite market, social, and 
economic challenges, due to its proactive and balanced 
business policies. These policies emphasize continual 
product improvement, customer value, employee 
quality of life, financial and supplier security, and 
social contribution. The company adopts a holistic 
and integrated approach to business development, 
believing that happy employees are high performers 
who drive innovation and customer satisfaction. 
This ensures the long-term economic relevance of 
the enterprise, creating a secure environment for 
financiers and suppliers and generating sustainable 
profits. Dynamatic Technologies’ core mission is 
to enrich the quality of life of the community and 
preserve ecological balance and heritage through a 
strong environmental conscience.
Key Learnings
A business philosophy that abjures waste and is based 
on conservation and optimal utilization of resources 
will deliver superior financial results along with a 
positive ecological impact. The business model should 
always remain flexible, adapting quickly to challenges 
and continuously reinventing itself. A focus on safety, 
human resource development, and enhancement of 
intellectual property will help de-risk the company 
and contribute to societal development. Ultimately, 
sustainable business policies are an important and 
integral part of good corporate governance.
Udayant Malhoutra
CEO & Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
1. 	 OUR VISION, BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY AND 	
SUSTAINABILITY 
A Company like Dynamatic Technologies is 
essentially 
an 
organ 
deploying 
significant 
contribution to the growth of the country’s 
economy and society’s wellbeing. We, therefore, 
are aware of the need to work beyond financial 
considerations and put in that little extra to 
ensure that we are perceived not just as corporate 
entities that exist for profits, but as a wholesome 
entity created for the good of the society and for 
improving the quality of life of the communities we 
serve. Our commitment to responsible citizenship 
also includes conservation of natural resources and 
protection of the soil, water and climate required 
to sustain life on earth. 
•	 To secure market leadership, technological 
competence and enhance brand equity as a global 
leader. 
•	 To provide a safe, nurturing and learning 
environment for our human resources. 
•	 To have a zero tolerance of any transmission of 
wastes into the environment. 
•	 To secure and de-risk financiers and suppliers. 
•	 To transform the Company into a global R&D 
organization, with a pre-eminent market position 
in the Hydraulic, Automotive and Defence sectors 
in Asia. 
•	 To consistently achieve returns higher than the 
cost of capital. 
“Your beliefs become your thoughts. Your thoughts 
become your words. Your words become your actions. 
Your actions become your habits. Your habits become 
your values. Your values become your destiny.”
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
- Mahatma Gandhi
Recharge wells established as part of rainwater 
harvesting at the Aerotropolis premises.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    11 3
Report 2025
C O R P O R A T E  S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y
•	 To comply with all legal requirements expected of 
the Company in every country we are present. 
•	 To enhance shareholder wealth. 
•	 To help in the creation of a strong, modern and 
vibrant India. 
•	 To be an example to any corporate, anywhere 
in the world, in terms of global best-in-class 
environmental practices. 
•	 To conduct business affairs, employing the 
highest standards of personal and corporate 
conduct. 
•	 To wholly co-operate in proposals of the 
Government – Central or State, in various 
activities concerning social cause. 
Our Vision & Business Philosophy is driven by 
our Values, which are:
1.1. CUSTOMER CENTRIC RESEARCH
Over the years, Dynamatic Technologies’ divisions 
and subsidiaries have forged deep and lasting 
relationships with all their stakeholders, enabling 
continuous growth. These relationships are built 
on mutual trust and respect, leveraging collective 
capabilities to deliver complex technological 
solutions at economically viable prices. The 
company is committed to providing innovative and 
creative solutions to its customers on an ongoing 
basis, with every business process centred around 
the customer. Dynamatic Technologies firmly 
believes that its success is a reflection of its ability 
to delight customers.
We interact constantly with our customers, 
striving to understand and satisfy their needs. 
By understanding applications and anticipating 
future trends, we aim to meet both stated and 
unstated needs. We spend considerable time 
in the field, listening to farmers, mechanics, 
drivers, and equipment handlers, often suggesting 
improvements to our customers before their 
own customers do. Our technology and quality 
processes are predictive in nature, anticipating 
change rather than reacting to it.
1.2 EMPHASIS ON KNOWLEDGE ACQUISITION   	
AND APPLICATION
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
has 
been 
adopting 
and following world-class business practices 
at its modern manufacturing facilities located 
in Bangalore, Swindon, Bristol (U.K.), and Erla 
(Germany). All these facilities are eco-friendly 
and designed to eliminate waste. We constantly 
strive to deliver superior value to our customers by 
challenging ourselves and pushing the boundaries 
of knowledge through imagination and diligence. 
This approach has led us to continuously innovate 
and develop highly engineered products through 
investment in R&D, process improvements, and 
elimination of operational inefficiencies. As a 
result, we have built a successful business model 
capable of returning high yields to investors and 
improving the quality of life for all employees 
and the communities in which we operate. As 
Dynamatic Technologies globalizes, these values 
will be extended worldwide, with new learnings, 
best practices, processes, and experiences being 
absorbed into the existing organization.
1.3 HUMAN CAPITAL
Dynamatic Technologies is built upon a foundation 
of core values, commitment to quality, and equal 
opportunity. The company strives to attract 
the finest talent available and provides a result-
oriented environment based on meritocracy and 
egalitarianism. At Dynamatic Technologies, we 
firmly believe that the key to sustained growth 
lies not merely in adding physical capacities but 
in dramatically enhancing and utilizing human 
capabilities.
1.4 SOCIETAL LINKAGES
We are proud of our civilisational heritage, and the 
values of our ancient land, the values of trust and 
integrity. The need to contribute to society, and 
care for our environment. The value of enduring 
relationships. 
At the same time, as we globalize, we travel with 
an open mind, learning from and contributing to 
every society we are part of.
Training curriculum on CNC operator Cum Programmer 
– Milling and Turning has been developed and 
established for in-house training purpose and the 
same curriculum is now being used for training the 
students at our adopted ITI. This curriculum meets 
the international standards. All the trainers have 
undergone Train-The-Trainer program.
11 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Report 2025
C O R P O R A T E  S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y
2. DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABILITY
2.1. SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
At Dynamatic Technologies, we are driven by 
the fundamental objective of enhancing the value 
of the company for all stakeholders, including 
shareholders, customers, suppliers, financiers, 
employees, and society at large. We firmly believe 
that sustained growth is fostered by a work 
ethic founded upon the core values of integrity, 
transparency, 
professionalism, 
empowerment, 
and accountability. We endeavour to uphold and 
nurture these values in all facets of our operations.
As a responsible corporate citizen, we understand 
that sustained growth can only be achieved by 
paying equal attention to the Triad of Sustainability: 
Economic Growth, Environmental Friendliness, and 
Social Equity. We are committed to these elements 
over the long term and are prepared to take actions 
commensurate with this goal.
2.2 THE TRIAD OF SUSTAINABILITY 
At 
Dynamatic 
Technologies, 
the 
path 
to 
sustainability 
has 
the 
following 
elements: 
Economic Growth, Environment-Friendliness and 
Social Equity. 
2.2.a. ECONOMIC GROWTH 
•	 Value Engineering: reduction of raw material 
consumption by optimizing product design. 
•	 Maximize our efforts in developing new 
products and cost effective applications 
through continuous innovation. 
•	 Development of complete hydraulic solutions 
for mechanized agriculture, earth moving, 
material handling, machine tools, defense and 
precision parts for aerospace applications. 
•	 Secure market leadership, technological 
competence and brand equity as a global 
leader. 
•	 Maximization of productivity and maintenance 
of cost leadership. 
•	 Continue to enhance the value of the 
Company to the shareholders. 
2.2 b. ENVIRONMENT- FRIENDLINESS 
•	 Treatment of wastage water and using it for 
gardening as a process of water conservation. 
•	 Rainwater harvesting. 
•	 All business processes are designed to 
ensure that no wastage is transmitted to our 
environment. 
•	 Energy consumption in each plant is 
monitored, optimized and minimized. 
•	 Design and Redesign products that are safe, 
energy saving and environment friendly. 
•	 Design all our processes with efficiency and 
energy conservation in mind. 
•	 Wind farm to harness renewable source of 
energy. 
•	 Upgradation of Air Conditioning System from 
R22 to R32/R410A (Eco-friendly Refrigerants).
•	 Water conservation techniques for optimum 
utilization of water.
2.2.c. SOCIAL EQUITY 
•	 Not allowing any form of discrimination in 
employment or promotion. 
•	 Imparting training and development programs 
to facilitate multi-tasking and multi-skilling. 
•	 Practicing safety norms and help protection. 
Standing as a model by winning safety 
awards. 
•	 Emissions: the air quality in our plants is 
continuously monitored for suspended 
particulate matter is kept well within safe 
limits. 
•	 Foster a culture of empowerment. 
•	 Elevation of workers into management cadre. 
•	 Promote the usage of six sigma practices 
amongst all employees. 
•	 Practice open dialogue with employees, 
customers, government agencies, trade 
associations and with communities all around 
our facilities. 
•	 Undertake disaster relief programs in times of 
need (earthquake, floods, Tsunami, etc.). 
•	 Interactive sessions with local community. 
•	 Increase employment of Women. 
•	 Increase employment of individuals coming 
from disadvantaged communities.
Women’s Day was celebrated in the month of March 2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    11 5
Report 2025
C O R P O R A T E  S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y
ETHICS
The Code of Business Conduct for employees across 
the Dynamatic Group and the Code of Conduct for 
Board Members & Senior Management Personnel 
have been formulated as formal articulations of our 
approach and position on various dimensions of 
business ethics and integrity. The Code of Business 
Conduct for employees provides policy guidance 
on a wide range of issues including ethics, labor, 
and human rights. It addresses the prevention 
of fraudulent and corrupt practices, freedom 
of association, elimination of child and forced 
labor, advertisement and media policy, avoidance 
of conflicts of interest, prevention of sexual 
harassment, and unyielding integrity always.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We believe that sound corporate governance is 
vital to enhancing the trust reposed in us by our 
stakeholders. Accordingly, we consistently strive 
to attain our goals with integrity. The Board of 
Directors exercises its fiduciary responsibilities in 
the widest sense of the term. Our disclosures always 
seek to achieve the best practices in corporate 
governance. We also endeavour to enhance long-
term shareholder value and respect minority rights 
in all our business decisions.
Over 
the 
years, 
our 
Board 
has 
strived 
to 
achieve compliance with corporate governance 
requirements, both mandatory and voluntary, to 
fulfil our responsibility towards the stakeholders. 
The detailed Corporate Governance Report forms 
part of this Annual Report.
GREEN INITIATIVE IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), through 
its circulars introduced a ‘Green Initiative in 
Corporate Governance,’ allowing companies to serve 
documents to shareholders electronically. In support 
of this initiative, which aligns with our commitment 
to environmental conservation and sustainable 
development, 
we 
encourage 
our 
shareholders 
to register their email IDs with the Company or 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent. This will enable 
us to send documents such as notices of general 
meetings, annual reports, and other communications 
via email. Over time, we will phase out the sending 
of hard copies. All documents will be available on 
the Company’s website, www.dynamatics.com, and 
can be inspected at the Company’s Registered Office 
during office hours.
Report 2025
C O R P O R A T E  S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y
1 1 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2023-2024
Ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, 
animal, welfare, agroforestry, conservation of 
natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air 
and water
Ensuring Environmental 
SUSTAINABILITY
11 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 1 7
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 1 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Dynamatic Technologies Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Dynamatic Technologies Limited (the “Parent”) 
and its subsidiaries, (the Parent and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as the “Group”) which comprise the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
ended on that date, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration 
of reports of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements / information of the subsidiaries referred to in 
the Other Matters section below, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) prescribed under section 133 of the Act and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 
2025, and their consolidated profit, their consolidated total 
comprehensive income, their consolidated cash flows and 
their consolidated changes in equity for the year ended on 
that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(“SA”s) specified under section 143 (10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and 
the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence 
obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other 
auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the sub-
paragraph (a) of the Other Matters section below, is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. We have determined the matters described 
below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our 
report. 
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
1
Impairment of Goodwill
Note 1B(ii), 2iii(a) and 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
In the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group, the gross carrying value of goodwill 
relating to Metallurgy segment is INR 3,822 
lakhs as at March 31, 2025. 
The management of the Group assess the 
impairment of goodwill annually for each cash 
generating unit (CGU).
Determination of carrying value of the 
goodwill allocated to the CGU is a key audit 
matter as the amounts are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements and the 
determination of recoverable value and/ or 
impairment assessment involves significant 
management estimates and judgement.
The key estimates and judgements used in 
the model for impairment assessment include 
future cash flows of the CGUs, the discount 
rate and the terminal growth rate used. 
The management has used the services of an 
expert in determining the recoverable value 
of goodwill and consequential impairments, 
if any.
Principal audit procedure performed:
We assessed the Management’s process for impairment assessment of 
goodwill allocated to CGU.
Evaluated the design of the management’s internal control around the 
impairment assessment process and tested its operating effectiveness.
Evaluated the independence, competence, capabilities and objectivity of 
the management’s expert.
Understood the key assumptions considered in the management’s 
estimates of future cash flows of the respective CGU.
Involving our valuation specialists, we evaluated the growth rates including 
terminal growth rate, considered in the estimates of future cash flows and 
the discount rate used in the calculations.
Compared the historical cash flows (including for current year) against 
past projections of the management for the same periods and gained 
understanding of the rationale for the changes.
Performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the 
forecast cash flows and focused our attention on those assumptions we 
considered most sensitive to the changes; such as revenue growth during 
the forecast period, the terminal growth rate and the discount rate applied 
to the future cash flows. We ascertained the extent to which a change 
in these assumptions would result in impairment, and considered the 
likelihood of such events occurring.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 1 9
Information Other than the Financial Statements and 
Auditor’s Report Thereon
•	
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis, Corporate Governance Report and 
Corporate Sustainability Report, but does not include the 
consolidated financial statements, standalone financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
•	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
•	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information, compare with the financial statements 
/ information of the subsidiaries audited by the other 
auditors, to the extent it relates to these entities and, in 
doing so, place reliance on the work of the other auditors 
and consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Other 
information so far as it relates to the subsidiaries is traced 
from their financial statements / information audited by 
the other auditors. 
•	
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Board of Directors 
for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, 
consolidated 
financial 
performance 
including 
other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and 
consolidated changes in equity of the Group in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act. The 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the 
Directors of the Parent, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for assessing 
the ability of the respective entities to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the respective Board of Directors either intend to 
liquidate their respective entities or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are also responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of the Group. 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 
143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Parent has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for 
the direction, supervision and performance of the audit 
1 2 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
of the financial statements of such entities or business 
activities included in the consolidated financial statements 
of which we are the independent auditors. For the 
entities or business activities included in the consolidated 
financial statements, which have been audited by the 
other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for 
the direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion. 
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
consolidated financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions of 
a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial 
statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of 
our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and 
(ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in 
the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the 
Parent and such other entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal financial controls that 
we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
(a)	 We did not audit the financial statements/ information of 
five subsidiaries whose financial statements / information 
reflect total assets of Rs. 95,935 lakhs as at March 31, 
2025, total revenues of Rs. 75,634 lakhs and net cash 
outflows amounting to Rs. 1,493 lakhs for the year ended 
on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. These financial statements / information 
have been audited by other auditors whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the Management and our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so 
far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries and our report in terms 
of subsection (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries is based solely on the 
reports of the other auditors.
(b)	 We did not audit the financial information of one 
subsidiary whose financial information reflect total assets 
of Rs. 15,926 lakhs as at March 31, 2025, total revenues 
of Rs. 917 lakhs and net cash outflows amounting to Rs. 
23 lakhs for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. These financial 
information are unaudited and have been furnished to us 
by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts 
and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries 
is based solely on such unaudited financial information. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us by the Management, these 
financial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements above 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with 
respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of 
the other auditors and the financial information certified by 
the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditors on the separate financial statements / 
information of the subsidiaries referred to in the Other 
Matters section above we report, to the extent applicable 
that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements. 
b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
by the Group, including relevant records so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books.
c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. 
e)	 On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Parent as on March 31, 
2025 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of 
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none 
of the directors of the Group companies incorporated 
in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 
(2) of the Act.
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
A” which is based on the auditors’ reports of the 
Parent and subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of those companies.
g)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 2 1
to us and based on the auditor’s reports of subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India, the remuneration 
paid by the Parent and such subsidiary companies 
to their respective directors during the year is in 
accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the 
Act.
h)	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us: 
i)	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group 
- Refer Note 38 to the consolidated financial 
statements; 
ii)	
The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses 
on 
long-term 
contracts 
including 
derivative contracts. 
iii)	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Parent and 
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India. 
iv)	  (a) The respective Managements of the Parent 
and its subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India, 
whose 
financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, 
have represented to us and to the other auditors 
of such subsidiaries respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 53(iii) to the consolidated financial 
statements, during the year, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the Parent 
or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Parent or any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
(b) The respective Managements of the Parent 
and its subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India, 
whose 
financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, 
have represented to us and to the other auditors 
of such subsidiaries respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 53 (iv) to the consolidated financial 
statements, during the year, no funds have 
been received by the Parent or any of such 
subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Parent or any of 
such subsidiaries shall, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(c) Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances performed by 
us and that performed by the auditors of the 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, nothing has come to 
our or other auditor’s notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
v)	
The final dividend proposed in the previous year, 
declared and paid by the Parent during the year 
is in accordance with section 123 of the Act.
	
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Parent, during the year is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act.
vi)	 Based on our examination which included test 
checks and that performed by the respective 
auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, the Parent and its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India have used 
accounting software systems for maintaining 
their respective books of account for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025 which have 
the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) and 
the same has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the software 
systems. Further, during the course of audit, we 
and respective other auditors, whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the Management 
of the Parent, have not come across any instance 
of the audit trail feature being tampered with. 
Additionally, the audit trail has been preserved 
by the Parent and above referred subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention.
2.	 With respect to the matters specified in clause (xxi) of 
paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO”/ “the Order”) issued by 
the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of 
the Act, according to the information and explanations 
given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued by 
us and the auditors of respective companies included in 
the consolidated financial statements to which reporting 
under CARO is applicable, as provided to us by the 
Management of the Parent, we report that there are 
no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective 
auditors in the CARO reports of the said companies 
included in the consolidated financial statements.
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
(Membership No. 206920)
UDIN: 25206920BMJHIP4437
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
1 2 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT 
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under 
‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date) 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) 
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements of the Company as at and for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
of Dynamatic Technologies Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities 
for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s management and Board of 
Directors of the Parent, its subsidiary companies which 
are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements based on 
the internal control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements criteria established by the respective Companies 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Parent and its subsidiary companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on 
Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the 
subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated 
in India, in terms of their reports referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
of the Parent and its subsidiary companies which are 
companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements 
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to consolidated financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 2 3
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control with 
reference to consolidated financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.
Opinion
In  our opinion to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of the reports of the other auditors referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, the Parent and its subsidiary 
companies, which are companies incorporated in India, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements  were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2025, based on the criteria for internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements insofar as it relates to two subsidiary companies, 
which are companies incorporated in India, is based solely on 
the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies 
incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matters.
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
(Membership No. 206920)
UDIN: 25206920BMJHIP4437
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
1 2 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Notes
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
a) Property, plant and equipment
3
 58,541 
 57,292 
b) Right-of-use assets
40
 9,172 
 10,034 
c) Capital work in progress
 1,816 
 515 
d) Goodwill 
4
 9,802 
 9,397 
e) Other Intangible assets
5(a)
 2,568 
 2,434 
f) Intangible Assets Under Development
5(b)
 1,071 
 483 
g) Financial assets
  (i) Investments
6
 33 
 33 
  (ii) Other financial assets
7
 681 
 676 
h) Income tax asset (net)
8
 528 
 606 
i) Other non-current assets
9
 399 
 273 
Total non - current assets
 84,611 
 81,743 
Current assets
a) Inventories
10
 34,662 
 30,564 
b) Financial assets
  (i) Trade receivables
11
 28,935 
 29,882 
  (ii) Cash and cash equivalents
12
 3,311 
 5,083 
  (iii) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents above
13
 1,279 
 1,058 
  (iv) Loans
14
 195 
 129 
  (v) Other financial assets
15
 354 
 1,208 
c) Other current assets
16
 11,681 
 7,558 
Total current assets
 80,417 
 75,482 
Total Assets
 1,65,028 
 1,57,225 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity 
a) Equity share capital
17
 679 
 679 
b) Other equity
18
 71,071 
 66,095 
Total equity
 71,750 
 66,774 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
a) Financial liabilities
  (i) Borrowings
19
 17,524 
 19,319 
  (ii) Lease Liabilities
40
 9,447 
 10,264 
b) Provisions
20
 3,389 
 2,847 
c) Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
 114 
 268 
d) Other non-current liabilities
22
 96 
 96 
Total non-current liabilities
 30,570 
 32,794 
a) Financial liabilities
  (i) Borrowings
23
 27,580 
 26,497 
  (ii) Lease liabilities
40
 2,574 
 2,429 
  (iii) Trade Payables
24
    (a) total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,886 
 1,295 
    (b) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and 
         small enterprises
 21,124 
 17,220 
  (iv) Other financial liabilities
25
 5,611 
 5,757 
b) Other current liabilities
26
 1,712 
 1,688 
c) Provisions
27
 1,226 
 1,310 
d) Current tax liabilities (net)
28
 995 
 1,461 
Total current liabilities
 62,708 
 57,657 
Total liabilities
 93,278 
 90,451 
Total equity and liabilities
 1,65,028 
 1,57,225 
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 2 5
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated except for earnings per share information
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Income
Revenue from operations
29
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
Other income
30
 2,280 
 4,282 
Total income
 1,42,660 
 1,47,215 
Expenses
Cost of materials and components consumed
31
 64,694 
 66,194 
Change in inventory of finished goods and work-in-progress
32
 665 
 621 
Employee benefit expense
33
 31,997 
 30,167 
Finance costs
34
 5,672 
 6,255 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
35
 6,929 
 6,636 
Other expenses    
36
 27,192 
 30,010 
Total expenses
 1,37,149 
 1,39,883 
Profit before tax and exceptional items
 5,511 
 7,332 
Exceptional Items 
37
 - 
 6,231 
Profit before tax 
 5,511 
 13,563 
Current tax  
49
 1,270 
 1,316 
Deferred tax 
49
 (63)
 66 
Income tax expense 
 1,207 
 1,382 
Profit after tax  
 4,304 
 12,181 
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (OCI)
Items that will not to be reclassified subsequently to the statement  of profit and 
loss
Remeasurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 
43
 (414)
 (125)
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to the statement  of profit 
and loss
 91 
 27 
Items that will be reclassified to the statement  of profit and loss
Foreign currency fluctuations under a cash flow hedge - gain/(loss) 
 - 
 508 
Exchange differences in translating financial statements of foreign operations 
 1,470 
 801 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 1,147 
 1,211 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
 5,451 
 13,392 
Earnings per equity share (of INR 10 each) 
Basic and diluted (in INR):
48
 63.39
 179.40 
Number of weighted average outstanding shares used in computing earnings per 
share
 67,91,443 
 67,91,443 
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
1 2 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Operating activities:
Profit before tax after exceptional items
 5,511 
 13,563 
Adjustments:
Depreciation and amortisation on Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets 
 4,423 
 3,932 
Amortisation of Right to use Assets 
 2,506 
 2,704 
Finance costs 
 4,875 
 5,365 
Interest on Lease liabilities 
 679 
 718 
Unrealised foreign exchange differences  
 136 
 (205)
Interest income 
 (115)
 (209)
Loss allowance on financial assets (net) 
 6 
 115 
Loss/(Gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets, (net) 
 40 
 (468)
Exceptional Items (Refer Note 37)
 - 
 (6,231)
Write back of liabilities 
 (699)
 (2,986)
Gain on lease modification 
 (31)
 - 
Operating cash flow before the movements in working capital
 17,331 
 16,298 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Increase in inventories
 (3,354)
 (75)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
 1,610 
 (3,216)
Decrease in loans
 264 
 17 
Decrease in other financial assets
 849 
 458 
Decrease/(Increase) in other assets
 (4,467)
 1,990 
Increase/(Decrease) in trade Payable
 3,826 
 (3,873)
Increase/(Decrease) in Provision
 24 
 (88)
Decrease in other financial Liabilities
 (158)
 (533)
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
 172 
 (551)
Cash generated from operations
 16,097 
 10,427 
Income taxes paid, net of refund
 (1,664)
 (693)
Net cash generated from operating activities (A)
 14,433 
 9,734 
Investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles assets 
 (6,655)
 (7,488)
Proceed from the sales of assets classified as held for sale 
 - 
 10,710 
Changes in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months), net 
 (221)
 1,245 
Interest income received 
 173 
 151 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (6,703)
 4,618 
Financing activities:
Proceeds from long term borrowings   
 2,891 
 16,411 
Repayment of long term borrowings  
 (3,973)
 (27,595)
Repayment of short term borrowings (net) 
 (126)
 (1,731)
Payment of Lease liabilities 
 (3,091)
 (3,453)
Interest paid 
 (4,863)
 (5,926)
Dividend paid 
 (475)
 (811)
Net cash used in financing activities (C)
 (9,637)
 (23,105)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (A + B + C)
 (1,907)
 (8,753)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
 5,083 
 13,783 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalent
 135 
 53 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 3,311 
 5,083 
Components of cash and cash equivalents (Refer Note 12)
Cash on hand
 32 
 32 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
 3,279 
 5,051 
Cash and cash equivalents in consolidated balance sheet
 3,311 
 5,083 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 2 7
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dynamatic Technologies Limited
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer 
& Company Secretary	
	
	
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
	
	
            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
(A)	
Equity Share Capital
i) Current reporting period
Balance as at 
1 April 2024
Restated balance at the beginning of the 
current reporting period
Changes in equity share 
capital during the year
Balance as at 
31 March 2025
 679 
 - 
 - 
 679 
ii) Previous reporting period
Balance as at 
1 April 2023
Restated balance at the beginning of the 
current reporting period
Changes in equity share 
capital during the year
Balance as at 
31 March 2024
 679 
 - 
 - 
 679 
(B) Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and surplus
Other items of other comprehensive income
Total equity 
attributable to 
equity holders of 
the Company
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
reserve
Reserve on 
amalgamation
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Retained 
Earnings
Remeasurement
 of the net defined 
benefit liability/asset
Cash Flow 
Hedge Reserve
Foreign currency 
translation reserve
Balance as at 1 April 2024 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,010 
 23,318 
 35,221 
 - 
 - 
 4,137 
 66,095 
Profit for the year  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,304 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,304 
Exchange difference on  
translation of foreign operations
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,470 
 1,470 
Other Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) (OCI) for the year  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (323)
 - 
 - 
 (323)
Transfer of OCI to the retained 
earnings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (323)
 323 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Final dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
Interim dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (135)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (135)
Balance as at 31 March 2025 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,010 
 23,318 
 38,727 
 - 
 - 
 5,607 
 71,071 
Balance as at 1 April 2023 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,010 
 23,318 
 23,953 
 - 
 (508)
 3,336 
 53,518 
Profit for the year  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12,181 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12,181 
Exchange difference on 
translation of foreign operations 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 801 
 801 
Other Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) (OCI) for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (98)
 508 
 - 
 410 
Transfer of OCI to the retained 
earnings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (98)
 98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Final dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (475)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (475)
Interim dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
Balance as at 31 March 2024 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,010 
 23,318 
 35,221 
 - 
 - 
 4,137 
 66,095 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
Rs. in Lakhs
1 2 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1	
Reporting entity	
	
Dynamatic Technologies Limited (“the Company”) 
together with its subsidiaries (including step subsidiaries) 
collectively referred to as (“the Group”) is incorporated 
and domiciled in India. The Company was incorporated in 
1973 as Dynamatic Hydraulics Limited under provisions 
of the Companies Act, 1956. In 1992, the name of the 
Company was changed to Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited. The Group is in the business of manufacturing 
automotive components, hydraulics components and 
aerospace components. The Company is listed in 
India with National Stock Exchange and Bombay Stock 
Exchange.	
1A	 Basis of preparation	
i	
Statement of compliance	
	
These Consolidated financial statements of the 
Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 notified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (‘the 
Act’) and other relevant provisions of the Act.
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly issued Indian Accounting 
Standard is initially adopted or a revision to an existing 
Indian Accounting Standard requires a change in the 
accounting policy hitherto in use.
ii	
Functional and presentation currency	
	
These 
Consolidated 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented in Indian Rupees (INR), which is also the 
Group’s functional currency. All amounts have been 
rounded-off to the nearest lakhs, unless otherwise 
mentioned.
iii	 Basis of Measurement
	
The Consolidated  financial statements have been 
prepared on the historical cost convention and on an 
accrual basis, except for the following:	
(a) 	 Defined benefit and other long-term employee 
benefits where plan asset is measured at fair 
value less present value of defined benefit 
obligations.
(b) 	 Certain financial assets and liabilities that are 
qualified to be measured at fair value, and
(c)  	Assets classified as held for sale are measured 
at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less cost to sell. 
iv	 Use of estimates and management judgments
	
The preparation of Consolidated financial statements 
is in conformity with Ind AS, management requires 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies and 
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses. Accounting estimates could change 
from period to period. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.	
	
	Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Appropriate changes in 
estimates are made as the Management becomes 
aware of changes in circumstances surrounding to 
the estimates. Changes in estimates are reflected in 
the consolidated financial statements in the period 
in which changes are made and, if material, their 
effects are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
	
Significant 
Judgements, 
assumptions 
and 
estimation uncertainties 
	
Information about assumptions and estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in 
a material adjustment in the current year is included 
in the following notes:
(a)	 Useful life of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets - Note 3 & 5:
	
The useful life of the assets are determined in 
accordance with Schedule II of the Companies Act, 
2013. In cases, where the useful life is different from 
that or is not prescribed in Schedule II, it is based 
on technical advice, taking into account the nature 
of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the 
operating conditions of the asset, past history of 
replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
manufacturers warranties and maintenance.
(b)	 Income taxes- Note 49:
	
In assessing the reliability of deferred tax assets, 
the Management considers whether some portion 
or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is 
dependent upon the generation of future taxable 
income during the periods in which the temporary 
differences become deductible. The Management 
considers the scheduled reversals of deferred 
income tax liabilities, projected future taxable 
income and tax planning strategies in making this 
assessment. Based on the level of historical taxable 
income and projections for future taxable income 
over the periods in which the deferred income tax 
assets are deductible, the Management believes that 
the group will realize the benefits of those deductible 
differences. The amount of the deferred tax assets 
considered realizable, however, could be reduced in 
the near term if estimates of future taxable income 
during the carry forward period are reduced.	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 2 9
(c)	 Provisions and contingencies- Note 20, 27 & 38 :
	
The recognition and measurement of other provisions 
are based on the assessment of the probability of 
an outflow of resources, and on past experience 
and circumstances known at the reporting date. The 
actual outflow of resources at a future date may vary 
from the figure estimated at end of each reporting 
period.
(d)	 Post-retirement benefit plans- Note 43: 
	
The obligation arising from the defined benefit plan 
is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions 
which include discount rate, trends in salary escalation 
and vested future benefits and life expectancy. The 
discount rate is determined with reference to market 
yields at each financial year end on the government 
bonds.
(e)	 Impairment of financial assets- Note 6, 7, 11, 14, 
15 & 44: 
	
The impairment provisions for financial assets are 
based on assumptions about risk of default and 
expected cash loss rates. The Group uses judgement 
in making these assumptions and selecting the 
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on 
Group’s past history, existing market conditions as 
well as forward looking estimates at the end of each 
reporting period.
(f)	 Impairment of goodwill- Note 4: 
	
The impairment provisions for Goodwill are based 
on projections which inter alia include sales 
and earnings before interest, depreciation and 
amoritzation and tax. The Group uses judgement in 
making these assumptions and selecting the inputs 
to the impairment calculation, based on Group’s past 
history, existing market conditions as well as forward 
looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
(g)	 Leases- Note 40: 	
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the 
lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease 
adjusted with any option to extend or terminate the 
lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. 
The Group makes an assessment on the expected 
lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby 
assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any 
options to extend or terminate the contract will be 
exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group 
considers factors such as any significant leasehold 
improvements undertaken over the lease term, 
costs relating to the termination of the lease and 
the importance of the underlying asset to Group’s 
operations taking into account the location of the 
underlying asset and the availability of suitable 
alternatives. The lease term in future periods is 
reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects the 
current economic circumstances. After considering 
current and future economic conditions, the Group 
has concluded that no changes are required to lease 
period relating to the existing lease contracts.	
v	
Measurement of fair values
	
Certain accounting policies and disclosures of the 
Group require the measurement of fair values, for 
both financial and non financial assets and liabilities.
	
The Group has an established control framework 
with respect to the measurement of fair values.
	
The valuation team regularly reviews significant 
unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments.
	
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a 
fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the 
valuation techniques as follows:	
-	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities.	
- 	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included 
in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices).
- 	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).	
	
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, 
the Group uses observable market data as far as 
possible. If the inputs used to measure the fair value 
of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of the 
fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement 
is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the 
fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is 
significant to the entire measurement.
	
The Group recognizes transfers between levels of 
the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
	
Further information about the assumptions made in 
measuring fair values is included in the note 44 of 
financial instruments.
1B	 Basis of consolidation
	
These consolidated financial statements include financial 
statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries as 
disclosed in Note 50. Subsidiaries are all entities over 
which the Group has control. The parent controls an entity 
when it is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in 
the consolidated financial statements from the date the 
Parent acquires control until the date the control ceases.
	
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised 
gains and losses on inter-company transactions between 
group companies are eliminated. Where unrealised 
losses on intra-group asset sales are reversed on 
consolidation, the underlying asset is also tested for 
impairment losses from the Group perspective. Amounts 
reported in separate financial statements of subsidiaries 
are adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
1 3 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive 
income are attributed to the owners of the Company and 
to the non-controlling interest, if any. Total comprehensive 
income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the 
Company and to the non-controlling interest even if this 
results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit 
balance.
	
Non-controlling interest are presented in the statement 
of financial position within equity, separately from the 
equity of the shareholders of the Group.
i	
Business combinations
	
Business combinations have been accounted for using 
the acquisition method under the provisions of Ind AS 
103 - Business Combinations.
	
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value 
of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of acquisition, 
which is the date on which control is transferred to the 
Group. The cost of acquisition also includes the fair 
value of any contingent consideration. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their 
fair value on the date of acquisition.
	
Business combinations between entities under common 
control is accounted for at carrying value. Transaction 
costs that the Group incurred in connection with a 
business combination are expensed as incurred.
	
When the consideration transferred by the Group in 
a business combination includes assets or liabilities 
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
the contingent consideration is measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and included as part of the 
consideration transferred in a business combination. 
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments are 
adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments 
against goodwill or capital reserve, as the case maybe. 
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that 
arise from additional information obtained during the 
‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year 
from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances 
that existed at the acquisition date.
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
incomplete by the end of each reporting period in which 
the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional 
amounts for the items for which the accounting is 
incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
during the measurement period, or additional assets 
or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information 
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at 
the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected 
the amounts recognised at that date.
	
The Group applies the anticipated acquisition method 
where it has the right and the obligation to purchase 
any remaining non-controlling interest (so-called put/
call arrangements). Under the anticipated acquisition 
method, the interests of the non-controlling shareholder 
are derecognised when the Group’s liability relating to the 
purchase of its shares is recognised. The recognition of 
the financial liability implies that the interests subject to 
the purchase are deemed to have been acquired already. 
Therefore, the corresponding interests are presented as 
already owned by the Group even though legally they are 
still non-controlling interest.
ii	
Goodwill
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum 
of the consideration transferred and the amount 
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, 
over the net of the acquisition date amounts of 
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities 
assumed. If the excess is a negative, a bargain 
purchase gain is recognised in capital reserve.
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is 
carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition 
of the business less accumulated impairment losses, 
if any.
2	
Material accounting policies	 	
i	
Property, plant and equipment 	
	
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured 
at cost less accumulated depreciation (which includes 
capitalised borrowing costs, if any) and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
	
Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
comprises its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates, any directly attributable 
costs of bringing an asset to working condition for its 
intended use and estimated cost of dismantling and 
removing the item and restoring the site on which it 
is located. Costs directly attributable to acquisition 
are capitalized until the property, plant and equipment 
are ready for use, as intended by management.
	
The cost of a self-constructed item of property, plant 
and equipment comprises the cost of materials, 
direct labour and any other costs directly attributable 
to bringing the item to its intended working condition 
and estimated costs of dismantling, removing and 
restoring the site on which it is located, wherever 
applicable.
	
Subsequent expenditures relating to property, plant 
and equipment is capitalized only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with these 
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. Repairs and maintenance costs 
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss 
when incurred. The cost and related accumulated 
depreciation are eliminated from the financial 
statements upon sale or retirement of the asset and 
the resultant gains or losses are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss. Assets to be disposed 
off are reported at the lower of the carrying value or 
the fair value less cost to sell.
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and 
equipment have different useful lives, then they are 
accounted for as separate items (major components) 
of property, plant and equipment.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3 1
	
Borrowing cost directly attributable to acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment which take substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended use are 
capitalized to the extent they relate to the period till 
such assets are ready to be put to use.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives 
and residual value
	
Depreciation is provided on a Straight Line Method 
(‘SLM’) over estimated useful life of the property, 
plant and equipment less their estimated residual 
value by the Management. Depreciation for assets 
purchased / sold during the year is proportionately 
charged.
	
The Group’s range of estimated useful lives of 
property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Category of assets
Useful life estimated 
by Management
Leasehold land
Over the period of lease 
tenure
Buildings
30 years
Plant and machinery*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Measuring 
instruments*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Electrical installations*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Data  processing 
equipment                              
4 years
Office equipment                          5 years
Furniture and fixtures            5 -10 years
Tools, dies and moulds      9 years
Vehicles*                                             10 years
Motor boat*                                          
20 years
Assets taken on lease:
 - Leasehold 
improvements                               
Period of lease tenure 
or useful life of assets 
whichever is lower
	
Freehold land is not depreciated	
	
*The Management believes that the useful lives as 
given above best represent the period over which 
Management expects to use these assets based 
on an internal assessment and technical evaluation 
where necessary. Hence, the useful lives for these 
assets is different from the useful lives as prescribed 
under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act 
,2013.
	
The assets residual value and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of 
each reporting period. An asset’s carrying amount is 
written down immediately to its recoverable amount 
if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount.
	
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These 
are included in statement of profit and loss within 
other gains / losses.
	
Derecognition of property, plant and equipment
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is 
derecognised upon disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising 
on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, 
plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss. Gains and losses on disposal are 
determined by comparing proceeds with carrying 
amount. These are included in profit or loss within 
other gains / losses.
	
Advance paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date classified as capital advances under other 
non current assets and the cost of the assets not put 
to use before such date are disclosed under Capital 
work in progress.	
ii	
Other Intangible assets	
	
	Acquired intangible assets 	
	
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are 
measured initially at cost. After initial recognition, 
an intangible asset is carried at its cost less any 
accumulated amortization and any accumulated 
impairment loss.
	
Internally generated intangible assets	
	
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with 
the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical 
knowledge and understanding, is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss as incurred.
	
An internally -generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following have been demonstrated:
-	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale;
- 	
the intention to complete the intangible asset 
and use or sell it;
-	
the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
-	
how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
-	
the availability of adequate technical, financial and 
other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
-	
the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during its 
development.
	
The amount initially recognised for internally-
generated intangible assets is the sum of the 
1 3 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
expenditure incurred from the date when the 
intangible asset first meets the recognition 
criteria listed above. Where no internally-
generated intangible asset can be recognised, 
development expenditure is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss in the period in 
which it is incurred.	
	
Subsequent 
to 
initial 
recognition, 
internally-
generated intangible assets are reported at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible 
assets that are acquired separately.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it 
increases the future economic benefits embodied 
in the specific asset to which it relates. All other 
expenditure, including on internally generated 
software is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss as and when incurred.	
	
Amortisation	
	
The Group amortizes intangible assets with a finite 
useful life using the straight-line method.	
	
The estimated useful lives of intangibles are as 
follows:	
Category of asset    Useful life                                     
Application 
Software                                        
4 years
Prototype 
development                         
Amortised over estimated 
number of shipsets
	
The assets residual value and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of 
each reporting period.
iii	 Impairment	
a)	 Goodwill
	
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual 
basis and whenever there is an indication that 
goodwill may be impaired, relying on a number 
of factors including operating results, business 
plans and future cash flows. For the purpose 
of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a 
business combination is allocated to the Group’s 
cash generating units (CGU) or groups of 
CGU’s expected to benefit from the synergies 
arising from the business combination. A CGU 
is the smallest identifiable group of assets 
that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets or group of assets. Impairment occurs 
when the carrying amount of a CGU including 
the goodwill, exceeds the estimated recoverable 
amount of the CGU. The recoverable amount of 
a CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost 
to sell and its value-in-use. Value-in-use  is the 
present value of future cash flows expected 
to be derived from the CGU. Total impairment 
loss of a CGU is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the 
CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU 
pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of 
each asset in the CGU. An impairment loss on 
goodwill is recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss and is not reversed in the subsequent 
period.	
b)	 Financial assets	
	
The Group recognises loss allowances using the 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for the financial 
assets which are not fair valued through profit or 
loss. Loss allowance for trade receivables with 
no significant financing component is measured 
at an amount equal to lifetime ECL. For all other 
financial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12-month 
ECL, unless there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk from initial recognition in which 
case those are measured at lifetime ECL. The 
amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) 
that is required to adjust the loss allowance at 
the reporting date to the amount that is required 
to be recognised as an impairment gain or loss in 
the statement of profit and loss.
c)	 Non-financial assets	
	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible 
assets
	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible 
assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, the 
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair 
value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is 
determined on an individual asset basis unless 
the asset does not generate cash flows that 
are largely independent of those from other 
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount 
is determined for the CGU to which the asset 
belongs.
	
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss is measured by the amount by 
which the carrying value of the assets exceeds 
the estimated recoverable amount of the asset. 
An impairment loss is reversed in the statement 
of profit and loss if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount.
	
The carrying amount of the asset is increased 
to its revised recoverable amount, provided 
that this amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined (net 
of any accumulated amortization or depreciation) 
had no impairment loss been recognized for the 
asset in prior years.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3 3
iv	 Leases
a)	 The Group as a lessee:
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily 
consist of leases for land, buildings and 
plant and machinery. The Group assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at 
inception of a contract. A contract is, or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified 
asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset, the Group assesses 
whether:
	
(i) the contract involves the use of an 
identified asset,
	
(ii) the Group has substantially all of the 
economic benefits from use of the asset 
through the period of the lease, and
	
(iii) the Group has the right to direct the use 
of the asset. 
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, 
the Group recognizes a right-of-use (ROU) 
asset and a corresponding lease liability 
for all lease arrangements in which it is 
a lessee, except for leases with a term of 
12 months or less (short-term leases) and 
low value leases. For these short‑term and 
low-value leases, the Group recognizes the 
lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. 
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the 
options to extend or terminate the lease 
before the end of the lease term. ROU 
assets and lease liabilities includes these 
options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.	
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount 
of the lease liability adjusted for any 
lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any 
initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
ROU assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful 
life of the underlying asset. ROU assets 
are evaluated for recoverability whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that their carrying amounts may not be 
recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the 
higher of the fair value less cost to sell 
and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. 
In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at 
amortized cost at the present value of the 
future lease payments. The lease payments 
are discounted using the interest rate implicit 
in the lease or, if not readily determinable, 
using the incremental borrowing rates in 
the country of domicile of these leases. 
Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related 
ROU asset if the Group changes its 
assessment of whether it will exercise an 
extension or a termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet 
and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
	
Short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets:
	
The Group has elected not to recognise 
right-of use assets and lease liabilities for 
leases of low value assets and short-term 
leases. The Group recognises the lease 
payments associated with these leases as 
an expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
b)	 The Group as a lessor:
	
Leases for which the Group is a lessor is 
classified as a finance or operating lease. 
Whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee, the contract is 
classified as a finance lease. All other leases 
are classified as operating leases.
	
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it 
accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sublease separately. The sublease 
is classified as a finance or operating lease 
by reference to the ROU asset arising from 
the head lease. For operating leases, rental 
income is recognized on a straight line basis 
over the term of the relevant lease.
v	
Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost of inventories comprises 
purchase price, costs of conversion and other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. In determining 
the cost, weighted average cost is used. Net 
realizable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs to sell. The comparison of cost and net 
realizable value is made on an item-by-item basis.
Inventories are stated net of write down or 
allowances on account of obsolescence, damage 
or slow moving items.
1 3 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
The method of determination of cost is as 
follows:
- 	
Raw materials and components – on a 
weighted average basis
- 	
Stores and spares – on a weighted average 
basis
- 	
Work-in-progress 
– 
includes 
costs 
of 
conversion
- 	
Finished 
goods 
– 
includes 
costs 
of 
conversion
- 	
Goods in transit – at purchase cost	
	
The net realizable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the net realizable 
value of related finished goods. Raw materials 
and other supplies held for use in production 
of inventories are not written down below 
cost except in cases where material prices 
have declined, and it is estimated that the cost 
of the finished products will exceed their net 
realizable value. Fixed production overheads 
are allocated on the basis of normal capacity of 
production facilities. The provision for inventory 
obsolescence is assessed periodically and is 
provided as considered necessary.
vi	 Revenue recognition
	
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control 
of promised goods or services to customers 
and is measured based on the consideration 
to which the Group expects to be entitled to 
in a contract with a customer and excludes 
trade discounts, volume rebates and amounts 
collected on behalf of government. For certain 
contracts that permit the customer to return an 
item, revenue is recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that a significant reversal in the 
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will 
not occur and is reassessed at the end of each 
reporting period. 
	
Where the Group’s contracts with customers 
include promise to transfer multiple goods and 
services to a customer, the Group assesses 
the goods/services promised in a contract and 
identifies distinct performance obligations in the 
contract. Identification of distinct performance 
obligations is made to determine the deliverables 
and the ability of the customer to benefit 
independently from such deliverables.
	
The Group considers indicators such as how 
customer consumes benefits as services are 
rendered or who controls the asset as it is being 
created or existence of enforceable right to 
payment for performance to date and alternate 
use of such goods, transfer of significant risks 
and rewards to the customer, acceptance of 
delivery by the customer, etc. to determine 
whether the performance obligation is satisfied 
at a point in time or over a period of time.
	
Revenue from customer contracts for design and 
development of products/tools & jigs is recognized 
as a performance obligation satisfied over time. 
Revenue is recognized based on the stage of 
completion of the contract. The management has 
assessed that the stage of completion determined 
as the proportion of total efforts expected to develop 
the product at the end of the reporting period is an 
appropriate measure of progress towards complete 
satisfaction of these performance obligations under 
Ind AS 115. Payment for these services is not due 
till the completion of the development and therefore, 
a contract asset is recognized over the period in 
which the development services are performed 
representing the entity’s right to consideration for 
the services performed to date. 
	
Export benefits are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss account when the right to receive 
credit as per the terms of the entitlement is 
established in respect of exports made.
	
Service 
income 
including 
management 
fees 
is measured based on transaction price and is 
recognized when an unconditional right to receive 
such income is established and on the performance 
of services.
	
Contract assets are recognised when there is 
excess of revenue earned over billings on contracts. 
Contract assets are classified as unbilled receivables. 
Unearned revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised 
when there are billings in excess of revenue.	
vii	 Other income	
	
For all financial instruments measured at amortised 
cost, interest income is recorded using the effective 
interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash payments 
or receipts over the expected life of the financial 
instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, 
to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Interest income is included in other income in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Dividend income is recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss when the right to receive payment 
is established, which is generally when the 
shareholders approves the dividend.
viii	 Financial instruments	
	
	
a)	 Financial assets	
1)	 Recognition and initial measurement
	
Trade receivables and debt securities are initially 
recognized when they are originated. All other 
financial assets and liabilities are initially recognized 
when the Group becomes a party to contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
	
A financial asset or liability is initially measured at fair 
value plus, for an item not at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL), transaction cost that are directly 
attributable to its acquisition or issue.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3 5
2)	 Classification and subsequent measurement 
	
Financial assets
	
On initial recognition, a financial instrument is 
classified and measured at
- 	
amortised cost
- 	
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI) - debt instruments;
- 	
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI) - equity investments; or
- 	
fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
	
Financial assets are not classified subsequent 
to their initial recognition, except if and in the 
period the Group changes its business model for 
managing financial assets.
	
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if 
it meets both the following conditions and is not 
designated as at FVTPL:
-	
the asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets to collect contractual 
cash flows; and
-	
the contractual terms of the financial assets give 
rise on a specified date to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amounts outstanding.	
	
A debt investment is measured at FVTOCI if it meets 
both of the following conditions and is not designated 
as at FVTPL:
- 	
the asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flow and selling financial assets; 
and
- 	
the contractual terms of the financial assets give 
rise on a specified date to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amounts outstanding.	
	
	On initial recognition of an equity investment that is 
not held for trading, the Group may irrevocably elect 
to present subsequent changes in the investment’s 
fair value in OCI (designated as FVOCI- equity 
investment). This election is made on an investment-
to-investment basis.
	
All financial assets not classified as amortised cost 
or FVOCI as described above are measured at 
FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets. 
On initial recognition, the Group may irrevocably 
designate a financial asset that otherwise meets 
the requirements to be measured at amortised cost 
or at FVOCI as at FVTPL, if doing so eliminates or 
significantly reduces an accounting mistake that 
would otherwise arise.
	
Financial assets: Subsequent measurement and 
gains and losses
	
Financial assets, at FVTPL: 	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Net gains and losses, including any interest or 
dividend income are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost:	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. 
Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses 
and impairment are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Debt investments at FVTOCI:	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. 
Interest income under effective interest method, 
foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment 
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. 
Other net gains and losses are recognized in OCI. On 
derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in OCI 
are reclassified to the statement of profit and loss.
	
Equity investments at FVTOCI:	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Dividends are recognized as income in the 
statement of profit and loss unless the dividend 
clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost 
of the investment. Other net gains and losses are 
recognized in OCI and are not reclassified to the 
statement of profit and loss.
3)	 Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis 
the expected credit losses associated with its 
assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI debt 
instruments. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk. 
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss. The Group 
follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of 
impairment loss on trade receivables. The application 
of simplified approach does not require the Group 
to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at 
each reporting date, right from initial recognition. 
	
For recognition of impairment loss on financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has 
not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to 
1 3 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If in 
subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then 
the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12 month ECL.
4)	 Derecognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset is derecognized only when:
- 	
the Group has transferred the rights to receive 
cash flows from financial asset or
-	
retains the contractual rights to receive the 
cash flows from financial asset but assumed a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to 
one or more recipients.
	
Where the Group has transferred an asset, the Group 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. 
In such cases, the financial asset is derecognized. 
Where the entity has not transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, 
the financial asset is not derecognized.
	
Where the Group has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset is 
derecognized if the Group has not retained control of 
the financial asset. Where the Group retains control 
of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognized to the extent of continuing involvement 
in the financial asset.	
b)	 Financial liability 	
1)	 Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss or amortised cost.
	
All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair 
value and, in case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs.
2)	 Subsequent measurement	
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification, as described below:
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss 
	
Financial liabilities at  fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they 
are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
near term. This category also includes derivative 
financial instruments entered into by the Group that 
are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge 
relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separate 
embedded derivatives are also classified as held 
for trading unless they are designated as effective 
hedging instruments.
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
at  fair value through profit or loss are designated 
as such at the initial date of recognition, and 
only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For 
liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ 
losses attributable to changes in own credit risk 
are recognized in OCI. These gains/ losses are not 
subsequently transferred to statement of profit and 
loss. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative 
gain or loss within equity. All other changes in fair 
value of such liability are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. The Group has not designated any 
financial liability as at  fair value through profit or loss.
	
Amortised cost
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the Effective Interest Rate (“EIR”) 
method. Gains and losses are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss when the liabilities are 
derecognized as well as through the EIR amortization 
process.
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortization is included as finance costs in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are 
those contracts that require a payment to be made to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
specified party fails to make a payment when due in 
accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially 
as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of 
the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured 
at the higher of the amount of loss allowance 
determined as per impairment requirements of Ind 
AS 109 and the amount recognized less cumulative 
amortization.
	
Derecognition	
	
A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or 
expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced 
by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition of the 
original liability and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Offsetting
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognized amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3 7
	
Derivative financial instruments and Hedge 
Accounting
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Group uses 
certain derivative financial instruments to reduce 
business risks which arise from its exposure to 
foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations. 
The instruments are confined principally to forward 
foreign exchange contracts, cross currency swaps, 
interest rate swaps and collars. The instruments are 
employed as hedges of transactions included in the 
financial statements or for highly probable forecast 
transactions/ 
firm 
contractual 
commitments. 
Derivatives are initially accounted for and measured 
at fair value on the date the derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
	
The Group adopts hedge accounting for forward 
foreign exchange and interest rate contracts 
wherever possible. At inception of each hedge, there 
is a formal, documented designation of the hedging 
relationship. This documentation includes, inter alia, 
items such as identification of the hedged item and 
transaction and nature of the risk being hedged. 
At inception, each hedge is expected to be highly 
effective in achieving an offset of changes in fair 
value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. 
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce 
the risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at the inception and on an 
ongoing basis. The ineffective portion of designated 
hedges is recognised immediately in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
The Group designates certain foreign exchange 
forward and options contracts as cash flow hedges 
to mitigate the risk of foreign exchange exposure 
on highly probable forecast cash transactions.
The Group determines the existence of an economic 
relationship 
between 
the 
hedging 
instrument 
and hedged item based on the currency, amount 
and timing of its forecasted cash flows. Hedge 
effectiveness is determined at the inception of the 
hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective 
effectiveness assessments to ensure that an 
economic relationship exists between the hedged 
item and hedging instrument, including whether the 
hedging instrument is expected to offset changes in 
cash flows of hedged items.
	
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes is 
no longer optimal but the risk management objective 
remains unchanged and the hedge continues to 
qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship 
will be rebalanced by adjusting either the volume of 
the hedging instrument or the volume of the hedged 
item so that the hedge ratio aligns with the ratio 
used for risk management purposes. Any hedge 
ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss at the time of the 
hedge relationship rebalancing.
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow 
hedge instrument, the effective portion of changes 
in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in the 
cash flow hedging reserve, and is transferred to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss upon the occurrence of 
the related forecast transaction.
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss 
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is 
retained in equity until the forecasted transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised 
in equity is transferred to the statement of profit and 
loss for the period.
	
In cases where hedge accounting is not applied, 
changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss as and when they 
arise.
ix	 Employee benefits	
a)	 Defined benefit plans
	
The Group’s gratuity plan is a defined benefit 
plan. The present value of gratuity obligation 
under such defined benefit plans is determined 
based on actuarial valuations carried out by an 
independent actuary using the Projected Unit 
Credit Method, which recognizes each period 
of service as giving rise to additional unit of 
employee benefit entitlement and measure each 
unit separately to build up the final obligation. 
The obligation is measured at the present value 
of estimated future cash flows. The discount 
rates used for determining the present value of 
obligation under defined benefit plans, is based 
on the market yields on Government securities 
as at the balance sheet date, having maturity 
periods approximating to the terms of related 
obligations.
	
Actuarial gains or losses are recognized in other 
comprehensive income. Further, the profit or 
loss does not include an expected return on plan 
assets. Instead net interest recognized in profit 
or loss is calculated by applying the discount 
rate used to measure the defined benefit 
obligation to the net defined benefit liability or 
asset. The actual return on plan assets above or 
below the discount rate is recognized as part of 
remeasurement of net defined liability or asset 
through other comprehensive income.
	
Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains 
or losses and return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability) are not reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods.
1 3 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
The Group’s gratuity scheme is administered 
through Life Insurance Corporation of India and 
the provision for the same is determined on 
the basis of actuarial valuation carried out by an 
independent actuary. Provision is made for the 
shortfall, if any, between the amounts required 
to be contributed to meet the accrued liability for 
gratuity as determined by actuarial valuation and 
the available corpus of the funds.
b)	 Short term employee benefits	
	
All employee benefits falling due wholly within 
twelve months of rendering the services are 
classified as short-term employee benefits, 
which include benefits like salaries, wages, short-
term compensated absences and performance 
incentives and are recognised as expenses in 
the period in which the employee renders the 
related service.
	
Short term employee benefits are measured 
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed 
as the related service is provided. A liability is 
recognized for the amount expected to be paid 
e.g. short term cash bonus, if the Group has a 
present legal or constructive obligation to pay 
this amount as a result of past services provided 
by the employee and the amount of obligation 
can be estimated reliably
	
When the benefits of a plan are changed or 
when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change 
in benefit that relates to past service (‘past 
service cost’ or ‘past service gain’) or the gain 
or loss on curtailment is recognized immediately 
in the statement of profit and loss. The Group 
recognizes gains and losses on the settlement 
of a defined benefit plan when the settlement 
occurs.
c)	 Compensated absences	
	
The employees of the Group are entitled to 
compensated absence. The employees can carry-
forward a portion of the unutilized accumulating 
compensated absence and utilize it in future 
periods. The Group records an obligation for 
compensated absences in the period in which 
the employee renders the services that increases 
this entitlement. The obligation is measured on 
the basis of an independent actuarial valuation 
using the Projected Unit method as at the 
reporting date.
d)	 Defined contribution plan
	
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment 
benefit plan under which an entity pays specified 
contributions to a separate entity and has no 
obligation to pay any further amounts. The Group 
makes specified monthly contributions towards 
employee Provident Fund to Government 
administered Provident Fund Scheme which 
is a defined contribution plan. The Group’s 
contribution is recognized as an expense in the 
statement of profit and loss during the period in 
which the employee renders the related service.
e)	 Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier 
of when the Group can no longer withdraw the 
offer of those benefits and when the Group 
recognizes cost of restructuring. If the benefits 
are not expected to be settled wholly within 
12 months of reporting date, then they are 
discounted.	
x	
Foreign currency transactions and balances
	
Foreign currency are translated into the functional 
currency using the exchange rates at the dates of 
the transactions. Foreign currency denominated 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated into 
relevant functional currency at exchange rates in 
effect at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement 
of such transactions and from the translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are 
generally recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss.
	
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency and measured at fair 
value are translated at the exchange rate prevalent 
at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency and measured 
at historical cost are translated at the exchange 
rate prevalent at the date of transaction. Translation 
differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value are reported as part of the fair value gain or 
loss and are generally recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss, except exchange differences arising 
from the translation of the following items which are 
recognized in OCI:
- 	
equity investments at fair value through OCI 
(FVOCI)
-	
a financial liability designated as a hedge of the 
net investment in a foreign operation to the 
extent that the hedge is effective; and
- 	
qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that 
the hedges are effective.
	
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries 
including goodwill are translated into INR, the 
functional currency of the Group, at the exchange 
rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses 
of foreign operations are translated into INR at the 
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions or 
an average rate if the average rate approximates 
the actual rate at the date of the transaction. The 
gains or losses resulting from such translation are 
included in currency translation reserves under other 
components of equity. When a subsidiary is disposed 
off, in full, the relevant amount is transferred to net 
profit in the statement of profit and loss. However, 
when a change in the parent’s ownership does not 
result in loss of control of a subsidiary, such changes 
are recorded through equity.
	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 3 9
xi	 Taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred 
income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in 
net profit in the statement of profit and loss except 
to the extent it relates to items recognized directly 
in equity, in which case it is recognized in other 
comprehensive income.
	
Current income tax for current and prior periods is 
recognized at the amount expected to be paid or 
recovered from the tax authorities, using the tax rates 
and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for 
all temporary differences arising between  the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements except for the 
cases mentioned below:
	
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply to taxable income in 
the years in which those temporary differences are 
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of 
changes in tax rates on deferred income tax assets 
and liabilities is recognized as income or expense in 
the period that includes the enactment or substantive 
enactment date.
	
Deferred tax is not recognized for:
-	
temporary differences arising on the initial 
recognition of assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that is not a business combination 
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profits or loss at the time of the transaction;
- 	
temporary investments related to investment in 
subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements 
to the extent that the Group is able to control the 
timing of reversal of  the temporary differences 
and it is probable that they will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
- 	
taxable temporary difference arising on the initial 
recognition of goodwill.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which they can be used. The 
existence of unused tax losses is strong evidence 
that future taxable profit may not be available. 
Therefore, in case of history of recent losses, the 
Group recognizes a deferred tax asset only to 
the extent that it has sufficient taxable temporary 
differences or there is convincing other evidence 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available 
against which such deferred tax can be realized. 
Deferred tax assets, unrecognized or recognised, are 
reviewed at each reporting date and are recognised 
/ reduced to the extent that it is probable / no longer 
probable respectively that the related tax benefit will 
be realized.
	
The Group offsets, the current tax assets and liabilities 
(on a year on year basis) and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities, where it has a legally enforceable right and 
where it intends to settle such assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
xii	 Provisions (other than employee benefits)
a)	 General
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as 
a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. When the Group 
expects some or all of a provision to be 
reimbursed, the expense relating to a provision 
is presented in the statement of profit and loss 
net of any reimbursement.
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax 
rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. When discounting is 
used, the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
b)	 Onerous contract
	
Provision for onerous contracts. i.e. contracts 
where the expected unavoidable cost of meeting 
the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received 
under it, are recognised when it is probable that 
an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle a present 
obligation as a result of an obligating event 
based on a reliable estimate of such obligation.
xiii	 Contingent liability
	
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where 
there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
that may probably not require an outflow of resources. 
When there is a possible or a present obligation 
where the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
remote, no provision or disclosure is made.	
xiv	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent includes cash on hand, 
other short-term, highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value, and bank overdrafts.	
xv	 Cash flow statement
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby net profit before taxes for the period is 
adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash 
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future 
operating cash receipts or payments and item of 
income or expenses associated with investing or 
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, 
investing and financing activities of the Group are 
segregated.
1 4 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
xvi	
Earnings per share
	
The basic earnings per share is computed by 
dividing the net profit attributable to the owners 
of the Group for the year by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during 
reporting period.
	
The number of shares used in computing diluted 
earnings per share comprises the weighted 
average shares considered for deriving basic 
earnings per share and also the weighted average 
number of equity shares which could have been 
issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
	
Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed 
converted as of the beginning of the reporting 
date, unless they have been issued at a later date. 
In computing diluted earnings per share, only 
potential equity shares that is dilutive and which 
either reduces earnings per share or increase loss 
per share are included.
xvii	 Segment reporting	
	
Based on the “management approach” as defined 
in Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker evaluates the Group’s 
performance and allocates resources based on 
an analysis of various performance indicators by 
business segments. Accordingly, information has 
been presented along these business segments 
viz. Hydraulics, Aerospace, Automotive and 
metallurgy and Others.
xviii	 Warranties	
	
Warranty costs are estimated by the Management 
on the basis of technical evaluation and past 
experience. Provision is made for estimated 
liability in respect of warranty costs in the period 
of sale of goods.	
xix	
Government grants
	
Government grants are recognised where there 
is reasonable assurance that the grant will be 
received and all attached conditions will be 
complied with. When the grant relates to revenue, 
it is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
on a systematic basis over the periods to which 
they relate. When the grant relates to an asset, it 
is treated as deferred income and recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss on a systematic 
basis over the useful life of the asset.
xx	 Discontinued operations and assets held for 
sale:	
a)	 Discontinued operations:
	
A discontinued operation is a component of the 
Group’s business, the operations and cash flows of 
which can be clearly distinguished from those of the 
rest of the Group’s business and which represents a 
separate major line of business or geographical area 
of operations and
-	
 is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
a separate major line of business or geographic 
area of operations or
- 	
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view 
to re- sale
	
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs 
upon disposal or when the operations meets the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
When a operation is classified as a discontinued 
operation, the comparative statement of profit and 
loss is re-presented as if the operations had been 
discontinued from the start of the comparative 
period.
b)	 Assets held for sale:
	
Non-current assets and disposal group are classified 
as “Held for Sale” if their carrying amount is 
intended to be recovered principally through sale 
rather than through continuing use. The condition 
for classification of “Held for Sale” is met when the 
non-current asset or the disposal group is available 
for immediate sale and the same is highly probable 
of being completed within one year from the date of 
classification as “Held for Sale”. Non-current assets 
and disposal group held for sale are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost 
to sell. Non-current assets and disposal group that 
ceases to be classified as “Held for Sale” shall be 
measured at the lower of carrying amount before the 
non-current asset and disposal group was classified 
as “Held for Sale” adjusted for any depreciation/ 
amortization and its recoverable amount at the date 
when the disposal group no longer meets the “Held 
for sale” criteria.
	
	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 4 1
(Rs in Lakhs)
3	
Property, plant and equipment 
Particulars
 Owned 
 Leased 
 Total 
Freehold 
land
Buildings 
 Plant and 
Machinery 
 Measuring 
Instruments 
 Electrical 
Installations 
 Data 
Processing 
Equipment 
 Office 
Equipment 
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
 Tools, 
Dies and 
Moulds 
 Vehicles 
Motor 
Boat
 Leasehold 
improvements 
Land 
(Note i) 
Gross carrying amount:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 3,465  14,507  26,899 
 1,369 
 1,179 
 2,046 
 3,583 
 1,103 
 5,822 
 770 
 402 
 1,088  12,708  74,941 
Additions
 - 
 7,413 
 4,307 
 38 
 937 
 472 
 229 
 210 
 414 
 556 
 - 
 772 
 -  15,348 
Assets classified from discontinued 
operations (Refer Note 37)
 1,089 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,089 
Deletion/adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 (437)
 (14)
 (14)
 (87)
 (37)
 (84)
 (15)
 (69)
 - 
 (347)
 -  (1,104)
Translation adjustment
 22 
 177 
 776 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 54 
 32 
 108 
 10 
 - 
 25 
 - 
 1,249 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 4,576  22,097  31,545 
 1,393 
 2,102 
 2,476 
 3,829 
 1,261 
 6,329 
 1,267 
 402 
 1,538  12,708  91,523 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 4,576  22,097  31,545 
 1,393 
 2,102 
 2,476 
 3,829 
 1,261 
 6,329 
 1,267 
 402 
 1,538  12,708  91,523 
Additions
 - 
 27 
 2,727 
 105 
 51 
 285 
 141 
 606 
 345 
 188 
 - 
 84 
 - 
 4,559 
Deletion/adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 (96)
 (5)
 - 
 (104)
 (1)
 - 
 (70)
 (158)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (434)
Translation adjustment
 40 
 461 
 1,727 
 - 
 - 
 64 
 146 
 64 
 160 
 18 
 - 
 36 
 - 
 2,716 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 4,616  22,585  35,903 
 1,493 
 2,153 
 2,721 
 4,115 
 1,931 
 6,764 
 1,315 
 402 
 1,658  12,708  98,364 
Accumulated depreciation:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 - 
 3,541  16,219 
 471 
 188 
 1,579 
 2,499 
 981 
 3,947 
 498 
 238 
 442 
 -  30,603 
Depreciation for the year 
 - 
 538 
 1,738 
 235 
 92 
 155 
 244 
 59 
 409 
 47 
 18 
 98 
 - 
 3,633 
Depreciation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 (417)
 - 
 - 
 (58)
 (29)
 (47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (298)
 - 
 (849)
Translation adjustment
 - 
 88 
 552 
 - 
 - 
 42 
 41 
 29 
 83 
 4 
 - 
 5 
 - 
 844 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 - 
 4,167  18,092 
 706 
 280 
 1,718 
 2,755 
 1,022 
 4,439 
 549 
 256 
 247 
 -  34,231 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 - 
 4,167  18,092 
 706 
 280 
 1,718 
 2,755 
 1,022 
 4,439 
 549 
 256 
 247 
 -  34,231 
Depreciation for the year 
 - 
 715 
 1,993 
 97 
 141 
 229 
 215 
 55 
 443 
 108 
 18 
 161 
 - 
 4,175 
Depreciation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 (198)
 - 
 - 
 (92)
 (1)
 - 
 (51)
 (35)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (377)
Translation adjustment
 - 
 248 
 1,190 
 - 
 - 
 60 
 112 
 47 
 118 
 9 
 - 
 10 
 - 
 1,794 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 - 
 5,130  21,077 
 803 
 421 
 1,915 
 3,081 
 1,124 
 4,949 
 631 
 274 
 418 
 -  39,823 
Net carrying amount:
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 4,616  17,455  14,826 
 690 
 1,732 
 806 
 1,034 
 807 
 1,815 
 684 
 128 
 1,240  12,708  58,541 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 4,576  17,930  13,453 
 687 
 1,822 
 758 
 1,074 
 239 
 1,890 
 718 
 146 
 1,291  12,708  57,292 
Note:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	 Leasehold land aggregating INR 12,708 represents land allotted by Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) for a period of 10 years on lease. As per the lease 
agreement dated 21 August 2014  KIADB shall sell the land to the Company at any time during the tenure of the lease or on the expiry of the lease period at an additional 
consideration, if any to be decided at the time of entering into sale agreement. Accordingly, no depreciation has been charged on land taken on lease from KIADB. The 
Company has filed an application for the transfer of the land in the name of Company during August 2024 and believes that the condition required to be fulfilled to obtain the 
ownership of this land is administrative in nature.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1 4 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
4	
Goodwill
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Carrying value at the beginning of the year
 9,397 
 10,473 
Translation differences
 405 
 259 
Goodwill impaired (Refer Note 37)
 - 
 (1,335)
Carrying value at the end of the year
 9,802 
 9,397 
	
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase consideration over net assets value of acquired subsidiaries on the date of such 
acquisition. Such goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are any indicators for impairment.
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating unit 
(CGU) or groups of CGUs, which benefit from the synergies of the acquisition. The chief operating decision maker reviews 
the goodwill for any impairment at the operating segment level, which is represented through groups of CGUs. The carrying 
amount of the CGU was computed by allocating the net assets to operating segments for the purpose of impairment 
testing.
	
The carrying value of goodwill, net of translation differences and impairment allocated to operating segment are as 
follows:	
	
	
Allocated operating segment
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Aerospace - UK
 5,980 
 5,685 
Metallurgy - Germany
 3,822 
 3,712 
Total Carrying value at the end of the year
 9,802 
 9,397 
	
As at 31 March 2024, the estimated recoverable amount of the Metallurgy CGU was below its carrying amount.  Accordingly, 
an impairment loss of Rs. 1,335 lakhs has been recognized (Refer Note 37) and the carrying value of the CGU post the 
aforesaid impairment is Rs. 3,712 lakhs. 
	
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. 
For the purpose of impairment test, recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined based on value in use which is 
based on specific calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved 
by management covering a five-year period and the range of each assumption mentioned below. Other key assumptions 
including revenue growth rate and EBIDTA margins.
Aerospace - UK
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Discount rate*
 16.70%
15.20%
Terminal growth rate **
1.50%
2%
Metallurgy - Germany
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Discount rate*
 19.20%
16.40%
Terminal growth rate **
1.50%
1.50%
	
*Reflects the market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU and estimated based on the weighted average cost of 
capital for the respective CGU. 
	
** The cash flow projections include specific estimates for five years and a terminal growth rate thereafter. The terminal 
growth rate has been determined based on management’s estimates of the long-term compound annual EBITDA growth 
rate, consistent with the assumptions that a market participant would make.
	
At March 31, 2025 the impairment testing did not result in any impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill in any of the 
CGUs.
	
The directors believe that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount of the 
CGUs is based would not cause the aggregate carrying amount to exceed the aggregate recoverable amount of the related 
CGUs.	
	
	
(Rs in Lakhs)
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 4 3
(Rs in Lakhs)
5(a)	 Intangible assets
Particulars
 Owned intangible assets 
 Total 
Application 
Software 
Prototype 
development 
Gross carrying amount:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 1,266 
 2,830 
 4,096 
Additions
 131 
 75 
 206 
Deletion
 (5)
 - 
 (5)
Translation adjustment
 7 
 110 
 117 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 1,399 
 3,015 
 4,414 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 1,399 
 3,015 
 4,414 
Additions
 252 
 10 
 262 
Deletion
 - 
 - 
 - 
Translation adjustment
 21 
 155 
 176 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 1,672 
 3,180 
 4,852 
Accumulated amortization:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 810 
 837 
 1,647 
Amortisation for the year 
 122 
 177 
 299 
Amortisation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 - 
Translation adjustment
 7 
 27 
 34 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 939 
 1,041 
 1,980 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 939 
 1,041 
 1,980 
Amortisation for the year 
 151 
 97 
 248 
Amortisation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 - 
Translation adjustment
 20 
 36 
 56 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 1,110 
 1,174 
 2,284 
Net carrying amount:
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 562 
 2,006 
 2,568 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 460 
 1,974 
 2,434 
5(b)	 Intangible assets under development
Intangible assets under development ageing as at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1-2 years 
2-3 years 
More than 3 year 
Total
Project 1
563
-
-
-
	
563
Project 2
-
508
-
-
508
	
1,071
Intangible assets under development ageing as at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1-2 years 
2-3 years 
More than 3 year 
Total
Project
483
-
-
-
483
1 4 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
6
Non-current investments
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unquoted equity shares
Investment carried at fair value through statement of Profit and 
Loss
332,000 equity shares (31 March 2024: 332,000 equity shares) 
of face value of INR 10 each fully paid of Kamachi Industries Limited
 33 
 33 
 33 
 33 
 Aggregate value of unquoted investments 
 33 
 33 
 Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments 
 - 
 - 
7
Other non- current financial assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
 Security deposits 
 681 
 676 
 681 
 676 
8
Income tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source, net of provision
 528 
 606 
 528 
 606 
9
 Other non-current assets 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Unsecured, considered good
Capital advances
 215 
 81 
Prepaid expenses
 184 
 192 
 399 
 273 
10
Inventories (Valued at lower of cost and net realizable value)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
 Raw materials and components 
 15,942 
 12,178 
 Work-in-progress 
 14,127 
 12,571 
 Finished goods 
 3,113 
 4,389 
 Stores and spares 
 1,480 
 1,426 
 34,662 
 30,564 
11
Trade receivables
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Unsecured, considered good
Trade receivable 
 29,950 
 30,922 
Less: Allowances for credit losses
 (1,015)
 (1,040)
 Net trade receivables 
 28,935 
 29,882 
 All trade receivables are 'current'. 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 4 5
(Rs in Lakhs)
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less  than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
20,102 
8,310 
389 
298 
87 
764 29,950 
Less: Allowances for credit loss
(1,015)
Net trade receivables
28,935 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less  than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
 17,029 
 11,689 
 729 
 510 
 90 
 875 30,922 
Less: Allowances for credit loss
(1,040)
Net trade receivables
29,882 
Note: There are no disputed trade receivables as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024.
The Group's exposure to credit and currency risks, and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in note 
45.
12
Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Cash on hand
 32 
 32 
Balance with banks
 - in current accounts 
 3,279 
 5,051 
 3,311 
 5,083 
Cash and cash equivalents as defined in Ind AS 7 "Statements of Cash Flows". 
 3,311 
 5,083 
13
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents above
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
In deposit accounts-held as margin money
(due to mature within 12 months from the reporting date)*
 1,269 
 1,052 
Unpaid dividend
 10 
 6 
 1,279 
 1,058 
*Balances in margin money deposits represents deposits made for non-fund based limits with banks, which are 
available for use to settle a liability for not more than 12 months from the balance sheet date. 
14
Current Loans
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Unsecured, considered good
Loans to employees
 195 
 129 
 195 
 129 
1 4 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
15
Other current financial assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Unsecured, considered good
Accrued interest
 - 
 58 
Security deposit
 354 
 1,150 
 354 
 1,208 
16
Other current assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Unsecured, considered good
Advance for supply of goods
 2,198 
 1,128 
Advance for supply of goods to related parties (Refer Note 47)
 797 
 652 
Contract assets - Refer note below
 2,553 
 5 
Prepaid expenses
 2,386 
 2,510 
Balances with government authorities
 3,747 
 3,263 
 11,681 
 7,558 
Contract assets ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less  than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Contract assets
 2,553 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,553 
Contract assets ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less  than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Contract assets
 5 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 17
Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Authorised
Equity shares
20,000,000 equity shares (31 March 2024: 20,000,000 equity shares) of 
par value of INR 10 each
 2,000 
 2,000 
Preference shares
500,000 redeemable cumulative preference shares 
(31 March 2024: 500,000 shares) of par value of INR 100 each
 500 
 500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares
6,791,443 equity shares (31 March 2024: 6,791,443 equity shares) of 
par value of INR 10 each 
 679 
 679 
 679 
 679 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 4 7
(Rs in Lakhs)
i.
Reconciliation of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
Particulars
 31 March 2025 
 31 March 2024 
Number of 
shares
Amount (INR 
in lakhs)
Number of 
shares
Amount 
(INR in lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
 67,91,443 
 679 
 67,91,443 
 679 
Shares issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
 67,91,443 
 679 
 67,91,443 
 679 
ii.	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares:	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has a single class of equity shares. Accordingly, all equity shares rank equally with regard to dividends and 
share in the Company’s residual assets. The equity shares are entitled to receive dividend as declared from time to time. 
The voting rights of an equity shareholder on a poll (not on show of hands) are in proportion to its share of the paid-up equity 
capital of the Company.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining asset 
of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of 
equity shares held by the shareholders. 
	
The Company has not allotted any fully paid equity shares by way of bonus shares nor has bought back any class of equity 
shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the balance sheet date nor has issued shares for consideration 
other than cash.
iii.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of equity shares in the Company
Particulars
 31 March 2025 
 31 March 2024 
Number of 
shares
% of holding
Number of 
shares
% of holding
Equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up held by
i)  Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
ii) JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
iii) Udayant Malhoutra and Company Private Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
iv) JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
v)  Samena Special Situations Mauritius
 3,34,837 
4.93%
 5,55,754 
8.18%
vi) HDFC Trustee Company Limited                                                
 3,69,859 
5.45%
 3,82,071 
5.63%
iv.	
Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at 31 March 2025 is as follows:
Sr.
No
Shares held by promoters 
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
% Change 
during the 
year
Promoter name
No of 
Shares
% of 
total shares
No of 
Shares
% of 
total shares
1
Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 - 
2
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 - 
3
Udayant Malhoutra and Company 
Private Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 - 
4
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 - 
5
Christine Hoden (India) Private 
Limited
 95,100 
1.40%
 95,100 
1.40%
 - 
6
Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
 22,927 
0.34%
 22,927 
0.34%
 - 
7
Barota Malhoutra
 4,938 
0.07%
 4,938 
0.07%
 - 
8
Vita Private Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
9
Primella Sanitary Products Private 
Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 - 
1 4 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at 31 March 2024 is as follows:
Sr.
No
Shares held by promoters 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
% Change 
during the 
year
Promoter name
No of 
Shares
% of 
total shares
No of 
Shares
% of 
total shares
1
Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 - 
2
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 - 
3
Udayant Malhoutra and Company 
Private Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 - 
4
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 - 
5
Christine Hoden (India) Private 
Limited
 95,100 
1.40%
 95,100 
1.40%
 - 
6
Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
 22,927 
0.34%
 22,927 
0.34%
 - 
7
Barota Malhoutra
 4,938 
0.07%
 4,938 
0.07%
 - 
8
Vita Private Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
9
Primella Sanitary Products Private 
Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 - 
18
Other equity (Refer Statement of Changes for detailed movement of each component of Other Equity)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Capital reserves
 15 
 15 
Capital redemption reserve
 240 
 240 
Reserve on amalgamation
 154 
 154 
General reserve
 3,010 
 3,010 
Securities premium
 23,318
 23,318 
Retained earnings
 38,727
 35,221 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 5,607 
 4,137 
 71,071 
 66,095 
(i)	
Capital reserve :
	
Capital reserve was created on account of subsidy received during the year ended 31 March 2005 and is not freely 
available for dividend distribution.
(ii)	
Capital Redemption Reserve :		
	
During the year ended 31 March 2005, an amount of INR 240  was transferred to capital redemption reserve upon 
redemption of preference share, in accordance with the Companies Act, 1956. It is not freely available for distribution.
(iii)	
Reserve on amalgamation :	
	
	
Reserve on amalgamation was created pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation of JKM Daerim Automotive Limited 
(JDAL) during the year ended 31 March 2008. It is not freely available for dividend distribution.
(iv)	
General Reserve :
	
General Reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purpose.
(v)	
Securities Premium :	
	
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium received on issue of shares by the Company. The reserve 
can be utilised in accordance with provisions of the Act.	
	
(vi)	
Retained Earnings :
	
The cumulative gain or loss arising from the operations which is retained by the Company is recognised and 
accumulated under the heading of retained earnings. At the end of the year, the profit after tax is transferred from 
the statement of profit and loss to the retained earnings. 	
	
(vii)	 Foreign currency translation reserve :
	
This reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations to functional currency. 	
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 4 9
(Rs in Lakhs)
19
Non-current borrowings
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Secured
Term loans 
- from banks [refer footnote (i)]
 9,330 
 9,532 
- Financial institutions [refer footnote (ii)]
 8,557 
 10,362 
Financial lease obligation [refer footnote (iii)]
 3,136 
 3,546 
Working Capital term loan
- from banks [Refer footnote (i)]
 1,500 
 - 
 Total Borrowings 
 22,523 
 23,440 
Less: Current Maturities of long term borrowings from 
          banks (Secured)
 (1,536)
 (1,405)
Less: Current Maturities of long term borrowings from 
          financial institutions (Secured)
 (2,207)
 (1,758)
Less: Current Maturities of financial lease obligation (Secured)
 (1,256)
 (958)
Net non-current borrowings
 17,524 
 19,319 
Information about the Company's exposure to interest rate, currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 45.
(i)
From banks (Including current maturities of the non-current borrowings shown under Current Borrowing) 
Details of repayment terms, interest and maturity
Nature of security
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 8,822 (31 March 
2024: INR 9,000) repayable in 28 quarterly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 1 June 2024 with interest rate at 
9.60% per annum (31 March 2024: 9.60% per annum).
First pari passu charge on the entire movable and immovable 
fixed assets of the Company, present and future. Second pari 
passu charge on the entire current assets of the Company. 
First charge over Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA).
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 104 (31 March 
2024: INR 129) repayable in 60 monthly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 31 October 2023 with interest rate 
at 8.90% per annum (31 March 2024: 8.90% per annum).
Hypothecation of asset (cars).
Term loan from bank aggregating INR 226 (31 March 2024 
: INR 403) repayable in 33 monthly instalments with rate of 
interest Base Rate plus 2.5% per annum (31 March 2024: 
Base Rate plus 2.5% per annum).
Secured by way of charge over assets of Yew Tree 
Investments Limited and by way of corporate guarantee 
given by Yew Tree Investments Limited.
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 178 (31 March 
2024: INR Nil) repayable in 20 quarterly instalments. First 
instalment starting from quarter following the month first 
disbursement of Term Loan and with interest rate at 9.25% 
per annum.
First hypothecation charge on all existing and future 
receivables / current assets / movable assets / movable fixed 
assets of the company. Corporate Guarantee of Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited. 
Working Capital Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 
1,500 (31 March 2024: INR Nil) repayable in 36 equal monthly 
instalments post 24 months of principal moratorium. First 
instalment starting from 1 April 2027 with fixed interest rate 
at 9.20% per annum.
First pari passu charge on the current assets of the Company. 
Second pari passu charge on the movable and immovable 
fixed assets of the Company.
(ii)
From financial institutions (Including current maturities of the long term borrowings shown under Current 
Borrowing)
Details of repayment terms, interest and maturity
Nature of security
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
2,407 (31 March 2024: INR 3,080) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 June 2023 with 
interest rate of  10.75% per annum (31 March 2024: 9.75% 
per annum). 
First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed 
assets of the Company, present and future. Second pari 
passu charge on all current assets of the Company. First 
charge over Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA). Personal 
guarantee issued by the promoter.
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
5,950 (31 March 2024: INR 7,000) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 September 
2024 with interest rate of  10.45% per annum (31 March 
2024: 10.25% per annum). 
First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed 
assets of the Company, present and future. Second pari 
passu charge on all current assets of the Company. 
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
200 (31 March 2024: INR 282) repayable in 60 monthly 
instalments with interest rate of 10.25% per annum (31 
March 2024: 10.25% per annum). 
Hypothecation of assets (cars).
1 5 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
(iii)	 Leasing Finance / HP from banks aggregating INR 3,136 (31 March 2024: INR 3,546) repayable in maximum 48 monthly 
instalments. The Leasing facility is secured by way of exclusive charge on assets financed by the leasing institution. 	
20
Non-current provisions
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Provision for employee benefits:
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 43)
 2,889 
 2,387 
Provision for compensated absences
 500 
 460 
 3,389 
 2,847 
21
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Refer Note 49)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 2,338 
 2,204 
Total deferred tax liabilities (A)
 2,338 
 2,204 
Deferred tax assets
Right-of-use assets and Lease liabilities
 701 
 662 
Provision for gratuity and compensated absences
 781 
 646 
Provision for loss allowance
 102 
 108 
Provision for warranty
 119 
 173 
Others
 521 
 347 
Total deferred tax assets (B)
 2,224 
 1,936 
Net deferred tax liability (A - B)
 114 
 268 
22
Other non-current liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Deferred government grant
 96 
 96 
 96 
 96 
23
Current borrowings
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Secured Loans
Loans from banks repayable on demand
Cash credit  and working capital demand loans*
 18,819 
 16,802 
Current maturities of long-term borrowings (Refer Note 19)
 4,999 
 4,121 
Unsecured Loans
From banks
Bill discounting facility from banks##
 3,762 
 5,574 
 27,580 
 26,497 
	
* Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 9.25% - 10.35% per annum (31 
March 2024: 9.35% - 11.15%), computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable on demand. 
Working capital term loan from bank carry fixed rate of interest at 9.20% per annum, computed on a monthly basis on 
the actual amount utilized, and is repayable post 24 months holiday period in 36 equal monthly instalments of principal 
amount. Packing Credit & Working Capital Demand loans in Foreign Currency from banks carry interest ranging between 
6m SOFR+3.00% and SOFR +3.50% per annum (31 March 2024: 6m SOFR+3.00% and SONIA+4.00% per annum). 
These are secured by first pari passu charge by way of hypothecation of stock and book debts of the Company and second 
pari passu charge on the movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5 1
(Rs in Lakhs)
	
* The Group has availed Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 9.00% 
- 9.50% per annum, computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable on demand. The facility 
is secured by first hypothecation charge on all existing and future receivables / current assets / movable assets / movable 
fixed assets of the company. Corporate Guarantee of Dynamatic Technologies Limited. 
	
## The Group has taken receivable invoice discounting facility from banks which carry interest rate of 2.5% per annum 
over Base Rate (31 March 2024 : 2.5% per annum over the Base  Rate) and is payable within 90 days from the date of bill 
discounted. Also the Group has availed Overdraft facility from Bank which carries interest rate of 3% over the Base Rate 
per annum. 
	
Information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in Note 45.
24
Trade payables
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,886 
 1,295 
Dues to creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 21,124 
 17,220 
 23,010 
 18,515 
Trade Payables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
MSME
 1,149 
 688 
 32 
 17 
 - 
 1,886 
Others
 14,597 
 6,121 
 115 
 14 
 277 
 21,124 
Total
 15,746 
 6,809 
 147 
 31 
 277 
 23,010 
Trade Payables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:	
	
	
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
MSME
 1,238 
 53 
 4 
 - 
 - 
1,295
Others
 10,087 
 6,675 
 108 
 253 
 97 
17,220
Total
 11,325 
 6,728 
 112 
 253 
 97 
18,515
	
All trade payables are current and there are no disputed traded payables.
	
The Company’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 45.
25
Other current financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Accrued expenses 
 5,395 
 5,517 
Capital creditors 
 64 
 107 
Security deposits 
 59 
 57 
Interest accrued but not due  
 83 
 70 
Unpaid dividend 
 10 
 6 
 5,611 
 5,757 
 The Company's exposure to currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in Note 45. 
26
Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Deferred revenue
 421 
 - 
Advance received from customers
 762 
 1,162 
Statutory liabilities
 529 
 526 
 1,712 
 1,688 
1 5 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
27
Current provisions
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Provision for employee benefits:
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 43) 
 541 
 448 
Provision for compensated absences 
 50 
 74 
Others (Refer Note 41(c)) 
 164 
 99 
Other provisions
Provision for warranties (Refer Note 41(a)) 
 471 
 689 
 1,226 
 1,310 
28
Current tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Provision for income tax (Net of Advance Tax and Tax Deducted at 
Source)
 995 
 1,461 
 995 
 1,461 
 29
Revenue from operations
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
(A) Sale of products
Revenue from sale of products 
 1,39,299 
 1,41,632 
Total revenue from sale of products (A)
 1,39,299 
 1,41,632 
(B) Other operating revenue
Export incentives
 316 
 15 
Scrap sales
 765 
 1,286 
 Total other operating revenue (B) 
 1,081 
 1,301 
Total revenue from operations (A+B) (Refer Note 51)
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
30
Other income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost
 115 
 209 
Net gain on foreign currency transactions and translation 
 1,012 
 503 
Gain on sale of Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 - 
 468 
Liabilities written back
699
 2,947 
Gain on lease modification
 31 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
423
 155 
 2,280 
 4,282 
 31 
Cost of materials and components consumed
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Inventory of materials and components at the beginning of the year
 12,178 
 9,934 
Add: Purchases of materials and components
 68,458 
 68,438 
Less: Inventory of materials and components at the end of the year
 (15,942)
 (12,178)
 64,694 
 66,194 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5 3
(Rs in Lakhs)
 32
Changes in inventory of finished goods and work-in-progress
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening stock
 - Finished goods
 4,389 
 4,195 
 - Work-in-progress
 12,571 
 14,644 
 16,960 
 18,839 
Closing stock
 - Finished goods
 (3,113)
 (4,389)
 - Work-in-progress
 (14,127)
 (12,571)
 (17,240)
 (16,960)
Add: Foreign currency translation adjustments
 945 
 (1,258)
 665 
 621 
 33
Employee benefits expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus 
 26,865 
 25,380 
Contribution to provident fund and other funds
 1,592 
 1,461 
Staff welfare expenses
 3,540 
 3,326 
 31,997 
 30,167 
 34
Finance costs
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost*
 4,674 
 4,587 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer Note 40)
 679 
 718 
Interest on delayed payment of taxes
 118 
 172 
Other borrowing cost
 201 
 778 
 5,672 
 6,255 
*Interest expense includes realised and unrealised foreign exchange loss of INR Nil (31 March 2024: INR 53 Lakhs) on 
re-statement and settlement of foreign currency term loans.
 35 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (Refer Note 3)
 4,175 
 3,633 
Depreciation of Right-of-use assets (Refer Note 40)
 2,506 
 2,704 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer Note 5)
 248 
 299 
 6,929 
 6,636 
1 5 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
 36
Other expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Power and fuel
 6,931 
 8,303 
Subcontractor charges
 3,986 
 4,605 
Consumption of stores, loose tools and spare parts
 3,520 
 3,906 
Legal and professional fees
 1,631 
 1,709 
Repairs and maintenance:
 - plant and machinery
 1,947 
 1,662 
 - buildings
 280 
 201 
 - others
 1,291 
 1,853 
Insurance 
 1,367 
 1,126 
Travelling and conveyance
 948 
 1,015 
Freight outward
 859 
 978 
Rent 
 841 
 825 
Security charges
 376 
 384 
Packing expenses
 532 
 544 
Rates and taxes
 543 
 389 
Membership and subscriptions
 383 
 348 
Loss allowance on financial assets, net
 (25)
 69 
Provision provided towards the advance to supplier
 - 
 52 
Bank charges
 200 
 212 
Printing and stationery
 243 
 251 
Communication
 141 
 162 
Corporate social responsibility expenses
 90 
 191 
Net loss on foreign currency transactions and translation 
 1 
 249 
Directors sitting fees
 67 
 71 
Miscellaneous expense
 1,040 
 905 
 27,192 
 30,010 
 37 
Exceptional Items
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Gains from the sale of windfarm land [Refer note (a) below]
 - 
 6,237 
Gains from the corporate restructuring in German subsidiary [Refer 
note (b) below]
 - 
 1,763 
Impairment of goodwill [Refer note (b) below]
 - 
 (1,335)
Termination charges on Cross Currency Swap
 - 
 (434)
 - 
 6,231 
a) 	
On 6 January 2024, the Company has completed the sale of wind farm lands admeasuring 357.867 acres including building, 
situated at Varapatti Village, Sulur Taluk, Coimbatore, in favour of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited 
(TIDCO), for the setting up of the Southern Defence Industrial Corridor for a compensation amount of Rs. 10,710.81 Lakhs. 
	
The Company has retained land measuring appx. 87 acres having greater strategic value for future development and 
accordingly the cost of such land amounting to Rs. 1,089 Lakhs been re-classified from held to sale to property, plant and 
equipment.		
b) 	
The Parent’s investments in its German operations are held in Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany (EEG), an indirect step down 
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. EEG, was a wholly owned by JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany (JKM Erla), 
which was a wholly owned subsidiary of JKM Erla Automotive Limited, India (JEAL), another wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Parent. 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5 5
(Rs in Lakhs)
	
EEG is currently undergoing a transformation from automotive and foundry businesses to the aerospace business. 
Considering the various challenges involved, viz., the supply chain crisis at OEMs, current inflation in Europe, and the steep 
and unpredictable increase in the cost of gas and electricity being faced by corporations across Europe, EEG undertook 
corporate restructuring measures through the “Protective Shield Process by Self-Administration” under the applicable 
German Laws, and in this regard, a financial resolution plan was filed before the local court at Chemnitz, which got approved 
by creditors in favour of EEG. Consequent to this, the local court at Chemnitz passed its final order and ended the protective 
shield through self-administration proceedings effective 1 August 2023, and related credit balances and net gains were 
adjusted. Of the same, an amount of Rs. 2,544 Lakhs was recognized under other income and INR 1,763 lakhs under 
exceptional items during the year ended 31 March 2024.
	
Owing to the aforesaid intra-group restructuring measures, JKM Erla engaged in the business of setting up automotive 
component processing/manufacturing units was decided to be dismantled with the aim of streamlining the Group’s holding 
structure for German operations, and accordingly an application was made before appropriate authorities and in the interim, 
the 100% shareholdings held by JKM Erla in EEG was assigned to JEAL. This intra-group restructuring did not impact the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group. JKM Erla ceased to exist with effect from 30 September 2024, pursuant to 
the court order dated 16th September 2024.
	
The restructuring carried out by EEG also envisaged refinancing of certain borrowings of EEG by way intra-
group loans. To fund these intra-group loans, during the year ended 31 March 2024, the Parent borrowed a term 
loan from a bank, the proceeds of which were permitted to be utilized in investment in overseas subsidiaries.
As part of the annual impairment assessment of goodwill relating to the German operations, the Company has recognized 
an impairment loss of Rs. 1,335 Lakhs in the year ended 31 March 2024.
38
Contingent Liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts#
Income tax 
 1,212 
 1,349 
Indirect tax 
 873 
 858 
 2,085 
 2,207 
# Outflow, if any, arising out of the said claim including interest, if any, would depend on the outcome of the decision of 
the Appellate Authority and the Group’s right for future appeal before the judiciary.
39
Capital and Other commitments
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Capital Commitment
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account (net of advances) and not provided for 
 1,436 
 446 
There are no other material commitments.
40
Leases
(i)
Following are the change in the carrying value of Right-of-use of assets for the year ended 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Category of ROU assets
Total
Plant & Machinery
Building
Vehicles
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 2,845 
 7,179 
 10 
 10,034 
Addition/Modification
 1,202 
 71 
 10 
 1,283 
Amortisation for the year
 (1,550)
 (941)
 (15)
 (2,506)
Translation adjustment
 105 
 256 
 - 
 361 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 2,602 
 6,565 
 5 
 9,172 
(ii)
Following are the change in the carrying value of Right-of-use assets for the year ended 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Category of ROU assets
Total
Plant & Machinery
Building
Vehicles
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 4,545 
 6,339 
 26 
 10,910 
Addition/Modification
 12 
 1,496 
 - 
 1,508 
Amortisation for the year
 (1,820)
 (868)
 (16)
 (2,704)
Translation adjustment
 108 
 212 
 - 
 320 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 2,845 
 7,179 
 10 
 10,034 
1 5 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
(iii)
The following is the break up of current & non-current lease liabilities:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Non-current lease liabilities
 9,447 
 10,264 
Current lease liabilities
 2,574 
 2,429 
 12,021 
 12,693 
(iv)
The following is the movement of lease liabilities during the year ended:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 12,693 
 13,514 
Addition/Modification
 1,283 
 1,508 
Gain on lease modification
 (31)
 - 
Finance cost during the year
 679 
 718 
Lease payment during the year
 (3,091)
 (3,453)
Translation adjustment
 488 
 406 
Total
 12,021 
 12,693 
(v)
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities on an undiscounted 
basis:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Payable within 1 year
 3,003 
 3,204 
Payable between 1-5 years
 6,066 
 6,607 
Payable later than 5 years
 4,160 
 4,926 
Total
 13,229 
 14,737 
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient 
to meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due. 
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases for the year is INR 841 (31 March 2024: INR 825).
41
The disclosure requirement as per Ind AS 37 with respect to the movement of provisions is as follows:
(a)
Provision for warranties
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Opening balance
 689 
 352 
Provisions recognised and (utilized) during the year (Net)*
 (218)
 337 
Closing balance
 471 
 689 
(b)
Provision for asset decommissioning
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Opening balance
 - 
 527 
Utilised during the year
 - 
 (527)
Unwinding of discount
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
(c)
Other provision 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Opening balance
 99 
 167 
Provisions recognised and (utilized) during the year (Net)*
 65 
 (68)
Closing balance
 164 
 99 
* includes foreign currency translation adjustments.
The above provision relates to certain employee benefits in subsidiaries.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5 7
(Rs in Lakhs)
 42	
Segment reporting
	
The Chief Executive Officer and the Managing Director of the Group has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (“CODM”) as defined by Ind AS 108, Operating Segments. The CODM evaluates the Group’s performance 
and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by the products portfolio and segment 
information has been presented accordingly.
	
Operating segment
	
The Group’s business is concentrated in manufacturing of hydraulic products, automotive & aluminium castings, aerospace 
and others. And accordingly, primary segment information is presented based on the following :
	
Reportable segment
• Hydraulics
Engaged in the activity of manufacturing hydraulic pumps, hand pumps, lift assemblies, valves 
and power packs.
• Aerospace 
Engaged in the activity of manufacturing airframe structures and precision aerospace 
components.
• Metallurgy
Engaged in the activity of manufacturing case front, intake manifolds and exhaust manifold.
• Others
Comprised of Dynauton Systems, which offer cutting edge security solutions to enhance the 
Nation’s capabilities in countering modern day security threats and Medical division provides 
high-quality diagnostic services.
	
Segment information is prepared in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the 
financial statements of the Group as a whole. The Group has a corporate centre, which provides various accounting and 
administrative support functions. Segment information for this activity has been aggregated under “Unallocated”. Revenue 
identifiable to business segments have been disclosed under the respective business segment. Segment costs include 
employee benefit expenses, cost of material consumed, depreciation and other operating expenses that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis to respective segments. Assets and liabilities in relation to segments are categorized based on items 
that are individually identifiable to that segment. Certain assets and liabilities are not specifically allocable to individual 
segments as these are used interchangeably. The Group therefore believes that it is not practicable to provide segment 
disclosures relating to such assets and liabilities and accordingly, these are separately disclosed as ‘unallocated’.
A
Operating segment information for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 is as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 Segment revenue 
 a) Hydraulics  
 45,804 
 44,834 
 b) Aerospace 
 60,785 
 51,009 
 c) Metallurgy 
 33,483 
 47,081 
 d) Others 
 308 
 9 
Revenue from operations 
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
Segment results (profit/ (loss) before finance costs, other income and tax from each segment)
 a) Hydraulics 
 1,145 
 2,547 
 b) Aerospace 
 11,863 
 9,331 
 c) Metallurgy 
 (296)
 1,010 
 d) Others 
 (488)
 (775)
 e) Unallocated 
 (3,321)
 (2,808)
 Total  
 8,903 
 9,305 
 Unallocable 
 - Finance costs (Refer Note 34)
 (5,672)
 (6,255)
 - Other income (Refer Note 30)
 2,280 
 4,282 
 - Exceptional income (Refer Note 37)
 - 
 6,231 
 Profit before tax  
 5,511 
 13,563 
1 5 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
 Segment assets 
 a) Hydraulics 
 34,009 
38,610
 b) Aerospace 
 93,960 
81,282
 c) Metallurgy 
 25,256 
 25,008 
 d) Others 
 5,375 
 4,812 
 e) Unallocated 
 6,428 
 7,513 
 Total Segment assets  
 1,65,028 
 1,57,225 
 Segment liabilities 
 a) Hydraulics 
 20,942 
 23,596 
 b) Aerospace 
 21,702 
 12,900 
 c) Metallurgy 
 4,476 
 5,750 
 d) Others 
 304 
 787 
 e) Unallocated 
 45,854 
 47,418 
 Segment liabilities  
 93,278 
 90,451 
 Information about reportable segments for the period from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025 is as follows: 
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace
Metallurgy
 Others 
Unallocated
Total
a)
Depreciation and amortisation 
expense
 1,270 
 3,885 
 1,485 
 52 
 237 
 6,929 
b)
Capital 
expenditure
 441 
 3,320 
 2,260 
 562 
 127 
 6,710 
Information about reportable segments for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 is as follows:
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace
Metallurgy
 Others 
Unallocated
Total
a)
 Depreciation and amortisation 
expense 
 1,224 
 3,717 
 1,457 
 59 
 179 
 6,636 
b)
Capital 
expenditure 
 1,515 
 5,717 
 636 
 129 
 703 
 8,700 
B
Geographic information:
The geographical information analyses the Group's revenue and non-current assets by the Group's country 
of domicile (i.e. India) and other countries. In presenting the geographical information, segment revenue has 
been based on the geographical location of the customer and segment assets which have been based on the 
geographical location of the assets.
Particulars
Revenue from Operations
For the year ended
Non current assets*
As at
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
 India  
 35,138 
 30,162 
 39,132 
32,514
 Europe (other than UK) 
 47,719 
 53,271 
 16,203 
14,323
 United Kingdom 
 30,663 
 28,606 
 28,562 
27,914
 United States 
 12,874 
 15,882 
 - 
 - 
 Canada 
 13,174 
 14,241 
 - 
 - 
 Rest of the world 
 812 
 771 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
 83,897 
74,751
*Non-current assets excludes financial assets.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 5 9
(Rs in Lakhs)
C
Major customer
Revenue from transactions with the external customer amounting to 10% or more of the Company's 
revenues is as follows:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Customer 1*
 - 
 - 
*None of the customers contribute to more than 10% of the Group’s revenue
43
Assets and liabilities relating to employee benefits
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Net defined benefit liability, gratuity plan
 3,430 
 2,835 
Liability for compensated absences
 550 
 534 
Total employee benefit liability
 3,980 
 3,369 
a)
Gratuity
Non-current
 2,889 
 2,387 
Current
 541 
 448 
 3,430 
 2,835 
b)
Compensated absences
Non-current
 500 
 460 
Current
 50 
 74 
 550 
 534 
	
The Group operates the following post-employment defined benefit plan.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Defined benefit plan
	
The Group operates post-employment defined benefit plan that provide gratuity, governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 
1972. Employee’s who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity 
payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 
days salary multiplied for the number of years of service or part thereof in excess of six months. The gratuity plan is a 
funded plan. The Group does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period 
of time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments. These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial 
risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market (investment) risk.	
	
	
	
A	
Funding
	
The Group expects to pay INR 160 in contributions to its defined benefit plans in financial year 2025-26.
B	
Reconciliation of net defined benefit liability
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit 
liability/ assets and its components:
(i)
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Obligation at the beginning of the year
 2,842 
 2,602 
Interest cost
 205 
 195 
Current service cost
 188 
 159 
Benefit paid directly by employer
 (27)
 (47)
Benefit paid from the fund
 (165)
 (193)
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income (OCI)
- Changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
- Changes in financial assumptions
 104 
 53 
- Experience adjustments
 311 
 73 
Obligation at the end of the year
 3,458 
 2,842 
1 6 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
(ii)
Reconciliation of present value of plan assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Plan assets at the beginning of the year, at fair value
 7 
 50 
Interest income on plan assets
 3 
 4 
Contributions 
184
146
Benefits paid
 (165)
 (192)
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income recognised in 
OCI
 (1)
 (1)
Plan assets at the end of the year, at fair value
 28 
 7 
Net defined benefit liability
 3,430 
 2,835 
C (i)
Expense recognized in Statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Current service cost
 188 
 159 
Interest cost
 202 
 191 
Net gratuity cost
 390 
 350 
(ii)
Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Actuarial loss/(gain) on defined benefit obligation
 415 
 126 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income
 (1)
 (1)
Total loss/(gain) recognised in other comprehensive income
 414 
 125 
D
Plan assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Insurance fund
 28 
 7 
 28 
 7 
E
Defined benefit obligation
(i) Actuarial assumptions
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Rate of return on planned assets
6.79%
7.21% - 7.23%
Discounting rate
6.79%
7.21% - 7.23%
Future salary growth
6.00%
6.00%
Attrition rate
5.00%
5.00%
Mortality Rate 
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) 
Urban
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) 
Urban
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in 
years)
 8-11 
 8 - 11 
Average Expected Future Service
 12 
 11 - 12 
Retirement age
 60 
 60 
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yield on Government Securities as at the balance sheet date for 
the estimated term of obligations.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 6 1
(Rs in Lakhs)
(ii)	
The expected return on plan assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of 
the plan assets held, assessed risks of asset management, historical results of the return on plan assets and the 
Group’s policy for plan asset management.
(iii)	
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.
(iv) 	
Sensitivity analysis
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant would have affected defined benefit obligation by amounts shown below:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Projected Benefit Obligation on Current Assumptions (Gross)
3,458
2,842
Impact of change in discount rate by +1%
 (234)
 (190)
Impact of change in discount rate by -1%
 267 
 218 
Impact of change in salary rate by +1%
 243 
 205 
Impact of change in salary rate by -1%
 (226)
 (186)
Impact of change in employee turnover rate by +1%
 15 
 19 
Impact of change in employee turnover rate by -1%
 (18)
 (22)
Defined contribution plan
The Group’s contribution to Provident Fund aggregating to INR 710 (31 March 2024: INR 635) has been recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head employee benefit expense.
44	
Financial instruments - fair value and risk management
	
Accounting classification and fair value
	
The following table shows the carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities including their level 
in fair value hierarchy:
	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The section explains the judgment and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are:
a) 	recognized and measured at fair value
b) 	measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial statements.
	
To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group has classified its financial 
instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Indian Accounting Standard.
 Particulars 
 Carrying 
amount 
 Fair value 
31 March 2025
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
 Financial assets not measured at fair value 
 Loans*
 195 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 
 28,935 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 3,311 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Bank balances other than cash and cash   
 equivalents 
 1,279 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial assets*
 1,035 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Financial assets measured at fair value 
 - 
 Investments in equity shares 
 33 
 - 
 - 
 33 
 33 
 Total financial assets 
 34,788 
 - 
 - 
 33 
 33 
 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value 
 Borrowings*
 45,104 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Lease Liabilities*
 12,021 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade payables 
 23,010 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial liabilities*
 5,611 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial liabilities 
 85,746 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1 6 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
 Particulars 
 Carrying 
amount 
 Fair value 
31 March 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
 Financial assets not measured at fair value 
 Loans* 
 129 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 
 29,882 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 5,083 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Bank balances other than cash and cash  
equivalents 
 1,058 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial assets*
 1,884 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Financial assets measured at fair value 
 - 
 Investments in equity shares 
 33 
 - 
 - 
 33 
 33 
 Total financial assets 
 38,069 
 - 
 - 
 33 
 33 
 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value 
 Borrowings*
 45,816 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Lease Liabilities* 
 12,693 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade payables 
 18,515 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial liabilities* 
 5,757 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial liabilities 
 82,781 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering Non-current and current 
	
Investment in equity shares of subsidiaries are not appearing as financial asset in the table above being investment in 
subsidiaries accounted under Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements which is scoped out under Ind AS 109.
	
Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 1: It includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investment in equity, preference 
securities, mutual funds and debentures that have quoted price.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the-
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely 
as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, 
the instrument is included in level 2.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. This is the case for investment in equity shares included in level 3.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Fair valuation method	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged 
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and 
assumptions were used to estimate the fair values.
A	
Financial Assets:
(i)	
Fair value of all these financial assets are measured at balance sheet date value, as most of them are settled within 
a short period and so their fair value are assumed to be almost equal to the balance sheet date value.
B	
Financial Liabilities:	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
Borrowings:  It includes loans taken from banks and financial institution, cash credit and bill discounting facilities. 
Borrowings are classified and subsequently measured in the financial statements at amortized cost. Considering 
that the interest rate on the loans is reset on a monthly / quarterly basis, the carrying amount of the loan would be a 
reasonable approximation of its fair value.	
	
	
	
	
	
(ii)	
Trade payables and other liabilities: Fair values of trade and other liabilities are measured at balance sheet value, 
as most of them are settled within a short period and so their fair values are assumed to be almost equal to the 
balance sheet values.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 6 3
(Rs in Lakhs)
45	
Financial risk management		
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s activities expose it to financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
	
Risk management framework
	
The Board of Directors of  the Holding Company have overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the 
Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the 
risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk 
management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. 
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive 
control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
	
The Audit Committee of the Holding Company oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk 
management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks 
faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal auditor. Internal Audit function includes 
both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit 
Committee.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
i)	
Credit risk	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group, if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to 
meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and loans given. 
Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to clients, including 
outstanding accounts receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial 
assets. The objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The objective of 
managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Group assesses the credit quality of the 
counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors. The carrying amount of 
financial asset represents the maximum credit exposure.
	
Trade and other receivables	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is primarily from trade receivables. However, the 
management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its customer base. Customers of the 
Group are spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. The Group limits its exposure to credit risk from 
trade receivables by establishing a maximum credit period and takes appropriate measures to mitigate the risk of 
financial loss from defaults. Recurring credit evaluation of credit worthiness is performed based on the financial 
condition of respective customers.
	
Expected credit loss assessment for trade receivables as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 are as follows:
	
The Group establishes an allowance for credit loss that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of 
trade and other receivables based on past and the recent collection trend. The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 
reporting date is primarily from trade receivables as at 31 March 2024 amounting to INR 28,935 (31 March 2024: INR 
29,822). The movement in allowance for credit loss in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as 
follows.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 1,040 
 971 
Net measurement of  loss allowance
 (25)
 69 
Balance as at the end of the year
 1,015 
 1,040 
ii)	
Liquidity risk		
	
	
	
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligation as they become due. The 
Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 
risking damage to the Group’s reputation.	
	
	
	
	
	
Management monitors rolling forecast of the Group’s liquidity position and cash and bank balances on the basis of 
expected cash flows. This is generally carried out by the Management in accordance with practice and limits set by 
the Group. In addition, the Group’s liquidity management policy involves projecting cash flows and considering the 
level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against internal and external 
regulatory requirements and maintaining debt financing plans.	
	
	
	
	
	
1 6 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
A)	
Financing arrangement	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The Group maintains the following line of credit:	
(a) (i) 	 Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 8,822 (31 March 2024: INR 9,000) repayable in 28 quarterly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 1 June 2024 with interest rate at 9.60% per annum (31 March 2024: 9.60% per annum).
First pari passu charge on the entire movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present and future. 
Second pari passu charge on the entire current assets of the Company. First charge over Debt Service Reserve 
Account (DSRA)
     (ii) 	Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 104 (31 March 2024: INR 129) repayable in 60 monthly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 31 October 2023 with interest rate at 8.90% per annum (31 March 2024: 8.90% per annum). 
This loan is secured by hypothecation of assets (cars).
   (iii)	 Term loan from bank aggregating INR 226 (31 March 2024 : INR 403) repayable in 33 monthly instalments 
with rate of interest Base Rate plus 2.5% per annum (31 March 2024: Base Rate plus 2.5% per annum).
Secured by way of charge over assets of Yew Tree Investments Limited and by way of corporate guarantee given by 
Yew Tree Investments Limited.
   (iv) 	 Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 178 (31 March 2024: INR Nil) repayable in 20 quarterly instalments. First 
instalment starting from quarter following the month first disbursement of Term Loan and with interest rate at 9.25% 
per annum. First hypothecation charge on all existing and future receivables / current assets / movable assets / 
movable fixed assets of the company. Corporate Guarantee of Dynamatic Technologies Limited.
    (v) 	Working Capital Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 1,500 (31 March 2024: INR Nil) repayable in 36 equal 
monthly instalments post 24 months of principal moratorium First instalment starting from 1 April 2027 with fixed 
interest rate at 9.20% per annum. First pari passu charge on the current assets of the Company. Second pari passu 
charge on the movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company.	
b)  (i)	 Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 2,407 (31 March 2024: INR 3,080) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 June 2023 with interest rate of  10.75% per annum (31 March 2024: 
9.75% per annum). First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present and 
future. Second pari passu charge on all current assets of the Company. First charge over Debt Service Reserve 
Account (DSRA). Personal guarantee issued by the promoter.
     (ii)	 Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 5,950 (31 March 2024: INR 7,000) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 September 2024 with interest rate of  10.45% per annum (31 March 
2024: 10.25% per annum). First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present 
and future. Second pari passu charge on all current assets of the Company. 
    (iii)	 Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 200 (31 March 2024: INR 282) repayable in 60 monthly 
instalments with interest rate of 10.25% per annum (31 March 2024: 10.25% per annum).  This loan is secured by 
hypothecation of assets (cars).	 	
	
	
c)	
Leasing Finance / HP from banks aggregating INR 3,136 (31 March 2024: INR 3,546) repayable in maximum 48 
monthly instalments. The Leasing facility is secured by way of exclusive charge on assets financed by the leasing 
institution. 	
	
	
	
	
d)	
Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 9.25% - 10.35% per annum 
(31 March 2024: 9.35% - 11.15%), computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable 
on demand. Working capital term loan from bank carry fixed rate of interest at 9.20% per annum, computed on a 
monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and is repayable post 24 months holiday period in 36 equal monthly 
instalments of principal amount. Packing Credit & Working Capital Demand loans in Foreign Currency from banks 
carry interest ranging between 6m SOFR+3.00% and SOFR +3.50% per annum (31 March 2024: 6m SOFR+3.00% 
and SONIA+4.00% per annum).  These are secured by first pari passu charge by way of hypothecation of stock 
and book debts of the Company and second pari passu charge on the movable and immovable fixed assets of the 
Company.
	
The Group has availed Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 
9.00% - 9.50% per annum, computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable on 
demand. The facility is secured by first hypothecation charge on all existing and future receivables / current assets 
/ movable assets / movable fixed assets of the company. Corporate Guarantee of Dynamatic Technologies Limited. 
The Group has taken receivable invoice discounting facility from banks which carry interest rate of 2.5% per annum 
over Base Rate (31 March 2024 : 2.5% per annum over the Base  Rate) and is payable within 90 days from the date 
of bill discounted. Also the Group has availed Overdraft facility from Bank which carries interest rate of 3% over the 
Base Rate per annum. 		
	
	
	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 6 5
(Rs in Lakhs)
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
amount
Total
0-1 years
1-5 years
5 years and 
above
Borrowings*
 45,104 
 45,104 
 29,110 
 14,404 
 1,590 
Lease liabilities
 12,021 
 13,229 
 3,003 
 6,066 
 4,160 
Trade payables
 23,010 
 23,010 
 23,010 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities*
 5,611 
 5,611 
 5,611 
 - 
 - 
Total
 85,746 
 86,954
 60,734 
 20,470 
 5,750 
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
amount
Total
0-1 years
1-5 years
5 years and 
above
Borrowings*
 45,816 
 45,816 
 26,497 
 16,114 
 3,205 
Lease liabilities
 12,693 
 14,737 
 3,204 
 6,607 
 4,926 
Trade payables
 18,515 
 18,515 
 18,515 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities*
 5,757 
 5,757 
 5,757 
 - 
 - 
Total
 82,781 
 84,825 
 53,973 
 22,721 
 8,131 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering  Non-current and current 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As disclosed in note 19 and 23, the Group has secured bank loan that contains loan covenants. A future breach of covenant 
may require the Company to repay the loan earlier than indicated in the above table. Except for these financial liabilities, it 
is not expected that cash flows included in maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier.	 	
	
	
iii)	
Market risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will 
affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk is attributable to all market risk 
sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and payables and long term debt. The objective of 
market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing 
the return.	
A)	
Currency risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to currency risk to the extent that there is a mismatch between the currencies in which sales, 
purchases and borrowings are denominated and the respective functional currency of the Group companies. The functional 
currency of the Holding Company is primarily INR. The currencies in which these transactions are primarily denominated 
are USD, GBP, EURO and CAD etc.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Management monitors the movement in foreign currency and the Group’s exposure in each of the foreign currency. Based 
on the analysis and study of movement in foreign currency, the Group decides to exchange its foreign currency	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
The summary quantitative data about the Group’s exposure to currency risk as reported to management is as follows:
Particulars
 Currency 
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Amount  in foreign 
currency in  Lakhs
Amount 
in INR 
Amount  in foreign 
currency in  Lakhs
Amount 
in INR 
Trade receivables
USD
 117 
 9,981 
 155 
 12,924 
EURO
 3.3 
 311 
 2.3 
 210 
GBP
 31 
 3,374 
 41 
 4,313 
Other current financial assets 
(Non-Current and Current)
USD
 17 
 1,429 
 12 
 1,001 
Trade payables
USD
 65 
 5,538 
 35 
 2,918 
EURO
 8 
 704 
 4 
 360 
GBP
 1 
 141 
 2 
 210 
Borrowing
USD
 15 
 1,316 
 15 
 1,251 
EURO
 15 
 1,422 
 10 
 899 
1 6 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
	
The following significant exchange rates have been applied:
Currency
Year end spot rate
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
USD/INR
 85.51 
 83.38 
EURO/INR
 92.61 
 89.94 
GBP/INR
 110.66 
 105.20 
SGD/INR
 63.71 
 61.75 
CAD/INR
 59.73 
 61.54 
	
Sensitivity analysis	
	
	
	
	
	
	
A reasonably possible strengthening/ (weakening) of the USD, EURO and GBP against INR at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 
2024 would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign currency and affected equity 
and profit and loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, 
remain constant.
Particulars
Profit and loss
Equity, net of tax
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
31 March 2025
USD (3% movement)
 139 
 (139)
 104 
 (104)
EURO (3% movement)
 (56)
 56 
 (42)
 42 
GBP (3% movement)
 100 
 (100)
 75 
 (75)
31 March 2024
USD (3% movement)
 293 
 (293)
 219 
 (219)
EURO (3% movement)
 (32)
 32 
 (24)
 24 
GBP (3% movement)
 123 
 (123)
 92 
 (92)
CAD (3% movement)
 (4)
 4 
 (3)
 3 
B)	
Interest rate risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates.	
	
	
	
	
	
(a)	
Interest rate risk exposure
	
The exposure of the Group’s borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Financial Assets - Fixed rate instruments
Bank Deposits
 1,279 
 1,058 
Total 
 1,279 
 1,058 
Financial Liabilities
Variable rate borrowings*
 40,163 
 41,722 
Fixed rate borrowings*
 4,941 
 4,094 
Total borrowings
 45,104 
 45,816 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering  Non-current and current 	
(b) 	
Sensitivity
Particulars
Profit and loss
Equity, net of tax
1% increase
1% decrease
1% increase
1% decrease
31 March 2025
Variable rate borrowings
 (402)
 402 
 (301)
 301 
31 March 2024
Variable rate borrowings
 (417)
 417 
 (312)
 312 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 6 7
(Rs in Lakhs)
46	
Capital management	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital base structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain 
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of the business. The Group monitors 
the return on capital as well as the level of dividends on its equity shares. The Group’s objective when managing capital is to 
maintain an optimal structure so as to maximize shareholder value and safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern.
	
The Group monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘equity’. For the purpose of Group’s capital management, 
adjusted net debt is defined as aggregate of Non-current borrowing, current borrowing, current maturities of long-term 
borrowings and Non- Current and Current Lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and total equity includes issued 
capital and all other equity reserves.
	
The Group’s adjusted net debt equity ratio were as follows:
Particulars
As at
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Borrowings (Non-current and Current)
 45,104 
 45,816 
Lease Liabilities (Non-current and Current)
 12,021 
 12,693 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 (3,311)
 (5,083)
Adjusted net debt 
 53,814 
 53,426 
Total equity
 71,750 
 66,774 
Net debt to equity ratio
0.75
0.80
	
	
47	
Related party disclosures
(i)
Name of related parties and description of relationship:
Name of the related party
Description of relationship
JKM Holdings Private Limited
Entities over which key executive management personnel or relatives 
of such personnel are able to exercise significant influence and have 
transactions during the year.
Wavell Investments Private Limited
Mr. Vivek Malani
Relative of Promoter Group
Ms. Ahilya Malhoutra
Daughter of Mr. Udayant Malhoutra (Promoter) 
Key executive management 
personnel
Designation
Udayant Malhoutra
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
P.S. Ramesh
Executive Director, Chief Operating Officer - Hydraulic Division (Resigned 
effective from 13 November 2024)
Arvind Mishra
Executive Director and Global Chief Operating Officer - Hydraulics & 
Head - Homeland Security (Resigned effective from 8 August 2023).
Chalapathi P
Chief Financial Officer and Appointed as Executive Director effective 
from  13 November 2024
Shivaram V
Chief Legal officer & Company Secretary
(ii)
List of subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries)
Name of the entity
Subsidiary/ 
Step Subsidiary
Country of 
domicile
Holding as at
 31 March 2025  31 March 2024 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited (“JEAL”)
 Subsidiary 
 India 
99.99%
99.99%
JKM Research Farm Limited (“JRFL”)
 Subsidiary 
 India 
99.99%
99.99%
JKM Global Pte Limited (“JGPL”)
 Subsidiary 
 Singapore 
100%
100%
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited 
(formerly known as JKM Ferrotech 
Limited) (“DML”)
 Step Subsidiary 
 India 
99.99%
99.99%
Dynamatic Limited (“DLUK”)
 Step Subsidiary 
 United 
Kingdom 
100%
100%
Yew Tree Investments Limited (“YTIL”)
 Step Subsidiary 
 United 
Kingdom 
100%
100%
1 6 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
Dynamatic US, LLC (“DUS”)
 Step Subsidiary 
United States 
of America
100%
100%
JKM Erla Holdings GmbH (“JEHG”)  
(upto 30 September 2024) post which 
the entity ceases to exist*
 Step Subsidiary 
 Germany 
-
100%
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH (“EEG”)
 Step Subsidiary 
 Germany 
100%
100%
JKM Automotive Limited (“JAL”)
 Step Subsidiary 
 India 
100%
100%
	
*JEHG been liquidated during the current year. The liquation does not have any impact as consolidated financial 
statements, it being a intermediate holding company.	
	
	
	
(iii)
Related party transactions during the year
Particulars
Related Parties
For the year ended
 31 March 2025 
 31 March 2024 
Purchase of raw 
materials
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 466 
 420 
Rent expense
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 4 
 4 
Mr. Vivek Malani
 25 
 22 
Trade advances given
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 50 
 - 
Remuneration
Ms. Ahilya Malhoutra
 30 
 21 
(iv)
Balance receivable from and payable to related parties as at the balance sheet date:
Particulars
Related Parties
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Trade advance receivable
Wavell Investments Private Limited 
 797 
 652 
Trade Payable
Wavell Investments Private Limited 
 77 
 - 
Rent Payable
Mr. Vivek Malani
 1 
 2 
Security deposits 
provided
JKM Holding Private Limited
 35 
 35 
Mr. Vivek Malani
 17 
 17 
(v)
Compensation of key managerial personnel*
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025 
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Udayant Malhoutra
144
 122 
P.S. Ramesh 
151
 117 
Arvind Mishra
 - 
 137 
Chalapathi P
120
 102 
Shivaram V
78
 50 
 493
 528 
	
*Managerial remuneration does not include cost of employee benefits such as gratuity and compensated 
absences since, provision for these are based on an actuarial valuation carried out for the Group as a whole.
Details of director sitting fees have been disclosed in the corporate governance report.	
	
	
	
Terms and conditions
	
All transactions with these related parties are priced at arm’s length basis and resulting outstanding balances are to be 
settled in cash within six months to one year of reporting date. None of the balances are secured.	
	
	
48
Earnings per share
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Basic earnings per share in INR
63.39
179.40
Diluted earnings per share in INR
63.39
179.40
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company used in 
calculating basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share
4,304
12,181
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purpose of basic 
earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (numbers)
67,91,443
67,91,443
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 6 9
(Rs in Lakhs)
49
Income tax
A
Amount recognized in statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Current income tax
 1,270 
 1,316 
Deferred tax
 (63)
 66 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 1,207 
 1,382 
B
Income tax recognized in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025 
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Net gain / (loss) on remeasurement of defined benefit liability / (assets)
 (414)
 (125)
Foreign currency fluctuations under a cash flow hedge - gain/(loss)
 - 
 508 
Income tax expense to OCI
 91 
 27 
C
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025 
 For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Profit before income tax
 5,511 
 13,563 
Tax using the Holding Company's domestic tax rate 25.17% 
(31 March 2024: 25.17%)
 1,387 
 3,414 
Impact of windfirm land gain tax exemption
 - 
 (1,570)
Impact of non - deductible expenses for tax purposes
 (180)
 (462)
Income tax expense
 1,207 
 1,382 
D
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Particulars
 As at 1 April 2024 
Recognized in 
profit or loss
Recognized 
in OCI 
As at 
31 March 2025 
Property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
 (2,204)
 (134)
 - 
 (2,338)
Right-of-use assets & Lease liabilities
 662 
 39 
 - 
 701 
Provision for gratuity and compensated 
absences
 646 
 44 
 91 
 781 
Provision for loss allowance
 108 
 (6)
 - 
 102 
Provision for warranty
 173 
 (54)
 - 
 119 
Others
 347 
 174 
 - 
 521 
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
 (268)
 63 
 91 
 (114)
Particulars
As at 1 April 2023 
Recognized in 
profit or loss
 Recognized 
in OCI 
 As at 
31 March 2024 
Property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
 (1,805)
 (399)
 - 
 (2,204)
Right-of-use assets & Lease liabilities
 658 
 4 
 - 
 662 
Provision for gratuity and compensated 
absences
 593 
 26 
 27 
 646 
Provision for loss allowance
 78 
 30 
 - 
 108 
Provision for warranty
 89 
 84 
 - 
 173 
Others
 158 
 189 
 - 
 347 
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
 (229)
 (66)
 27 
 (268)
*movement includes foreign currency translation adjustment
1 7 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
E
Unrecognized deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items as the respective criteria is not met to 
the extent stated below.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Carry forwards of business loss
 2,966 
 2,322 
Carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation
 935 
 778 
Carry forwards of long term capital loss ('LTCL')
 16,789 
 16,789 
Unrecognised Potential tax benefits on the above (on a net basis)
 3,383 
 4,138 
50	
Additional information pursuant to para 2 of general instructions for the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements:
31 March 2025
Name of the Subsidiary
Consolidated 
net assets
Consolidated profit 
or loss
Consolidated OCI
Consolidated total 
Comprehensive income
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited (Standalone) 
90%
64,364
118%
 5,068 
(24%)
 (271)
88%
 4,797 
Foreign Subsidiaries:
Dynamatic Limited UK*
32%
22,679
18%
 766 
 - 
 - 
14%
 766 
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH #
33%
23,712
(1%)
 (41)
 - 
 - 
(1%)
 (41)
JKM Global Pte Limited,
 Singapore
10%
7,495
0%
 13 
 - 
 - 
0%
 13 
Indian Subsidiaries:
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
17%
12,419
(2%)
 (73)
 - 
 - 
(1%)
 (73)
Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited (formerly known as 
JKM Ferrotech Limited)
4%
2,727
(4%)
 (155)
(5%)
 (52)
(4%)
 (207)
JKM Research Farm Limited
4%
2,656
- 
 18 
 - 
 - 
- 
 18 
JKM Automotive Limited
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Consolidated adjustments
(89%)
(64,302)
(30%)
(1,292)
128%
 1,470 
3%
 178 
Total
100%
 71,750 
100%
 4,304 
100%
 1,147 
100%
 5,451 
31 March 2024
Name of the Subsidiary
Consolidated 
net assets
Consolidated profit 
or loss
Consolidated OCI
Consolidated total 
Comprehensive income
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Percentage
Amount
Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited (Standalone) 
90%
60,044
78% 
9,448
35%
 427 
74%
 9,875 
Foreign Subsidiaries:
Dynamatic Limited UK*
28%
18,862
- 
 29 
- 
 - 
- 
 29 
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH #
35%
23,319
41% 
 5,012 
- 
 - 
37%
 5,012 
JKM Global Pte Limited, 
Singapore
8%
5,490
(1%)
 (78)
- 
 - 
(1%)
 (78)
Indian Subsidiaries:
- 
- 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
19%
12,493
(6%)
 (750)
- 
 - 
(6%)
 (750)
Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited (formerly known as 
JKM Ferrotech Limited)
4%
2,886
(12%)  (1,425)
(1%)
 (17)
(11%)  (1,442)
JKM Research Farm Limited
4%
2,639
- 
1
- 
 - 
- 
 1 
JKM Automotive Limited
- 
 - 
- 
 - 
- 
 - 
- 
 - 
Consolidated adjustments
(87%)
(58,959)
- 
 (56)
66%
 801 
6%
 745 
Total
100%
 66,774 
100%
12,181 
100%
 1,211 
100%
13,392 
	
* includes results of Yew Tree Investments Limited, UK and Dynamatic US LLC
	
# includes results of JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany (upto 30 September 2024) post which the entity ceases to 
exist.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 7 1
(Rs in Lakhs)
51
Revenue from contracts with customers
A. Disaggregate revenue information
The table below presents disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers for the year ended 31 March 2025 
and 31 March 2024 by market or type of customers, timing of revenue recognition, contract-type and geography. 
The Group believes that this disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our 
revenues  and cash flows are affected  by industry, market and other economic factors.
For the year ended 31 March  2025
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace
Metallurgy
Others
Grand Total
Market or type of customer
Government
 105 
 - 
 - 
 296 
 401 
Non-government
 45,699 
 60,785 
 33,483 
 12 
 1,39,979 
Total revenue from contract with 
customers#
 45,804 
 60,785 
 33,483 
 308 
 1,40,380 
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods or services transferred at point 
in time
 45,804 
58,259
 33,483 
 308 
1,37,854
Goods or service transferred over time
 - 
2,526
 - 
 - 
2,2526
Total revenue from contract with 
customers#
 45,804 
 60,785 
 33,483 
 308 
 1,40,380 
For the year ended 31 March  2024
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace
Metallurgy
Others
Grand Total
Market or type of customer
Government
 154 
 19 
 - 
 - 
 173 
Non-government
 44,680 
 50,990 
 47,081 
 9 
 1,42,760 
Total revenue from contract with 
customers#
 44,834 
 51,009 
 47,081 
 9 
 1,42,933 
Timing of revenue recognition
Goods or services transferred at point 
in time
 44,834 
 51,009 
 47,081 
 9 
 1,42,933 
Goods or service transferred over time
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contract with 
customers#
 44,834 
 51,009 
 47,081 
 9 
 1,42,933 
# Represents revenue from sale of products included in revenue from operations.
* The Group does not have any revenue from sale of goods and services where the performance obligation is satisfied 
over time.
 Refer to geographic information section under Note 42 - Segment Reporting for more details on the analysis of 
segment revenue. 
Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised with contract and reportable segment:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
 Revenue from contract with customers  
 1,39,299 
 1,41,632 
 Other operating revenue 
 Export incentive 
 316 
 15 
 Scrap sales 
 765 
 1,286 
Total Revenue
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
1 7 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
B. 	
Reconciliation of revenue with contract price:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Contract price
 1,40,609 
 1,42,953 
Adjustments for
Volume discount and cash discount 
 229 
 20 
Revenue from continuing operations
 1,40,380 
 1,42,933 
C. 	
Contract balances
	
Contract balances and related disclosures have been included in the following notes. 
	
Trade receivables - Note 11
	
Contract assets - Note 16	
	
D. 	
Remaining performance obligations
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations that 
are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) and expected to be satisfied in 
the next financial year 
 1,798
 - 
	
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognised 
as the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Group expects to recognise these amount in revenue. 
Unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as termination 
changes in contract scope, re-validation of estimates and economic factors.
	
Applying the practical expedient as given in Ind AS 115, the Group has not disclosed the remaining performance obligation 
related disclosures for contracts where the revenue recognised corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the 
Group’s performance completed to date, typically those contracts where invoicing is on time and material, unit price basis.
52	
In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments) 
Rules, 2017, notifying amendments to Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. These amendments are in accordance with the 
amendments made by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to IAS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. The below 
disclosure is in line with such amendments suggested:
Particulars
1 April 
2024
Cash 
flows
Non Cash Changes
31 March 
2025
Interest 
Expense
Written 
back
Foreign 
exchange 
movement
1
Non- Current Borrowings
i)
Secured
a)
Term loan from banks*
 9,532 
 (217)
 - 
 - 
 15 
 9,330 
b)
Term loan from financial institutions*
 10,362 
(1,805)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,557 
c)
Finance lease obligation *
 3,546 
 (560)
 - 
 - 
 150 
 3,136 
d)
Working Capital term loan
 - 
 1,500 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500 
2
Current Borrowings
i)
Secured
a)
Cash credit  and working capital 
demand loans
 16,802 
 1,983 
 - 
 - 
 34 
 18,819 
ii)
Unsecured
a)
Bill discounting facility from banks
 5,574 
(2,109)
 - 
 - 
 297 
 3,762 
3
Finance Cost
a)
Interest accrued but not due on 
borrowings
 70 
(4,863)
 4,875 
 - 
 1 
 83 
 45,886 
(6,071)
 4,875 
 - 
 497 
 45,187 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025    1 7 3
(Rs in Lakhs)
Particulars
1 April 
2023
Cash 
flows
Non Cash Changes
31 March 
2024
Interest 
Expense
Written 
back
Foreign 
exchange 
movement
1
Non- Current Borrowings
i)
Secured
a)
Term loan from banks*
 24,850 
 (13,723)
 - 
 (1,593)
 (2)
 9,532 
b)
Term loan from financial institutions*
 8,697 
 1,665 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,362 
c)
Finance lease obligation *
 1,666 
 1,783 
 - 
 - 
 97 
 3,546 
ii)
Unsecured
a)
Term loan from financial institutions*
 909 
 (909)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Current Borrowings
i)
Secured
a)
Cash credit  and working capital 
demand loans
 18,546 
 78 
 - 
 (1,865)
 43 
 16,802 
ii)
Unsecured
a)
Bill discounting facility from banks
 7,172 
 (1,809)
 - 
 - 
 211 
 5,574 
3
Finance Cost
a)
Interest accrued but not due on 
borrowings
 197 
 (5,926)
 5,799 
 - 
 - 
 70 
Total liabilities from financing 
activities
 62,037  (18,841)
 5,799 
 (3,458)
 349 
 45,886 
* includes current maturities of long term borrowings
53	
Additional regulatory information not disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements	
(i)	
As per section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013, there are no balances outstanding or transactions with struck off 
companies.
(ii)	
The Parent and its subsidiaries (‘Group’) has not traded / invested in Crypto currency or virtual currency.
(iii)	
The Group  has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries)  during the year with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a) 	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
	
Also refer Note 37.	
(iv)	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall,
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.	
	
	
(v)	
The Group has no such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or 
survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
(vi)	
The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related 
parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, except as disclosed 
in the financial statements.
1 7 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
(vii)	
The Group is not a declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
(viii)	
The Group does not have any Capital-work-in progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost 
compared to its original plan
54	
The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 May 2025.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 7 5
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 7 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Dynamatic Technologies Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements 
of 
Dynamatic 
Technologies 
Limited 
(the 
“Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 
31, 2025, and the Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Statement of Cash 
Flows and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
ended on that date, and notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 
March 31, 2025, and its profit, total comprehensive income, 
its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended 
on that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (“SA”s) 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibility for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of 
the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We 
believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
standalone financial statements. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. We have determined the matters described 
below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our 
report.
Sr. 
No.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
1
Impairment 
of 
investments 
in 
subsidiaries
Refer Note 2(m) and 4 and to the standalone 
financial statements of the Company.
In the standalone financial statements of the 
Company, the carrying value of investments 
in subsidiaries referred to in Note 4 (iv) is INR 
12,502 lakhs net of cumulative impairment 
provision of INR 13,719 lakhs as at March 
31, 2025. 
Determination 
of 
carrying 
value 
of 
investments in subsidiaries is a key audit 
matter as the amounts are significant to 
the standalone financial statements and the 
determination of recoverable value and/ or 
impairment assessment involves significant 
management estimates and judgement.
The key estimates and judgements used 
in the model for impairment assessment 
include future cash flows of the respective 
subsidiaries, the discount rate and the 
terminal growth rate used.
The management has used the services of 
an expert in determining the recoverable 
value of investments in subsidiaries and 
consequential impairments, if any.
Principal audit procedures performed: 
•	
We assessed the Management’s process for identifying the impairment 
indicators and impairment assessment of investments in the respective 
subsidiaries. 
•	
Evaluated the design of the management’s internal control around the 
impairment assessment process and tested its operating effectiveness.
•	
Evaluated the independence, competence, capabilities and objectivity 
of the management’s expert.
•	
Understood the key assumptions considered in the management’s 
estimates of future cash flows of the respective subsidiaries.
•	
Involving our valuation specialists, we evaluated the growth rates 
including terminal growth rate, considered in the estimates of future 
cash flows and the discount rate used in the calculations.
•	
Compared the historical cash flows (including for current year) against 
past projections of the management for the same periods and gained 
understanding of the rationale for the changes.
•	
Performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the 
forecast cash flows and focused our attention on those assumptions 
we considered most sensitive to the changes; such as –revenue growth 
during the forecast period, the terminal growth rate and the discount 
rate applied to the future cash flows. We ascertained the extent to 
which a change in these assumptions, would result in impairment, and 
considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
•	
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 7 7
Information Other than the Financial Statements and 
Auditor’s Report Thereon
•	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Board’s report and annexures 
thereto report, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements, standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon.
•	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
•	
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained during 
the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
•	
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Board of Directors 
for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements that 
give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance including other comprehensive income, cash 
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management 
and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of 
Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Company’s Board of Directors is also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls. 
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the standalone financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
standalone financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the standalone 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider 
quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in 
(i) 	 planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 
the results of our work; and 
(ii) 	 to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements 
in the standalone financial statements.
1 7 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal financial controls that we 
identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books. 
c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Statement of Cash Flows and Statement of Changes 
in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the books of account. 
d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
Section 133 of the Act.
e)	 On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure A”. Our report expresses an 
unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements.
g)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to its 
directors during the year is in accordance with the 
provisions of section 197 of the Act.
h)	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us: 
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
standalone financial statements - Refer Note 37 
to the standalone financial statements; 
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses. 
iii.	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.	
(a)  The Management has represented that, to 
the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the note 56(iii) to the financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. Also refer to 
comments in clause 3(ix)(e).
(b) 	 The Management has represented, that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the note 56(iv) to the financial 
statements, no funds have been received 
by the Company from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
(c)	 Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under sub-
clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain any material 
misstatement.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 7 9
v.	
The final dividend proposed in the previous year, 
declared and paid by the Company during the 
year is in accordance with section 123 of the 
Act, as applicable.
	
The interim dividend declared and paid by the 
Company during the year and until the date of 
this report is in accordance with section 123 of 
the Companies Act 2013.
vi.	 Based on our examination, which included test 
checks, the Company has used accounting 
software systems for maintaining its books 
of account for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 which have the feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software systems. Additionally, 
the audit trail that was enabled and operated 
for the year ended March 31, 2024, has been 
preserved by the Company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention. 
2.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in 
terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure 
B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 
and 4 of the Order.
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
(Membership No. 206920)
UDIN: 25206920BMJHIO6388
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT 
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our 
report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of 
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of Dynamatic Technologies 
Limited (“the Company”) as at March 31, 2025 in conjunction 
with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities 
for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
based on the internal control with reference to standalone 
financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India. These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business, including adherence to the company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 
2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company and its joint operations 
companies incorporated in India (retain as applicable) based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the 
Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements was established 
and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 
1 8 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements 
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control 
with reference to standalone financial statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to standalone financial statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were operating effectively as at March 
31, 2025, based on the criteria for internal financial control 
with reference to standalone financial statements established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
(Membership No. 206920)
UDIN: 25206920BMJHIO6388
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
ANNEXURE “B” TO THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other 
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ Section of our 
report of even date)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and 
given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best 
of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
a.	
A.	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including  quantitative 
details and situation of property, plant and 
equipment, 
capital-work-in-progress, 
and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets. 
B.	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
b.	 The Company has a program of verification of 
property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-
progress and right-of-use assets so to cover all the 
items once every three years, which, in our opinion, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. Pursuant to 
the program, all property, plant and equipment were 
due for physical verification during the year and were 
physically verified by the Management during the 
year. According to the information and explanation 
given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed 
on such verification.
c.	
 Based on our examination of the title deeds provided 
to us, we report that the title deeds of all the 
immovable properties of freehold land and buildings 
disclosed in the financial statements included in 
property, plant and equipment and capital work in 
progress are held in the name of the Company as at 
the balance sheet date. Immovable properties of land 
and buildings whose title deeds have been pledged 
as security for guarantees, are held in the name of the 
Company based on the pledge documents. In respect 
of immovable properties of building constructed on 
leased land, the lease agreements are in the name 
of the Company, where the Company is the lessee 
in the agreement, except in the case of the following 
lease wherein the lease term has been completed 
during the year. (Refer Note 3). 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 8 1
Description of 
property
As at the balance sheet 
date
Held in the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or employee
Period 
held
Reason for not 
being held in 
the name of the 
Company
Gross 
carrying 
value
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
JKM Plaza, 
Dynamatic 
Aerotropolis 55, 
KIADB Aerospace 
Park
12,708
12,708
Karnataka 
Industrial 
Areas 
Development 
Board (KIADB)
No
From 
August 20, 
2024
The Company has 
filed the application 
for the transfer of 
the property to the 
Company’s name. 
d.	 The Company has not revalued any of its property, 
plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) and 
intangible assets during the year. 
e.	 No proceedings have been initiated during the year or 
are pending against the Company as at March 31, 2025 
for holding any benami property under the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (as amended in 
2016) and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
a.	
The inventories were physically verified during the 
year by the Management at reasonable intervals. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the coverage and procedure 
of such verification by the Management is appropriate 
having regard to the size of the Company and the nature 
of its operations. No discrepancies of 10% or more 
in the aggregate for each class of inventories were 
noticed on such physical verification of inventories 
when compared with the books of account. 
b.	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has been sanctioned working 
capital limits in excess of Rs.5 crores, in aggregate, at 
points of time during the year, from banks or financial 
institutions on the basis of security of current assets. 
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the quarterly returns or 
statements comprising stock statements and book 
debt statements filed by the Company with such 
banks or financial institutions are in agreement with 
the unaudited books of account of the Company of 
the respective quarters and no material discrepancies 
have been observed. 
(iii)	 The Company has made investments in, provided guarantee 
or security and granted loans or advances in the nature of 
loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited 
Liability Partnerships or any other parties during the year, in 
respect of which:
(a)	 The Company has provided loans or advances in the 
nature of loans during the year and details of which are 
given below:
Particulars
Loans (Amount in 
Rs. Lakhs)
A. Aggregate amount granted 
/ provided during the year:
- Wholly owned subsidiary
67
B. Balance outstanding as at 
balance sheet date in respect 
of above cases: (gross)
- Wholly owned subsidiary
73
	
The Company has not provided any guarantee or 
security to any entity during the year. 
(b)	 The investments made and the terms and conditions 
of the grant of all the above- mentioned loans provided 
during the year are, in our opinion, prima facie not 
prejudicial to the Company’s interest. 
(c)	 In respect of loans granted by the Company, the 
schedule of repayment of principal has been stipulated 
and the repayments of principal amounts and receipts 
of interest, as applicable, are regular as per stipulation.
(d)	 According to information and explanations given to 
us and based on the audit procedures performed, in 
respect of loans granted by the Company, there is 
no overdue amount remaining outstanding as at the 
balance sheet date.
(e)	 None of the loans granted by the Company have fallen 
due during the year. 
(f)	 According to information and explanations given to 
us and based on the audit procedures performed, the 
Company has not granted any loans either repayable 
on demand or without specifying any terms or period 
of repayment during the year. Hence, reporting under 
clause 3(iii)(f) is not applicable.
(iv)	 The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 
185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of loans 
granted, investments made and guarantees and securities 
provided, as applicable. 
(v)	 The Company has not accepted any deposit or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits. Hence reporting under 
clause (v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi)	 The maintenance of cost records has been specified 
by the Central Government under section 148(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013. We have broadly reviewed the 
books of account maintained by the Company pursuant 
to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, prescribed by the Central Government for 
maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, and are of the opinion that, prima 
facie, the prescribed cost records have been made and 
maintained by the Company. We have, however, not made 
a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii)	In respect of statutory dues: 
a.	
Undisputed statutory dues, including Goods and 
Services tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ State 
Insurance, Income-tax, cess and other material 
1 8 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
statutory dues applicable to the Company have generally been regularly deposited by it with the appropriate authorities 
in all cases during the year. There were no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Goods and Services tax, Provident 
Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, cess and other material statutory dues in arrears as at March 31, 2025 for 
a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
Name of the Statue
Nature of 
the Dues
Amount 
(Rs. Lakhs)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
32
FY 2017-18
The Commissioner of Income 
Tax (Appeals)
Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
Duty
16
FY 2013-14
The Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(Appeals)
Customs Act, 1962
Customs 
Duty
207
July 2017 – August 2018
The Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(Appeals)
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
1
October 2009 – March 2011
The Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(Appeals)
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
57
FY 2012-13 and FY 2013-14
The Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(Appeals)
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
0.4
February 2002 – December 
2002
The Commissioner of Central 
Excise (Appeals)
Central Excise Act, 
1944
Excise Duty
1
FY 2009-10
The Customs Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(Appeals)
Central Goods & 
Services Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
259
FY 2017-18
The Commissioner of Central 
Excise (Appeals)
Central Goods & 
Services Tax Act, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
49
FY 2017-18 to FY 2020-21
Additional Commissioner 
Appeals (II)
(viii)	There were no transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that were surrendered or disclosed as income in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) during the year.
(ix)	
a.	
Loans amounting to Rs. 17,121 lakhs outstanding as at March 31, 2025 are repayable on demand and terms and conditions 
for payment of interest thereon have not been stipulated. According to the information and explanations given to us, such 
loans and interest thereon have not been demanded for repayment during the financial year. Considering the above, in 
our opinion, the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or other borrowings, or in the payment of interest 
thereon to any lender during the year.
b.	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
c.	
To the best of our knowledge and belief, in our opinion, term loans availed by the Company were applied by the Company 
during the year for the purposes of which the loans were obtained.
d.	 On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, funds raised on short-term basis have, prima facie, 
not been used during the financial year for long-term purposes by the Company.
e.	 On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, we report that the Company has taken funds from 
the following entities and persons on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries as per details below:
Nature of 
fund taken
Name of 
lender
Amount 
Borrowed 
(Rs. Lakhs)
 On account of or to meet the obligations of subsidiary
Name of the 
subsidiary
Relation
Nature of transaction for which 
funds utilized
Term Loan
Axis 
Finance 
Limited
7,000
JKM Global Pte 
Ltd (JKM Global)
JKM Global 
is a  Wholly 
owned 
subsidiary of 
the Company
Refer Note 4(c) and Note 5.
The funds were utilized for refinancing 
the borrowings of Eisenwerk Erla 
GmbH, Germany (EEG), [an indirect 
step-down wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company] through intra-group loans
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 8 3
f.	
The Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
The Company does not have any associates or joint 
ventures. 
(x)	
a.	
The Company has not issued any of its securities 
(including debt instruments) during the year and 
hence reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is 
not applicable.
b.	 During the year, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of shares 
or convertible debentures (fully or partly or optionally) 
and hence reporting under clause (x)(b) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	
a.	
To the best of our knowledge, no fraud by the 
Company and no material fraud on the Company has 
been noticed or reported during the year.
b.	 To the best of our knowledge, no report under sub-
section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act has 
been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 
of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with 
the Central Government, during the year and upto 
the date of this report. 
c.	
As represented to us by the Management, there 
were no whistle blower complaints received by the 
Company during the year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xiii)	 In our opinion, the Company is in compliance with 
Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, where 
applicable, for all transactions with the related parties 
and the details of related party transactions have been 
disclosed in the financial statements etc. as required by 
the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)	
a.	
In our opinion, the Company has an adequate internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and nature 
of its business. 
b.	 We have considered, the internal audit reports 
issued to the Company during the year and covering 
the period upto December 2024 and the final internal 
audit reports which were issued after the balance 
sheet date covering the period of January to March 
2025 in the audit of the Company for the year ended 
March 31, 2025.  
(xv)	 In our opinion, during the year the Company has 
not entered into any non-cash transactions with its 
directors or directors of its Holding Company or persons 
connected with them and hence provisions of section 
192 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to 
the Company.
(xvi)	
a.	
The Company is not required to be registered 
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934. Hence, reporting under clause 3(xvi)(a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable.
b.	
The Group does not have any CIC as part of the 
group and accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xvii)	 The Company has not incurred cash losses during the 
financial year covered by our audit and the immediately 
preceding financial year. 
(xviii)	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
of the Company during the year.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the financial statements and our knowledge of the 
Board of Directors and Management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting the 
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which 
causes us to believe that any material uncertainty 
exists as on the date of the audit report indicating that 
Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get 
discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 In respect of other than ongoing projects, the Company 
has transferred unspent Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) amount, to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to 
the Companies Act, 2013 before the date of this report 
and within a period of six months of the expiry of the 
financial year in compliance with second proviso to sub-
section (5) of section 135 of the said Act.
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
(Membership No. 206920)
UDIN:  25206920BMJHIO6388
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
1 8 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Notes
As at 31 March 2025 
As at 31 March 2024 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
a) Property, plant and equipment
3
29,705 
 30,359 
b) Right-of-use assets
40
1,991
1,760
c) Capital work in progress
3
 664
119
d) Other intangible assets
3
376
276
e) Intangible assets under development
3
563
-
f) Financial assets
  (i) Investments
4
 39,706 
37,663
  (ii) Loan
5
 5,716 
6,859 
  (iii) Other financial assets
6
 1,278 
455 
g) Income tax assets (net)
7
 223 
226
h) Other non-current assets
8
 399 
273
Total non-current assets
 80,621 
77,990
Current assets
a) Inventories
9
 14,528 
11,919
b) Financial assets
  (i)Trade receivables
10
17,268 
 20,688 
  (ii) Cash and cash equivalents
11
 265 
519
  (iii) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents above
12
 1,218 
1,058
  (iv) Loans
13
1,567 
88
  (v) Other financial assets
14
 1,215 
1,225
c) Other current assets
15
 8,900 
3,715
Total current assets
44,961 
39,212
Total Assets
 1,25,582 
1,17,202
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity 
a) Equity share capital
16
 679 
 679 
b) Other equity
17
 63,685
59,365
Total equity 
64,364
 60,044 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
a) Financial liabilities
  (i) Borrowings
18
 15,280 
16,423
  (ii) Lease liabilities
40
 1,400 
 1,297 
  (iii) Other financial liabilities
19
7 
-
b) Provisions
20
 2,652 
 2,168 
c) Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
 2,180 
 3,454 
Total non-current liabilities
 21,519 
 23,342
Current liabilities
a) Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
22
 20,824 
19,156
(iii) Lease liabilities
40
702
629
(ii) Trade Payables
23
 (a) total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,795 
1,198
 (b) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 12,476 
 9,278 
(iv) Other financial liabilities
24
 1,806
 1,681 
b) Other current liabilities
25
652
461
c) Provisions
26
451
375
d) Current income tax liabilities (net)
27
993
1,038
Total current liabilities
39,699
33,816
Total Liabilities
61,218
57,158
Total Equity and Liabilities
 1,25,582 
 1,17,202 
See accompanying notes to the standalone financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 8 5
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated except for earnings per share information
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Income
Revenue from operations
28
63,918
58,186
Other income
29
1,661
1,830
Total Income
65,579
60,016
Expenses
Cost of materials and components consumed
30
31,533
29,400
Change in inventory of finished goods and work-in-progress
31
 278 
 (1,615)
Employee benefits expense
32
10,346
8,492
Finance costs
33
4,269
5,026
Depreciation and amortisation expense
34
2,549
2,410
Other expenses    
35
11,173
10,805
Total expenses
60,148
54,518
Profit before tax and exceptional items
5,431
5,498
Exceptional items
36
-
5,132
Profit before tax
5,431
10,630
Current tax 
51
1,548
1,478
Deferred tax 
51
 (1,183)
 (297)
Income tax expense
365
1,181
Profit for the year after tax
5,066
9,449
Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss) (OCI)
Items that will not to be reclassified subsequently to the statement of 
profit and loss
Remeasurement gain / (loss) of defined benefit plans
 (362)
 (108)
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to the statement 
of profit and loss
91
27
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to the statement of profit and 
loss
Foreign currency fluctuations under a cash flow hedge - gain/(loss), (net of 
tax)
-
508
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax
(271)
427
Total comprehensive income for the year
4,795
9,876
Earning per equity share
49
Basic and diluted (in INR):
74.61
139.12
Number of weighted average outstanding shares used in computing 
earnings per share
67,91,443
67,91,443
See accompanying notes to the standalone financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
1 8 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
Operating activities:
Profit before tax after exceptional items
 5,431 
 10,630 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation on Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets
 1,835 
 1,686 
Amortisation of Right-of-use assets
 714 
 724 
Finance costs
 3,926 
 4,630 
Interest on lease liabilities
 225 
 224 
Unrealised foreign exchange differences
 (316)
 (360)
Interest income
 (866)
 (720)
Loss/(Gain) allowance on financial assets, net
 (19)
 115 
Exceptional Items (Refer Note 36)
 - 
 (5,132)
Loss/(Gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net
 40 
 (468)
Corporate Guarantee Income
 (43)
 - 
Gain on lease modification
 (31)
 - 
Operating cash flow before the movements in working capital
 10,896 
 11,329 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Increase in inventories
 (2,609)
 (1,021)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
 3,545 
 (4,451)
Increase in loans
 (50)
 (12)
Decrease/(Increase) in other financial assets
 (29)
 808 
Decrease/(Increase) in other assets
 (5,177)
 2,103 
Increase in trade payables
 3,770 
 178 
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions
 198 
 (395)
Increase in other financial liabilities
 135 
 226 
Increase in other current liabilities
 191 
 234 
Cash generated from operations
 10,870 
 8,999 
Income taxes paid, net of refund
 (1,590)
 (1,086)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 9,280 
 7,913 
Investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles assets
 (2,613)
 (3,205)
Proceeds from the sales of assets classified as held for sale
 - 
 10,710 
Proceeds from the sales of other property, plant and equipment
 51 
 485 
Inter-company loan provided to subsidiary company
 (65)
 (6,859)
Additional investment in equity shares of subsidiary company
 (1,993)
 (3,500)
Changes in bank deposits (having original maturity of more than three months), net
 (160)
 1,245 
Interest income received
 82 
 150 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (4,698)
 (974)
Financing activities:
Proceeds from long term borrowings  
 2,700 
 16,411 
Repayment of long term borrowings 
 (3,208)
 (26,721)
Proceeds from short term borrowings, net
 1,068 
 1,467 
Payment of Lease liabilities
 (964)
 (1,080)
Interest paid
 (3,957)
 (5,191)
Dividend paid
 (475)
 (811)
Net cash used in financing activities (C)
 (4,836)
 (15,925)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A + B +C)
 (254)
 (8,986)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 519 
 9,505 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 265 
 519 
Components of cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 11)
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
 1 
 11 
Balance with banks
- in current accounts
 264 
 508 
Cash and cash equivalents in standalone balance sheet
 265 
 519 
See accompanying notes to the standalone financial statements
In terms of our report attached            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 8 7
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
All amounts are in INR lakhs unless otherwise stated
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dynamatic Technologies Limited
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer 
& Company Secretary	
	
	
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
	
	
            	
	
for Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
SATHYA P KOUSHIK
Partner
Membership No. 206920
(A)	
Equity Share Capital
	
i) Current reporting period
Balance as at 
1 April 2024
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance at the beginning of 
the current reporting period
Changes in equity share 
capital during the year
Balance as at 
31 March 2025
 679 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 679 
	
ii) Previous reporting period
Balance as at 
1 April 2023
Changes in Equity Share Capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance at the beginning of 
the current reporting period
Changes in equity share 
capital during the year
Balance as at 
31 March 2024
 679 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 679 
(B)	
Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other items of other comprehensive 
income
Total equity 
attributable to 
equity holders of 
the Company
Capital 
Reserve
Capital Redemption 
reserve
Reserve on 
amalgamation
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
Retained 
Earnings
Remeasurement of the 
net defined benefit 
liability/asset
Cash Flow 
Hedge 
Reserve
Balance as at 01 April 2024 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,138 
 28,656 
 27,162 
 - 
 - 
 59,365 
Profit for the year  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,066 
 - 
 - 
 5,066 
Other comprehensive Income/(loss) (OCI)
for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (271)
 - 
 (271)
Transfer of OCI to the retained earnings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (271)
 271 
 - 
 - 
Final Dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
 - 
 - 
 (340)
Interim Dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (135)
 - 
 - 
 (135)
Balance as at 31 March 2025 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,138 
 28,656 
 31,482 
 - 
 - 
 63,685 
Balance as at 01 April 2023 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,138 
 28,656 
 18,609 
 - 
 (508)
 50,304 
Profit for the year  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,449 
 - 
 - 
 9,449 
Other comprehensive Income/(loss) (OCI)
for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (81)
 508 
 427 
Transfer of OCI to the retained earnings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (81)
 81 
 - 
 - 
Final Dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (475)
 - 
 - 
 (475)
Interim Dividend 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (340)
 - 
 - 
 (340)
Balance as at 31 March 2024 
 15 
 240 
 154 
 3,138 
 28,656 
 27,162 
 - 
 - 
 59,365 
 	
See accompanying notes to the standalone financial statements 
	
In terms of our report attached
1 8 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1 (i)	Reporting entity	
	
Dynamatic Technologies Limited (“the Company”) was 
incorporated in 1973 as Dynamatic Hydraulics Limited 
under provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. In 1992, 
the name of the Company was changed to Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited. The Company is in the business 
of manufacturing highly engineered products for the 
Aerospace, Automotive and Hydraulic industries. The 
Company is listed in India with National Stock Exchange 
and Bombay Stock Exchange.	
2	
Material accounting policies	
a	
Statement of compliance
	
These Standalone annual financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance with 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (‘the Act’) 
read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standard) 
Rules (as amended from time to time) and other 
relevant provisions of the Act.
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly issued Indian Accounting 
Standard is initially adopted or a revision to an existing 
Indian Accounting Standard requires a change in the 
accounting policy hitherto in use.
b	
Functional and presentation currency
	
These Standalone financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees (INR), which is also the Company’s 
functional currency. All amounts have been rounded-
off to the nearest lakhs, unless otherwise mentioned.
c	
Basis of Preparation
	
The Standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on the historical cost convention and on an 
accrual basis of accounting, except for the following 
assets and liabilities which have been accounted as 
follows:	
(i)	
Defined benefit and other long-term employee 
benefits where plan asset is measured at fair 
value less present value of defined benefit 
obligations.
(ii) 	 Certain financial assets and liabilities that are 
qualified to be measured at fair value, and 
(iii)  	Assets classified as held for sale are measured 
at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less cost to sell. 
d	
Use of estimates and management judgments
	
The preparation of Standalone financial statements 
in conformity with Ind AS requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies 
and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
the disclosure of contingent liabilities and assets on 
the date of the Standalone financial statements and 
the reported amount of revenue and expenses for 
the year. Accounting estimates could change from 
period to period. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis.  Appropriate changes in 
estimates are made as the Management becomes 
aware of changes in circumstances surrounding 
the estimates. Changes in estimates are reflected 
in the standalone financial statements in the period 
in which changes are made and, if material, their 
effects are disclosed in the notes to the standalone 
financial statements.
	
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
	
The application of accounting policies that require 
critical accounting estimates involving complex and 
subjective judgments and the use of assumptions 
in these standalone financial statements have been 
disclosed in the following notes:	
(i)	 Useful life of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets - Note 3: 
	
The useful life of the assets are determined in 
accordance with Schedule II of the Companies 
Act, 2013. In cases, where the useful life 
is different from that or is not prescribed in 
Schedule II, it is based on technical advice, 
taking into account the nature of the asset, the 
estimated usage of the asset, the operating 
conditions of the asset, past history of 
replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
manufacturers warranties and maintenance.
(ii)	 Income taxes- Note 51:
	
In assessing the realisability of deferred tax 
assets, the Management considers whether 
some portion or all of the deferred tax assets 
will not be realized. The ultimate realization 
of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the 
generation of future taxable income during the 
periods in which the temporary differences 
become deductible. The Management considers 
the scheduled reversals of deferred income tax 
liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax 
planning strategies in making this assessment. 
Based on the level of historical taxable income 
and projections for future taxable income over 
the periods in which the deferred income tax 
assets are deductible, the Management believes 
that the Company will realize the benefits of 
those deductible differences. The amount of 
the deferred tax assets considered realizable, 
however, could be reduced in the near term if 
estimates of future taxable income during the 
carry forward period are reduced.
(iii)	Provisions and contingencies- Note 20, 26 
and 37 :
	
The recognition and measurement of other 
provisions are based on the assessment of the 
probability of an outflow of resources, and on 
past experience and circumstances known at the 
reporting date. The actual outflow of resources 
at a future date may therefore vary from the 
figure estimated at end of each reporting period.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 8 9
(iv)	Post-retirement benefit plans- Note 44 :
	
The obligation arising from the defined benefit 
plan is determined on the basis of actuarial 
assumptions which include discount rate, 
trends in salary escalation and vested future 
benefits and life expectancy. The discount rate 
is determined with reference to market yields 
at each financial year end on the government 
bonds.	
(v)	 Impairment of financial assets- Note 4, 5, 6, 
10, 13, 14 and 45 :
	
The impairment provisions for financial assets 
are based on assumptions about risk of default 
and expected cash loss rates. The Company 
uses judgement in making these assumptions 
and selecting the inputs to the impairment 
calculation, based on Company’s past history, 
existing market conditions as well as forward 
looking estimates at the end of each reporting 
period.
(vi)	Impairment of investments - Note 4 :
	
The impairment provisions for investments are 
based on projections which inter alia include 
sales and earnings before interest, depreciation 
and amoritzation and tax. The Company uses 
judgement 
in 
making 
these 
assumptions 
and selecting the inputs to the impairment 
calculation, based on Company’s past history, 
existing market conditions as well as forward 
looking estimates at the end of each reporting 
period.
(vii)	Leases- Note 40: 
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the 
lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease 
adjusted with any option to extend or terminate 
the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably 
certain. The Company makes an assessment on 
the expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis 
and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that any options to extend or terminate 
the contract will be exercised. In evaluating 
the lease term, the Company considers factors 
such as any significant leasehold improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs relating to 
the termination of the lease and the importance 
of the underlying asset to Company’s operations 
taking into account the location of the underlying 
asset and the availability of suitable alternatives. 
The lease term in future periods is reassessed to 
ensure that the lease term reflects the current 
economic circumstances. After considering 
current and future economic conditions, the 
Company has concluded that no changes are 
required to lease period relating to the existing 
lease contracts.	
e	
Measurement of fair values
	
Certain accounting policies and disclosures of the 
Company requires use of valuation techniques in 
measuring the fair value of some of the company’s 
financial assets and liabilities where active market 
quotes are not available. In applying the valuation 
techniques, management makes maximum use of 
market inputs and uses estimates and assumptions 
that are, as far as possible, consistent with observable 
data that market participants would use in pricing the 
instrument. Where applicable data is not observable, 
management uses its best estimate about the 
assumptions that market participants would make. 
These estimates may vary from the actual prices that 
would be achieved in an arm’s length transaction at 
the reporting date. The measurement of fair values, 
for both financial and non financial assets and 
liabilities.	
	
The Company has an established control framework 
with respect to the measurement of fair values. 
The valuation team regularly reviews significant 
unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments.
	
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a 
fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the 
valuation techniques as follows:	
- 	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities.	
-	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included 
in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices).	
- 	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
	
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, 
the Company uses observable market data as far as 
possible. If the inputs used to measure the fair value 
of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of the 
fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement 
is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the 
fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is 
significant to the entire measurement.
	
The Company recognizes transfers between levels 
of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
	
Further information about the assumptions made in 
measuring fair values is included in Note 45: financial 
instruments.
f	
Property, plant and equipment
	
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured 
at cost less accumulated depreciation (which includes 
capitalised borrowing costs, if any) and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
	
Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
comprises its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates, any directly attributable 
costs of bringing an asset to working condition for its 
intended use and estimated cost of dismantling and 
removing the item and restoring the site on which it 
is located. Costs directly attributable to acquisition 
are capitalized until the property, plant and equipment 
are ready for use, as intended by management.
	
The cost of a self-constructed item of property, plant 
and equipment comprises the cost of materials, 
1 9 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
direct labour and any other costs directly attributable 
to bringing the item to its intended working condition 
and estimated costs of dismantling, removing and 
restoring the site on which it is located, wherever 
applicable.
	
Subsequent expenditures relating to property, plant 
and equipment is capitalized only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with these 
will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. Repairs and maintenance costs 
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss 
when incurred. The cost and related accumulated 
depreciation are eliminated from the financial 
statements upon sale or retirement of the asset and 
the resultant gains or losses are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss. Assets to be disposed 
off are reported at the lower of the carrying value or 
the fair value less cost to sell.
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and 
equipment have different useful lives, then they are 
accounted for as separate items (major components) 
of property, plant and equipment.
	
Borrowing cost directly attributable to acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment which take substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended use are 
capitalized to the extent they relate to the period till 
such assets are ready to be put to use.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives 
and residual value
	
Depreciation is provided on a Straight Line Method 
(‘SLM’) over estimated useful life of the property, 
plant and equipment less their estimated residual 
value as defined by the Management. Depreciation 
for assets purchased / sold during the year is 
proportionately charged.
Category of assets
Useful life estimated 
by Management
Leasehold land
Over the period of lease
Buildings
30 years
Plant and machinery*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Measuring 
instruments*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Electrical installations*
10 years, 13 years and 
21 years for 3 shifts, 
2 shifts and 1 shift 
respectively
Data  processing 
equipment                              
4 years
Office equipment                          5 years
Furniture and fixtures            5 -10 years
Tools, dies and moulds      9 years
Vehicles*                                             10 years
Motor boat*                                          
20 years
Assets taken on lease:
 - Leasehold 
improvements                               
Period of lease tenure 
or useful life of assets 
whichever is lower
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
* The Management believes that the useful lives as 
given above best represent the period over which 
management expects to use these assets based 
on an internal assessment and technical evaluation 
where necessary. Hence, the useful lives for these 
assets is different from the useful lives as prescribed 
under Part C of Schedule II of the Companies Act 
,2013.
	
The assets residual value and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of 
each reporting period. An asset’s carrying amount is 
written down immediately to its recoverable amount 
if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount.
	
Derecognition of property, plant and equipment
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is 
derecognised upon disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected to arise from the 
continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising 
on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, 
plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss. Gains and losses on disposal are 
determined by comparing proceeds with carrying 
amount. These are included in profit or loss within 
other gains / losses.
	
Advance paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date classified as capital advances under other 
non current assets and the cost of the assets not put 
to use before such date are disclosed under Capital 
work in progress.
g	
Intangible assets	
	
Acquired intangible assets
	
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company, 
which have finite useful lives, are measured initially 
at cost. After initial recognition, an intangible asset is 
carried at its cost less any accumulated amortization 
and any accumulated impairment loss.	
	
Internally generated intangible assets
	
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with 
the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical 
knowledge and understanding, is recognized in 
statement of profit and loss as incurred. 
	
An internally -generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following have been demonstrated:
-	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale;
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 9 1
-	
the intention to complete the intangible asset 
and use or sell it;
-	
the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
-	
how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
-	
the availability of adequate technical, financial and 
other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
-	
the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during its 
development.	
	
The amount initially recognised for internally-
generated intangible assets is the sum of the 
expenditure incurred from the date when the 
intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria 
listed 
above. 
Where 
no 
internally-generated 
intangible asset can be recognised, development 
expenditure is recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss in the period in which it is incurred.
	
Subsequent 
to 
initial 
recognition, 
internally 
generated intangible assets are reported at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible 
assets that are acquired separately.	
	
Subsequent measurement	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it 
increases the future economic benefits embodied 
in the specific asset to which it relates. All other 
expenditure, including on internally generated 
software is recognized in profit and loss as and when 
incurred.	
	
Amortisation
	
The Company amortizes intangible assets with a 
finite useful life using the straight-line method over 
the estimated useful lives.	
	
The estimated useful lives of intangibles are as 
follows:
Category of asset                    Useful life                                     
Application Software              4 years
Prototype development   10 years
	
The assets residual value and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of 
each reporting period.
h	
Impairment	
(i) 	 Financial assets
	
The Company assesses on a forward looking 
basis the expected credit losses associated with 
its assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI 
debt instruments. The impairment methodology 
applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk. 
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company 
applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for 
measurement and recognition of impairment 
loss. The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ 
for recognition of impairment loss on trade 
receivables. The application of simplified approach 
does not require the Company to track changes 
in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each 
reporting date, right from initial recognition. 
For recognition of impairment loss on financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Company 
determines that whether there has been a 
significant increase in the credit risk since initial 
recognition. If credit risk has not increased 
significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide 
for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is 
used. If in subsequent period, credit quality of 
the instrument improves such that there is no 
longer a significant increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition, then the entity reverts to 
recognizing impairment loss allowance based on 
12 month ECL.	
(ii)	 Non-financial assets
	
Intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment
	
Intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher 
of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-
use) is determined on an individual asset basis 
unless the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are largely independent of those from other 
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount 
is determined for the CGU to which the asset 
belongs.
	
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss is measured by the amount by 
which the carrying value of the assets exceeds 
the estimated recoverable amount of the asset. 
An impairment loss is reversed in the statement 
of profit and loss if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount.
	
The carrying amount of the asset is increased 
to its revised recoverable amount, provided 
that this amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined (net 
of any accumulated amortization or depreciation) 
had no impairment loss been recognized for the 
asset in prior years.	
1 9 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
i	
Leases
(i)	 The Company as a lessee :
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily 
consist of leases for land, buildings and plant 
and machinery. The Company assesses whether 
a contract contains a lease, at inception of a 
contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if 
the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. To assess whether 
a contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset, the Company assesses 
whether : 
(i)	
 the contract involves the use of an identified 
asset 
(ii) 	 the Company has substantially all of the 
economic benefits from use of the asset 
through the period of the lease and 
(iii)	 the Company has the right to direct the use 
of the asset. 
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use (ROU) asset 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of 12 months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For these 
short‑term and low-value leases, the Company 
recognizes the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the lease. 
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options 
to extend or terminate the lease before the 
end of the lease term. ROU assets and lease 
liabilities includes these options when it is 
reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made 
at or prior to the commencement date of the 
lease plus any initial direct costs less any lease 
incentives. They are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
ROU 
assets 
are 
depreciated 
from 
the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful 
life of the underlying asset. ROU assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, the 
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair 
value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is 
determined on an individual asset basis unless 
the asset does not generate cash flows that 
are largely independent of those from other 
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) 
to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at 
amortized cost at the present value of the 
future lease payments. The lease payments 
are discounted using the interest rate implicit in 
the lease or, if not readily determinable, using 
the incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to 
the related ROU asset if the Company changes 
its assessment of whether it will exercise an 
extension or a termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet and 
lease payments have been classified as financing 
cash flows.
	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets:
	
The Company has elected not to recognise 
right-of use assets and lease liabilities for leases 
of low value assets and short-term leases. 
The Company recognises the lease payments 
associated with these leases as an expense on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
(ii)	 The Company as a lessor
	
Leases for which the Company is a lessor 
is classified as a finance or operating lease. 
Whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified 
as a finance lease. All other leases are classified 
as operating leases.
	
When the Company is an intermediate lessor, 
it accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sublease separately. The sublease is 
classified as a finance or operating lease by 
reference to the ROU asset arising from the 
head lease. 
	
For operating leases, rental income is recognized 
on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease.
j	
Inventories
	
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value. Cost of inventories comprises 
purchase price, costs of conversion and other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. In determining 
the cost, weighted average cost is used. Net 
realizable value is the estimated selling price in 
the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs to sell. The comparison of cost and net 
realizable value is made on an item-by-item basis.
Inventories are stated net of write down or 
allowances on account of obsolescence, damage or 
slow moving items.
	
The method of determination of cost is as follows:
- 	
Raw materials and components – on a weighted 
average basis
-	
Stores and spares – on a weighted average basis
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 9 3
- 	
Work-in-progress – includes costs of conversion 
-	
 Finished goods – includes costs of conversion
 -	
 Goods in transit – at purchase cost
	
The net realizable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the net realizable value 
of related finished goods. Raw materials and other 
supplies held for use in production of inventories are 
not written down below cost except in cases where 
material prices have declined, and it is estimated that 
the cost of the finished products will exceed their 
net realizable value. Fixed production overheads are 
allocated on the basis of normal capacity of production 
facilities. The provision for inventory obsolescence is 
assessed periodically and is provided as considered 
necessary.
k	
Revenue recognition 
	
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of 
promised goods or services to customers and is 
measured based on the consideration to which the 
Company expects to be entitled to in a contract 
with a customer and excludes trade discounts, 
volume rebates and amounts collected on behalf of 
government. For certain contracts that permit the 
customer to return an item, revenue is recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal 
in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised 
will not occur and is reassessed at the end of each 
reporting period. 
	
Where the Company’s contracts with customers 
include promise to transfer multiple goods and 
services to a customer, the Company assesses the 
goods/services promised in a contract and identifies 
distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identification of distinct performance obligations is 
made to determine the deliverables and the ability 
of the customer to benefit independently from such 
deliverables. 
	
The Company considers indicators such as how 
customer consumes benefits as services are 
rendered or who controls the asset as it is being 
created or existence of enforceable right to payment 
for performance to date and alternate use of’ such 
goods, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the 
customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, 
etc. to determine whether the performance obligation 
is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time.
	
Revenue from customer contracts for design and 
development of products/tools & jigs is recognized 
as a performance obligation satisfied over time. 
Revenue is recognized based on the stage of 
completion of the contract. The management has 
assessed that the stage of completion determined 
as the proportion of total efforts expected to develop 
the product at the end of the reporting period is an 
appropriate measure of progress towards complete 
satisfaction of these performance obligations under 
Ind AS 115. Payment for these services is not due 
till the completion of the development and therefore, 
a contract asset is recognized over the period in 
which the development services are performed 
representing the entity’s right to consideration for 
the services performed to date. 
	
Export benefits are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss account when the right to receive 
credit as per the terms of the entitlement is 
established in respect of exports made.
	
Service 
income 
including 
management 
fees 
is measured based on transaction price and is 
recognized when an unconditional right to receive 
such income is established and on the performance 
of services.
	
Contract assets are recognised when there is excess 
of revenue earned over billings on contracts. Contract 
assets are classified as unbilled receivables (only act 
of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional 
right to receive cash, and only passage of time 
is required, as per contractual terms. Unearned 
revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when 
there are billings in excess of revenue.
l	
Other income
	
For all financial instruments measured at amortised 
cost, interest income is recorded using the effective 
interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly 
discounts the estimated future cash payments 
or receipts over the expected life of the financial 
instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, 
to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Interest income is included in other income in the 
statement of profit and loss.	
	
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s 
right to receive the payment is established, which is 
generally when shareholders approve the dividend.
m	 Investments in subsidiaries	
	
Investment in equity shares in subsidiaries is carried 
at deemed cost less impairments if any in the 
financial statements.
n	
Financial Instruments	
i)	
Financial assets	
1)	 Recognition and initial measurement
	
Trade 
receivables 
and 
debt 
securities 
are 
initially recognized when they are originated. All 
other financial assets  and liabilities are initially 
recognized when the Company becomes a party 
to 
contractual 
provisions 
of 
the 
instrument.
A financial asset or liability is initially measured 
at fair value plus transaction cost that are directly 
attributable to its acquisition or issue.
2)	 Classification and subsequent measurement
	
Financial assets
	
On initial recognition, a financial instrument is 
classified and measured at
- 	
amortised cost
- 	
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI) - debt instruments; 
1 9 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
- 	
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI) - equity investments; or
-	
fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
	
Financial assets are not classified subsequent 
to their initial recognition, except if and in the 
period the Company changes its business model 
for managing financial assets.
	
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if 
it meets both the following conditions and is not 
designated as at FVTPL:
-	
the asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets to collect contractual 
cash flows; and
-	
the contractual terms of the financial assets give 
rise on a specified date to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amounts outstanding.	
	
A debt investment is measured at FVTOCI if it meets 
both of the following conditions and is not designated 
as at FVTPL:
-	
the asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flow and selling financial assets; 
and
-	
the contractual terms of the financial assets give 
rise on a specified date to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amounts outstanding.	
	
On initial recognition of an equity investment that is 
not held for trading, the Company may irrevocably 
elect to present subsequent changes in the 
investment’s fair value in OCI (designated as FVOCI- 
equity investment). This election is made on an 
investment-to-investment basis.
	
All financial assets not classified as amortised cost 
or FVOCI as described above are measured at 
FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets. 
On initial recognition, the Company may irrevocably 
designate a financial asset that otherwise meets 
the requirements to be measured at amortised cost 
or at FVOCI as at FVTPL, if doing so eliminates or 
significantly reduces an accounting mistake that 
would otherwise arise.
	
Financial assets: Subsequent measurement and 
gains and losses	
	
Financial assets, at FVTPL: 	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Net gains and losses, including any interest or 
dividend income are recognized in profit or loss.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost:
	
These assets are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. 
Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses 
and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any 
gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in profit or 
loss.
	
Debt investments at FVTOCI:	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Interest income under effective interest 
method, foreign exchange gains and losses and 
impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Other 
net gains and losses are recognized in OCI. On 
derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in OCI 
are reclassified to profit or loss.	
	
Equity investments at FVTOCI:	
	
These assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Dividends are recognized as income in profit 
or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a 
recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Other 
net gains and losses are recognized in OCI and are 
not reclassified to profit or loss.
3)	 Derecognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset is derecognized only when:
- 	
the Company has transferred the rights to receive 
cash flows from financial asset or
-	
retains the contractual rights to receive the cash 
flows from financial asset but assumed a contractual 
obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more 
recipients.
	
Where the Company has transferred an asset, the 
Company 
evaluates 
whether 
it 
has 
transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the 
financial asset. In such cases, the financial asset is 
derecognized. Where the entity has not transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the 
financial asset, the financial asset is not derecognized.
	
Where the Company has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset is 
derecognized if the Company has not retained control of 
the financial asset. Where the Company retains control 
of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognized to the extent of continuing involvement in the 
financial asset.	
ii)	 Financial liability 	
1)	 Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss or amortised cost. All 
financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair 
value and, in case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs.
2)	 Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends 
on their classification, as described below:
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss
	
Financial liabilities at  fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading 
and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at  fair value through profit or 
loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for 
trading if they are incurred for the purpose of 
repurchasing in the near term.
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 9 5
	
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognized in the profit or loss.
	
Financial 
liabilities 
designated 
upon 
initial 
recognition at  fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses attributable to changes 
in own credit risk are recognized in OCI. These 
gains/ losses are not subsequently transferred 
to statement of profit and loss. However, the 
Company may transfer the cumulative gain or 
loss within equity. All other changes in fair value 
of such liability are recognized in the statement of 
profit or loss. The Company has not designated 
any financial liability as at fair value through profit 
or loss .
	
Amortised cost
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans 
and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the Effective Interest 
Rate (“EIR”) method. Gains and losses are 
recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities 
are derecognized as well as through the EIR 
amortization process.
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any discount or premium on acquisition 
and fees or costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance 
costs in the statement of profit and loss.	
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are those contracts that require a 
payment to be made to reimburse the holder 
for a loss it incurs because the specified party 
fails to make a payment when due in accordance 
with the terms of a debt instrument.
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized 
initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the 
liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of loss allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognized less cumulative amortization.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial liability is derecognized when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification 
is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognized in the statement of profit or loss.
	
Offsetting
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount reported in the balance sheet 
if there is a currently enforceable legal right to 
offset the recognized amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
Derivative financial instruments and Hedge 
Accounting
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Company 
uses certain derivative financial instruments 
to reduce business risks which arise from its 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate 
fluctuations. 
	
The instruments are confined principally to 
forward foreign exchange contracts, cross 
currency swaps, interest rate swaps and collars. 
The instruments are employed as hedges of 
transactions included in the financial statements 
or for highly probable forecast transactions/ 
firm contractual commitments. Derivatives are 
initially accounted for and measured at fair value 
on the date the derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at the end of each reporting period. 
	
The Company adopts hedge accounting for 
forward foreign exchange and interest rate 
contracts wherever possible. At inception of 
each hedge, there is a formal, documented 
designation of the hedging relationship. This 
documentation includes, inter alia, items such as 
identification of the hedged item and transaction 
and nature of the risk being hedged. At inception, 
each hedge is expected to be highly effective in 
achieving an offset of changes in fair value or 
cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The 
effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the 
risk associated with the exposure being hedged 
is assessed and measured at the inception and 
on an ongoing basis. The ineffective portion of 
designated hedges is recognised immediately in 
the statement of profit and loss. 
	
The 
Company 
designates 
certain 
foreign 
exchange forward and options contracts as 
cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk of foreign 
exchange exposure on highly probable forecast 
cash transactions. The Company determines the 
existence of an economic relationship between 
the hedging instrument and hedged item 
based on the currency, amount and timing of 
its forecasted cash flows. Hedge effectiveness 
is determined at the inception of the hedge 
relationship, and through periodic prospective 
effectiveness assessments to ensure that 
an economic relationship exists between the 
hedged item and hedging instrument, including 
whether the hedging instrument is expected to 
offset changes in cash flows of hedged items.
1 9 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes 
is no longer optimal but the risk management 
objective remains unchanged and the hedge 
continues to qualify for hedge accounting, 
the hedge relationship will be rebalanced by 
adjusting either the volume of the hedging 
instrument or the volume of the hedged item so 
that the hedge ratio aligns with the ratio used 
for risk management purposes. Any hedge 
ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss at the time 
of the hedge relationship rebalancing.
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash 
flow hedge instrument, the effective portion 
of changes in the fair value of the derivative is 
recognized in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve, 
and is transferred to the Statement of Profit and 
Loss upon the occurrence of the related forecast 
transaction.
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain 
or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in 
equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is 
no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative 
gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to 
the statement of profit and loss for the period. 
In cases where hedge accounting is not applied, 
changes in the fair value of derivatives are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss as 
and when they arise.	
o	
Employee benefits	
(i)	 Defined benefit plans
	
The Company’s gratuity plan is a defined benefit 
plan. The present value of gratuity obligation under 
such defined benefit plans is determined based on 
actuarial valuations carried out by an independent 
actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method, 
which recognizes each period of service as giving rise 
to additional unit of employee benefit entitlement 
and measure each unit separately to build up the final 
obligation. The obligation is measured at the present 
value of estimated future cash flows. The discount 
rates used for determining the present value of 
obligation under defined benefit plans, is based 
on the market yields on Government securities as 
at the balance sheet date, having maturity periods 
approximating to the terms of related obligations.
	
Actuarial gains or losses are recognized in other 
comprehensive income. Further, the profit or loss 
does not include an expected return on plan assets. 
Instead net interest recognized in profit or loss is 
calculated by applying the discount rate used to 
measure the defined benefit obligation to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. The actual return 
on plan assets above or below the discount rate is 
recognized as part of remeasurement of net defined 
liability or asset through other comprehensive 
income. Remeasurements comprising actuarial 
gains or losses and return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability) are not reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods.
	
The Company’s gratuity scheme is administered 
through Life Insurance Corporation of India and the 
provision for the same is determined on the basis 
of actuarial valuation carried out by an independent 
actuary. Provision is made for the shortfall, if any, 
between the amounts required to be contributed to 
meet the accrued liability for gratuity as determined 
by actuarial valuation and the available corpus of the 
funds.	
(ii)	 Short term employee benefits
	
All employee benefits falling due wholly within 
twelve months of rendering the services are 
classified as short-term employee benefits, which 
include benefits like salaries, wages, short-term 
compensated absences and performance incentives 
and are recognised as expenses in the period in 
which the employee renders the related service.
	
Short term employee benefits are measured on 
an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognized 
for the amount expected to be paid e.g. short term 
performance incentive, if the Company has a present 
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as 
a result of past services provided by the employee 
and the amount of obligation can be estimated 
reliably. 
	
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a 
plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that 
relates to past service (‘past service cost’ or ‘past 
service gain’) or the gain or loss on curtailment is 
recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Company 
recognizes gains and losses on the settlement of a 
defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
(iii)	Compensated absences	
	
The employees of the Company are entitled to 
compensated absence. The employees can carry-
forward a portion of the unutilized accumulating 
compensated absence and utilize it in future 
periods. The Company records an obligation for 
compensated absences in the period in which the 
employee renders the services that increases this 
entitlement. The obligation is measured on the 
basis of an independent actuarial valuation using 
the Projected Unit method as at the reporting date. 
Actuarial gains / losses are immediately taken to the 
Standalone statement of profit and loss and Other 
comprehensive income.
(iv)	Defined contribution plan	
	
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment 
benefit plan under which an entity pays specified 
contributions to a separate entity and has no obligation 
to pay any further amounts. The Company makes 
specified monthly contributions towards employee 
Provident 
Fund 
to 
Government 
administered 
Provident Fund Scheme which is a defined 
contribution plan. The Company’s contribution is 
recognized as an expense in the statement of profit 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 9 7
and loss during the period in which the employee 
renders the related service.	
(v)	 Termination benefits
	
Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of 
when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer 
of those benefits and when the Company recognizes 
cost of restructuring. If the benefits are not expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months of reporting 
date, then they are discounted.
p	
Foreign 
currency 
transactions 
and 
balances	
	
Foreign currency are translated into the functional 
currency using the exchange rates at the dates of 
the transactions. Foreign currency denominated 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated 
into relevant functional currency at exchange 
rates in effect at the balance  sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from 
the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at year end 
exchange rates are recognized in profit or loss.
	
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency and measured at fair 
value are translated at the exchange rate prevalent 
at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency and measured 
at historical cost are translated at the exchange 
rate prevalent at the date of transaction. Translation 
differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value are reported as part of the fair value gain or 
loss and are recognized in profit and loss, except 
exchange differences arising from the translation of 
the following items which are recognized in OCI:
-	
equity investments at fair value through OCI 
(FVOCI)
-	
a financial liability designated as a hedge of the 
net investment in a foreign operation to the 
extent that the hedge is effective; and
- 	
qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that 
the hedges are effective.
q	
Taxes
	
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred 
income tax. Income tax expense is recognized in 
net profit in the statement of profit and loss except 
to the extent it relates to items recognized directly 
in equity, in which case it is recognized in other 
comprehensive income.
	
Current income tax for current and prior periods is 
recognized at the amount expected to be paid or 
recovered from the tax authorities, using the tax rates 
and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for 
all temporary differences arising between  the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements except for the 
cases mentioned below:
	
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply to taxable income in 
the years in which those temporary differences are 
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of 
changes in tax rates on deferred income tax assets 
and liabilities is recognized as income or expense in 
the period that includes the enactment or substantive 
enactment date.
	
Deferred tax is not recognized for:
- 	
temporary differences arising on the initial 
recognition of assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that is not a business combination 
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profits or loss at the time of the transaction;
-	
temporary investments related to investment in 
subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements 
to the extent that the Company is able to 
control the timing of reversal of  the temporary 
differences and it is probable that they will not 
reverse in the forcible future; and
-	
taxable temporary difference arising on the initial 
recognition of goodwill.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which they can be used. The 
existence of unused tax losses is strong evidence 
that future taxable profit may not be available. 
Therefore, in case of history of recent losses, the 
Company recognizes a deferred tax asset only to 
the extent that it has sufficient taxable temporary 
differences or there is convincing other evidence 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available 
against which such deferred tax can be realized. 
Deferred tax assets, unrecognized or recognised, are 
reviewed at each reporting date and are recognised 
/ reduced to the extent that it is probable / no longer 
probable respectively that the related tax benefit will 
be realized.
	
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternative Tax 
(‘MAT’) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, 
which is likely to give future economic benefits in the 
form of availability of set off against future income tax 
liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognized as deferred 
tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be 
measured reliably, and it is probable that the future 
economic benefit associated with the asset will be 
realized.	
	
The Company offsets, the current tax assets and 
liabilities (on a year on year basis) and deferred 
tax assets and liabilities, where it has a legally 
enforceable right and where it intends to settle such 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.	
1 9 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
r	
Discontinued operations and assets held for 
sale:	
(i)	 Discontinued operations:
	
A discontinued operation is a component of the 
Company’s business, the operations and cash flows 
of which can be clearly distinguished from those 
of the rest of the Company’s business and which 
represents a separate major line of business or 
geographical area of operations and
 - 	 is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
a separate major line of business or geographic 
area of operations or 
 - 	 is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view 
to re- sale.
	
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs 
upon disposal or when the operations meets the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
When a operation is classified as a discontinued 
operation, the comparative statement of profit and 
loss is re-presented as if the operations had been 
discontinued from the start of the comparative 
period.
(ii)	 Assets held for sale:
	
Non-current assets and disposal group are classified 
as “Held for Sale” if their carrying amount is 
intended to be recovered principally through sale 
rather than through continuing use. The condition 
for classification of “Held for Sale” is met when the 
non-current asset or the disposal group is available 
for immediate sale and the same is highly probable 
of being completed within one year from the date of 
classification as “Held for Sale”. Non-current assets 
and disposal group held for sale are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost 
to sell. Non-current assets and disposal group that 
ceases to be classified as “Held for Sale” shall be 
measured at the lower of carrying amount before the 
non-current asset and disposal group was classified 
as “Held for Sale” adjusted for any depreciation/ 
amortization and its recoverable amount at the date 
when the disposal group no longer meets the “Held 
for sale” criteria.
s	
Provisions (other than employee benefits)
(i)	 General
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation. When 
the Company expects some or all of a provision to 
be reimbursed, the expense relating to a provision is 
presented in the statement of profit and loss net of 
any reimbursement.”	
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to 
the liability. When discounting is used, the increase 
in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognised as a finance cost.	
(ii)	 Onerous contract:
	
Provision for onerous contracts. i.e. contracts 
where the expected unavoidable cost of meeting 
the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it, 
are recognised when it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle a present obligation as a result of 
an obligating event based on a reliable estimate of 
such obligation.	
t	
Contingent Liability	
	
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where 
there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
arising from the past events that may probably not 
require an outflow of resources. When there is a 
possible or a present obligation where the likelihood 
of outflow of resources is remote, no provision or 
disclosure is made.
u	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent includes cash on hand, 
other short-term, highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value, and bank overdrafts.
v	
Cash flow statement
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby net profit before taxes for the period is 
adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash 
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future 
operating cash receipts or payments and item of 
income or expenses associated with investing or 
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, 
investing and financing activities of the Company are 
segregated.	
w	 Earnings per share
	
The basic earnings per share is computed by 
dividing the net profit attributable to the owners of 
the Company for the year by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during reporting 
period. The number of shares used in computing 
diluted earnings per share comprises the weighted 
average shares considered for deriving basic earnings 
per share and also the weighted average number of 
equity shares which could have been issued on the 
conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
	
Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed converted 
as of the beginning of the reporting date, unless they 
have been issued at a later date. In computing diluted 
earnings per share, only potential equity shares that 
is dilutive and which either reduces earnings per 
share or increase loss per share are included.	
x	
Segment reporting	
	
Based on the “management approach” as defined 
in Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Chief 
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   1 9 9
Operating Decision Maker evaluates the Company’s 
performance and allocates resources based on 
an analysis of various performance indicators by 
business segments. Accordingly, information has 
been presented along these business segments viz. 
Hydraulics, Aerospace, Automotive and aluminium 
castings (Discontinued operations) and Others.
y	
Warranties	
	
Warranty costs are estimated by the Management on 
the basis of technical evaluation and past experience. 
Provision is made for estimated liability in respect of 
warranty costs in the period of sale of goods.
z	
Cash 
dividend 
to 
equity 
holders 
of 
the 
Company	
	
The Company recognises a liability to make cash 
distributions to equity holders of the Company when 
the distribution is authorised, and the distribution 
is no longer at the discretion of the Company. Final 
dividends on shares are recorded as a liability on the 
date of approval by the shareholders and interim 
dividends are recorded as a liability on the date of 
declaration by the Company’s Board of Directors.
aa	 Exceptional items	
	
An item of income or expense which by its size, 
type, nature or incidence requires disclosure in order 
to improve an understanding of the performance of 
the Company is treated as an exceptional item and 
the same is disclosed in the notes to accounts.
3	
Recent Pronouncements	
	
On May 7, 2025, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
(MCA) has notified Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2025. This notification 
has resulted into amendments in Ind AS 21 - Effects 
of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates which are 
applicable to the Company from April 1, 2025.
The Company is assessing the impact of the above 
amendments on the Company’s financial statements.
2 0 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(Rs in Lakhs)
3	
Property, plant and equipment, Other intangible assets, Capital work-in-progress and Intangible assets under Development
3.1	
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
Owned 
 Leased 
 Total 
Freehold 
land
Buildings  Plant and 
Machinery 
 Measuring 
Instruments 
 Electrical 
Installations 
 Data  
Processing 
Equipment 
 Office 
Equipment 
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Tools, Dies
 and Moulds Vehicles Motor 
Boat
 Leasehold 
improvements 
Land
(Refer Note 
(i) below) 
Gross carrying amount:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 - 
 2,283 
 6,714 
 1,368 
 632 
 1,007 
 724 
 235 
 3,072 
 411  402 
 514 
 12,708  30,070 
Additions
 - 
 7,405 
 1,081 
 36 
 887 
 386 
 113 
 150 
 211 
 466 
 - 
 90 
 -  10,825 
Assets transferred from 
assets held for sale (Refer 
Note 36)
 1,089 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,089 
Deletion
 - 
 - 
 (427)
 (14)
 (14)
 (87)
 (37)
 (84)
 (15)
 (1)
 - 
 (347)
 -  (1,026)
Balance as at 31 March 
2024
 1,089 
 9,688 
 7,368 
 1,390 
 1,505 
 1,306 
 800 
 301 
 3,268 
 876  402 
 257 
 12,708  40,958 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 1,089 
 9,688 
 7,368 
 1,390 
 1,505 
 1,306 
 800 
 301 
 3,268 
 876  402 
 257 
 12,708  40,958 
Additions
 - 
 27 
 251 
 97 
 41 
 240 
 79 
 50 
 297 
 15 
 - 
 31 
 - 
 1,128 
Deletion
 - 
 - 
 (96)
 (5)
 - 
 (104)
 - 
 - 
 (70)
 (87)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (362)
Balance as at 31 March 
2025
 1,089 
 9,715 
 7,523 
 1,482 
 1,546 
 1,442 
 879 
 351 
 3,495 
 804  402 
 288 
 12,708  41,724 
Accumulated depreciation:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 - 
 444 
 4,672 
 472 
 162 
 734 
 503 
 127 
 1,813 
 313  237 
 369 
 - 
 9,846 
Depreciation for the year 
 - 
 156 
 449 
 235 
 91 
 123 
 88 
 30 
 295 
 31 
 18 
 50 
 - 
 1,566 
Depreciation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 (381)
 - 
 - 
 (58)
 (29)
 (47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (298)
 - 
 (813)
Balance as at 31 March 
2024
 - 
 600 
 4,740 
 707 
 253 
 799 
 562 
 110 
 2,108 
 344  255 
 121 
 -  10,599 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 - 
 600 
 4,740 
 707 
 253 
 799 
 562 
 110 
 2,108 
 344  255 
 121 
 -  10,599 
Depreciation for the year 
 - 
 346 
 456 
 96 
 135 
 168 
 72 
 28 
 277 
 66 
 18 
 23 
 1,685 
Depreciation on deletion
 - 
 - 
 (87)
 - 
 - 
 (92)
 - 
 - 
 (51)
 (35)
 - 
 - 
 (265)
Balance as at 31 March 
2025
 - 
 946 
 5,109 
 803 
 388 
 875 
 634 
 138 
 2,334 
 375  273 
 144 
 -  12,019 
Net carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2025
 1,089 
 8,769 
 2,414 
 679 
 1,158 
 567 
 245 
 213 
 1,161 
 429  129 
 144 
 12,708  29,705 
As at 31 March 2024
 1,089 
 9,088 
 2,628 
 683 
 1,252 
 507 
 238 
 191 
 1,160 
 532  147 
 136 
 12,708  30,359 
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	Leasehold land aggregating INR 12,708 represents land allotted by Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) for a period of 10 years on lease. As per the 
lease agreement dated 21 August 2014  KIADB shall sell the land to the Company at any time during the tenure of the lease or on the expiry of the lease period at an additional 
consideration, if any to be decided at the time of entering into sale agreement. Accordingly, no depreciation has been charged on land taken on lease from KIADB. The Company 
has filed an application for the transfer of the land in the name of Company during August 2024 and believes that the condition required to be fulfilled to obtain the ownership 
of this land is administrative in nature.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 0 1
3.2	
Intangible assets
Particulars
Application 
Software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 445 
 445 
Additions
 121 
 121 
Deletion
 (5)
 (5)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 561 
 561 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 561 
 561 
Additions
 250 
 250 
Deletion
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 811 
 811 
Accumulated amortisation:
Balance as at 1 April 2023
 165 
 165 
Amortisation for the year 
 120 
 120 
Amortisation on deletion
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 285 
 285 
Balance as at 1 April 2024
 285 
 285 
Amortisation for the year 
 150 
 150 
Amortisation on deletion
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 435 
 435 
Net carrying amount:
As at 31 March 2025
 376 
 376 
As at 31 March 2024
 276 
 276 
3.3	
Capital work-in-progress
	
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at 31 March 2025 is as follows:
Particulars
Less than
 1 year
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than
3 year
 Total 
Building expansion at Aerotropolis
 6 
 - 
1
-
 7 
Plant & Machinery
 628 
 29 
 - 
 - 
 657 
Total
 634 
 29 
1
-
 664 
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at 31 March 2024 is as follows:
Particulars
Less than
 1 year
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than
3 year
 Total 
SAP Software 
 10 
 69 
 - 
 - 
 79 
Building expansion at Aerotropolis
 4 
 1 
 6 
 - 
 11 
Plant & Machinery
 29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 29 
Total
 43 
 70 
 6 
 - 
 119 
3.4	
Intangible assets under development
Particulars
Less than
 1 year
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than
3 year
 Total 
Projects 
563
 - 
 - 
 - 
 563 
(Rs in Lakhs)
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 0 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
4
Non-current investments
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unquoted equity shares
Investment in subsidiaries carried at cost less provision for other 
than temporary diminution in value
i)
4,999,930 equity shares (31 March 2024: 4,999,930 equity shares) of 
face value of INR 10 each fully paid up of JKM Research Farm Limited 
 2,448 
 2,448 
ii)
3,64,41,328 equity shares (31 March 2024: 3,64,41,328 equity shares) 
of face value of INR 10 each fully paid up of Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited (formerly known as JKM Ferrotech Limited) ('DML') [Refer 
note (a) below]
 3,694 
 3,644 
iii)
20,689,462 equity shares (31 March 2024: 19,322,937 equity shares) 
of face value of SGD 1 each fully paid up of JKM Global Pte Limited, 
Singapore [Refer note (b) below]
 22,962 
 20,969 
Less: Provision for impairment 
 1,900 
 1,900 
 21,062 
 19,069 
iv)
107,914,994 equity shares (31 March 2024: 107,914,994  equity 
shares) of face value of INR 10 each fully paid of JKM Erla Automotive 
Limited [Refer note (c) below]
 26,221 
 26,221 
Less: Provision for impairment 
 13,719 
 13,719 
 12,502 
 12,502 
 39,706 
 37,663 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 55,325 
 53,282 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 15,619 
 15,619 
(a)	
During the Current year, The Company has provided the corporate guarantee on behalf of Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited, wholly owned subsidiary to Bank towards the loan availed, accordingly the Company has recognised the Corporate 
Guarantee (Refer Note 19 and 37).
	
Last year, the Company has subscribed to the Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited’s equity share on 25 March 2024 under 
Rights issue towards 3,50,00,000 equity shares at face value of INR 10 each.
(b)	
The Company has subscribed to the JKM Global Pte Limited ‘s ordinary share on 15 July 2024 towards 13,66,525 at 
subscription price of SGD 2.36 per share (Face Value of Share is SGD 1 per share).
(c)	
The Company’s investments in its German operations are held in Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany (EEG), an indirect step 
down wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. EEG, was a wholly owned by JKM Erla Holdings GmbH, Germany (JKM 
Erla), which was a wholly owned subsidiary of JKM Erla Automotive Limited, India (JEAL), another wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company.
	
EEG, is currently undergoing a transformation from automotive and foundry businesses to the aerospace business. 
Considering the various challenges involved, viz., the supply chain crisis at OEMs, current inflation in Europe, and the steep 
and unpredictable increase in the cost of gas and electricity being faced by corporations across Europe, EEG undertook 
corporate restructuring measures through the “Protective Shield Process by Self-Administration” under the applicable 
German Laws, and in this regard, a financial resolution plan was filed before the local court at Chemnitz, which got approved 
by creditors in favour of EEG. Consequent to this, the local court at Chemnitz passed its final order and ended the protective 
shield through self-administration proceedings effective 1 August 2023.
	
Owing to the aforesaid intra-group corporate restructuring measures, JKM Erla, engaged in the business of setting up 
automotive component processing/manufacturing units was decided to be dismantled with the aim of streamlining 
the group’s holding structure for German operations, and accordingly an application has been made before appropriate 
authorities and is awaiting necessary order. In the interim, the 100% shareholdings held by JKM Erla in EEG was assigned 
to JEAL. During the year ended 31 March 2025, the order for the liquidation has been received.
	
The restructuring carried out by EEG also envisaged refinancing of certain borrowings of EEG by way intra-group loans. As 
part of the above restructuring: 
1)	
 The Company borrowed as sum of Rs. 7,000 lakhs from Axis Finance Limited
2) 	
The Company granted a loan of SGD 111 lakhs to JKM Global Pte Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn 
provided a loan to EEG through its UK based subsidiary. The said loan recoverable from JKM Global Pte Ltd. continues 
to be outstanding as at 31 March 2025 (Refer note 5).
	
As part of the annual impairment assessment of Investments, the Company has recognized an impairment provision of Rs. 
671 lakhs in respect of its investment in Germany in the year ended 31 March 2024.		
	
	
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 0 3
 5 
Loan
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Inter-company loan provided to subsidiary (Refer Note 48)*
 5,716 
 6,859 
 5,716 
 6,859 
*The Company has provided unsecured inter-company loan to JKM Global Pte Limited of SGD 111 Lakhs and JKM Erla 
Automotive Limited of INR 73 Lakhs, 100% wholly owned subsidiaries. 
Amount receivable within 12 months has been re-classified to other current financial assets.
          Refer below the movement of Inter-company loan:
As at 31 March 2025:
Name of the 
borrower 
and nature of 
relationship
Security
Rate of 
Interest 
As of 1 
April 2024
Given 
during the 
year
Repayment 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2025
Maximum 
amount 
outstanding 
during the 
year ended 
31 March 
2025
JKM Global Pte 
Limited - Wholly 
owned subsidiary
Unsecured
10.75%
SGD 
11,100,000
 - 
 - 
SGD 
11,100,000
SGD 
11,100,000
JKM Erla Automotive 
Limited, India - 
Wholly owned 
subsidiary
Unsecured
10.25%
INR 
7 lakhs
 INR 
67 lakhs 
 - 
INR 
73 lakhs
INR 
73 lakhs
As at 31 March 2024:
Name of the 
borrower 
and nature of 
relationship
Security
Rate of 
Interest 
As of 1 
April 2023
Given 
during the 
year
Repayment 
during the 
year
As at 
31 March 
2024
Maximum 
amount 
outstanding 
during the 
year ended 
31 March 
2024
JKM Global Pte 
Limited - Wholly 
owned subsidiary
Unsecured
10.75%
-
SGD 
11,100,000
 - 
SGD 
11,100,000
SGD 
11,100,000
JKM Erla Automotive 
Limited, India - 
Wholly owned 
subsidiary
Unsecured
10.25%
-
 INR 
7 lakhs 
 - 
INR 
7 lakhs
INR 
7 lakhs
 6 
Other non-current financial assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Security deposits
 508 
 455 
Accrued Interest (Refer Note 48)*
 770 
 - 
 1,278 
 455 
 *Accrued interest is pertains to Inter-company loan.
 7 
Income tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source, net of provision
 223 
 226 
 223 
 226 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 0 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
 8 
 Other non-current assets 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Prepaid expense
 184 
 192 
Capital advances
 215 
 81 
 399 
 273 
 9 
Inventories (Valued at lower of cost and net realizable value)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Raw materials and components
 7,018 
 4,170 
Work-in-progress
 4,738 
 4,358 
Finished goods
 1,375 
 2,033 
Stores and spares
 1,397 
 1,358 
 14,528 
 11,919 
 10 
Trade receivables
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Trade receivable 
 17,641 
 21,080 
Less: Allowance for credit loss
 (373)
 (392)
 Total trade receivables 
 17,268 
 20,688 
(i) All trade receivables are 'current'.
Of the above, trade receivables from related parties are as below: 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Trade receivables from related parties (Refer Note 48)
 1,213 
 3,303 
Net trade receivables
 1,213 
 3,303 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not 
Due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More 
than 
3 years
 Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good 
 9,887 
 6,255 
 723 
 407 
 238 
 131 
 17,641 
Less: Allowances for credit loss
 (373)
Total Trade receivable
 17,268 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not 
Due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More 
than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade receivables – 
considered good
 8,097 
 10,264 
 1,482 
 928 
 64 
 245 
 21,080 
Less: Allowances for credit loss
 (392)
Total Trade receivable
 20,688 
Note: There are no disputed trade receivables as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024.
The Company’s exposure to credit and currency risks, and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in note 
46.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 0 5
 11 
Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Cash on hand
 1 
 11 
Balance with banks
 - in current accounts 
 264 
 508 
 265 
 519 
Cash and cash equivalents as defined in Ind AS 7 "Statements of Cash 
Flows" 
 265 
 519 
 12 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents above
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
In deposit accounts-held as margin money 
(due to mature within 12 months from the reporting date)*
 1,208 
 1,052 
Unpaid dividend
 10 
 6 
 1,218 
 1,058 
 *Balances in margin money deposits represents deposits made for non-fund based limits with banks, which are 
available for use to settle a liability for not more than 12 months from the balance sheet date. 
 13 
Current Loans
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loans to employees
 138 
 88 
Inter-company loan provided to subsidiary
 1,429 
 - 
 1,567 
 88 
 14 
Other current financial assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Management fee receivable from related parties (Refer Note 48)
 580 
 549 
Security deposits
 51 
 106 
Accrued interest
 584 
 570 
 1,215 
 1,225 
 15 
Other current assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Advances for supply of goods
 1,835 
 664 
Contract assets
 2,553 
 5 
Trade advance to related parties (Refer Note 48)
 797 
 652 
Prepaid expense
 402 
 194 
Balances with government authorities
 3,313 
 2,200 
 8,900 
 3,715 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 0 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
Contract assets ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from date of transaction
Total
Not 
Due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months -
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Contract assets
 2,553 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,553 
Contract assets ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from date of transaction
Total
Not 
Due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months -
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
Contract assets
 5 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 16 
Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Authorised
Equity shares
20,000,000 equity shares (31 March 2024: 20,000,000 equity shares) 
of par value of INR 10 each 
 2,000 
 2,000 
Preference shares
500,000 redeemable cumulative preference shares 
(31 March 2024: 500,000 shares) of par value of INR 100 each
 500 
 500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares
6,791,443 equity shares (31 March 2024: 6,791,443 equity shares) 
of par value of INR 10 each 
 679 
 679 
 679 
 679 
i.
Reconciliation of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
Particulars
 31 March 2025 
 31 March 2024
Number of 
shares
Amount 
(INR in lakhs)
Number of 
shares
Amount 
(INR in lakhs)
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
 67,91,443 
 679 
 67,91,443 
 679 
Shares issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
 67,91,443 
 679 
 67,91,443 
 679 
ii.	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares:	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has a single class of equity shares. Accordingly, all equity shares rank equally with regard to dividends and 
share in the Company’s residual assets. The equity shares are entitled to receive dividend as declared from time to time. 
The voting rights of an equity shareholder on a poll (not on show of hands) are in proportion to its share of the paid-up equity 
capital of the Company.	
	
	
	
	
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining asset 
of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, if any. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of 
equity shares held by the shareholders. 	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has not allotted any fully paid equity shares by way of bonus shares nor has bought back any class of equity 
shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the balance sheet date nor has issued shares for consideration 
other than cash.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 0 7
iii.
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of equity shares in the Company
Particulars
 31 March 2025 
 31 March 2024 
Number of 
shares
% of holding
Number of 
shares
% of holding
Equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up 
held by
i)
Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
ii)
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
iii)
Udayant Malhoutra and Company Private 
Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
iv)
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
v)
Samena Special Situations Mauritius
 3,34,837 
4.93%
 5,55,754 
8.18%
vi)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited                                                
 3,69,859 
5.45%
 3,82,071 
5.63%
iv	
Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at 31 March 2025 is as follows:
Sr.
No
Shares held by promoters 
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
% Change 
during the year
Promoter name
No of 
Shares
% of 
total 
shares
No of 
Shares
% of 
total shares
1
Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 - 
2
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 - 
3
Udayant Malhoutra and Company 
Private Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 - 
4
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 - 
5
Christine Hoden (India) Private 
Limited
 95,100 
1.40%
 95,100 
1.40%
 - 
6
Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
 22,927 
0.34%
 22,927 
0.34%
 - 
7
Barota Malhoutra
 4,938 
0.07%
 4,938 
0.07%
 - 
8
Vita Private Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
9
Primella Sanitary Products Private 
Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 28,43,245 
41.87%
-
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at 31 March 2024 is as follows:
Sr.
No
Shares held by promoters 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
% Change 
during the year
Promoter name
No of 
Shares
% of total 
shares
No of 
Shares
% of total 
shares
1
Udayant Malhoutra
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 5,23,460 
7.71%
 - 
2
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 11,12,538 
16.38%
 - 
3
Udayant Malhoutra and Company 
Private Limited
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 6,42,011 
9.45%
 - 
4
JKM Offshore India Private Limited
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 4,42,071 
6.51%
 - 
5
Christine Hoden (India) Private 
Limited
 95,100 
1.40%
 95,100 
1.40%
 - 
6
Greenearth Biotechnologies Limited
 22,927 
0.34%
 22,927 
0.34%
 - 
7
Barota Malhoutra
 4,938 
0.07%
 4,938 
0.07%
 - 
8
Vita Private Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
9
Primella Sanitary Products Private 
Limited
 100 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
 - 
 28,43,245 
41.87%
 28,43,245 
41.87%
-
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 0 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
17
Other equity (Refer Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement of each component of Other 
Equity)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Capital reserves 
 15 
 15 
Capital redemption reserve 
 240 
 240 
Reserve on amalgamation 
 154 
 154 
General reserve 
 3,138 
 3,138 
Securities premium 
 28,656 
 28,656 
Retained earnings 
 31,482 
 27,162 
Total other equity
 63,685 
 59,365 
(i)	
Capital reserve:	
	
	
Capital reserve was created on account of subsidy received during the year ended 31 March 2005 and is not freely 
available for dividend distribution.	
	
(ii)	
Capital redemption reserve:	
	
	
During the year ended 31 March 2005, an amount of INR 240 lakhs was transferred to Capital redemption reserve 
upon redemption of preference share, in accordance with Section 69 of the Companies Act, 1956. It is not freely 
available for dividend distribution.	
	
(iii)	
Reserve on amalgamation:	
	
	
Reserve on amalgamation was created pursuant to the scheme of amalgamation of JKM Daerim Automotive Limited 
(JDAL) during the year ended 31 March 2008. It is not freely available for dividend distribution.
(iv)	
General reserve:	
	
	
General reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purpose.
(v)	
Securities premium:	 	
	
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium received on issue of shares by the Company. The reserve 
can be utilised in accordance with the provision of the Act.
(vi)	
Retained earnings:	
	
	
The cumulative gain or loss arising from the operations which is retained by the Company is recognised and 
accumulated under the heading of retained earnings. At the end of the year, the profit after tax is transferred from 
the statement of profit and loss to the retained earnings.	
	
	
 18 
Non-current borrowings
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Secured loans
i) Term loans 
- from banks [Refer footnote (i)]
 8,926 
 9,129 
- from financial institutions [Refer footnote (ii)]
 8,557 
 10,362 
Secured loans
ii) Working Capital term loan
- from banks [Refer footnote (i)]
 1,500 
 - 
Total borrowings
 18,983 
 19,491 
Less: Current maturities of long term borrowing
 (1,496)
 (1,310)
Less: Current Maturities of long term borrowings from 
          financial institutions
 (2,207)
 (1,758)
 15,280 
 16,423 
Information about the Company's exposure to interest rate, currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 46.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 0 9
 (i) 
From banks (including current maturities of non - current borrowings shown under current borrowing):
Details of repayment terms, interest and maturity
Nature of Security
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 8,822 (31 March 
2024: INR 9,000) repayable in 28 quarterly instalments. 
First instalment starting from 1 June 2024 with interest rate 
at 9.60% per annum (31 March 2024: 9.60% per annum).
First pari passu charge on the entire movable and immovable 
fixed assets of the Company, present and future. Second 
pari passu charge on the entire current assets of the 
Company. First charge over Debt Service Reserve Account 
(DSRA)
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 104 (31 March 
2024: INR 129) repayable in 60 monthly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 31 October 2023 with interest rate 
at 8.90% per annum (31 March 2024: 8.90% per annum).
Hypothecation of asset (cars)
Working Capital Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 
1,500 (31 March 2024: INR Nil) repayable in 36 equal monthly 
instalments post 24 months of principal moratorium. First 
instalment starting from 1 April 2027 with fixed interest rate 
at 9.20% per annum.
First pari passu charge on the current assets of the 
Company. Second pari passu charge on the movable and 
immovable fixed assets of the Company. 
 (ii) 
From financial institutions (including current maturities of non - current borrowings shown under other 
current borrowing):
Details of repayment terms, interest and maturity
Nature of Security
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
2,407 (31 March 2024: INR 3,080) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 June 2023 
with interest rate of  10.75% per annum (31 March 2024: 
10.75% per annum). 
First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed 
assets of the Company, present and future. Second pari 
passu charge on all current assets of the Company. First 
charge over Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA). 
Personal guarantee issued by the promoter.
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
5,950 (31 March 2023: INR 7,000) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 September 
2024 with interest rate of  10.45% per annum (31 March 
2024: 10.25% per annum). 
First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed 
assets of the Company, present and future. Second pari 
passu charge on all current assets of the Company. 
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 
200 (31 March 2024: INR 282) repayable in 60 monthly 
instalments with interest rate of 10.25% per annum ( 31 
March 2024: 10.25%). 
Hypothecation of assets (cars)
 19 
Other non-current financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Corporate Guarantee Liabilities (Refer Note 37)*
 7 
 - 
 7 
 - 
*The Company has provided the corporate guarantee on behalf of Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited, wholly owned 
subsidiary to Bank towards the loan availed.	 	
 20 
Non-current provisions
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 44)
 2,261 
 1,817 
Provision for compensated absences
 391 
 351 
 2,652 
 2,168 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 1 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
 21 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Refer Note 51)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment's and intangible assets
 1,577 
 1,354 
Fair value impact on investment in subsidiaries 
 2,027 
 3,232 
Total deferred tax liabilities (A)
 3,604 
 4,586 
Deferred tax assets
Provision for gratuity and compensated absences
 781 
 640 
Right of Use Assets & Lease Liabilities
 28 
 46 
Provision for loss allowance
 94 
 99 
Others
 521 
 347 
Total deferred tax assets (B)
 1,424 
 1,132 
Net deferred tax liability (A - B)
 2,180 
 3,454 
 22 
Current borrowings
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Secured Loans
Loans from banks repayable on demand
- Cash credit  and working capital demand loans*
 17,121 
 16,088 
Current maturities of long-term borrowings (Refer Note 18)
 3,703 
 3,068 
 20,824 
 19,156 
* Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 9.25% - 10.35% per annum (31 
March 2024: 10.65%-12,65% per annum), computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable 
on demand. Packing Credit & Working Capital Demand loans in Foreign Currency from banks carry interest rate of 6m 
SOFR+3.00% per annum (31 March 2024: 6m SOFR+3.00% and 6m SOFR+3.50% per annum) . 
These are secured by first pari passu charge by way of hypothecation of stock and book debts of the Company and second 
pari passu charge on the movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company.
Information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate, currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 46.
 23 
Trade payables
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Dues of micro and small enterprises (Refer Note 43)
 1,795 
 1,198 
Dues to creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 12,476 
 9,278 
 14,271 
 10,476 
Trade Payables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2
 years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
MSME*
 1,099 
 647 
 32 
 17 
 - 
 1,795 
Others
 9,195 
 3,055 
 112 
 14 
 100 
 12,476 
Total
10,294
3,702
144
31
100
 14,271 
* old outstanding is on account of retention money.
Trade Payables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not 
Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2
 years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
 MSME 
 1,142 
39
17
 - 
 - 
 1,198 
 Others 
 5,815 
 3,191 
 96 
 160 
 16 
 9,278 
Total
6,957
3,230
113
160
16
 10,476 
All trade payables are current.	
	
	
	
The Company’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 46.	
	
	
	
	
Related party balance are disclosed in note 48.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 11
 24 
Other current financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Accrued expenses
 1,626 
 1,522 
Capital creditors
 33 
 26 
Interest accrued but not due 
 80 
 70 
Security deposits
 57 
 57 
Unpaid dividend
 10 
 6 
 1,806 
 1,681 
The Company's exposure to currency and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 46.
 25 
Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Advance from customers
 324 
 258 
Statutory liabilities
 328 
 203 
 652 
 461 
 26
Current provisions
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Provision for employee benefits:
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 44)
 412 
 332 
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 44)
 39 
 43 
 451 
 375 
 27
Current tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Provision for income tax (net of advance tax and TDS)
 993 
 1,038 
 993 
 1,038 
	
	
 28 
Revenue from operations
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Sale of products
Revenue from sale of products
 63,017 
 57,597 
Total revenue from sale of products (A)
 63,017 
 57,597 
Other Operating revenue
Export Incentive
 256 
 15 
Scrap sales
 645 
 574 
Total other operating revenue (B)
 901 
 589 
Total revenue from operations (A+B) (Refer Note 52)
 63,918 
 58,186 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 1 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
 29 
Other income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost
95
 166 
Interest income on trade advance/ loan to related party (Refer Note 48)
771
 554 
Gain on sale of Property, plant and equipment
 - 
 468 
Net gain on foreign currency transaction and translation
 698 
 503 
Corporate Guarantee Income
 43 
 - 
Gain on lease modification
 31 
 - 
Reversal of Loss allowance on financial assets, net
 19 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
 5 
 139 
 1,661 
 1,830 
 30 
Cost of materials and components consumed 
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Inventory of materials and components at the beginning of the year
 4,170 
 4,907 
Add: Purchases of materials and components
 34,381 
 28,663 
Less: Inventory of materials and components at the end of the year
 (7,018)
 (4,170)
 31,533 
 29,400 
 31 
Changes in inventory of finished goods and work-in-progress
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Opening stock
 - Finished goods
 2,033 
 601 
 - Work-in-progress
 4,358 
 4,175 
 6,391 
 4,776 
Closing stock
 - Finished goods
 (1,375)
 (2,033)
 - Work-in-progress
 (4,738)
 (4,358)
 (6,113)
 (6,391)
 278 
 (1,615)
 32 
Employee benefits expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
 8,568 
 6,953 
Contribution to provident fund and other funds 
 893 
 725 
Staff welfare expenses
 885 
 814 
 10,346 
 8,492 
 33 
Finance costs
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost*
 3,725 
 3,852 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Refer Note 40)
 225 
 224 
Other borrowing cost
 201 
 778 
Interest on delayed payment of taxes
 118 
 172 
 4,269 
 5,026 
* Interest expense includes realised & unrealised Forex exchange loss of INR Nil (31 March 2024: INR 53 Lakhs) on re-
statement of foreign currency term loans.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 1 3
 34 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (Refer Note 3.1)
 1,685 
 1,566 
Amortisation of Right-of-use assets (Refer Note 40)
 714 
 724 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer Note 3.2)
 150 
 120 
 2,549 
 2,410 
 35 
Other expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Subcontractor charges
 2,786 
 2,596 
Consumption of stores, loose tools and spare parts
 2,036 
 2,054 
Power and fuel
 620 
 759 
Legal and professional fees 
 968 
 941 
Payment to Auditors (Refer Note 39)
 105 
91
Travelling and conveyance expenses
 745 
 767 
Rent 
 235 
 264 
Packing expenses
 520 
 540 
Repairs and maintenance:
 - buildings
 108 
 34 
 - plant and machinery
 636 
 548 
 - others
 464 
 345 
Freight outward
 329 
399
Security charges
 255 
 263 
Rates and taxes
 205 
 194 
Loss allowance on financial assets, net
 - 
 115 
Insurance
 273 
 224 
Subscription and advertisement 
 316 
 195 
Bank charges
 91 
 85 
Printing and stationery
 60 
 56 
Communication expenses
 47 
 60 
Directors sitting fees
 67 
 71 
Loss on sale of Property, plant and equipment
 40 
 - 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer Note 53)
 90 
 62 
Miscellaneous expenses
 177 
 141 
 11,173 
 10,805 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 1 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
 36 
Exceptional Items
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Gain on the sale of windfirm land classified as held for sale*
 - 
 6,237 
Provision for impairment on investment (Refer Note 4)
 - 
 (671)
Termination charges on Cross Currency Swap
 - 
 (434)
 - 
 5,132 
*On 6 January 2024, the Company has completed the sale of wind farm lands admeasuring 357.867 acres including building, 
situated at Varapatti Village, Sulur Taluk, Coimbatore, in favour of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited 
(TIDCO), for the setting up of the Southern Defence Industrial Corridor for a compensation amount of Rs. 10,710.81 Lakhs. 

The Company has retained land measuring approximately 87 acres having greater strategic value for future development 
and accordingly the cost of such land amounting to INR 1,089 Lakhs been re-classified from assets held for sale to property, 
plant and equipment.
37
Contingent Liabilities
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Corporate guarantee given as security for the loan availed by 
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited (Wholly owned Subsidiaries)
 1,444 
 - 
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts #
Income tax 
 32 
 32 
Indirect tax 
 619 
 595 
# Outflow, if any, arising out of the said claim including interest, if any, would depend on the outcome of the decision of 
the Appellate Authority and the Company’s right for future appeal before the judiciary.
38
Capital commitments
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account (net of advances) and not provided for 
 1,349 
 411 
There are no other material commitments.
39
Payment to statutory auditors (excluding goods and service tax) :
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Statutory audit fees of standalone and consolidated financial 
statements (including quarterly limited reviews)
 95 
 78 
Certification services
 10 
 10 
Out of pocket expenses
 - 
 3 
Total
 105 
 91 
40
Leases
(i)
Following are the change in the carrying value of right to use of assets for the year ended 31 March 2025:
Particulars
Category of ROU assets
Plant & Machinery
Land and building
Total
Opening Balance as at 1 April 2024
 418 
 1,342 
 1,760 
Addition/Modification (net)
 874 
 71 
 945 
Amortisation
 (351)
 (363)
 (714)
Balance as at 31 March 2025
 941 
 1,050 
 1,991 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 1 5
Following are the change in the carrying value of right to use of assets for the year ended 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Category of ROU assets
Plant & Machinery
Land and building
Total
Opening Balance as at 1 April 2023
 836 
 142 
 978 
Addition/Modification (net)
 12 
 1,494 
 1,506 
Amortisation
 (430)
 (294)
 (724)
Balance as at 31 March 2024
 418 
 1,342 
 1,760 
(ii)
The following is the break up of current & non-current lease liabilities:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Non- Current
 1,400 
 1,297 
Current
 702 
 629 
 2,102 
 1,926 
(iii)
The following is the movement of lease liabilities:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,926 
 1,273 
Addition/Modification
 945 
 1,509 
Gain on lease modification
 (31)
 - 
Finance cost during the year
 225 
 224 
Lease payment during the year
 (963)
 (1,080)
 2,102 
 1,926 
(iv)
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities on an undiscounted 
basis:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Payable within 1 year
 902 
 805 
Payable between 1-5 years
 1,564 
 1,515 
Payable later than 5 years
 - 
 107 
Total
 2,466 
 2,427 
The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are 
sufficient to meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases for the current financial year  was INR 235 (31 March 2024: INR 264).
41
The disclosure requirement as per Ind AS 37 with respect to the movement of provisions is as follows:
a)
Provision for asset decommissioning
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Opening balance
 - 
 527 
Utilised/reversed during the year
 - 
 (527)
Unwinding of discount for the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 1 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
42	
Segment reporting	
	
The Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of the Company has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (‘CODM’) as defined by Ind AS 108, Operating Segments. The CODM evaluates the Company’s performance 
and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by the products portfolio and segment 
information has been presented accordingly.
	
Operating segment	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s business is concentrated in manufacturing of hydraulic products, and aerospace related items and others. 
And accordingly, primary segment information is presented based on the followings:	
	
Reportable segment
Hydraulics
Engaged in the activity of manufacturing hydraulic pumps, hand pumps, lift assemblies, valves and 
power packs.
Aerospace
Engaged in the activity of manufacturing airframe structures and precision aerospace components.
Others
Comprised of Dynauton Systems, which offer cutting edge security solutions to enhance the Nation’s 
capabilities in countering modern day security threats and Medical division provides high-quality 
diagnostic services.
	
Segment information is prepared in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the financial 
statements of the Company as a whole. The Company has a corporate centre, which provides various accounting and 
administrative support functions. Segment information for this activity has been aggregated under ‘Unallocated’. Revenue 
identifiable to business segments have been disclosed under the respective business segment. Segment costs include 
employee benefit expenses, cost of material consumed, depreciation and other operating expenses that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis to respective segments. Assets and liabilities in relation to segments are categorized based on items 
that are individually identifiable to that segment. Certain expenses, assets and liabilities are not specifically allocable to 
individual segments as these are used interchangeably. The Company therefore believes that it is not practicable to provide 
segment disclosures relating to such assets and liabilities and accordingly, these are separately disclosed as ‘unallocated’.
A
Operating segment information is as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
 Segment revenue 
 a) Hydraulics  
 30,773 
 29,348 
 b) Aerospace 
 32,838 
 28,829 
 c) Others 
 307 
 9 
Revenue from operations 
 63,918 
 58,186 
Segment results (profit/ (loss) before finance costs, other income tax from each segment):
 a) Hydraulics 
 2,998 
 4,195 
 b) Aerospace  
 8,673 
 8,042 
 c) Others 
 (311)
 (735)
 d) Unallocated 
 (3,321)
 (2,808)
 Total  
 8,039 
 8,694 
 Unallocable 
  - Finance costs (Refer Note 33)
 (4,269)
 (5,026)
  - Other income (Refer Note 29)
 1,661 
 1,830 
  - Exceptional Gain (Refer Note 36) 
 - 
 5,132 
 Profit before tax  
 5,431 
 10,630 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 1 7
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
 Segment assets: 
 a) Hydraulics 
 20,568 
 19,480 
 b) Aerospace 
 50,277 
 47,153 
 c) Others 
 2,945 
 1,708 
 d) Unallocated 
 51,792 
 48,861 
 Segment assets 
 1,25,582 
 1,17,202 
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
 Segment liabilities: 
 a) Hydraulics 
 13,494 
 11,141 
 b) Aerospace 
 7,374 
 4,455 
 c) Others 
 261 
 756 
 d) Unallocated 
 40,089 
 40,806 
 Segment liabilities 
 61,218 
 57,158 
Information about reportable segments for the period from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025 is as follow: 
Particulars 
Hydraulics
Aerospace 
Others
 Unallocated 
 Total 
Depreciation and amortisation 
expense 
 778 
 1,479 
 55 
 237 
 2,549 
Capital expenditure 
 400 
 1,474 
 485 
 127 
 2,486 
Information about reportable segments for the period from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 is as follow: 
Particulars 
Hydraulics
Aerospace
Others
 Unallocated 
 Total 
Depreciation and amortisation 
expense 
 762 
 1,427 
 42 
 179 
 2,410 
Capital expenditure 
 884 
 1,489 
 129 
 703 
 3,205 
B	
Geographic information:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The geographical information analyses the Company’s revenue and non- current assets by the Company’s country of 
domicile (i.e. India) and other countries. In presenting the geographical information, segment revenue has been based on 
the geographical location of the customer and segment assets which have been based on the geographical location of the 
assets.
Particulars
Revenue For the year ended
Non current assets* As at
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
India
 30,781 
 26,489 
 33,921 
 33,013 
United States
 7,484 
 7,811 
 - 
 - 
Canada
 3,439 
 5,714 
 - 
 - 
United Kingdom
 8,637 
 9,457 
 - 
 - 
Europe (other than UK)
 13,227 
 8,243 
 - 
 - 
Rest of world
 350 
 472 
 - 
 - 
Total
 63,918 
 58,186 
 33,921 
 33,013 
	
*Non-current assets excludes financial assets.
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 1 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
C
Major customer
Revenue from transactions with the external customer amounting to 10% or more of the Company's revenues 
is as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Customer 1
 12,990 
 6,235 
Customer 2
 9,724 
 7,850 
Customer 3
 8,013 
 6,990 
Customer 4
 7,258 
 7,179 
43
Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises
Total outstanding dues of micro, small and medium enterprises, which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period 
and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (hereinafter refer to as 
"the MSMED Act") are given below:
Particulars
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
(a) the principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown 
separately) remaining unpaid to any supplier at the end of each 
accounting year;
Principal
 1,795 
 1,198 
Interest
 80 
 70 
(b) the amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 
of 2006), along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier 
beyond the appointed day during each accounting year
 - 
 - 
(c) the amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day 
during the year) but without adding the interest specified under the 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
(d) the amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
each accounting year, and
 80 
 70 
(e) the amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in 
the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues above are 
actually paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance 
of a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
 80 
 70 
Total
 1,875 
 1,268 
44
Assets and liabilities relating to employee benefits
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Net defined benefit liability, gratuity plan 
 2,673 
 2,149 
Liability for compensated absences 
 430 
 394 
Total employee benefit liability
 3,103 
 2,543 
a)
Gratuity
Non-current
 2,261 
 1,817 
Current
 412 
 332 
 2,673 
 2,149 
b)
Compensated absences
Non-current
 391 
 351 
Current
 39 
 43 
 430 
 394 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 1 9
	
The Company operates the following post-employment defined benefit plan:	
	
Defined benefit plan	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company operates post-employment defined benefit plan that provide gratuity, governed by the Payment of Gratuity 
Act,1972. Employee’s who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity 
payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 
days salary multiplied for the number of years of service or part thereof in excess of six months. The gratuity plan is a 
funded plan. The Company does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a 
period of time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments.
	
These defined benefit plans expose the Company to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk 
and market (investment) risk.	
A	
Funding
	
The Company expects to pay INR 140  in contributions to its defined benefit plans in financial year 2025-2026.
B	
Reconciliation of net defined benefit liability
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit 
liability/ assets and its components:
(i)
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Obligation at the beginning of the year
 2,149 
 1,996 
Interest cost
 155 
 149 
Current service cost
 135 
 114 
Benefit paid directly by employer
 (28)
 (47)
Benefit paid from the fund
 (145)
 (171)
Liabilities transferred from Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 64 
 - 
Liabilities transferred to Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited 
 (2)
 - 
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income (OCI)
- Changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
- Changes in financial assumptions
 74 
 36 
- Experience adjustments
 290 
 72 
Obligation at the end of the year
 2,692 
 2,149 
(ii)
Reconciliation of present value of plan assets
Plan assets at the beginning of the year, at fair value
 - 
 51 
Interest income on plan assets
 - 
 4 
Contributions
 162 
 117 
Benefits paid
 (145)
 (171)
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income recognised in 
OCI
 
2 
 (1)
Plan assets at the end of the year, at fair value
 19 
 - 
Net defined benefit liability
 2,673 
 2,149 
C (i)
Expense recognised in the Statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Current service cost
 135 
 114 
Interest cost
 155 
 145 
Net gratuity cost
 290 
 259 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 2 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(ii) 
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Actuarial (gain)/ loss on defined benefit obligation
 364
 107 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income
 (2)
 1 
Total (gain)/ loss recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 362 
 108 
D
Plan assets
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Insurance fund
 19 
 - 
 19 
 - 
E
Defined benefit obligation 
(i) 
Actuarial assumptions
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Rate of return on planned assets
6.79%
7.21%
Discounting rate
6.79%
7.21%
Future salary growth
6.00%
6.00%
Attrition rate
5.00%
5.00%
Mortality Rate 
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) 
Urban
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14) 
Urban
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in 
years)
 8 
 8 
Average Expected Future Service
 12 
 11 
Retirement age
 60 
 60 
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yield on Government Securities as at the balance sheet date for 
the estimated term of obligations.	
	
	
	
	
	
(ii)	
The expected return on plan assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of 
the plan assets held, assessed risks of asset management, historical results of the return on plan assets and the 
Company’s policy for plan asset management.	
	
	
	
	
	
(iii)	
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes into account inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.
(ii) 	
Sensitivity analysis
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant would have affected defined benefit obligation by amounts shown below:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Projected Benefit Obligation on Current Assumptions (Gross)
 2,692 
 2,149 
Impact of change in discount rate by +1%
 (170)
 (131)
Impact of change in discount rate by -1%
 193 
 149 
Impact of change in salary rate by +1%
 172 
 138 
Impact of change in salary rate by -1%
 (162)
 (126)
Impact of change in employee turnover rate by +1%
 11 
 13 
Impact of change in employee turnover rate by -1%
 (13)
 (15)
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 2 1
	
Defined contribution plan	 	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s contribution to Provident Fund aggregating to INR 527 (31 March 2024: INR 466) has been recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head employee benefit expense.
45	
Financial instruments - fair value and risk management	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Accounting classification and fair value
	
The following table shows the carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities including their levels 
in fair value hierarchy:
	
The section explains the judgement and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are: 
a) 	 recognised and measured at fair value
b)	 measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial statements.
	
To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified its 
financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Indian Accounting Standard.
 Particulars 
Carrying amount
 Fair value 
 31 March 2025 
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 
 Loans*
 7,283 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 
 17,268 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 265 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
 1,218 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial assets*
 2,493 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial assets 
 28,527 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
 Borrowings* 
 36,104 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Lease liabilities*
 2,102 
 - 
 - 
 Trade payables 
 14,271 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial liabilities*
 1,813 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial liabilities 
 54,290 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Particulars
Carrying amount 
 Fair value 
 31 March 2024 
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 
 Loans*
 6,947 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 
 20,688 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 519 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
 1,058 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial assets*
 1,680 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial assets 
 30,892 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
 Borrowings*
 35,579 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Lease liabilities*
 1,926 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Trade payables 
 10,476 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Other financial liabilities*
 1,681 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total financial liabilities 
 49,662 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering Non-current and Current. 
	
Investment in equity shares of subsidiaries are not appearing as financial asset in the table above being investment in 
subsidiaries accounted under Ind AS 27, Separate Financial Statements which is scoped out under Ind AS 109.
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 2 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 1: It includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investment in equity, preference 
securities, mutual funds and debentures that have quoted price. 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the-
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely 
as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, 
the instrument is included in level 2.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. This is the case for unquoted equity securities.
	
Fair Valuation Method
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged 
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and 
assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
A	
Financial Assets:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Fair value of all the above financial assets except investments are measured at balance sheet date value, as most of them 
are settled within a short period and so their fair value are assumed to be almost equal to the balance sheet date value.
B	
Financial Liabilities:
(i)	
Borrowings: It includes loans taken from banks and financial institution, cash credit and bill discounting facilities. Borrowings 
are classified and subsequently measured in the financial statements at amortized cost. Considering that the interest rate 
on loans is reset on yearly basis, the carrying amount of the loan would be a reasonable approximation of its fair value.
(ii)	
Trade payables and other financial liabilities: Fair values of trade payables and other financial liabilities are measured 
at balance sheet date value, as most of them are settled within a short period and so their fair values are assumed almost 
equal to the balance sheet date values.	
	
	
	
	
	
46	
Financial risk management		
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s activities expose to financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
	
Risk management framework
	
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk 
management framework. The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced 
by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management 
policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities. The 
Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive 
control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. 
	
The Company’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Company’s risk management 
policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the 
Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal auditor. Internal Audit function includes both 
regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit 
Committee.
i)	
Credit risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company, if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to 
meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from customers and loans 
given. Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to clients, 
including outstanding accounts receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value 
of the financial assets. The objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. 
The Company assesses the credit quality of the counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past 
experience and other factors. The carrying amount of financial asset represent the maximum credit exposure.
	
Trade and other receivables	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is primarily from trade receivables. However, the 
management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its customer base. Customers of the 
Company are spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. The Company limits its exposure to credit risk 
from trade receivables by establishing a maximum credit period and takes appropriate measures to mitigate the risk 
of financial loss from defaults. Recurring credit evaluation of credit worthiness is performed based on the financial 
condition of respective customers.
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 2 3
	
Expected credit loss assessment for Trade Receivables as at 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024 are as 
follows:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company establishes an allowance for credit loss that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of 
trade and other receivables based on past and the recent collection trend. The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 
reporting date is primarily from trade receivables as at 31 March 2025 amounting to INR 17,268 (31 March 2024: INR 
20,688). The movement in allowance for credit loss in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as 
follows:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Balance as at beginning of the year
 392 
 277 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
Recognition/(Reversal) of Net measurement of loss allowance
 (19)
 115 
Balance as at end of the year
 373 
 392 
ii)	
Liquidity risk		
	
	
	
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligation as the become due. The 
Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet 
its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 
risking damage to the Company’s reputation.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Management monitors rolling forecast of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and bank balances on the basis 
of expected cash flows. This is generally carried out by the Management of the Company in accordance with practice 
and limits set by the Company. In addition, the Company’s liquidity management policy involves projecting cash flows 
and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against 
internal and external regulatory requirements and maintaining debt financing plans.	
	
	
	
i)	
Financing arrangement	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  The Company maintains the following line of credit:	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 8,822 (31 March 2024: INR 9,000) repayable in 28 quarterly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 1 June 2024 with interest rate at 9.60% per annum (31 March 2024: 9.60% per annum).
First pari passu charge on the entire movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present and future. 
Second pari passu charge on the entire current assets of the Company. First charge over Debt Service Reserve 
Account (DSRA).
(ii). 	
Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 104 (31 March 2024: INR 129) repayable in 60 monthly instalments. First 
instalment starting from 31 October 2023 with interest rate at 8.90% per annum (31 March 2024: 8.90% per annum). 
This loan is secured by hypothecation of assets (cars).
(iii). 	 Working Capital Term loan from bank aggregating to INR 1,500 (31 March 2024: INR Nil) repayable in 36 equal 
monthly instalments post 24 months of principal moratorium. First instalment starting from 1 April 2027 with fixed 
interest rate at 9.20% per annum. First pari passu charge on the current assets of the Company. Second pari passu 
charge on the movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company. 
(iv) 	
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 2,407 (31 March 2024: INR 3,080) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 June 2023 with interest rate of  10.75% per annum (31 March 2024: 
10.75% per annum).   First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present 
and future. Second pari passu charge on all current assets of the Company. First charge over Debt Service Reserve 
Account (DSRA). Personal guarantee issued by the promoter.
(v) 	
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 5,950 (31 March 2023: INR 7,000) repayable in 20 quarterly 
instalments first instalment starting from 30 September 2024 with interest rate of  10.45% per annum (31 March 
2024: 10.25% per annum).  First pari passu charge on movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company, present 
and future. Second pari passu charge on all current assets of the Company. 
(v)	
Term Loan from financial institutions aggregating to INR 200 (31 March 2024: INR 282) repayable in 60 monthly 
instalments with interest rate of 10.25% per annum (31 March 2024: 10.25%), this is secured by hypothecation of 
assets (cars).
	
* Cash credit and working capital demand loans from banks carry interest ranging between 9.25% - 10.35% per annum (31 
March 2024: 10.65%-12.65% per annum), computed on a monthly basis on the actual amount utilized, and are repayable 
on demand. Packing Credit & Working Capital Demand loans in Foreign Currency from banks carry interest rate of 6m 
SOFR+3.00% per annum (31 March 2024: 6m SOFR+3.00% and 6m SOFR+3.50% per annum). These are secured by first 
pari passu charge by way of hypothecation of stock and book debts of the Company and second pari passu charge on the 
movable and immovable fixed assets of the Company.
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 2 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
	
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at 31 March 2025 
and 31 March 2024. The amounts are gross and undiscounted contractual cash flow and includes contractual interest 
payment and exclude netting arrangements:	
	
	
	
	
	
As at 31 March 2025
Particulars
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
amount
Total
0-1 years
1-5 years
5 years and 
above
Borrowings*
 36,104 
 36,104 
 20,826 
 15,278 
 - 
Lease liabilities
 2,102 
 2,466 
 902 
 1,564 
 - 
Trade payables
 14,271 
 14,271 
 14,271 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities*
 1,806 
 1,806 
 1,806 
 - 
 - 
Total
 54,283 
 54,647 
 37,805 
 16,842 
 - 
As at 31 March 2024
Particulars
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
amount
Total
0-1 years
1-5 years
5 years and 
above
Borrowings*
 35,579 
 35,579 
 19,156 
 13,502 
 2,921 
Lease liabilities
 1,926 
 2,427 
 805 
 1,515 
 107 
Trade payables
 10,476 
10,476
 10,407 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities*
 1,681 
 1,681 
 1,681 
 - 
 - 
Total
 49,662 
 50,163 
32,118
 15,017 
 3,028 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering Non-current and Current.	
	
As disclosed in note 18 and 22, the Company has secured bank loan that contains loan covenants. A future breach of 
covenant may require the Company to repay the loan earlier than indicated in the above table. Except for these financial 
liabilities, it is not expected that cash flows included in maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier.
iii)	
Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will 
affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk is attributable to all market 
risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and payables and long term debt. The objective of 
market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising 
the return.	
a)	
Currency risk
	
The Company is exposed to currency risk to the extent that there is a mismatch between the currencies in which sales, 
purchases and borrowings are denominated and the respective functional currency of the Company. The functional currency 
of the Company is INR. The currencies in which these transactions are primarily denominated are USD, GBP, Euro & CAD etc.
Management monitors the movement in foreign currency and the Company’s exposure in each of the foreign currency. 
Based on the analysis and study of movement in foreign currency, the Company decides to exchange its foreign currency.
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
The summary quantitative data about the Company’s exposure to currency risk as reported to management is as follows:
Particulars
 Currency 
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Amount in foreign 
currency in lakhs
Amount in 
INR Lakhs
Amount in foreign
 currency in lakhs
Amount in 
INR Lakhs
Trade receivables
USD
 86 
 7,353 
 135 
 11,239 
EURO
 3 
 293 
 0.87 
 78 
GBP
 27 
 3,028 
 41 
 4,306 
Other current financial assets 
(Non-Current and Current)
GBP
 5 
 580 
 5 
 549 
SGD
 21 
 1,340 
 9 
 552 
Trade payables
USD
 42 
 3,634
 24 
 1,987 
EURO
 1 
 52 
 0.82 
 73 
GBP
 1 
 127
 2 
 166 
CAD
 - 
 - 
 1 
 46 
Borrowing
USD
 15 
 1,316 
 15 
 1,283 
Inter-company Loan receivable
SGD
 111 
 7,072 
 111
 6,859 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 2 5
	
The following significant exchange rates have been applied :
Currency
Year end spot rate
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
USD/INR
 85.51 
 83.38 
EURO/INR
 92.61 
 89.94 
GBP/INR
 110.66 
 105.20 
SGD/INR
 63.71 
 61.75 
CAD/INR
 59.73 
 61.54 
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
A reasonably possible strengthening /(weakening) of the USD, EURO, GBP, SGD and CAD against INR as at 31 March 
2025 and 31 March 2024 would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign currency 
and affected equity and profit and loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in 
particular interest rates, remain constant.
Particulars
Profit and loss
Equity, net of tax
Strengthening
Weakening
Strengthening
Weakening
31 March 2025
USD (3% movement)
 73 
 (73)
 55 
 (55)
EURO (3% movement)
 7 
 (7)
 5 
 (5)
GBP (3% movement)
 104 
 (104)
 78 
 (78)
SGD (3% movement)
 252 
 (252)
 189 
 (189)
31 March 2024
USD (3% movement)
 239 
 (239)
 179 
 (179)
EURO (3% movement)
 0.13 
 (0.13)
 0.10 
 (0.10)
GBP (3% movement)
 141 
 (141)
 105 
 (105)
SGD (3% movement)
 222 
 (222)
 166 
 (166)
CAD (3% movement)
 (1.4)
 1.4 
 (1.02)
 1.02 
b)	
Interest rate risk
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates.
(a) 	
Interest rate risk exposure	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The exposure of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities to interest rate changes at the end of the 
reporting period are as follows:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Financial Assets
Fixed rate instruments
Bank deposits
 1,208 
 1,052 
Total 
 1,208 
 1,052 
Financial Liabilities
Variable rate borrowings (including current maturities of long 
term debts)
 34,299 
 35,168 
Fixed rate borrowings (including current maturities of long term 
debts)
 1,805 
 411 
Total 
 36,104 
 35,579 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 2 6      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(b) 	
Sensitivity
Particulars
Profit and loss
Equity, net of tax
1% increase
1% decrease
1% increase
1% decrease
31 March 2025
Variable rate borrowings
 (343)
 343 
 (257)
 257 
31 March 2024
Variable rate borrowings
 (352)
 352 
 (263)
 263 
47	
Capital management	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital base structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain 
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of the business. The Company 
monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends on its equity shares. The Company’s objective when 
managing capital is to maintain an optimal structure so as to maximize shareholder value and safeguard its ability to continue 
as a going concern.	
	
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘equity’. For the purpose of Company’s capital 
management, adjusted net debt is defined as aggregate on non-current borrowing, current borrowing, current maturities 
of long-term borrowings and lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and total equity includes issued capital and all 
other equity reserves.
	
The Company’s adjusted net debt equity ratio were as follows:
Particulars
As at 31 March 2025
As at 31 March 2024
Borrowings*
 36,104 
 35,579 
Lease Liabilities*
 2,102 
 1,926 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 (265)
 (519)
Adjusted net debt 
 37,941 
 36,986 
Total equity
 64,364 
 60,044 
Net debt to equity ratio
 0.59 
 0.62 
	
*Amount disclosed after considering Non-current and Current.
48	
Related Party Transaction	 	
(i)	
Name of related parties and description of relationship:
Name of related party
Description of relationship
JKM Global Pte Limited, Singapore
Wholly owned subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries)
JKM Research Farm Limited, India
JKM Erla Automotive Limited, India
JKM Automotive Limited, India
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Yew Tree Investment Limited, UK
JKM Erla Holdings GmbH (“JEHG”)  (upto 30 
September 2024) post which the entity ceases 
to exist
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Germany
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited (formerly 
known as JKM Ferrotech Limited), India
Dynamatic US, LLC
JKM Holdings Private Limited
Entities over which key executive management personnel or relatives 
of such personnel are able to exercise significant influence
Wavell Investments Private Limited
Mr. Vivek Malani
Relative of Promoter Group
Ms. Ahilya Malhoutra
Daughter of Mr. Udayant Malhoutra (Promoter) 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 2 7
Key executive management personnel
Designation
Udayant Malhoutra
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
P.S. Ramesh
Executive Director, Chief Operating Officer - Hydraulic Division 
(Resigned effective from 13 November 2024)
Arvind Mishra
Executive Director and Global Chief Operating Officer - Hydraulics & 
Head - Homeland Security (Resigned effective from 8 August 2023).
Chalapathi P
Chief Financial Officer and Appointed as Executive Director effective 
from  13 November 2024
Shivaram V
Chief Legal officer & Company Secretary
(ii)
Related party transactions during the current year and previous year as follow:
Nature of transactions
Related Parties
For the year ended
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Revenue from operations
Dynamatic Limited, UK
515
1,533
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 163 
 566 
Purchase of raw materials
Dynamatic Limited, UK
 609 
 634 
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 2,460 
 2,497 
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 466 
 420 
Rent expense
JKM Research Farm Limited
 48 
 48 
JKM Holdings Private Limited
 4 
 4 
Dynamatic Limited, UK
 395 
 436 
Mr. Vivek Malani
 25 
 22 
Investment made
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 50 
 3,500 
JKM Global Pte Limited
 1,994 
 - 
Inter-company loan provided
JKM Global Pte Limited
 - 
 6,766 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
 67 
 5 
Interest income on Inter-company 
loan
JKM Global Pte Limited
 758 
 554 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
 6 
-
Trade advances given
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 - 
 5,165 
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 50 
 - 
Trade advance received/repaid
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 - 
 3,450 
Remuneration
Ms. Ahilya Malhoutra
 30 
 21 
Reimbursement of Capital and 
Revenue expenses
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 67
 170 
Dynamatic Limited, UK
 - 
 9 
(iii)
Balance receivable from and payable to related parties as at the balance sheet date:
Particulars
Related Parties
As at 
31 March 2025
As at 
31 March 2024
Trade receivables
Dynamatic Limited, UK
 1,213 
 2,595 
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 - 
 708 
Trade payable
JKM Research Farm Limited
 227 
 222 
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 77 
 - 
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited
 323 
 - 
Security deposits provided
JKM Holding Private Limited
 35 
 35 
Mr. Vivek Malani
 17 
 17 
Management Fee Receivable
Dynamatic Limited, UK
 580 
 549 
Inter-company loan receivable
JKM Global Pte Limited
 7,072 
 6,859 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
 73 
 7 
Accrued Interest income receivable
JKM Global Pte Limited
 1,341 
 552 
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
 6 
 - 
Rent Payable
Mr. Vivek Malani
 1 
 2 
Advance receivable
Wavell Investments Private Limited
 797 
 652 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 2 8      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(iv)
Compensation of key managerial personnel*
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Short-term benefits:
Udayant Malhoutra
144
 122 
P.S. Ramesh 
151
 117 
Arvind Mishra
 - 
 137 
Chalapathi P
120
 102 
Shivaram V
78
 50 
 493
 528 
	
*Managerial remuneration does not include cost of employee benefits such as gratuity and compensated absences since, 
provision for these are based on an actuarial valuation carried out for the Company as a whole.
	
Terms and conditions
All transactions with these related parties are priced at arm’s length basis and resulting outstanding balances are to be 
settled in cash within six months to one year of reporting date. None of the balances are secured.
49
Earnings per share
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Basic earnings per share in INR
74.61
139.16
Diluted earnings per share in INR
74.61
139.16
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company used in 
calculating basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share
5,066
 9,449
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purpose of basic 
earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (numbers)
67,91,443
67,91,443
50
Details of non-current investments purchased and sold during the current and previous year under Section 
186(4) of the Act:
Investments in equity instruments
Subsidiaries
Face value
 per unit
As at 
1 April 2024
Purchased 
during the year
Sold 
during the year
As at 
31 March 2025
i)
JKM Research Farm Limited
INR 10
 2,448
(49,99,930)* 
 - 
 - 
 2,448
(49,99,930)* 
ii)
Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited 
(formerly known as JKM 
Ferrotech Limited)
INR 10
 3,644 
(3,64,41,328)*
 50 
-
 - 
 3,694 
(3,64,41,328)*
iii)
JKM Global Pte Limited, 
Singapore
SGD 1
 20,969
(1,93,22,937)* 
 1,993 
(13,66,525)*
 - 
 22,962
(20,689,462)* 
iv)
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
INR 10
 26,221 
(10,79,14,994)*
 - 
 - 
 26,221 
(10,79,14,994)*
Total
53,282
 2,043 
 - 
55,325
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 2 9
Subsidiaries
Face value
 per unit
As at 
1 April 2023
Purchased 
during the year
Sold during 
the year
As at 
31 March 2024
i)
JKM Research Farm Limited
INR 10
 2,448 
(49,99,930)*
 - 
 - 
 2,448
(49,99,930)* 
ii)
Dynamatic Manufacturing 
Limited 
(formerly known as JKM 
Ferrotech Limited)
INR 10
144
(14,41,328)*
 3,500
(3,50,00,000)* 
 - 
 3,644 
(3,64,41,328)*
iii)
JKM Global Pte Limited, 
Singapore
SGD 1
20,969
(1,93,22,937)*
 - 
 - 
 20,969 
(1,93,22,937)*
iv)
JKM Erla Automotive Limited
INR 10
26,221
(10,79,14,994)*
 - 
 - 
 26,221 
(10,79,14,994)*
Total
49,782
 3,500 
 - 
53,282
* The amounts in parenthesis represents number of shares 
51
Income tax
A
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Current tax
 1,548 
 1,478 
Deferred tax
 (1,183)
 (297)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 365 
 1,181 
B
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Net gain/(loss) on remeasurement of defined benefit liability/(assets)
 91 
 27 
Foreign currency fluctuations under a cash flow hedge - gain/(loss)
 - 
 - 
Income tax expense/ (credit) to OCI
 91 
 27 
C
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Accounting profit before income tax
 5,431 
 10,630 
Tax using the Company's domestic tax rate 25.17% (31 March 2024: 
25.17%)
 1,367 
 2,676 
Impact of windfirm land gain tax exemption
 - 
 (1,570)
Impact of change in rate of long-term capital gains tax
 (1,040)
 - 
Impact of non - deductible expenses for tax purposes
 38 
 75 
Income tax expense
 365 
 1,181 
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 3 0      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
D
Deferred tax
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in OCI
As at 
31 March 2025
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipments and 
intangible assets
 (1,354)
 (223)
 - 
 (1,577)
Fair value impact on investment in 
subsidiaries
 (3,232)
 1,205 
 - 
 (2,027)
Provision for gratuity and compensated 
absences
 640 
 50 
 91 
 781 
Provision for loss allowance
 99 
 (5)
 - 
 94 
Right of Use Assets & Lease Liabilities
 46 
 (18)
 - 
 28 
Others
 347 
 174 
 - 
 521 
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
 (3,454)
 1,183 
 91 
 (2,180)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
Recognised in 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in OCI
As at 
31 March 2024
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipments and 
intangible assets
 (1,525)
 171 
 - 
 (1,354)
Fair value impact on investment in 
subsidiaries
 (3,141)
 (91)
 - 
 (3,232)
Provision for gratuity and compensated 
absences
 586 
 27 
 27 
 640 
Provision for loss allowance
 70 
 29 
 - 
 99 
Right of Use Assets & Lease Liabilities
 74 
 (28)
 - 
 46 
Others
 158 
 189 
 - 
 347 
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
 (3,778)
 297 
 27 
 (3,454)
52	
Revenue from contracts with customers
A. Disaggregate revenue information
	
The table below presents disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 
31 March 2024 by market or type of customers, timing of revenue recognition, contract-type and geography. 
	
The Company believes that this disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our 
revenues  and cash flows are affected  by industry, market and other economic factors.
For the year ended 31 March 2025
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace 
Others
Grand Total
Market or type of customer
Government 
 105 
 - 
 296 
 401 
Non-government 
 30,668 
 32,838 
 11 
 63,517 
Total revenue from contract with customers# 
 30,773 
 32,838 
 307 
 63,918 
Timing of revenue recognition* 
Goods or services transferred at point in time 
 30,773 
30,312
 307 
61,392
Goods or service transferred over time
-
2,526
-
2,526
Total revenue from contract with customers# 
 30,773 
 32,838 
 307 
 63,918 
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 3 1
For the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars
Hydraulics
Aerospace 
Others
Grand Total
Market or type of customer
Government 
 154 
 19 
 - 
 173 
Non-government 
 29,194 
 28,810 
 9 
 58,013 
Total revenue from contract with customers# 
 29,348 
 28,829 
 9 
 58,186 
Timing of revenue recognition* 
Goods or services transferred at point in time 
 29,348 
 28,829 
 9 
 58,186 
Total revenue from contract with customers# 
 29,348 
 28,829 
 9 
 58,186 
	
# Represents revenue from sale of products included in revenue from operations. 	 	
	
	
	
* The Company does not have any revenue from sale of goods and services where the performance obligation satisfied 
over time. 		
	
	
 	
Refer to geographic information section under Note 42 - Segment Reporting for more details on the analysis of segment 
revenue. 	
Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised with contract and reportable segment:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Revenue from contract with customers 
 63,017 
 57,597 
Other Operating revenue 
Export incentive 
 256 
 15 
Scrap sales 
 645 
 574 
 Revenue from reportable segment (Refer Note 42) 
 63,918 
 58,186 
B. Reconciliation of revenue with contract price:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Contract price
 64,147 
 58,206 
Adjustments for
Volume discount and cash discount 
 229 
20
Revenue from continuing operations
 63,918 
 58,186 
	
 C. Contract balances
	
 Contract balances and related disclosures have been included in the following notes. 
	
 Trade receivables - Note 10 
	
 Contract assets - Note 15
	
D.  Remaining performance obligations	
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2025
As at
31 March 2024
Amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations that 
are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) and expected to be satisfied in 
the next financial year 
 1,377
 - 
	
The remaining performance obligation disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be 
recognised as the end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognise these 
amount in revenue. Unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors 
such as termination changes in contract scope, re-validation of estimates and economic factors.
	
Applying the practical expedient as given in Ind AS 115, the Company has not disclosed the remaining performance obligation 
related disclosures for contracts where the revenue recognised corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the 
Company’s performance completed to date, typically those contracts where invoicing is on time and material, unit price 
basis.
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 3 2      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
53	
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a company, meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at least 
2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
activities.  A CSR committee has been formed by the company as per the Act.  The amount required to be spent and actual 
amount spent on the areas for CSR activities which are specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 is as follows:
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2025
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
a)
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the 
year
 89.8 
 67.0 
b)
Amount of expenditure incurred on purpose other than 
construction / acquisition of any asset
 42.9 
 62.2 
c)
Excess spend of prior years set off during the year
 - 
 4.7 
d)
Shortfall at the end of the year [(d)=(a)-(b)+(c)]
 46.9 
 - 
e)
Reason for shortfall
 -* 
 NA 
	
* The CSR unspent amount has been deposited in separate bank account within the prescribed time period and will be 
utilised during the upcoming years.	
	
	
	
	
54	
In March 2017, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendments) 
Rules, 2017, notifying amendments to Ind AS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. These amendments are in accordance with the 
amendments made by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to IAS 7, ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. The below 
disclosure is in line with such amendments suggested:
Particulars
1 April 
2024
Net Cash 
flows
Non Cash Changes
31 
March 
2025
Interest 
Expense
Foreign exchange 
movement
Non- Current Borrowings - Secured
- Term loan from banks*
 9,129 
 (203)
 - 
 - 
 8,926 
- Term loan from financial institutions*
 10,362 
 (1,805)
 - 
 - 
 8,557 
Current Borrowings - Secured
Cash credit  and working capital 
demand loans
 16,088 
 1,033 
 - 
 - 
 17,121 
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 70 
 (3,916)
 3,926 
 - 
 80 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 35,649 
 (4,891)
 3,926 
 - 
 34,684 
Particulars
1 April 
2023
Net Cash 
flows
Non Cash Changes
31 
March 
2024
Interest 
Expense
Foreign exchange 
movement
Non- Current Borrowings - Secured
- Term loan from banks*
 20,197 
 (11,066)
 - 
 (2)
 9,129 
- Term loan from financial institutions*
 8,697 
 1,665 
 - 
 - 
 10,362 
Non- Current Borrowings - Unsecured
- Term loan from financial institutions*
 909 
 (909)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Current Borrowings - Secured
Cash credit  and working capital 
demand loans
 14,884 
 1,467 
 - 
 (263)
 16,088 
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 197 
 (5,191)
 4,630 
 434 
 70 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 44,884 
 (14,034)
 4,630 
 169 
 35,649 
* includes current maturities of long term borrowings
(Rs in Lakhs)
DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025   2 3 3
55	
Ratios
	
The following are analytical ratios for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024:
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
31 March 2025
31 March 2024
Variance
Current ratio 
Total current assets
Total Current 
Liabilities
 1.13 
 1.16 
-2%
Debt-equity ratio 
Total Debt inclusive of 
lease liabilities
Total Equity
 0.59 
 0.62 
-5%
Debt service coverage 
ratio @
Earning for debt 
service = Net 
profit after tax + 
Depreciation + 
Interest 
Debt Service = 
Interest + Lease 
payment + 
Principal payment
 1.51 
 0.83 
82%
Return on equity ratio 
#
Profit after tax
Average total 
equity
8.14%
17.02%
-52%
Inventory Turnover 
ratio
Cost of Goods sold
Average 
Inventory
 2.38 
 2.58 
-8%
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio
Revenue from 
Operations
Average trade 
receivable
 3.37 
 3.15 
7%
Trade payable turnover 
ratio
Purchase
Average trade 
Payable
 2.78 
 2.83 
-2%
Net Capital turnover 
ratio ^
Revenue from 
Operation
Average working 
capital
 11.99 
 8.23 
46%
Net profit ratio$
Profit after tax
Revenue from 
Operations
7.93%
16.24%
-51%
Return on capital 
employed
Profit before tax and 
finance cost
Capital employed 
= Net worth + 
Lease liabilities 
+ Deferred tax 
liabilities
9.26%
10.42%
-11%
Return on 
Investment*
Income generated 
from Investments
Time weighted 
average 
investment
NA
NA
NA
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
EBIT - Earnings before interest and taxes.	
	
	
	
	
	
PAT - Profit after tax		
	
	
	
	
Working capital - Current assets less current liabilities
	
Capital employed - Total equity
	
* The Company has not received any income from investment during current and previous financial year.
	
@On account of increase in profit during the year.
	
# On account of exceptional income in previous year. 
	
^ On account of increase in revenue.	
56	
Additional regulatory information not disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements
(i)	
As per section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013, there are no balances outstanding or transactions with struck off 
companies.	
	
	
	
	
(ii)	
The Company has not traded / invested in Crypto currency or virtual currency.		
	
	
	
(iii)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:	
	
	
	
	
(a) 	
Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or	
	
	
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. Also refer note 4.	
(iv)	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall
(a) 	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b) 	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.	
	
	
(Rs in Lakhs)
2 3 4      DYNAMATIC TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED - STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - ANNUAL REPORT 2024-2025
(v)	
The Company has no such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or 
survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).	
	
	
	
(vi)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the 
related parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, except as 
disclosed in the financial statements. 
(vii)	
The Company is not a declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
(viii)	
The Company does not have any Capital-work-in progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost 
compared to its original plan.
57	
The Code on Wages, 2019 and Code on Social Security, 2020 (“the Codes”) relating to employee compensation and post-
employment benefits that received Presidential assent have not been notified. Further, the related rules for quantifying the 
financial impact have not been notified. The Company will assess the impact of the Codes when the rules are notified and 
will record any related impact in the period the Codes become effective.
58	
The standalone financial statements were approved for issue by the board of directors on 27 May 2025.
(Rs in Lakhs)
Place: Bangalore
Date: 27 May 2025
UDAYANT MALHOUTRA
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
DIN : 00053714
SHIVARAM V 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Company Secretary
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Dynamatic Technologies Limited
CHALAPATHI P
Executive Director & 
Chief Financial Officer
DIN : 08087615
DYNAMATIC LIMITED
U N I T E D  K I N G D O M
BUSINESS REVIEW REPORT
2024-25
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
INR in Lakhs*
Year ended 
31.03.2024
INR in Lakhs*
Sales
40,104
39,151
EBITDA 
3,909
3,606
Interest
1,928
1,591
Depreciation
2,594
2,609
Profit / (Loss) before 
Tax
987
(128)
Tax Charge/(Credit)
221
(157)
Profit / (Loss) after 
Tax
766
29
*Numbers restated as per IND AS
DYNAMATIC LIMITED, UK
DIRECTORS
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra	
- Chairman
Mr. Michael John Handley 	
- Director
Mr. Pierre de Bausset	
- Director
Mr. James Tucker 	
- Managing Director
Mrs. Pramila Udayant Malhoutra	
- Director
Mr. Steve Hayes	
- Technical Director 
Mr. Geoff Dore 	
- Director
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland, UK
REGISTERED OFFICE
Cheney Manor, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 2PZ, England
OPERATING PLANTS
Hydraulics Division 
Cheney Manor, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 2PZ, England
Aerospace Division
Jarvis Street, Barton Hill, Bristol BS5 9TR, England
FINANCE HEAD 
Mr. Geoff Dore
AUDITORS
TC Group
Statutory Auditors
D Y N A M AT I C  H Y D R A U L I C S®
DYNAMATIC LIMITED, UK
Dynamatic Hydraulics®, Swindon, UK, felt the impact of 
adverse fluctuations in demand from major customers 
thereby achieving a lower revenue of £14.1 Mn compared 
to prior year. However, the business remains well 
positioned to grow once sector demand recovers.
The inflationary situation in Europe and UK has again 
presented significant challenge to the business in terms 
of materials, utilities and to a lesser extent labour cost. 
Whilst we have made changes to ensure cost optimisation 
and develop several risk mitigation strategies it has been 
a year of rising costs which are reflected in the overall 
performance.
James Tucker
Managing Director
Dynamatic Limited, UK
Future Outlook
Looking forward, 2025 continues to have inflationary 
challenges but we have a strong order book. The company 
is doing its very best to off-set inflationary pressures by 
continuing to pivot a large percentage of its supply chain 
to India.
Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® division in the UK 
continues to prosper with a good mix of business across a 
varied range of aircraft in commercial & military markets. 
This includes Airbus Flaptrack parts for A318, A319, A320, 
A321 & A330. Airbus - flaps, landing gear, wing structural 
items for A400M & A330. C130J Engine structural parts, 
plus the Dassault Falcon 6X programme which has now 
entered initial production phase.
This year we achieved sales of £22.9 Mn compared to 
£21.5 Mn in the prior year. During this financial year we 
have invested in new technology, enhanced the skill-set of 
our people through targeted training activities and recruited 
additional highly skilled staff.
Future Outlook
The outlook for Dynamatic-Oldland Aerospace® is 
extremely positive with well-established positions on 
several growing aircraft platforms. We are very well 
positioned to take advantage of growth in existing 
programme demand and of new opportunities. Material 
availability continues to be a challenge although less so 
than in the recent past but supply is impacted by macro 
conditions which the business must be ready to respond 
to.
The focus of our business remains one of new technology 
development which emphasises delivery of customer 
satisfaction and this in turn enhances the unique 
partnerships we have built with our clients.
D Y N A M AT I C - O L D L A N D  A E R O S PA C E ®
DYNAMATIC LIMITED, UK
Our state-of-the-art robotic manufacturing cells and our 
robust internal processes enable us to continually deliver 
high standards of quality and embrace an ‘industry 4.0’ 
methodology within our machining factories.
We have demonstrated new standards of machining by 
manufacturing new structural prototype parts and we have 
several new opportunities being pursued which give us 
our consistent strategy of making regular investments to 
remain at the leading edge of technical advancements.
Dynamatic has a unique strategy of offering their 
customers a complete engineering solution end to end. 
The Group is offering an Indian / UK Aerospace business 
mix.
Already we have seen the benefits of collaboration and 
close alignment of the aerospace team, regardless of 
geography, will be at the Centre of furthering leading 
technical solutions to our customers and improving 
financial performance.
James Tucker
Managing Director
Dynamatic Limited, UK
EISENWERK ERLA GmbH
G E R M A N Y
BUSINESS REVIEW REPORT
2024-25
Our turnover at €36.3 Mn for the period April 2024 
to March 2025 was lower compared to the previous 
financial year due to the ongoing Ukraine conflict, which 
had triggered inflation, supply chain disruptions for 
OEMs and unpredictable surge in gas and electricity 
costs for corporations across Europe, particularly in 
Germany.
The metallurgy division encountered ongoing challenges 
due to subdued industrial demand, especially in Europe, 
coupled with inflationary pressures and elevated energy 
costs. These factors contributed to a decline in revenues 
and margins for the year. 
Eisenwerk is currently in the process of transformation 
from an automotive/foundry-focus to the defence and 
aerospace business.
US political shifts are changing the game for Ukraine 
war funding and have temporarily delayed offtake 
of Erla’s shell production. Meanwhile, with potential 
reductions in American aid, Germany and EU are 
stepping up, accelerating their own defense spending 
to ensure security, encouraging German companies to 
increase defense production.
Future Outlook
•	
Increase of productivity inside the foundry 
processes for saving costs and improving the quality 
level.
•	
Focus on high margin product mix, ramp-up of 
existing products, customer diversification and 
capacity utilization
•	
Expanding the machining capabilities to improve the 
margins and have a positive impact on the market 
position.
•	
Diversify into aerospace forging products in 
collaboration with our parent company Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited.
	
Notwithstanding the above, the economic 
environment should improve after a transformation 
process from the automotive sector into general 
industry and aerospace sector.
EISENWERK ERLA GmbH, 
GERMANY
DIRECTORS
Mr. Udayant Malhoutra	
- Chairman
Mr. Enrico Fischer	
- Managing Director
Mr. Dietmar Hahn	
- Executive Director
Mr. Geoff Dore	
- Director
Mr. Pierre de Basset	
- Director
FINANCE HEAD AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Mr. Christoph Kakoschke
LAWYER
Dr. Hans-Hein Thomas
AUDITORS
Deloitte GmbH, Germany 
BANKERS
UniCredit HypoVereinsbank, Germany 
REGISTERED OFFICE
Gießereistraße 1, 08340 Schwarzenberg / Erzgebirge,
Germany
OPERATING PLANTS
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH, Gießereistraße 1, 08340
Schwarzenberg / Erzgebirge, Germany
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
INR in Lakhs*
Year ended 
31.03.2024
INR in 
Lakhs*
Sales
33,483
47,081
EBITDA 
1,004
2,467
Interest
659
584
Depreciation
1,300
1,272
Profit / (Loss) before 
Tax
(574)
3,597
Exceptional Items
-
428
Tax Charge/(Credit)
(533)
348
Profit / (Loss) after 
Tax
(41)
3,677
*Numbers restated as per IND AS
Dietmar Hahn
Executive Director
Eisenwerk Erla GmbH
DYNAMATIC  MANUFACTURING LIMITED
B A N G A L O R E ,  I N D I A
BUSINESS REVIEW REPORT
2024-25
Dynamatic Manufacturing Limited, India (DML), is a 
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. DML is a 
Centre of Excellence for child parts, sub-assemblies 
and is engaged in the engineering, manufacturing, 
and delivery of various aircraft parts. The Company 
has diversified its business operations, including 
fabrication, precision machining, sheet metal work, 
stretch forming, rubber press operations, CNC bending, 
special processes, heat treatment, metal coating, and 
other ancillary operations. The major customers include 
Airbus, Boeing, Bell helicopter, Dassault Aviation, 
Deutsche Aircraft and alongside  supporting Dynamatic 
group companies.
The company recorded revenue growth of 77% with 
positive EBITDA in FY25 compared to the previous year, 
primarily due to successful closure of FAIs leading to 
the ramp-up in programs.
Chalapathi P
Director
DIN : 08087615
Future Outlook
The outlook for DML is extremely positive, with well-
established positions on several programs poised to 
ramp up projects. We are well-positioned to capitalize 
on growth in existing program demand and new 
opportunities. The focus of our business remains 
on the ramp-up of projects, which in turn enhances 
performance and stability.
DYNAMATIC MANUFACTURING LIMITED, INDIA
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
INR in Lakhs
Year ended 
31.03.2024
INR in Lakhs
Sales
6,634
3,745
EBITDA
363
(1,168)
Interest
221
73
Depreciation
339
188
Profit/(Loss) before 
Tax
(157)
(1,425)
Tax Charge/ (Credit)
-
-
Profit/ (Loss) after Tax
(157)
(1,425)
DIRECTORS
Prof. Pradyumna Vyas	
- Independent Director 
Ms. Junia Sebastian	
- Independent Director 
Mr. Chalapathi P	
- Director 
Mr. Ravichander V 	
- Director 
AUDITORS
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP 
Chartered Accountants, Bangalore 
BANKERS
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
REGISTERED OFFICE
Plot No. V-77, 78, Industrial Estate, Peenya II Stage, 
Bangalore 560058, Karnataka India
JKM RESEARCH FARM LIMITED
B A N G A L O R E ,  I N D I A
BUSINESS REVIEW REPORT
2024-25
JKM RESEARCH FARM LIMITED, INDIA
DIRECTORS
Mr. Chalapathi P 	
- Director 
Mr. Ravichander V 	
- Director
Ms. Pramilla Malhoutra 	 - Director
AUDITORS
M/s. Prasad & Kumar
Chartered Accountants, Bangalore
REGISTERED OFFICE
C/o. Dynamatic Hydraulics®
Plot No.1A/1, 1st Main Road,2nd Phase
1st Stage, Peenya Industrial Estate 
Bangalore 560 058, Karnataka, India
FARM LOCATION
Kalludevanahalli Village, Kadanur Post
Doddaballapura District, Bangalore Rural 561 204
Karnataka India
JKM Research Farm Limited (JRFL), a farm Equipment 
performance and optimisation Company located 
near Bangalore on a 65 acre farm land, supports 
the Hydraulics & Dynauton Division of Dynamatic 
Technologies Limited (DTL) in the areas of design 
concept, functional prototype testing, and technical 
information. 
JRFL is continuously engaged in finding innovative 
solutions to upgrade the products of DTL customers.
In this regard, JRFL provides a unique opportunity to 
DTL to test and validate its products in real time field 
conditions.
Currently Organic Farming of Guava and Lime 
plantations are being carried out by the Company.
During the year under review, the Company has made 
an income of Rs.66 Lakhs. The profit after tax for the 
year amounted to Rs. 18 Lakhs.
Chalapathi P
Director
DIN : 08087615
Dynamatic Corporate Team
JKM Plaza   Dynamatic Aerotropolis   
55   KIADB Aerospace Park   Bangalore 562 149
Tel: +91 80 2111 1223 / +91 80 2204 0535
